Social Responsibility Report 2018 Creating change that matters Welcome to our Social In this report Responsibility People 6 Planet 29 Report In this report, we share stories of the things we are doing, beyond our client work, to make a difference in society and describe the ways we are working to strengthen our own responsible practices. We have organized these stories into four sections, reflecting the challenges the world faces and the opportunities we have to make a difference. Partnerships 40 Responsible practices 51 1 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Foreword by Indeed, across all our client work, we have Our social an opportunity to help the world’s leading Kevin Sneader institutions shape their impact on society. For The need for business, government, and socialmore than 90 years, our firm’s mission has been sector organizations to work together to tackle to create “distinctive, lasting, and substantial responsibility the world’s most pressing societal challenges improvements in performance” for our clients. has never been clearer. Protecting our planet, Today it is clearer than ever that we need to work enabling meaningful work in our communities, with our clients to consider the full impact of our and creating inclusive societies that honor our work together, not just on their performance, diversity are fundamental. but on society as a whole. Our firm has always sought to make a difference With this in mind, we have embarked on a journey on the issues that matter—above and beyond our to engage 30,000-plus colleagues in a conversation client work. This report contains many examples about our firm’s “purpose.” What has already that bring this long-standing practice to life. emerged is a sense that what motivates us is a You will read about how our people are giving commitment to make the world a better place— back to our communities, how we have founded one client, colleague, and community at a time. and supported non-profits to tackle top global The stories in this report are a reminder of how issues, and the steps we are taking to become “Our firm has more environmentally sustainable and socially that purpose is already being realized. Hopefully, they also demonstrate why we are so proud and so always sought to responsible in the way we do what we do every day of the week. willing to contribute our time, effort, and skills to an make a difference Last year, as part of this, we became a array of causes across the 130 cities in which we operate. In doing so, we also give meaning to the on the issues participant in the UN Global Compact. This belief that “what we do matters.” And never has that matter.” report serves as our first Communication on Progress, and through it we reaffirm our that been more true or more necessary. continuing commitment to its principles. Yet for all that we have done, there is growing recognition that our commitment to social Kevin Sneader impact can and must be even deeper. Global Managing Partner McKinsey & Company 2 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Creating change Introduction We are also committed to running our firm responsibly. We prioritize issues that are that matters McKinsey has a long-standing commitment to most material to our firm and our work. These social responsibility. In this report, we share stories include diversity and inclusion, environmental of the things we are doing, beyond our client work, sustainability, ethics, data privacy and security, to make a difference in society. and supplier sustainability and diversity. We’re working to increase economic opportunity In this report, we are pleased to be able to share by building skills and enabling work; to advance stories and updates from 2018. We also recognize gender equality, in the workplace and in society that we are on a journey. Our people, across our more broadly; and to build a world that is more firm, are driving efforts to strengthen every aspect environmentally sustainable. of our social responsibility. We look forward to Through our research, we seek to generate continuing to report on our progress. 600+ new thinking and to identify practical solutions, providing a fact base for diverse stakeholders to galvanize action. “We believe we have Teams of consultants, designers, and data scientists offer pro bono service to help nonnon-profits supported through pro bono an opportunity, and service, board membership, and volunteering profits develop strategies and increase their a responsibility, to 25,000 impact. Firm members also volunteer and serve on the boards of non-profits, bringing insights use our knowledge from our work to strengthen their governance and our capabilities and help them grow. graduates of Generation, the non-profit we to help address the Generation and McKinsey.org, non-profits that founded to tackle youth unemployment we founded and support, allow us to share our world’s most pressing expertise through innovative partnerships and help 0 challenges.” create solutions that can scale up quickly to tackle global challenges. net carbon emissions 3 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Supporting SDGs and social responsibility sustainable While our work with our clients enables us to support their efforts to further many of the SDGs, development 17 1 our social responsibility efforts seek to advance a subset of them. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals 16 2 The SDGs we focus on reflect areas where we see an (SDGs), adopted by United Nations Member opportunity to make a difference on these critical issues States in 2015, capture an important vision 15 3 by deploying our capabilities and expertise, through of how we can build a better world. The pro bono work, board service, and volunteering with comprehensive goals include ending poverty, non-profits and through our research. reducing inequality, and improving health and 14 4 These are gender equality (SDG 5), decent work and education. They also address environmental economic growth (SDG 8), responsible consumption challenges, such as tackling climate change and preserving natural environments. 13 5 and production (SDG 12), and partnerships for the goals (SDG 17). The SDGs also provide a framework for how SDG 5: companies can think about their social and 12 6 Gender environmental impact as they seek to make a equality positive contribution to improving the state of 11 7 the world. Taken together, the institutions we SDG 8: serve—across the private, public, and social 10 8 Decent work and sectors—touch all of the 17 goals. 9 economic growth SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals 4 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Helping clients Serving those who serve society Our Public Sector Practice supports Learn more about our Social Sector have social Practice governments to improve their productivity, the delivery and implementation of vital services, impact and the outcomes of their programs to better the lives of citizens and foster economic growth. As a global management consulting firm, Our Social Sector Practice works with we help organizations across the private, donors, non-profits, and non-governmental public, and social sectors make lasting organizations to develop and implement largeimprovements to their performance and scale solutions to persistent challenges in realize their most important goals. areas such as education, public health, and economic development. Learn more about Every one of our clients has an impact on our Public Sector Practice society, whether it is through their products or services, their workforce, or their supply chain. Through our work with our clients, we can help them shape their environmental and social impact. Our publicand social-sector clients are Working with clients to directly addressing societal challenges. We embed sustainability also help clients across sectors to address McKinsey’s Sustainability Practice leads environmental sustainability. research on energy transitions, resourceproductive operations, the circular economy, This report, however, focuses on our and the future of mobility. Putting this efforts outside of client work to give back research into action, we help companies to our communities through pro bono work, Learn more about accelerate the transition to a low-carbon and volunteering, and board service with our Sustainability Practice sustainable-growth economy by eliminating non-profits. waste, accelerating innovation, helping clients scale, and focusing capital investments on sustainability opportunities. 5 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People People People enable us to invest our expertise, time, and resources directly in our communities to advance employment and skills as well as gender equality—challenges that have profound impacts on individuals’ lives. Our people are central to everything we do. We are committed to building a diverse firm, fostering an inclusive culture, and supporting our people in an unrivaled environment. In this section Building skills and enabling work 7 Advancing gender equality 16 Fostering diversity and inclusion 23 6 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Building Supporting the SDGs skills and enabling work Work is vital. It enables people to build fulfilling, independent lives. Contributing to society in a meaningful way is intrinsically linked to health and happiness. For businesses, the availability of a skilled workforce is critical. For governments, the 8 detrimental impact of unemployment, both direct and indirect, can be huge. SDG 8: We have done considerable research; provided pro bono and volunteer support for a range of Decent work and organizations; and also founded Generation, an economic growth independent non-profit tackling unemployment, Targets addressed for SDG 8 which has become the largest global program, by –– Achieve higher levels of economic productivity annual volume, in training and placing unemployed through diversification, technological upgrading, youth in jobs. and innovation, including through a focus on high-value-added and labor-intensive sectors –– By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value –– By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education, or training 7 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Shaping the MGI’s findings about the effect of automation future of work on the philanthropic sector were published in Stanford Social Innovation Review McKinsey Global Institute (MGI), the business and economics research arm of McKinsey, launched its Future of Work research series in 2017. In its seminal report, A future that works: Automation, employment, and productivity, MGI estimated the pace and extent of workplace 55% automation and its potential economic impact. In follow-up reports, MGI has assessed the number and types of jobs that might be lost and gained under different scenarios and the impact increase in demand for on workers, including shifting workforce skills technological skills by 2030 and the reskilling challenge. 375m Since 2017, MGI has published more than 50 reports on the future of work, going beyond macro trends to implications for specific geographies, sectors, and demographics, workers may need to switch including women and minorities. occupational categories by 2030, up MGI’s insights help frame and open up debates, to 14 percent of the global workforce bring new thinking, and identify potential $14.6tn interventions on major societal issues. Armed Read our latest with the facts, we hope leaders around the world insights on the Future of Work will be equipped to make better decisions and build a future of work that works for everyone. in wages comes from activities that are already technically automatable 8 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Career-launching jobs for young Watch stories from Generation Generation’s approach people graduates around Employers are identified before the program the world Read our research starts, so participants can be connected to work that inspired right after graduating. In addition to teaching Generation Our research estimated that 75 million young technical skills, the program works with the people were unemployed around the world, young people to foster the behaviors and mindeven as 40 percent of employers could not fill sets that contribute to workplace success. entry-level vacancies. Inspired by this finding, Generation continually collects and analyzes we founded Generation in 2014. participant, employer, and program data. This An independent non-profit, Generation has a allows it to identify problems early, to improve two-sided mission: to help young people build the program in real time, and to prove to both sustainable careers and to provide employers young people and employers that Generation with the talent they need. At the end of 2018, delivers a positive return on investment. Generation was working with employers, governments, foundations, and other non-profits in nine countries (and counting). It is already the largest global program, by annual volume, that trains and places youth into jobs. WISE Award In the past five years, McKinsey has committed In 2018, Generation won a $70 million to Generation, in the form of In countries where Generation is active, for WISE Award for innovation both financial and human resources. Today, example, McKinsey helps connect Generation in global education. Generation is a 280-person organization; to community and employer partners. In 2017, McKinsey donates the time of an additional McKinsey received the Fundación SERES Award, 20 to 25 consultants. which honors businesses in Spain whose actions improve society. 9 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Generation around the world As of December 2018 USA Italy Spain Pakistan Hong Kong Hong Mexico Kong India 25,000 66% 2–6x Kenya Singapore graduates in 25 different of graduates still employed after increase in earnings fields across financial, health, one year; another 3 percent went after completing Generation manufacturing, retail, and on to further education technology sectors 81% placed in jobs within 90 days 2,650+ $100m 90 employer partners; 84 percent said combined earnings of graduates cities, across 9 countries, Visit Generation’s website of program completion Generation graduates outperform to date with Generation programs their peers on productivity, retention, and speed to promotion 10 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Scaling “Generation graduates know how to identify a customer, approach that in Kenya customer, and bring them closer. In 2015, less than a year after opening an office They are also helping to bring in Nairobi, McKinsey colleagues helped make Kenya one of Generation’s launch locations. By Prudential into new markets.” Julius Mulera the end of 2018, the program had also attracted Manager, Prudential Insurance, Kenya the support of the US and Swedish aid agencies, and Safaricom, a Kenya-based telecom and communications company. 12,000 Kenya is by far the largest Generation program; it accounts for almost half of all graduates, in 38 locations around the country. Generation Kenya offers training and job placement in banking, financial graduates sales, sewing machine operation, restaurant services, 87% retail, and distribution. Today, between 10 percent and 15 percent of all insurance sales roles in the country are filled by Generation graduates. The organization is also working with governmentplaced in jobs run technical and vocational education and training 72% programs, embedding Generation’s approach into existing workforce-development programs. remain employed a year after placement into a job 11 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Advancing for example, helps participants from a range of non-STEM backgrounds, including teaching and women in tourism, get up to speed quickly. Additionally, 25 percent of graduates have a vocational credential Spain but are now entering jobs employers previously believed required a university degree. One side effect has been opening the door to technology Generation began in Spain in 2015, as one of its careers to more women, who are less likely to have first five locations. Youth unemployment, a longSTEM qualifications. 7% time problem, was more than 40 percent (it is now about 33 percent). Employment in digital industries, however, was growing. Generation saw an opportunity to train of all digital-marketing participants from non-traditional backgrounds for vacancies in Spain are filled these jobs. It started with digital marketing and by Generation graduates has added programs in Java web development and robotic process automation (RPA). Traditionally, only those with STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) backgrounds were considered qualified for such jobs. Generation training has proved that the pool is 46% of graduates from Java developer “If I could have dreamed up the much deeper. More than 60 percent of Generation program are women, compared to national industry average best-case scenario, this would graduates entering these fields have a liberal arts degree. The seven-week RPA program, of 20 percent women graduates have topped it. What we earn now is a dignified salary that allows us to dream.” Isabel Generation Spain RPA program graduate 12 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Developing Visit Qimam’s website Saudi Arabia: Qimam Fellowship young leaders In 2018, McKinsey and one of our alumni, Annas Abedin, created the Qimam Fellowship, an intensive 12-day training program that Across the world, McKinsey colleagues deliver includes one-on-one mentoring sessions with leadership training and mentorship programs senior leaders. The goal: to identify the next for high school students, undergraduates, and generation of leaders, among Saudi university young professionals to help build future leaders students, and to nurture that talent to help for their countries. shape a resilient future for Saudi Arabia. The program is supported by 25 multinational and national organizations and more than 100 leading executives. 13,000 “Qimam is a powerful combination of a leadership program and counseling sessions with senior industry leaders. We applications for are thankful for the executives who took fellowship in 2018 the time to sit with us and give us advice, 50 which we can apply practically today.” Mayada Qimam Fellow Qimam fellows in first cohort 13 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People 370 continued Indonesia: Young Singapore: Young Developing young leaders Leaders for Indonesia Social Entrepreneurs Established in 2008, Young Leaders for Launched in 2010, the Singapore International Malaysia: Youth graduates now young leaders Indonesia (YLI) selects top Indonesian students Foundation (SIF) Young Social Entrepreneurs Leadership Academy in business, government, to participate in a six-month program to develop (YSE) program inspires, equips, and enables McKinsey colleagues established the and education leadership and professional skills. youth to start or scale up social enterprises in Youth Leadership Academy in 2009 to help Singapore and beyond. 50+ YLI includes three leadership forums, McKinseyMalaysian university students develop the led learning in problem solving, a personal McKinsey works with SIF to mentor YSE skills to become effective national leaders. project addressing a social issue, and a team teams. The mentors help the young Over 12 weeks, participants attend intensive internship program with a partner organization. entrepreneurs evolve and refine their capability-building sessions in communications social entrepreneurship Students learn from guest speakers and receive business models for the final pitch and problem solving, led by McKinsey projects coaching from experienced leaders. competition for seed funding. coaches. They undertake innovative social 838 1,000+ entrepreneurship projects, with mentorship and coaching from leaders from both public and private institutions. Many of these projects continue to have social impact long after the high-performing undergraduates alumni in YSE network program ends. have taken part in YLI “YLI is a life-changing experience that empowers students to be future leaders through nurturing 80% of winning social enterprises remain mentorship, constructive modules, in business today and valuable networking Visit YLA’s website Visit YLI’s website opportunities.” Visit YSE’s website Juan O. Daniel YLI participant and chemical engineering student at University of Indonesia 14 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Creating jobs Growing SMEs to create jobs in South Africa The Meleza Growth Accelerator assists fastgrowth smalland medium-size enterprises (SMEs) in creating jobs by expanding in highTirelo potential sectors. McKinsey provides on-theIn addition to our efforts to build skills ground support and runs scale-up academies for and equip future young leaders, we also these SMEs. To date, it has worked with 21 SMEs work to help create jobs, particularly in to create 1,400 jobs. By the end of 2020, its economies where unemployment is high goal is to support 230 SMEs to produce another and employment opportunities are limited. 9,500 jobs. In South Africa, in 2018, McKinsey launched the Tirelo program (Tirelo means “service”), Enabling small suppliers with the goal of helping to address the Visit Thola In partnership with a local tech business, we Africa’s website country’s unemployment challenge. Two founded the non-profit Thola Africa (which means of its components are Meleza, which “Find Africa”), to create an e-commerce website helps drive growth and job creation in the to help small, community-based suppliers grow companies most likely to hire unskilled their business through access to a global online unemployed workers, and Thola, an online sales channel. All proceeds from the Thola sales platform to expand the reach and platform go to support and grow the participating sales of small suppliers to help them grow “Not only is Thola using technology businesses. In its first year, Thola hopes to offer and create more jobs. in a practical way to give market more than 150 products, serve more than 1,000 customers, and help suppliers create 100 access to the ordinary entrepreneur, new jobs. but it also takes our being, our culture, to the world, contributing toward human connectedness.” Xoliswa Kakana ICT-Works (local technology partner for Thola) 15 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Advancing Supporting the SDGs gender equality Gender inequalities remain entrenched in every society. The disproportionate share of domestic and caregiving responsibilities means women are often 5 unable to access the work they would like. In many corporations and other organizations, including at McKinsey, women are underrepresented in some positions, particularly in leadership. Through more than ten years of research, we have established a compelling evidence base that makes the case for gender equality. Through our SDG 5: global reach, we share our insights and convene Gender partnerships with decision makers who have the equality power to make real change. Through our pro bono Targets addressed for SDG 5 work with social-sector organizations, we address –– Ensure women’s full and effective economic empowerment and the challenges participation and equal opportunities for adolescent girls and young women face in leadership at all levels of decision making accessing education. in political, economic, and public life –– Enhance the use of enabling technology—in particular, information and communications technology—to promote the empowerment of women 16 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Building the Read our latest insights on MGI’s Gender Parity Score (1.00 = gender parity) economic case gender equality for gender equality Western Europe 0.67 Eastern Europe 0.74 and Central Asia In 2015, the McKinsey Global Institute (MGI) 0.71 published its first Power of Parity research, North America, South Asia Australia, and 0.44 0.61 China which linked gender equality in society and gender (excl. India) New Zealand equality in work. It concluded that closing the gender gap could add $12 trillion to global GDP 0.48 0.48 East and Southeast Asia by 2025 in a “best-in-region” scenario in which all 0.62 Middle East and (excl. China) countries match the progress toward gender parity India North Africa of the fastest-improving country in their region. 0.64 MGI identified 75 best practices—such as Latin America 0.57 financial incentives and support; technology Sub-Saharan Africa and infrastructure; the creation of economic opportunity; capability building; advocacy and shaping attitudes; and laws, policies, and $12tn 95 240m regulations—and detailed how the private sector could contribute, both within their organizations and through coalitions with others. McKinsey has presented the Power of Parity could be added in 2025 if all countries studied by workers could be added through research at more than 100 events, disseminated countries matched their best-inMGI, covering 93 percent higher women participation the findings through mass and social media, and region country in progress toward of the world’s women advised leaders and organizations internationally. gender parity 17 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Helping 64,000 279 The study has found that, on average, women remain underrepresented at every stage of the companies talent pipeline among the companies surveyed. In 2018, at the entry level, women accounted for 48 employees surveyed in 2018 companies, representing to promote percent of employees, and then the percentage fell 13 million employees, at every step in the career ladder—to 38 percent at completed the survey in 2018 women in the manager level and 22 percent at the C-suite. We have identified trends and best practices to the workplace help companies turn good intentions into action, including setting goals and tracking progress, Representation in US companies by gender and race, 2018 Sr. manager/ using tools to reduce bias and requiring diverse Entry level Manager VP SVP C-suite Since 2015, our annual Women in the Workplace director candidate slates, holding leaders at all levels report has given US companies and employees accountable, creating clear guidelines for collegial the information they need to advance women and and respectful behavior, hiring women as cohorts improve gender diversity. Conducted in partnership to reduce isolation, and giving employees the with LeanIn.org, 462 companies employing almost 36% flexibility to fit work into their lives. 20 million people have participated in the survey. 46% 52% In addition to publishing the research, we deliver 59% In 2018, Women in the Workplace researchers 67% 68% White men company-level insights to all participating companies, surveyed more than 64,000 employees on their often leading to robust follow-up analyses and workplace experiences and interviewed women of 16% conversations with senior leaders to help these different races and ethnicities and LGBTQ+ women companies improve their diversity strategies. 16% in more depth. 13% 12% 31% “As things stand, the number of women in management 9% 9% Men of color 27% will increase by just one percentage point over the next 26% Visit the Women 24% ten years. By hiring and promoting women and men in the Workplace 19% 19% White women website to manager at equal rates, we could get close to parity 17% 12% 8% 6% 4% 4% Women of color over the same ten years.” Women in the Workplace, 2018 Note: Figures may not sum to 100%, because of rounding. 18 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Mobilizing Chefsache is recognized on both a German and international level for promoting innovative ideas, action to including on modern leadership culture and the design of effective flexible working models. advance female A dedicated McKinsey team in Germany continues to support Chefsache’s efforts to share best leadership practices and experiences and educate leaders through conferences, studies, reports, and articles on the benefits of a better gender balance. Germany: Chefsache McKinsey is a founding member of Germany’s Chefsache (literally “boss matters”). Started in 2015 with Chancellor Angela Merkel as its official sponsor, Chefsache is a network of leaders from German industry, science, media, and the public and social sectors who are making gender equality a priority. In Germany, women hold just 11 percent of senior management positions, and men outnumber women 11 to 1 on the boards of the top 200 German companies. The members of Chefsache believe that advancing women is fundamental to the well-being of society and important to German competitiveness. Visit the Chefsache website 19 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People continued Australia: Male Today, MCC has more than 200 members from Mobilizing action to Champions of Change all over the country, covering more than 750,000 advance female leadership Male Champions of Change (MCC) was launched employees, in corporations, government, military, academia, and sport. It informs research and in 2010 to encourage male business leaders Italy: Valore D in Australia to address gender inequality in the shares best practices to promote gender diversity. Its leaders have spoken at hundreds of business Valore D (which means “Value Women”) was founded workforce. Two former managing partners of forums, locally and internationally, addressing by a group of 12 companies, including McKinsey, to McKinsey’s Australia office are members of the subjects such as returning to work, flexible work promote gender balance and inclusive cultures in MCC Founding Group and the current managing patterns, everyday sexism, and backlash against Italian businesses and across the country. Since its partner has been a strategic adviser to MCC gender-equality strategies. launch in 2009, Valore D has grown to more than since its formation. 200 member companies, representing two million MCC members commit to listen and learn from employees and total revenues of $8.4 billion. each other, set targets for the representation of women in their organizations, and report progress In addition to offering dedicated learning and through annual reports—68 percent of MCC mentoring programs, Valore D provides a forum members have achieved or improved gender for companies to exchange best practices with balance in key management personnel since the one another and to work together to push women Visit the Male first MCC report. leadership to the top of the CEO agenda. Champions of Change website Valore D’s learning programs include “In the “We’ve learned that driving impact Boardroom,” a unique executive training program to help prepare women for board membership. More on gender equality requires a than 50 percent of managers who participated in systemwide approach. Innovative Valore D learning and mentoring programs had a actions led or supported by MCCs career advancement within 18 months. over the past eight years are now McKinsey colleagues continue to support Valore D as the norm among those wishing mentors; by developing capability-building programs, Visit the Valore D to capitalize on the benefits of website such as the “C-Level School” to support women in diversity.” the C-suite; and by serving on its board. Elizabeth Broderick Former Sex Discrimination Commissioner in Australia and founder of MCC 20 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Addressing Girls Who Code While jobs in computing are continuing to increase, the gender gap fewer than one in five computer-science college graduates in the United States is a woman. In the in computer workforce, the gender gap is widening, with the number of women computer scientists dropping science from 37 percent in 1995 to 24 percent in 2017. Girls Who Code (GWC) is a non-profit organization founded in 2012 to close the gender gap in Visit the Girls Who technology and provide girls with the skills and Code website resources to access 21st-century opportunities. Since 2015, McKinsey has supported GWC on a pro bono basis, helping to build its strategic plan and identify opportunities to increase its reach, such as implementing programs for younger girls and expanding the program to new geographic areas. This has included a focus on reaching historically underrepresented girls, including young women who are Black or Latina or come from lowincome backgrounds. Today, GWC has introduced new programs, including after-school clubs for third to fifth graders and a summer immersion program, and expanded to Canada, India, and the United Kingdom. It has served more than 185,000 girls, and GWC alumni go on to major in computer science and related fields at 15 times the US national average. 21 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Enabling girls to get education Malala Fund More than 130 million girls worldwide are not in school, and the problem is particularly acute in conflict zones, poverty-stricken regions, and countries with legal or cultural barriers to girls’ Visit the Malala Fund website education. Malala Fund was set up in 2013 by Malala Yousafzai—the target of an assassination attempt by the Taliban in response to her public campaign for girls’ education—and her father to work toward a world where all girls have access to 12 years of safe, quality education. A McKinsey team helped Malala Fund to map the expectation that all children receive education for “Malala Fund’s first five years helped bring global education landscape and develop ideas for 12 years and playing a pivotal role in the $2.9 billion girls’ education to the desks of leaders its activities. It also helped craft the foundation’s commitment to girls’ education at the 2018 G7 around the world. I believe we can see every early strategy and an operational plan. McKinsey Summit in Charlevoix. colleagues Dominic Barton, former global girl in school in my lifetime—and every year Malala Fund’s signature initiative, the Gulmakai managing partner, and Lynn Taliento serve on we’re moving forward in pursuit of that goal.” Network, invests in the work of educators and Malala Fund’s board. Malala Yousafzai activists in countries where girls face the greatest In its first five years, Malala Fund helped deliver challenges to education. It also invests in training increased funding and policy reform in support girl advocates around the world and highlights the of girls’ education. This included persuading the stories of young activists through its popular digital international community to formally adopt the publication, “Assembly.” 22 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Fostering Awards and recognition diversity and inclusion We know from our own research—and from our experience—the power that diverse teams Working Mother NAFE The Times (of London) can have. Inclusive teams that harness diverse Top 10 in best companies for moms Recognized seven times since 2002 Top 50 Employers for Women perspectives deliver better results. That is why, every year since 2015 by National Association for Female (2019) at McKinsey, diversity and inclusion are not just Executives Top Companies for moral imperatives—they are strategic priorities. Best companies for dads (2018) Executive Women in the United States We are dedicated to creating equal opportunities for everyone, and we encourage diversity in all forms, including age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, and socioeconomic background. It is in everyone’s interest—both clients and colleagues—to have role models of all kinds and to create an environment where everyone feels able to bring their best and full self to work, every day. Human Rights Campaign Vault Foundation Top consulting firm for Diversity Best Places to Work for LGBT & Inclusion in 2018 and 2019 Equality—perfect score in Corporate Learn more about diversity Equality Index every year since 2006 and inclusion at McKinsey 23 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People All In We have seen progress in representation of women at all levels of our firm. Since 2014, the Representation of women at McKinsey, 2018 representation of women in our global recruiting Women at McKinsey has increased from 38 percent to 45 percent; in 45% of new hires Launched in 2014, our All In program seeks to help some offices, women account for the majority of the firm achieve our aspirations for the hiring and new hires. Female consultants today are less likely 43% advancement of women. to leave than they were in the past, and in many of our offices, the attrition of women is lower than Through our policies and practices, we strive to that of men. The number of female partners has enable women at McKinsey to balance a full life risen 80 percent in three years. of all employees with an exceptional career. We have introduced best-in-class flexibility and parental-leave We recognize that we have more to do—women programs, inclusive leadership and unconsciousmake up just 13 percent of senior leadership 13% of senior leaders1 bias training, and a global initiative to ensure roles, for example—but we are committed to women are well sponsored. our aspiration that women be well represented 19% of Shareholders Council2 at all levels and have an exceptional experience We also have global programs to recruit female at McKinsey. 1 Top 6%, as defined by UN Women HeForShe. candidates. Participants in our Next-Generation 2 McKinsey’s governance body. Women Leaders events, started in 2012, explore the importance of women in leadership and refine their own leadership skills. Our Next-Generation Women Leaders Award offers recipients a Organizations we partner scholarship toward the cost of college tuition or other professional-development activity and with to advance gender parity mentorship from McKinsey consultants. Learn more about Women at McKinsey 24 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Recruiting We recruit at historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) in the United States. In 2018, diverse talent we saw the highest number of applicants we have ever received for undergraduate roles from HBCUs. To promote diversity in gender, ethnicity, Last year, McKinsey piloted a leadership program socioeconomic background, and sexual orientation, for LGBTQ+ college students in New York, and we we look for different ways to reach people who are looking to expand the program to other offices. might otherwise not consider McKinsey. In addition, McKinsey has expanded its work with the North America LGBTQ+ partnership ROMBA In the United States, our dedicated recruiting (Reaching Out MBA) to other regions. programs have increased the representation of Black and Hispanic individuals in our graduate recruitment. In our Freshman Diversity Leadership Academy, Black and Hispanic college freshmen from all over the 35% United States build their leadership, communication, and team problem-solving skills and learn more about McKinsey and management consulting. increase over two years in North America in new hires who identify as LGBTQ+, Black, or Hispanic 10% of 2019 undergraduate recruits in North America identify as LGBTQ+ 25 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Promoting to an inclusive environment. We anticipate this number will increase rapidly as new Conscious Read more about the Black Black Economic Forum McKinsey Black Network, one of our affinity inclusion Economic Forum Inclusion trainings are rolled out across the networks, conceived the idea behind the firm in 2019. first Black Economic Forum, which we Our policies also encourage inclusion. Where hosted in partnership with the Executive We promote affinity and community groups legally permissible, our benefits policy allows Leadership Council and Beta Iota Boulé, to foster connection, mentorship, and same-sex domestic partners to join our benefits to address the inequities facing the Black professional development, including GLAM plan. In countries that apply discriminating tax workforce, strengthen the earning potential (for LGBTQ+ colleagues); the McKinsey Black treatment to domestic-partner benefits coverage, of families, and improve philanthropic Network; Access McKinsey (for colleagues with McKinsey employees receive tax assistance to support within communities. disabilities); Parents of Special Children; and redress any disparity. Where available, McKinsey’s US networks for Hispanic colleagues and benefit plans cover gender-reassignment surgery, Asian and Asian-American professionals. medical counseling, and hormonal therapy. We invest heavily in learning and development across McKinsey, including tailored leadership-skills training and professional-development courses for The Alliance colleagues from underrepresented groups. GLAM is a vibrant global network of more We embed principles of inclusion into all our than 800 LGBTQ+ colleagues with a leadership-development and learning programs community of supporting “allies” in excess from day one. Our performance-review and of 4,000. Extending its efforts beyond promotion processes also recognize qualities of McKinsey, in 2018 it convened The Alliance, inclusive leadership. We have also implemented a which brought together more than 115 global set of best practices around sponsorship. private-, public-, and social-sector LGBTQ+ leaders from 19 countries to discuss the Since mid-2017, about 3,000 colleagues have inclusion and diversity agenda not just on participated in Conscious Inclusion workshops, Read more about a personal level and in their organizations which help colleagues with using inclusive The Alliance but also in work and society more broadly. language, understanding different perspectives, confronting biases, and learning how to contribute 26 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Reconciliation ongoing opportunity, through cultural awareness training, to learn about Indigenous culture, Visit First Australians in Australia Capital’s website history, and personal stories and the challenges Indigenous people face. We have also established an internship program for Indigenous students, In Australia, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander with our first Indigenous intern and scholarship people, who comprise 3 percent of the country’s winner joining us later in 2019. population, experience an unemployment rate McKinsey is working to ensure the inclusion of three times as high as the general population. They Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander–owned also face hardships in obtaining career training and businesses in our procurement process. We have funding for starting and expanding businesses. negotiated several contracts with Indigenous McKinsey’s offices in Australia worked with suppliers and aim to meet our target of 3 percent Reconciliation Australia to create a Reconciliation of addressable spending by 2020. Action Plan to support the country’s ongoing process of reconciliation and economic empowerment to combat these inequalities. We supported First Australians Capital, an organization that assists in capacity building and funding for Indigenous businesses, to expand the organization’s ability to coach Indigenous business “First Australians Capital was a very new owners and fund their companies. We also helped start-up organization with a huge mission and them develop Black Ops, a shared-services limited resources. The McKinsey team worked function that offers human resources, legal, alongside us and helped shape and refine our accounting, finance, and other services that many strategy and execution plan so our small team of Indigenous business owners struggle to access. Visit Supply five could work with more than 200 businesses in As part of our efforts to foster diversity and Nation’s website a sustainable and scalable way to build economic inclusion, our colleagues in Australia have the independence in our community.” Jocelyn King CEO, First Australians Capital 27 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Planet Partnerships Responsible practices People Supporting Parents at McKinsey We want to support our people as they start and our people raise families, to help them balance their personal and professional responsibilities. As part of our commitment to building a We offer a variety of flexibility and parental-leave diverse firm and fostering an inclusive culture, programs. Take Time gives consultants the option we strive to support our people. to take an extra five to ten weeks off between projects. Pace enables consultants to stay in their current role longer, thus reducing the pressure to fulfill requirements for their next role. There are also part-time programs and opportunities for shortor long-term rotations. My Experience Generous and flexible leave benefits are available McKinsey’s My Experience program is designed to for birth, non-birth, and adoptive parents; support employees holistically—mind, body, and coaching and support is provided by a dedicated purpose—so that they can bring their whole selves mothers’ network; and a “phase back” option to work every day. Happier and healthier people helps employees transition back to work after not only perform better but also feel supported parental leave. and are able to enjoy a better work-life balance. The My Experience program covers topics related to health and wellness, including exercise, nutrition, sleep, mindfulness, work-life balance, and life coaching. Initiatives that offices have introduced include holding regular exercise classes in the office, changing to healthier food options in the cafeteria, offering a mindfulness retreat, and inviting experts to present tips on getting more and better sleep. 28 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Planet The world faces a critical moment in tackling the challenges of climate change, environmental pollution, and responsible use of resources. Our planet supports our lives and our work. We all have a role to play in protecting it for future generations. We recognize our responsibility to operate sustainably, and we seek to use our assets to support others who are working to improve the environment. In this section Supporting sustainable development 30 Managing our environmental footprint 34 29 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Supporting Supporting the SDGs sustainable development The effects of global warming and climate change, including the increased frequency of extreme weather events, along with other environmental 12 challenges such as urban air pollution, waste management, and plastics in our oceans are threatening communities, and ecosystems, across the world. Disadvantaged populations are often the worst affected. SDG 12: We believe economic growth and environmental Responsible sustainability are compatible; economic growth is consumption necessary to provide the capital and innovation and production necessary for long-term sustainability, and, Targets addressed for SDG 12 likewise, long-term economic growth depends –– By 2030, achieve the sustainable on a healthy environment. management and efficient use of Over the past decade, we have sought to develop natural resources an evidence base and set of analytical tools to –– By 2030, substantially reduce waste enable sound decision making about sustainable generation through prevention, development. We have also put this research into reduction, recycling, and reuse action, through pro bono support of environmental non-profits and, most recently, through the work of McKinsey.org. 30 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Shaping the knowledge partnership with the World Economic Forum, McKinsey analyzed the performance of debate on 114 countries’ energy systems and their readiness for a transition to a lower-carbon future. Our sustainability insights on renewable technologies help companies develop scalable solutions in areas such as wind, solar, energy storage, and carbon For more than ten years, McKinsey’s research capture, sequestration, and use. has provided a fact base on emissions-reduction The McKinsey Center on the Future of Mobility opportunities and their associated costs and has developed detailed forecasts on electricinvestment needs. Our global greenhouse vehicle adoption, ride sharing, connected gas-abatement cost curves remain an iconic vehicles, and autonomous operations and the touchstone for a fact-based framing of the environmental impacts for the major changes opportunities and challenges ahead. Today, our Read the latest underway. A 2019 report indicated that seamless insights from our research is focused on four themes—energy Sustainability urban mobility systems—in which boundaries transitions, resource-productive operations, Practice among private, shared, and public transport would the circular economy, and the future of mobility. be blurred—could be cleaner, more convenient, Our research on the benefits of a circular and more efficient than the status quo, reducing economy demonstrates how businesses can travel times by 10 percent and lowering improve the management of resources, design greenhouse gas emissions by up to 85 percent. products to eliminate waste, and maximize the recycling of products, components, and materials in use. One 2018 report found that recycled plastics could offer the chemicals industry a profit pool of as much as $55 billion a year worldwide by 2030. We also help companies and governments navigate technological and regulatory disruptions driving energy transitions. During a three-year 31 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Rethinking McKinsey.org has launched Rethinking Recycling pilots in Bali, Indonesia, and Buenos Learn more on McKinsey.org’s the recycling website Aires, Argentina, working in partnership with community groups, social enterprises, local and challenge national governments, and consumer-goods companies that use plastic. Its goal is to develop a scalable model, with The world generates 3.5 million tons of solid demonstrated success that achieves near-100 waste every day, a figure that has increased percent capture of recyclable materials, sharing ten times over the last century and is growing learnings and building momentum to scale rapidly. Cities are struggling with overflowing nationally and globally. Watch McKinsey.org’s landfills and inadequate waste services. pilot in Buenos Aires Organic waste is a major source of methane, a greenhouse gas 28 times more potent than carbon dioxide. Plastics wreak havoc on ocean wildlife and release toxic chemicals into the atmosphere when burned. McKinsey.org—an independent non-profit founded by McKinsey & Company—is developing new solutions to build recycling systems that will “In its first five months, our pilot in put all waste to productive use for the benefit of Buenos Aires’ informal settlement, communities and the environment. Barrio 31, has achieved a 25 percent Its Rethinking Recycling approach encompasses recycling rate for dry recyclables, such the whole waste stream. On the supply side, it as plastics, paper, and glass—higher is working to improve the quantity and quality of than many US cities with decades-long recycled material. On the demand side, McKinsey.org is bringing together groups of manufacturers to find histories of recycling.” ways to stabilize markets for recycled materials and Shannon Bouton thus unlock investment. Global Executive Director, Sustainable Communities, McKinsey.org 32 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Creating new years ago by Kristine Tompkins, former CEO of Patagonia, and Douglas Tompkins, the founder of “With the help of the McKinsey team, we were able to demonstrate how nature-based tourism has the national parks North Face, works on issues related to conservation, potential to provide economic and social benefits to rewilding, and biodiversity in Chile and Argentina. the people living in the 60 communities along the in Chile McKinsey colleagues provided pro bono support to Tompkins Conservation to develop a business Ruta, and help fund the parks for the long term.” Kristine Tompkins model and funding structure to ensure that the In 2018, Chile added ten million acres—an area President, Tompkins Conservation parks would both be economically sustainable and roughly the size of Switzerland—of new national Learn more on the benefit the local communities along the Ruta. Our Route of Parks parklands. The new acreage will serve as the website analysis estimated that, correctly implemented, cornerstone of the Route of Parks (or “Ruta”), a nature-based tourism along the Ruta could network of 17 national parks that will span 2,700 create more than 43,000 jobs and $270 million in kilometers (1,700 miles) of scenic roads and economic impact a year by 2030. waterways across the country’s pristine wilderness. In addition to the study, McKinsey provided ongoing The expansion included a million acres donated pro bono support to help develop a long-term by Tompkins Conservation. This US-based nonfinancing structure to ensure the conservation of governmental organization, started more than 25 the parks and the socioeconomic well-being of the 43,000 60 communities along the Ruta. We believe that engaged communities are more likely to become active stewards of the parks, thereby securing their long-term protection. jobs could be created by the Route of Parks $270m potential economic impact 10m acres of new national Learn more on Tompkins Conservation website Photo courtesy of Tompkins Conservation annually by 2030 parkland in Chile 33 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Managing our 2018 highlights environmental footprint 100% carbon neutral 87% McKinsey is committed to minimizing the impact our firm has on the environment. We seek to continually strengthen our environmental policies and practices. We are making efforts to manage, and reduce, our renewable electricity global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the largest component of our environmental footprint. We are 175+ also developing a global approach to managing our material footprint, building on waste and recycling initiatives underway in different offices. environmental initiatives led by Green Teams Learn more about McKinsey’s environmental sustainability 34 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Reducing We are exploring ways of reducing our travel, mostly air travel to and from our clients, our emissions which accounts for more than 80 percent of our emissions. New video-conferencing capabilities, for example, enable effective 0 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the remote communication and collaboration. largest component of our environmental We are also working with our suppliers to improve footprint. However, our firm today is carbon the environmental impact of the products neutral. We have achieved this by reducing and services we purchase. In our commercial net carbon emissions where we can and investing in conversations with airlines, for example, we emissions (2018) carbon-reduction projects to offset make clear to them the importance we place the remainder. 60% on their actions to address emissions. We have set targets to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions in line with the level of decarbonization required to limit the global temperature emissions-reduction target increase to no more than two degrees by 2030 (Scopes 1 and 2 GHG Celsius above pre-industrial levels. emissions) 90% emissions-reduction target by 2050 (Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions) 35 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet 2018 greenhouse Market-based GHG emissions by Scope (thousand tCO2e) 2017 2018 gas emissions 800 Scope 1 16 16 Scope 2 29 5 600 Scope 3 735 767 We rigorously monitor and independently verify Total 780 787 our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, following 400 the GHG Protocol and best practices, such as Note: Figures may not sum to total, because of rounding. including radiative forcing in emission factors 200 for air travel. In 2018, our total GHG emissions Scope 1: Direct emissions (eg, from combustion of fuels in owned or were 787,000 tCO2e (market-based). The 0 controlled boilers) largest source of emissions was air travel, which 2017 2018 Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the accounted for 83 percent of our emissions, generation of purchased electricity, followed by hotel accommodation. heat, or steam Despite the growth of our firm in 2018, we saw Scope 3: Other indirect emissions (eg, no significant increase in our firm’s emissions. business travel, purchased goods) This reflects the fact that our emissions from purchased electricity decreased as we transitioned Market-based GHG emissions per capita (tCO2e) to purchasing renewable electricity. 2017 2018 Our emissions per capita decreased 11 percent, 30 Per capita 29.5 26.4 from 29.5 tCO2e per capita in 2017 to 26.4 25 tCO2e per capita in 2018. 11% 20 15 See our GHG reporting 10 methodology decrease in emissions 5 per capita (2018 vs 2017) 0 2017 2018 36 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Transitioning Renewable electricity, 2018 to renewable Non-renewable  Renewable 13% 87% electricity Learn more about RE100 In 2018, McKinsey became the first global consultancy to join RE100, a coalition of organizations committed to using 100 percent renewable electricity. We have committed to Renewable electricity mix, 2018 purchasing 100 percent renewable electricity by 2025; we are now at 87 percent. Wind 50% Hydro 37% We do this by sourcing renewable electricity Solar 13% directly from our providers where we can and Biomass 1% working with our landlords in offices where we do not have a direct relationship with the Note: Figures may not sum to total, because of rounding. utility company. Where this is not possible, we purchase energy attribute certificates, such as renewable-energy certificates (RECs), equal to our consumption in those markets, to send a demand signal and to support the development of renewable energy. 37 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Investing Brazil Zimbabwe in carbonRainforest conservation Forest protection China In Brazil, McKinsey has invested The Kariba project area protects reduction Solar in Envira Amazonia. This project almost two million acres on the cookstoves helps communities shift away from southern shores of Zimbabwe’s projects cattle ranching and subsistence farming—practices that have led Lake Kariba. Home to four national parks and eight safari reserves, to damaging forest cutting—and the area forms a giant biodiversity After a firmwide poll, we decided to focus to other sources of income, such corridor. Residents who previously our offset efforts on forestry and land use. as planting acai, rubber, and other Colombia India cleared the lush rainforest to These projects not only absorb carbon cash crops. The introduction of Permanent Domestic make a living are now pursuing but also provide additional benefits, sustainable forest-management reforestation biogas sustainable farming, developing such as safeguarding wildlife habitats practices has helped to preserve community gardens, cultivating and providing new livelihoods for local local watersheds and improve fast-growing moringa trees as a communities. South Pole, a leading provider water quality while controlling cash crop, and beekeeping. The of decarbonization solutions, monitors the soil erosion. These practices are project also provides communities effectiveness of these projects. essential to protecting the habitat, Rwanda Thailand with infrastructure improvements which is home to an incredible such as roads, wells, and health array of wildlife—an estimated one Borehole Wastewater clinics. Since 2011, the Kariba rehabilitation treatment to two million different species, project has prevented more including howler monkeys, than 18 million tons of CO2 from freshwater dolphins, and macaws. entering the atmosphere and The project has protected around helped 85,000 residents. 500,000 acres from logging. Learn more about Turkey McKinsey’s carbon offsets Landfill gas capture 38 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Partnerships Responsible practices Planet Making our Green Teams Across nearly 70 of our offices, offices greener Green Teams are leading more than 175 environmental initiatives to reduce our footprint and build How we operate our offices has an environmental awareness about environmental impact, through the resources they consume sustainability. and the waste they generate. We strive to locate our offices in buildings with high environmental standards, such as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold or Platinum certification. We also work to make our offices more energy efficient, including through heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) optimization and the use of insulation, sensors, and LED lighting. 66 Tampa S o Paulo Florida, United States Brazil The Tampa Service Center is sited in a building In April 2017, the São Paulo office started with no recycling program. In 2018, our Tampa implementing a series of energy-efficiency Green Teams Green Team introduced an initiative to recycle measures. These initiatives include upgrading 175+ plastic bottles, aluminum and steel cans, glass, the HVAC system, switching to LED lighting, paper, and cardboard. They also launched a and installing motion sensors in lesser-used campaign to encourage colleagues to reduce, areas. In one year, the office has seen a 28 reuse, and recycle. They expect 85,000 percent reduction in energy consumption. aluminum cans, 38,000 paper coffee sleeves, environmental initiatives and 9,000 plastic juice bottles will be diverted from landfill and recycled each year. 39 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Partnerships McKinsey has offices in 130 cities, from Abu Dhabi to Zurich. These communities are home to our clients and their customers, to our own people and their families. We want them to be inclusive, sustainable, and prosperous places to live and to work. We believe we have an opportunity and a responsibility to deploy our resources, our people, and our capabilities to give back. Our offices and our people work to support non-profits and build business-led partnerships for social impact in their communities. By doing this, we’re working to advance SDG 17, Partnerships for the goals, which is about organizations working together, across sectors, breaking down silos, to advance the global goals. In this section Supporting non-profits 41 Supporting business-led city partnerships 48 40 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Supporting non-profits 600+ non-profits Supporting the SDGs 17 supported each year Every year we work with more than 600 non-profits, organizations that are addressing some of the world’s most pressing social challenges. Through pro bono service, board membership, and volunteering, we strive to bring insights from our work to strengthen their impact and help them grow. Each McKinsey office forms its own partnerships, reflecting the issues that colleagues are passionate about and that matter locally. SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals Targets addressed for SDG 17 –– Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multistakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology, and financial resources to support the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries –– Encourage and promote effective public, public-private, and civil-society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships 41 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Improving Following a successful pilot in 2016 at a primary school in Shatila refugee camp, the program has education for expanded to five more schools, reaching 3,200 children. The program is designed to be easily Syrian refugees scalable, with light-touch central involvement and coordination, and aims to improve education outcomes for thousands of children as the Lebanon methodology is rolled out to other schools. More than a million refugees have fled the Their work has also helped Basmeh & Zeitooneh Syrian conflict into Lebanon. to secure a grant of nearly $3 million from international donors to establish and run a school McKinsey’s Middle East and London offices, in the Bekaa Valley that will serve 750 children determined to be part of the response to this who would otherwise not be in school. humanitarian crisis, recognized that hundreds of Visit Social Support Society’s website thousands of children had been displaced and were receiving little or no schooling. Since 2015, they have worked with non-profits in Lebanon to provide education to these displaced children. They have partnered with local non-profits Basmeh & Zeitooneh (“basmeh” means “smile” and “zeitooneh” means “olive”) and Social Support Society to develop the School Improvement Program, which addresses teacher skill, school culture and management, and curriculum and assessment. Visit Basmeh & Zeitooneh’s website 42 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Reforming founder Sherry Lachman and her team develop their initial business plan, design interview tools for foster care fellowship candidates, create criteria for selecting agency partners, and build a strategy to achieve in the US the financial sustainability that would enable it to expand its operations. Foster America has now partnered with 20 Foster America agencies in 11 states and secured more than There are nearly half a million children in foster $2.5 million in government contracts. The care in the United States. Many move from organization has placed 38 fellows to date and placement to placement. Children who spend continues to receive more than 25 applications for time in the system are more likely than those who every fellowship place, reflecting the demand from don’t to experience trauma, homelessness, sex government partners and fellowship talent alike. trafficking, and imprisonment. Foster America, a San Francisco–based non-profit, Visit Foster recruits, trains, and places professionals in the America’s website child-welfare sector through an 18-month fellowship program. Foster America fellows bring skills in data and technology, design and marketing, strategy and planning, and finance that are needed to address the child-welfare system’s biggest problems in new ways. By providing skilled leaders to these agencies, “The team at McKinsey played an essential role Foster America aims to transform the lives of in the launch of Foster America. They helped vulnerable children and families. build and test our program model. We now McKinsey has worked with Foster America since have a financial model that will help us grow the early stages of its launch in 2016. We helped to scale and support many more vulnerable kids and families across the country.” Sherry Lachman Founder and CEO, Foster America 43 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Helping London’s “The Work Ready Program, which Thames Reach developed in partnership with McKinsey, formerly homeless has become an important part of how we support people into work. Its unique approach secure work builds self-esteem and skills for those who have often given up hope of finding work.” Work Ready Program Catherine Parsons More than 300,000 people are homeless in Director of Operations, Thames Reach the United Kingdom, according to research by homelessness organizations. One charity reports Visit Thames Reach’s website that, while more than 75 percent of its clients want to work, only 10 percent are currently employed. The Work Ready Program is meant to address that problem. Developed by Thames Reach, a non-profit that works to end homelessness in London, and McKinsey’s London office, Work Ready provides support and skills development to Since its creation in 2013, Thames Reach has help those who have experienced homelessness run the program several times each year, with to gain employment. volunteers from different organizations, including more than 200 McKinsey employees. Of the more The program focuses on building soft skills, such than 300 participants who have completed the as confidence, communication, and teamwork, program, 55 percent have secured employment along with work-related training. It is delivered in or moved into education or training—more partnership with businesses and public-sector than double the success rate of the next-best employers, who support the program and whose comparable program. employees volunteer to lead activities and trainings and act as mentors. 44 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Preparing Colorado youth for college and careers CareerWise Colorado Non-profit CareerWise Colorado helps young people Visit CareerWise’s in the state to combine academic learning with onwebsite the-job skill training through innovative modern apprenticeships. For businesses, this gives them a hands-on role in developing talent with the skills they need. For students, modern apprenticeship can be a pathway to further education or a career-launching job. The three-year curriculum begins with high school juniors spending three days a week at school and “CareerWise uses McKinsey & Company’s one and a half to two days working for one of the framework to attract partners and determine program’s partner businesses. After graduation, they the proper way to coordinate our growth. can continue to work for the business and may pursue It gives us a living planning and functional higher education in parallel. road map that McKinsey continually updates A team from McKinsey’s Denver office worked with as we gather new insights in order to ensure CareerWise to develop a financial framework to help all stakeholders are informed and on task.” the non-profit increase its income and expand its Ashley Carter apprenticeship program. This included using economic COO, CareerWise analysis to build a fact base to make the case to potential employer partners and donors and working with the board of directors to define CareerWise’s growth strategy. 45 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Medical “The McKinsey team has served as a strategic partner and trusted The Academy harnesses the power of digital training tools to build the clinical skills of professionals community health workers and the capacity of advisor, providing the expertise we health system leaders to build higher-quality needed to advance our vision and for remote systems. A pro bono McKinsey team helped expand the impact of our work.” Last Mile Health’s leadership team develop its communities Dr. Raj Panjabi business plan for the Academy. CEO, Last Mile Health Learners from 160 countries have already Visit Last Mile registered for the Academy’s first leadership Health’s website course with edX and HarvardX, and over half of Last Mile Health Liberia’s national community health workforce Around the world, one billion people lack access to has access to digital tools equipped with the healthcare because they live too far from a health Academy’s e-learning platform. facility. Last Mile Health works with governments Last Mile Health remains dedicated to extending to build networks of community health workers the reach of the health system to the most remote to provide primary healthcare to the world’s most communities. To date, it has trained more than remote villages. 3,000 community health workers and nurse The organization was founded in Liberia, where supervisors across the world. more than 1.2 million people live in hard-to-reach communities and often die needlessly from preventable diseases such as pneumonia, diarrhea, malaria, malnutrition, and complications from childbirth. It played an instrumental role following the 2014–16 Ebola outbreak in the country. McKinsey has supported Last Mile Health’s CEO, Dr. Raj Panjabi, to operationalize his vision for the Community Health Academy, for which he was awarded a $1 million grant as the recipient of the 2017 TED Prize. 46 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Improving Pratham Pratham develops low-cost, community-driven Peepul Peepul is an education non-profit with the vision learning in solutions to improve the quality of learning and works with state governments to take them that every child should receive a high-quality education that enables them to reach their Indian schools to scale. From its start in 1994 with a single preschool in Mumbai, its work has evolved into a potential. Peepul is transforming the quality of education in government schools, through a national network reaching 58 million children and focus on whole-school transformation, teacher Two-fifths of the 250 million children worldwide youth through literacy and vocational programs capacity building, and strengthening systemwide who cannot read or write reside in India. With in 23 Indian states, establishing Pratham as accountability and governance mechanisms, 260 million students currently enrolled in the one of the top non-governmental organizations currently impacting 35,000 students. K–12 school system, the Indian education dedicated to fostering universal literacy. population is large and has global significance, To propel Peepul’s growth, McKinsey developed and the country today is mobilizing quickly to To support Pratham in its aspirations to double the a strategic plan and growth aspiration to help improve student outcomes. number of children it reaches each year, McKinsey the organization realize its vision. We continue developed a five-year growth strategy for the to provide ongoing support, including to support McKinsey India supports two progressive non-profits organization. Firm members also serve on the Peepul’s innovative work on district-level in the education sector with their growth strategy. board of the Pratham Education Foundation. transformation of the education system. Firm members also serve on Peepul’s advisory board. “The quality of education continues “We are fiercely ambitious about to remain a challenge in India. improving the quality of education in McKinsey has been a valuable India’s government schools. McKinsey’s partner for Pratham as we have support helped us clarify our vision grown and diversified to address and growth aspiration as we work Visit Pratham’s how foundational skills can be toward impacting half a million Visit Peepul’s website acquired effectively and durably.” students by 2023 through 3,800 website Rukmini Banerji schools and 14,000 teachers.” CEO, Pratham Kruti Bharucha CEO, Peepul 47 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Supporting Responding to Mexico’s earthquake A McKinsey team in Mexico provided pro bono support to help FFM structure the effort. It business-led designed an operating model that facilitated In the aftermath of the September 2017 decision making and improved coordination and earthquake that killed hundreds of people in city partnerships execution along key activities, while ensuring Mexico City and surrounding areas, prominent transparency by publishing details on its website. business leaders formed Fideicomiso Fuerza México (FFM), which roughly translates as “Mexico Additional materials and labor donated by Effective partnerships can solve problems that Strong,” to spearhead reconstruction efforts. construction companies further increased the no single institution can. impact of reconstruction work, while FFM spent Led by Mexico’s Economic Coordination Council, In many of the cities where we work, business only 4 percent of its budget on administration. a leading business group, they have collected leaders are working with local government to more than $23 million toward reconstruction According to FFM, more than 45,000 Mexicans address local problems, such as infrastructure, efforts. FFM’s founders wanted to make sure have benefited directly from its work, which education, job creation, and poverty reduction. that the money committed was managed will be completed by January 2020. Today, FFM McKinsey has actively supported many of efficiently and transparently and that it brought resources have constructed 5,200 houses, 17 these partnerships. the greatest possible benefit to the areas with schools, and 11 health clinics. They have also the most need. been used to rebuild four cultural heritage sites, four community centers, and four marketplaces. “In the face of emergency, solidarity paired with high standards of professionalism and transparency that instill confidence led us to achieve remarkable objectives to help those most in need.” Juan Pablo Castañon Visit FFM’s website First President, Fideicomiso Fuerza México Trust (in Spanish) 48 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships Civic Greater Washington Partnership: Maintaining partnerships competitiveness in US cities The Capital Region from Baltimore, Maryland, to Richmond, Virginia, is home to 10.3 million people and the third-largest regional economy in the In cities across the United States, business United States. There is significant demand in the leaders are adopting a new model of partnership growing region for technology-savvy workers— for civic action, coming together and using their and the infrastructure to support them. Led by the knowledge, capabilities, and resources to help area’s leading employers and entrepreneurs, the create better communities. McKinsey’s offices Greater Washington Partnership (GWP) develops have played roles in convening and supporting regional approaches to solving transportation these civic partnerships in a dozen major and digital-technology-talent problems. American cities. McKinsey’s Washington, DC, office was a founding member of the Partnership and conducted a landscape assessment of the region’s workforce Visit GWP’s website and economic-mobility challenges. One study analyzed the existing supply and forecasts of demand for digital-capable talent, which the Partnership has used as the basis for its action plan—working with local education institutions—for digital-skills training. McKinsey also served as a key adviser in the development of the Partnership’s Blueprint for Regional Mobility, the region’s first CEO-led transportation strategy that, once implemented, has the potential to unlock key bottlenecks and enable seamless, multimodal transportation connections from Baltimore to Washington. 49 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Responsible practices Partnerships continued Bay Area Council: Civic partnerships Social and economic in US cities sustainability If it were a country, Northern California’s San Charlotte Executive Francisco Bay Area would be the 19th-largest Leadership Council: economy in the world, with a gross domestic Intergenerational mobility product (GDP) of $748 billion. Since 2010, In 2015, a group of more than 20 CEOs came the region has added 600,000 jobs. together to form the Charlotte Executive This economic vitality, however, has also brought Leadership Council to support the city’s efforts challenges in the form of high housing costs to improve the educational and economic and rising homelessness. The Bay Area Council, prospects of Charlotte’s residents. Their open, which includes CEOs and executives from 300 of inclusive approach was designed to reach a Visit Bay Area Council’s website the region’s largest employers, recognizes these broad cross-section of the community and pressures and is part of the effort to promote improve economic mobility, where research had long-term economic, social, and environmental shown the city faced challenges. sustainability in the region. Since its inception, the Council has been Since 1996, McKinsey has partnered with the supported by McKinsey’s Charlotte office. Bay Area Council Economic Institute to examine McKinsey colleagues have worked with the The team also worked with the Council to “It’s essential that the Bay Area the region’s economic prospects and challenges. Council to expand its employment and skills stimulate significant investment in affordable have the best possible analysis of The team recently worked with the Council to programs for young people, particularly for housing. In total, $203 million in publicand both the promise and the perils address the acute housing shortage the region technical and vocational jobs in the fields of IT, private-sector funds have been committed to is currently facing. Their report was the first fact customer service, and healthcare, all of which support affordable housing since May 2018. of its accelerated economy. It was base on homelessness in the region. It is enabling are in high demand in the city. They helped wonderful to have the opportunity stakeholders across sectors to work together to Generation launch in Charlotte and have plans to work in partnership alongside improve access to affordable housing. and funding in place to expand that program McKinsey to leverage its deep across more industries. resources and expertise.” Micah Weinberg President, Bay Area Council Economic Institute 50 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices Responsible practices McKinsey aspires to meet the highest professional, legal, and ethical standards. Our values reflect the thinking of our founder, James O. McKinsey, and of Marvin Bower, managing director from 1950 to 1967, who was a major force in shaping the firm. Our values inform everything we do, from our long-term strategy to how we serve our clients on a day-to-day basis. In this section Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 Ensuring data privacy and security 55 Working with our suppliers 57 51 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices Upholding the Client selection We have introduced a Client Service Policy to highest ethical guide our decisions on which clients we serve and on which topics. standards We assess the risks of every engagement based on factors including the country, the McKinsey is committed to working to protect institution, the topic, individuals, and operational human rights, upholding international labor considerations (our “CITIO framework”). Based standards, and opposing bribery and corruption. on our risk assessment, we may apply additional In 2018, underscoring this commitment, we measures to manage risks. We may also decide became a participant in the UN Global Compact. to step back from specific engagements. An enhanced set of rules govern our work for publicWe have strict policies and professional and social-sector and state-linked clients, where standards that apply to every member of the these risks may be higher. firm. Any breach of these ethical standards is subject to comprehensive investigation, with appropriate action taken. Every firm member has the right to raise concerns about values, ethics, and professional conduct without fear of retribution. In addition to clearly defined internal channels, we have begun 100% 100% a phased global rollout of a hotline, which will provide internal colleagues with a mechanism to confidentially and, where legally permissible, anonymously raise concerns relating to potential violations of the firm’s policies, professional of colleagues completed an annual of our offices held Values Days— standards, and values. program of Professional Standards one day each year set aside learning, including ethics, antito reflect together on what it corruption, and risk management means to live our values (in 2018) 52 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices Human rights Human rights Our Human Rights Policy sets out these Discrimination and harassment Our Discrimination and Harassment Policy makes and labor commitments, along with the responsibilities and governance arrangements: clear our expectation that all firm members must be able to work in an environment free from harassment and discrimination. Our firm is a meritocracy. We strive to create –– McKinsey strives to adhere to the principles a work environment that supports, inspires, set forth in the UN Global Compact, the The policy expressly prohibits: and respects all of our colleagues, applicants, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, –– Any form of discrimination, harassment, bullying, and clients. and the International Labour Organization’s or other offensive conduct toward any individual Declaration on Fundamental Principles and As part of this, we are committed to upholding on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual Rights at Work. internationally proclaimed human rights and orientation, gender identity, marital status, internationally recognized labor standards. –– This includes firm members’ ability to agree pregnancy, age, disability, national or ethnic We stand against the use of child, forced, or to terms and conditions of employment origin, military-service status, citizenship, exploited labor, as well as forced or exploitative voluntarily without coercion and to freely or other characteristic working conditions. We will not assist our clients end their employment on appropriate notice. –– Any behavior that makes the work environment in doing so in any way. –– The policy applies to all firm members, and all hostile, intimidating, or offensive to colleagues firm members are responsible for their own because of any characteristic listed above actions and for the firm’s compliance with this –– Any form of retaliation against any individual policy. Any firm member failing to follow this who in good faith reports a complaint under policy will be subject to disciplinary action, this policy or who assists in an investigation up to and including separation from the firm. The policy strongly encourages reporting of –– Our global people function is responsible all incidents of discrimination, harassment, or for reviewing and reporting compliance with retaliation, regardless of the offender’s identity or the policy to the People Committee of the position, with clearly designated reporting channels. Shareholders Council (our firm’s equivalent See our UK Modern of a board of directors) on an annual basis. Individuals who are found to be responsible for Slavery statement harassment, discrimination, or retaliation will be Our UK Modern Slavery Statement, a countrysubject to disciplinary action, up to and including level statement, further demonstrates our termination of employment of the offender. commitment to upholding these principles. 53 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices Anti-corruption McKinsey opposes bribery and corruption in all Our Anti-Corruption Policy expressly prohibits forms. We are committed to complying with the any form of bribe or kickback and provides anti-corruption laws of all the jurisdictions in which guidelines for gifts, meals, hospitality, and other we operate, including the US Foreign Corrupt areas of potential risk. Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act. It sets out processes for reporting concerns, Regular anti-corruption training and policyensures their confidentiality, and underscores compliance certification are mandatory that all firm members have the right to raise for all firm members as part of our annual ethical concerns without fear of retribution. Professional Standards learning curriculum. The policy also sets out procedures for accounting and record-keeping controls and places responsibility for monitoring and testing on the firm’s finance and internal audit departments. Any firm member failing to follow this policy will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including separation from the firm, and may be subject to proceedings brought by government enforcement agencies. 54 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices Ensuring data privacy and 99% of colleagues completed training security courses covering data-privacy principles, data-protection practices, and cybersecurity behaviors in 2018 Throughout McKinsey’s history, our clients have 100% trusted us with their confidential information; protecting it is one of our core values. This commitment has taken on even more importance in the information age, where the ability to collect and create data, particularly of colleagues received phishing personal data, has become increasingly easy; training on a monthly basis the value of analyzing this data has grown increasingly powerful; and the regulatory requirements and restrictions respecting the processing of this data have become increasingly complex. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of both data privacy and data security, In early 2019, McKinsey received a Guardians of whether the data belongs to our clients, business Trust award, which honors leaders in information partners, vendors, or firm members. security, recognizing our program of penetration testing on firm and third-party applications using crowdsourced ethical “white hat” hackers. 55 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices continued Data security it processes on behalf of McKinsey. In addition, Ensuring data privacy Our information-security strategy focuses on the our legal team ensures that all vendor agreements and security people, processes, and technology that play a role include appropriate representations and obligations to respecting the protection, processing, and in maintaining our clients’ trust and protecting Data privacy our clients’ information by: (1) taking a risk-based transfer of personal data. We have implemented a global data-privacy approach to managing our digital assets, (2) having Our security operations center ensures a high level program that builds on the requirements of the industry-leading information-security technologies of information security for McKinsey’s applications European General Data Protection Regulation in place, and (3) ensuring our products and systems (internal and external), systems, and all related (GDPR), currently the “gold standard” of dataare deployed with security built in. data by providing best-in-class security-incident privacy laws. By following global best practices, we detection, analysis, containment, and mitigation. Our objective is to implement best-in-class meet our data-privacy legal obligations to individuals defenses, including technical solutions, and contractual commitments to our clients. governance, and employee capability building. Employee training Personal data is collected, accessed, used, and Systems and controls are designed to meet We require all employees to complete several forms shared only on a strict need-to-know basis and only ISO/IEC 27001 standards, in combination with of data-security and -privacy training on a regular as necessary to support the firm’s and our clients’ industry best practices. basis, including mandatory e-learning programs on fair and lawful processing purposes. Data is deleted McKinsey’s confidentiality policies and practices. An independent third party assesses McKinsey’s when there is no longer a legitimate purpose for information-security organization and its security We also have a mandatory gamified e-learning retaining it, in accordance with applicable laws. program every year based on the ISO 27001 module that raises awareness around dataThe data-privacy team provides firm members standard (v2013) and additional technical testing privacy principles, data-protection practices, and with guidelines for protecting all personal data, of the McKinsey environment. cybersecurity behaviors. This simulation helps including client data, in connection with the firm’s learners to identify high-risk situations, practice We perform thorough assessments to evaluate activities, such as recruiting, promotional events, taking risk-mitigating actions, and understand their and validate the security controls in place for new communications, and client engagements. responsibility in protecting the firm and our clients. applications, systems, cloud environments, and McKinsey has adopted a Global Data Protection third-party vendors. These assessments also In addition, we run monthly phishing campaigns to and Privacy Policy that governs all client and firm confirm certain data-privacy requirements, ensuring help employees improve their ability to identify and data-processing activities. This policy is reviewed on that each vendor applies adequate technical and handle phishing emails. an annual basis, and all firm members are required organizational measures to protect personal data to acknowledge the policy and confirm their commitment to comply with the policy annually. 56 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices Working with Supplier standards Our sustainable procurement strategy helps us Supplier diversity We define “diverse suppliers” as small our suppliers drive high standards of environmental and social responsibility among our suppliers and more businesses and companies owned by women, people from minority ethnic groups, LGBTQ+ broadly across business and society. individuals, and veterans. McKinsey holds its suppliers of goods and services to the same high standards of social Our Supplier Code of Conduct reflects McKinsey’s While 40 percent of our US suppliers fall into responsibility that it holds itself. We also strive values and expectations. Suppliers are required this definition, they account for just 11 percent of to increase the diversity of our suppliers. to act ethically and with integrity. This includes our spending. This is because the majority of our maintaining data privacy and security, embracing spending is on travel with large airlines and hotels, inclusion and diversity, ensuring fair employment which do not to meet this definition. McKinsey is and wages, reducing environmental impact, and actively looking at ways to increase the diversity of providing working conditions that support safety, its suppliers. 90% well-being, and health. The code was finalized in 2018 and was rolled out to our top suppliers, representing more than half of our spending. These suppliers are in the process of our top suppliers signed our new of completing our certification process, which Supplier Code of Conduct (or provided includes a questionnaire about their environmental similar codes governing the conduct of and social responsibility policies and practices. their own employees) To date, 90 percent of these suppliers have signed 11% the code or have their own codes of conduct that provide similar standards. We are working to roll out the code to all suppliers and to incorporate it into an enhanced supplier vetting process. of our spending is with diverse See our Supplier Our standard contractual agreement with our Code of Conduct suppliers (in the United States) suppliers also sets out our expectation that suppliers meet our standards for data privacy and security, anti-corruption, and providing equal employment opportunities. 57 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices Appendix Greenhouse gas reporting methodology cars). When data was missing, extrapolations were used. Scope 3 emissions are calculated See our 2018 GHG emissions reporting based on mileage (air travel, ground Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are transportation), stay duration (hotels), and spend calculated in line with the GHG Protocol, (purchased goods and outsourced activities). covering material emission sources across Scopes 1, 2, and 3. Scope 1 emissions include all Market-based and direct GHG emissions, such as emissions from location-based reporting combustion in owned or controlled boilers and On page 36, we report emissions using a vehicles; Scope 2 covers indirect GHG emissions market-based approach. The table below from the generation of purchased electricity, provides an overview of our GHG footprint heat, or steam; and Scope 3 encompasses other using both a marketand location-based indirect emissions, such as business travel, approach. The market-based figures reflect emissions from extraction of fuels and from our procurement choices, such as renewableproduction of purchased goods, vehicles not energy purchases via contractual mechanisms, owned or controlled, outsourced activities, and whereas the location-based figures reflect the waste disposal. average carbon intensity of the grids where our Our methodology follows best practices, such as energy consumption occurs. using internationally accepted conversion factors and including radiative forcing in emission factors for air travel. Our reporting covers all material emission sources and complies with the GHG emissions (thousand tCO2e) criteria of South Pole’s Climate Neutral label. Market-based Location-based Our GHG footprint was independently verified 2017 2018 2017 2018 under the ISO 14064-3 standard. Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions 15.8 15.7 15.8 15.7 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are calculated using Scope 2: Energy indirect GHG emissions 29.0 5.1 28.3 26.4 survey data covering 96 percent of our global Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions 735.0 766.6 735.0 769.6 office portfolio (energy consumption) and Total GHG emissions 779.8 787.5 779.1 811.7 mileage and fuel-consumption data (company Note: Figures may not sum to total, because of rounding. 58 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 People Planet Partnerships Responsible practices United Nations Principle Section Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 Global Compact of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Working with our suppliers 57 Index 2. m ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 Working with our suppliers 57 In April 2018, McKinsey became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 and the effective recognition of the right to collective set of ten principles covering the areas of human bargaining; rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 This report serves as our Communication on labor; Progress in implementing the principles of the 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 UNGC and supporting broader UN goals. The table shows where relevant content can be 6. t he elimination of discrimination in respect of Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 found in this report. employment and occupation. Fostering diversity and inclusion 23 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Managing our environmental footprint 34 environmental challenges; Working with our suppliers 57 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Managing our environmental footprint 34 responsibility; and Working with our suppliers 57 9. encourage the development and diffusion of Managing our environmental footprint 34 environmentally friendly technologies. Working with our suppliers 57 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its Upholding the highest ethical standards 52 forms, including extortion and bribery. Working with our suppliers 57 59 McKinsey & Company Social Responsibility Report 2018 Learn more online at mckinsey.com/social-responsibility
