Communication on Progress 2017 SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Statement of Support I am delighted to once again affirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact. With the continued expansion of Forensic Pathways into new and sometimes challenging markets the Compact provides a line in the sand for what we expect from ourselves and from all our stakeholders. In working with Forensic Pathways all stakeholders are aligning themselves with the key principles of the Compact and our commitment to it. If you want PEACE, Work for JUSTICE Our front cover for 2017 reflects the work we are committed to for 2017 and beyond. 2017 has very much focused on Sustainable Development Goal 16 Peace, Justice & Strong Institutions. Projects which have commenced in 2017 are focused on working within country in order to assist in the development of strong institutions not only to impact positively on the justice systems within country but also positively impact on poverty and aspiration within country. This goes beyond simply exporting products and services. Global prosperity, contributes to political security and that in turn leads to security for all. We believe trade isn’t just about goods and services it is about global security. Our PEACE, Work for JUSTICE Projects In support of Sustainable Development Goal 16 This year has seen Forensic Pathways commence projects both independently and with strategic partners 1. InnovateUK: LOQUITUR: bringing the field of ballistic forensics to DNA-type standards 2. Forensic Laboratory Consultancy – Forensic Lab, Peru Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com RECOGNITION FOR INNOVATION AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE In recognition of Forensic Pathways commitment to international trade and international collaboration the Company was appointed Export Champions by the UK Government’s Department for International Trade1 at the inaugural launch of the Midlands Engine Trade Summit on the 9 March 2017. The ‘Midlands Engine Export Champions Programme’ comprises of 28 high profile business leaders from across the region offering their expertise and advice to inspire companies to export and support existing exporters looking to expand into new markets. Forensic Pathways was delighted to be appointed and continues to support this initiative. This not only provides the Company opportunities to promote its own brand, but is also a significant platform to highlight the benefits of collaboration and the importance of corporate governance no matter what the size of business. This provides Forensic Pathways with a valuable opportunity to share our commitment to the UNGC and encourage others to start their own UNGC journey. DEBORAH LEARY, OBE, D.Univ, FRSA, CCMI Chief Executive Officer 1 https://www.gov.uk/government/news/international-trade-minister-announces-export-champions-to-promotemidlands-businesses-to-the-world Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com The Company Forensic Pathways was incorporated in 2001 following the development of an innovative product for the forensic market. The beginning of Forensic Pathways’ journey was very much focused on crime scene management, the development of innovative products. However, with the expediential growth in mobile phone technology and digital images, the Company recognized the need to develop innovative technologies that would optimize law enforcements capability in the management and investigation of digital data. The Company’s capability to innovate and build technologies focusing on the optimization of data, along with expertise in criminal and corporate investigation also led to the development of Forensic Pathways Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation Consultancy Services. This combines sound investigative skills along with Digital Forensic capability. With the move toward GDPR2 in May 2018 and the focus on Cyber Security and potential reputational damage, the Company began developing a new tool to monitor and investigate the Dark Web for both law enforcement and Corporate clients, with a view to a formal launch of the service in 2018. In essence Forensic Pathways is comprised of 4 key elements: • Digital Forensic Technology/Services • Due Diligence/Fraud Investigation Services • Forensic Equipment • Forensic Consultancy including Laboratory Design/Equipment Procurement All products and services are available world-wide either directly through ourselves or via strategic partnership and distributors. 2 The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a legal framework that sets guidelines for the collection and processing of personal information of individuals within the European Union (EU). The GDPR sets out the principles for data management and the rights of the individual, while also imposing fines that can be revenue-based. https://eugdpr.org/ Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com FORENSIC CRIME SCENE EQUIPMENT Transparent Anti-Contamination Stepping Plates This product, invented by the Company’s CEO, Deborah Leary, continues to be sold globally and continues to change and enhance the quality of investigative processes. Stepping Plates form part of Standard Operating Procedures within Europe and many countries are now replicating this standard. The purpose of the Plates is to prevent cross-contamination, ensuring that investigators can work within a scene whilst reducing the opportunity for contamination. Previous Plates were made from aluminum, but with the invention of the transparent Plate, investigators are able to use these not only The world’s first to work within the scene, but are also able to still view the Transparent Stepping scene, and to use the Plates as scene protectors. Plate The ultimate aim is to ensure that the scene is processed correctly. If a scene is cross contaminated this could lead to a miscarriage of justice which damages the life not only the accused, but also the victim and the reputation of the investigator. It has also been shown that where Plates are not used, additional time is spent within an investigation eliminating the footprints of the investigators from that of the perpetrators. In one case alone in the UK, over 1000 footprints had to be eliminated from an investigation. This can delay the conclusion of a case, causing distress to the victim’s family as well as incurring significant cost to the organisation. The Plates are sold in a variety of kit forms. The kits reflect the needs of the end user and are very adaptable in terms of size and weight. The kits all include rubber pads to ensure they can be used on laminate/wooden floors and the Plates themselves are stackable and easy to clean. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com DIGITAL FORENSIC TECHNOLOGIES Forensic Pathways is international recognized as an innovator in the development of software technologies for criminal investigation technologies and security, particularly in the digital forensic space and the management of digital forensic data. As a consequence, the Company has won many awards for innovation and business. Examples include: • Orange National Business Awards 2009 • Security Industry E-Magazine – Digital Forensic Award 2013 • Forensic Insider Magazine – Digital Forensic Award 2015 In 2017 Forensic Pathways was presented with the SME News – Best Forensic Software Company primarily for the following technologies: Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) allows investigators to identify the camera or mobile phone that photographed an image with speed and accuracy, thereby reducing costs and closing investigations faster than previously achievable. To date this technology has primarily been used in Child Sexual Exploitation Investigations, however other applications are also in the area of copyright. Forensic Digital Exchange (FDX) is designed to import and store data from mobile phone forensic acquisition tools. Its primary purpose is to act as a high-tech management system that normalises data acquired in different formats from multiple forensic tools, and as an automated data analysis platform. Trials were completed on this technology and the technology has been adopted by a major UK government agency. Due to the secure nature of the client, we are unable to comment further. In addition, in 2017 the Company was presented with the Innovation50 award for its Forensic Image Analyser technology. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com This Award launched by Mills & Reeve3 sets out to celebrate the top 50 innovative companies in the West Midlands region and is ultimately an in-depth ranking of the Midlands’ most forward-thinking companies. For read the final Innovation 50 Report, please go to: https://update.mills-reeve.com/26/2175/uploads/innovation-50final-report.pdf FORENSIC SERVICES Digital Forensic Services Forensic Pathways provides a range of digital forensic services. These include computer and cell phone forensic services available to both our public and private sector clients. This includes the retrieval and analysis of cell phone data and digital images, primarily used as part of our Fraud Investigation services for Corporate/Private clients, as well as to support law enforcement within criminal investigations. CONSULTANCY SERVICES: Due Diligence Services Forensic Pathways has provided Due Diligence Services internationally for many years to both SME and Corporate clients, helping to ensure ‘positives’ don’t become ‘negatives’. In this way we help our clients mitigate risks, reducing their risk both financially and in relation to their reputation and brand. The Company provides daily monitoring and investigation services as part of its overall package of Due Diligence services on behalf of its international Corporate clients. Services include: • Identifying the ultimate beneficial owner of a business by tracing corporate structures; • Identifying where nominee shareholders or off shore havens are being used to conceal ultimate owners; 3 https://www.mills-reeve.com/about-us Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com • Exploring open sources for any relevant trading articles, negative new, litigation or court judgements concerning the individual/business; • Examining the previous/other business interests of key stakeholders including shareholders and directors in order to assess their commercial history and identify any conflicts or risks; • Analysing annual accounts and corporate reports; • Monitoring for any future changes in corporate structure or ownership or any key changes at the board level; • Monitoring the future financial risk of the individual/business by identifying CCJs, winding-up petitions and writs; • Monitoring for any future negative news. Forensic Pathways applies these same methodologies and processes with its own partnerships with new suppliers/distributors/employees/consultants/contractors or clients. Fraud Investigation Forensic Pathways provides a comprehensive fraud Investigation consultancy complemented by its ability to provide Digital Forensic Investigation ie Computer and Mobile Phone Forensics. Its client base is diverse from large corporates through to SME’s covering a range of fraud scenarios including procurement fraud, employee fraud, IP theft. Laboratory Design and Equipment Consultancy (See Principle 1 Case Study) The Company has significant experience within its core team in the area of Laboratory Design and equipment. • Design, construct, certify and deploy state of the art forensic laboratory covering all necessary forensic disciplines • ‘Future Proof’ forensic services, allowing for adaptation and growth • Ensure ISO Standards are implemented and sustainable processes introduced • Advise and instruct on the acquisition of laboratory equipment • Develop training programmes that ensure ‘future proofing’ enabling forensic talent to continually develop to an international standard and thereby ensuring stability. • Look to the future of forensics, working to develop opportunities for future laboratories within country FORENSIC PATHWAYS’ PROJECTS Please refer to Principle 1 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Please refer to Principle 2 Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses ID 109009185© Bestdesign36| Dreamstime.com Our PEACE, Work for JUSTICE Projects In support of Sustainable Development Goal 16 COMPANY PROJECTS 1. InnovateUK4: LOQUITUR: bringing the field of ballistic forensics to DNA-type standards Innovate UK is part of UK Research and Innovation, a non-departmental public body funded by a grant-in-aid from the UK government. For more information visit UK Research and Innovation’s website5. The aim of InnovateUK is to drive UK productivity and economic growth by supporting businesses to develop and realise the potential of new ideas. UK Research and Innovation is a new body which works in partnership with universities, research organisations, businesses, charities, and government to create the best possible environment for research and innovation to flourish. UK Research and Innovation operates across the whole of the UK with a combined budget of more than £6 billion, and brings together the seven Research Councils, Innovate UK and Research England. Their mission is to be a trusted partner and to ensure research and innovation continues to flourish in the UK. The organisation connects the best researchers and innovators with customers, users and the public. The organisation is measured by the impact they deliver in three key areas: 4 https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/innovate-uk/about 5 https://www.ukri.org/about-us/ Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com • Push the frontiers of human knowledge and understanding • Deliver economic impact and social prosperity • Create social and cultural impact by supporting our society and others to become enriched, healthier, more resilient and sustainable. In September 2017 Forensic Pathways was successful in its bid for funding from InnovateUK for its project: Loquitur – Bringing the field of ballistics forensics to DNA-type standards. Forensic Pathways Project Partner is the University of Huddersfield, led by Professor Liam Blunt Overview of Project The increased use of firearms in criminal and terrorist acts drives the need for development of technology in the area of ballistic analysis which enables efficient and successful prosecution of criminals by providing high quality bullet, cartridge and thus firearm matching evidence. Current ballistic analysis technologies perform poorly compared to DNA evidence and the leading technology providers only offer a highly restrictive system. Current technologies do not make use of the latest scientific and technological developments, and their approach severely hinders evidence sharing between LEA’s, using what should be compatible systems. This is specifically a problem for countries sharing a border, where sometimes bullets/cartridge cases have to be physically transported between countries to enable comparison. Ultimately this causes delay and in some cases prevents, the successful prosecution of criminals. This project will exploit the most recent scientific and technological advances to produce a cutting-edge technology which provides LEA with highly efficient, reliable, totally compatible and more cost-effective methods of generating/sharing ballistic evidence. Further details will become available upon publication of the final project report. In addition, the Company’s commercial partner, Pyramidal Technologies had identified Forensic Pathways’ expertise in the area of correlation algorithms and implementing Forensic Pathways’ algorithms into their ALIAS technology. ALIAS (Advanced Ballistics Intelligence System) represents the next generation in ballistics analysis, providing exceptional support for Ballistic Examinations, Analysis and Gun Registration Systems. ALIAS enables firearms examiners and technicians to analyze expended cartridge cases and bullets faster and with greater accuracy. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com In support of Forensic Pathways’ InnovateUK Loquitur Project, Pyramidal Technologies have agreed to donate a Comprehensive ALIAS system to be used as a research tool for the Project. The necessity for such developments in the area of ballistics analysis and investigation and how continued innovation and implementation impacts on Principle 1 and 2 and on SDG16 can be evidenced by the following studies which highlight the correlation between firearms related deaths and poverty, gun crime and violence in general: 2017: https://thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/crime/322568-violence-is-a-symptom-of-poverty-not-a-cause 2017: https://luskin.ucla.edu/connection-poverty-inequality-firearm-violence/ 2015: https://businesstech.co.za/news/government/90808/south-africa-is-one-of-the-most-violent-and-unsafe-countries-in-the-world/ In the UK alone gun crime had risen by 23% between 2016 and 2017 http://researchbriefings.files.parliament.uk/documents/CBP-7654/CBP-7654.pdf The Company will continue to report on progress of the Innovate UK Project in 2018. Though it must be noted that a detailed report cannot be provided until the end of the project due to IP restrictions. 2. Consultancy Project: Development of Forensic Laboratory – Peru In December 2017 Forensic Pathways was appointed as the lead Forensic Consultant for the development of a world class forensic laboratory, covering all forensic disciplines in Central Peru. This is a two-year consortium project headed up by a total of four partners, including one Corporate Partner, Forensic Pathways, one further SME and a micro business on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. All partners with the exception of Forensic Pathways are Peruvian. As Forensic Lead, Forensic Pathways team will spend a number of months within Central Peru, completing a scoping exercise, looking at the current capability of the laboratory, staff levels, equipment, processes and to then to put forward its recommendations for a new build and ensuring that the new facility is sustainable independently until 2030 and meets ISO standards. If our recommendations are approved by the Ministry of the Interior the project will move into implementation stage. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Forensic Pathways is aware that current forensic standards are not being met and that this is impacting on evidence being gathered and submitted which ultimately impacts on effective justice. We are also aware that working conditions for employees is below standard and health of employees is being significantly affected. The Company’s 2018 Communication on Progress will give a full report as to the progress on this project. Forensic Pathways’ Stakeholders Since its incorporation Forensic Pathways has never had an incidence where it has been seen to be contributing to human rights abuses, either directly or indirectly through any of its stakeholders. External Stakeholders All agents/distributors/suppliers go through a due diligence process check and all stakeholders are made aware of the Company’s zero tolerance policy through the distribution of its Communication on Progress. The Company’s commitment to the Compact is stated in all contracts, along with all external Company communications. Stakeholders are made aware of their rights and responsibilities. Any Stakeholder found to be operating against the Principles and therefore their contract will have their contract withdrawn with immediate effect. Internal Stakeholders The Company recruitment induction process provides awareness training and recruits are guided through the Principles of the Compact as part of their induction. All contracts and Employee Handbooks reference the Compact, and signpost employees to the Principles and how it impacts them. All employees and interns are in receipt of full contracts and Employment Handbooks outlining their rights and responsibilities and opportunities for negotiation. All stakeholders are provided with copies of the Communication on Progress as part of their contract package. Any stakeholder found to be operating against the Principles will have their contracts withdrawn with immediate effect. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Personnel Provider Forensic Pathways continues to appoint Ellis Whittam as its Employment Law and HR Provider. Ellis Whittam has an overt commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility and was identified as being an appropriate stakeholder to provide services to Forensic Pathways. Ellis Whittam works with Forensic Pathways in the writing of all its employee contracts and employee handbooks and is fully aware of Forensic Pathways commitment to the UNGC. Ellis Whittam also supports the Company in all areas of HR and Employment Law. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining ID 139359514 © Robwilson39 | Dreamstime.com Freedom of Association and Trade Unions Employees are encouraged to join professional organisations that help their professional and personal development and the cost of joining such organisations are paid in full by the Company wherever it directly relates to their role. Employees also have the right to join a Trade Union and to take part in collective bargaining. Social Media Forensic Pathways has a proactive Social Media policy, operating Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn accounts. All employees are also encouraged to develop social media networks and to contribute to discussion forums and posts within the Company social media accounts and to join professional groups within social media platforms such as LinkedIn. This provides a valuable opportunity not only to promote the Company, but also promote the profile of team members and can provide opportunities for learning as well as developing strategic partnerships with potential clients or businesses. Whilst social media is seen as a valuable tool, we also recognize that that each employee must act responsibly. The use of the internet and social media is clearly outlined within our Employee Contracts and the standard Employee Handbook. Anyone found in breach of their contract through misuse of the internet or social media will face disciplinary procedures which could in turn lead to dismissal. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Principle 4 & 5 Forced and Compulsory Labour Support Abolition of Child Labour ID 96865156 © Tomasz Guzowski | Dreamstime.com To date Forensic Pathways has found no evidence of forced or child labour within its global operations. As with Principles 1 and 2 of the Compact, due diligence is completed on all stakeholders before any partnerships or contracts are begun. Forensic Pathways is a Due Diligence Service Provider and applies the same techniques to its own processes, checking any potential changes with its partners eg, negative news items, new partnerships, any changes that may impact on Principles 1-5. Should any evidence be found which may be seen as a breach of the Principles the stakeholder will be contractually removed and if necessary the reason for the breach disclosed to the appropriate authorities. All stakeholders are made aware of our commitment to the Principles and are provided with copies of our latest Communication on Progress and are reminded of these Principles in every communication, through reference to the UNGC on all correspondence. The UNGC support logo appears on all emails, correspondence and presentations, along with the relevant link to our latest Communication on Progress. Employees are reminded of their responsibility to ensure that they report any instances to the CEO where they feel there may be a breach and all new employees are informed of their responsibilities as part of their induction training. Any employee, consultant, agent or distributor found in breach of this Principle either through failure to report or through proactively encouraging negative behaviour will have their contract terminated. All stakeholders are aware of the Company’s commitment to the UNGC. Work Experience Forensic Pathways continues to support the wider community by offering work experience placements and internships. Work Experience placements of secondary school age students are only accepted if the Company is approached directly by the School as part of an approved work experience placement or by a parent directly. All work experience students have to complete a full interview prior to being accepted for the placement and a full induction is completed to ensure that all students are fully integrated into the Company and are aware of codes of conduct as well as its commercial focus. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination People Invest Programme Our ‘People Invest Programme’ is very much focused on SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Forensic Pathways’ ‘People Invest Progamme’ brings success not only for the individual but for the Company as a whole. ID 92553873 © Tupungato | Dreamstime.com As an organization we continue our success journey thanks to the professional, academic and personal development of the team. We also recognize the power of keeping in contact and is always a pleasure maintain links with former employees and interns and this we achieve through our Alumni group. All employees have an equal right to seek opportunities for personal, professional and academic development. These opportunities do not have to be related directly to their work but can be part of an overall personal development package. People Invest Programme Alumni Nir Tolkovsky, Senior Analyst Having completed his Masters of Science (MSc) in Criminal Investigations from the University of Derby supported by Forensic Pathways, Nir continues his PhD on Corporate Fraud and Computing Science with the University, due for completion 2018. We continue to wish him well in his academic studies and look forward to his successful completion in 2018. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com People Invest Alumni – Past Employees/Interns Graduated MBA Employee – Company Sponsored Ben Leary MBA (Marketing) 2016 MBA Liverpool University Graduated BSc Intern – 1 year placement (now Alex Blackwell, BSc Business & 2016 permanent employee) Management with Integrated Industrial/Professional Training. Aston University Graduated BSc Intern – 1 year placement Kelly Ashman, BSc Digital Forensics 2016 Graduated BSC Intern – 1 year placement Ryan Patel. BSc Business and 2015 Management with Integrated Industrial/Professional Training. Aston University Graduated PhD Employee – Company Sponsored Dr Ahmad Ryad Soobhany 2013 Keele University Graduated PhD Employee – Company Sponsored Dr Jenny Thomas 2011 University of Huddersfield Internships We are incredibly proud of the people that have spent their internships within the Company, who have successfully graduated and either gone on to exciting new careers or have decided to continue their journey with Forensic Pathways. We will continue to follow their careers. Diversity in the Work Place Forensic Pathways has always drawn talent from across the globe. Our commitment to innovation and international trade has meant that many of our employees and interns contributed to cultural diversity within the work place. Our employees/interns appointed have originated from Pakistan, France, Italy, Greece, China, Taiwan and in 2017 the Cameroon. Olivier Tchoumi CAMS, Msc In 2017 the Company appointed Oliver Tchoumi as Due Diligence Analyst, leading all aspects of the Company’s Due Diligence service offering to clients, particularly in the Telco area. Originally from the Cameroon, Forensic Pathways was delighted to welcome Olivier to the team. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com We have also had a good gender balance across all areas of the business, both technology innovation and consultancy. However, the fact that too date we have received no applications from any potential employee with a disability leads us to believe that we may be missing out on talent through not posting adequately our available positions or framing our job applications in an appropriate way. Having acknowledged this, we will ensure that in our recruitment process moving forward we will try to address this. Forensic Pathways will maintain its commitment to diversity in all its forms and will ensure that diversity and talent remain at the forefront of the recruitment process. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Wider Community Commitment Member of the All Parliamentary Working Party Group on Women and Enterprise Forensic Pathways CEO, Deborah Leary continues as an Advisor to the All Parliamentary Party Working Group on Women and Enterprise, continuing to lobby and debate and to draw on global best practice in the area of women’s economic development. Birmingham Commonwealth Trade Association Forensic Pathways CEO, continues as a member of the BCTA. The BCTA aims to accelerate trading with the Commonwealth and to focus on inclusive growth Goals include: • Support enterprise and business development • Attract inward investment and foreign direct investment • Enhance trade links with Birmingham businesses • Exploit new markets particularly but not exclusively in Birmingham’s key growth sectors including advanced engineering, financial services and life sciences • Develop the city’s trade and research connections to support competitiveness and growth • Draw on local government networks and connections to add value to the initiative chosen https://distinctlybirmingham.com/area-associations/birmingham-commonwealthassociation/ United Nations Global Compact UK Network As part of the Company’s ongoing commitment to the UNGC, its CEO continues to contribute as a Director of the UK Network, as both a Director and also to the Advisory Board. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com In December 2017, Forensic Pathways was asked to support The Phoenix Newspaper’s 7th Anniversary Gala Dinner and Awards due to the Company’s commitment to the UNGC, our promotion of SDG Goals 4 and 16, and our commitment to developing continual growth and trade within the Commonwealth. As Key Note Speaker, our CEO Deborah Leary, focused on the Commonwealth family and the importance of collaboration globally, diversity, skills, international markets. The Phoenix Newspaper is a positive, informative and objective online publication dedicated to tackling the real issues that affect the multi-cultural communities in Britain and the United Kingdom. It is one of the UK’s regional papers, and the only paper with a visible multi-cultural slant. The newspapers aim is: To Inspire a New Generation, promoting cultural awareness, Diversity and equal opportunity for all. To watch Deborah Leary, CEO speech please go to: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v2HQHcOS7lo Further information with regards to The Phoenix Newspaper can be found at https://thephoenixnewspaper.com/ Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Principles 7, 8 & 9 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility Encourage Environmentally Friendly Green Technology ID 114125733 © Idey | Dreamstime.com Forensic Pathways headquarters are based in Birmingham, UK. Operating out of fully serviced office, Forensic Pathways made a conscious decision in August 2014 to move to premises that were not only commercially well positioned but also were excellent in relation to environmental design and build. The headquarters are at the heart of the Colmore Business District and close to main transportation links, giving easy access for employees who predominantly travel by train to work each day. Two Snow Hill was built following the Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) 2013 and is a BREEAM Excellent Design Building. The Breeam Assessment process evaluates the procurement, design, construction and operation of a development against targets that are based on performance benchmarks. Breeam measures sustainable value in a series of categories, ranging from energy to ecology. Each of these categories addresses the most influential factors, including low impact design and carbon emissions reduction; design durability and resilience; adaption to climate change; and ecological value and biodiversity protection. These categories include: Full information: http://www.breeam.com/ Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Two Snow Hill is built to high specifications with a commitment to reducing its environmental impact. Internal processes are also designed to limit impact on the environment and ensure all residents are committed to ‘thinking green’. • All glass, card, tin, plastics, paper is recycled • A variety of energy saving schemes already in place such as low lighting in car parks outside of peak hours, and the use of PIR’s and photocells to reduce unneeded lighting INTERNAL/EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Forensic Pathways now uses video conferencing, SKYPE or Powwownow as the standard for international meetings and demonstration of technologies. Web based technologies are now the first line of contact with potential clients and distributors. All Sales and Technical teams also used web-based technologies when initially demonstrating products and services, only using hard copy when requested. Over the past three years the Company has therefore seen a significant drop in both national and international sales travel. Whilst there has been a drop in travel expenditure it cannot be deemed to be totally the result of the use of web based technologies as obviously further factors are based on what projects are ongoing, however, it is clearly having an impact, with much less requirement overall to travel to destinations to meet with clients/partners. Travel and Subsistence 45,000 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 2015 2016 2017 Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery ID 108513927 © Carmenbobo | Dreamstime.com As a company focused on international trade we recognize that we operate in high risk areas. By continuing to reinforce our message of zero tolerance across all stakeholders we have for 16 years had no incidence of corruption and bribery either internal or external to the Company. However, we continue to be vigilant and alert and stand by the principles of the UNGC. All stakeholders are aware of the Company’s stance on corruption and bribery though the publication of our Communication on Progress, which is promoted via our website and signposted on all contracts, marketing materials, emails, and presentations. All stakeholders are made aware of our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy. Our policy gives clear guidance as to the employee’s responsibilities and guidance on events that may be working against the Principle and steps to avoid situations that may challenge it. Should an employee be traveling internationally they are required to reacquaint themselves with the policy and to seek advice from a senior member of the team. Each employee is required to sign a copy of the Company’s Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy so that they are fully committed to ensuring its implementation. Any stakeholder found to be in breach of this Principle will automatically have their contract retracted and if necessary reported to the authorities. It is a disciplinary offence for any employee to ignore evidence of potential corruption and bribery. Suppliers, agents and distributors go through a due diligence process upon appointment and monitored on a regular basis. This Due Diligence process has been outlined previously in the Company outline at the beginning of this Communication on Progress. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Communication on Progress 2017 SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensicpathways.com In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. Tel: +44 (0)121 250 3642 Email sales@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com
