2019 Communication of Progress United Nations Global Compact Welcome Welcome to PMP Recruitment’s annual Communication of Progress which describes our approach to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 Principles. PMP Recruitment is part of the Cordant Group, the largest social business in the UK. We are a leading name in the recruitment industry, and as suppliers of temporary labour and managed service solutions we’re experts in peak, productivity management as well as permanent hires. As a privately-owned staffing company with more than 20 years industry experience, PMP know what it means and what it takes to be a dedicated partner, and is extremely committed to the long-term success of its clients. Our mission is to attract and retain the best job-seekers, manage successful recruitment campaigns and to be a sustainable business, invested in the growth of our contracts. This year we have focused on our Group’s social business mission Survive, Thrive and Revive and how, through this, we can directly impact the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Targets under the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption, encompassed in the 10 Principles. We have aligned PMP’s achievements with both the relevant Guiding Principle(s) and Social Development Goals (SDGs). This includes our performance in 2018-19 and our future commitments. As a stakeholder of the UNGC, PMP would appreciate any feedback and comments on its 2019 Communication Of Progress. 01 Statement of Support PMP Recruitment provide individuals with a platform to thrive. We have transformed the candidate experience, impacted the lives of vulnerable people, confronted issues surrounding modern slavery, and raised much-needed funds for charity. As part of the Cordant Group we recognised the need to change and have a strong desire and vision to build a new model for doing business, that puts people and planet before proﬁt. In 2017 we took the natural next step; we became a social business. We’re proud to be part of the biggest social business in the UK and to be amongst a group of forward thinking companies who are using business to improve society. We’re still at the beginning of our transformational journey, but have been busy laying the groundwork for a different way of doing business. Our social impact goals deﬁne how we will live our purpose: to improve society, person by person. This document conﬁrms our commitment to the UN COP Principles and Sustainable Development Goals, whilst highlighting our key achievements. We have worked on improving worker opportunities and creating a fairer society where the focus is on purpose, not proﬁt gain, and wellbeing, not wealth creation. The Principles have been embedded in our business and we are committed to ensuring they inﬂuence our strategy, culture and service delivery. Jamie Reynolds, Managing Director, PMP Recruitment 02 Contents Social Business Update 5 Corporate Goal 28 Business Update 6 Corporate Goal: Review 2018/19 29 Guiding Principles Alignment 8 ● Social Alignment 30 ● Human Rights 9 ● Targets 2019/20 32 ● Labour 17 ● Environment 23 ● Anti-Corruption 26 03 Cordant Social Business Our social impact goals deﬁne how we will live our purpose: To improve society, person by person. SURVIVE THRIVE REVIVE We’re helping We’re enabling We’re creating people to overcome people to become systemic change by hardship by the best version being a positive providing them with of themselves, role model for good jobs, providing better business, sustainable opportunities to putting people and earnings develop, progress society at the heart and the tools to and enhance of what we do. build personal overall wellbeing. resilience. 04 Business Update PMP’s 5P strategy aligns our key objectives as a brand. Whilst aiming to position ourselves as industry experts and managed service supplier of choice, we also want to inspire colleagues, clients and candidates to make a difference to society. Our sustainability wheel highlights the areas which have been the focus of transformation in 2019. We have aligned our objectives with Cordant Group’s social purpose to help achieve the social impact goals. People Progressive Principled Productive Performance Focused Promoters Driven 05 Business Update PEOPLE PROGRESSION PRODUCTIVITY PROMOTION PERFORMANCE We are continuing to We are focusing on We are developing Whilst continuing with Cordant Connect focus on the health the progression of our our technology our fundraising allows candidates to and wellbeing of our people, candidates platforms to make activities for our complete the colleagues. We and clients. processes more charity partner onboarding process recently implemented We have developed efficient and Unseen, and other quicker and more a Group wide a number of streamlined. The worthy causes, we efficiently than ever programme with contracts and savings made from have also focused on before. We are activities based engaged with several this strategy will give developing our developing the clients to introduce around physical and us the opportunity to pre-employment system so that Pay Parity in mental health. In invest back into the programmes to candidates have their accordance with addition to this we are business and support provide equal own portal, are able agency workers also developing all our colleagues opportunities for all to update their details regulations and the strategies to support removal of Swedish with their professional members of society. immediately, and colleagues with their Derogation contracts. development. notify us of their shift ﬁnancial wellbeing. preferences. 06 United Nations Global Compact Guiding Principles Alignment 07 Guiding Principle Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 08 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national deﬁnitions. | Implement nationally appropriate social protection systems and measure for all, including ﬂoors, and by 2030 achieve substantial coverage of the poor and the vulnerable | By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters. PMP’s Impact What we’ve done... PMP’s objective is to help people We continue to inﬂuence clients to be National Minimum and National Living Wage overcome hardship by providing them compliant. We’re committed to sustainable living wages for all and actively promote with good jobs, sustainable earnings ﬁnancial resilience across all our contracts. and the tools to build personal resilience. This year we have introduced ﬁxed weekly rotas for a large supermarket client, who has now committed to 30 hours per week and six hour minimum shift length for colleagues. Ensuring job security, regular pay and working hours, PMP is committed to In 2019 we also supported homelessness supporting the wellbeing and stability charities, raising an incredible £25k. of each employee, their families and Cordant Group CEO, Chris Kenneally, walked communities. 135 miles in 4 days in support of LandAid, raising an amazing £14K for the youth Pay rates across the business all homelessness charity. increased in line with regulatory increases. An impressive 70% of PMP Colleagues from PMP also completed the colleagues saw a year on year gruelling Yorkshire Three Peaks Challenge, increase of at least 10% which equates where a fearless 35-strong to circa £1 p.h, well above regulatory squad raised £7,397 for Centrepoint. increases. 09 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round | By 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving, by 2025, the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under 5 years of age, and address the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women and older persons. PMP’s Impact What we’ve been doing... Sustainable work allows our people Through training, upskilling, exploring temp to perm opportunities and placement to provide for themselves and their with other clients or Group brands, we ensure our people do not have to return to families giving them the foundation unemployment. This is part of our Group social purpose and our aim to help our for better nutrition, less reliance on colleagues to thrive. food banks, and access to essential health services. We utilise our relationships with clients, Group brands and second tier suppliers to ensure that we can, where possible, offer our colleagues work once their contract Our Retain, Retrain and Redeploy has ended and train them to work in different roles. initiative continues to support temporary colleagues to ﬁnd a new In addition to this we encourage our clients to offer our colleagues permanent role when they reach the end of their contracts and have supported one particular client with 2005 temp to perm contract. conversions so far this year. This year we have converted 12% of We have also engaged with a number of clients to introduce Pay Parity in colleagues from temporary to accordance with the agency workers regulations 2010 and the removal of Swedish permanent positions. Derogation contracts. 10 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being | Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol | By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. PMP’s Target Case Study Our Group has created a Early this year, in partnership with Neyber we rolled out a wellbeing survey. The survey collaborative working party was completed by over 2,500 people, and in response to the data, we are working with focused on giving colleagues potential partners to explore solutions to support our colleagues health and wellbeing. better access to health and Along with promoting services such as ﬁnancial education and support, low cost loans, wellbeing knowledge and and advanced pay. support. The results of the wellbeing survey identiﬁed that we should prioritise mental and ﬁnancial support amongst colleagues. When we improve our health in one area, this positively impacts the others. Our wellbeing strategy 67% 7% 74% 7% promotes quality of life in three interconnected areas: ﬁnancial, mental and Of respondents Told us they Would welcome Are in a continual physical. rated their mental were unhappy ﬁnancial help debt cycle health as good and support 11 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being | Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and harmful use of alcohol | By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents. What we’ve been doing This year PMP has begun taking a preventative and proactive approach to wellbeing, focussing on the individual. In June we set up a 10 week health and wellbeing initiative with the aim of encouraging colleagues from across the Cordant Group to improve their health taking one hour, every Thursday, to focus on themselves, their ﬁtness and their mobility through a group training session at a local gym. The initiative isn’t all about ﬁtness. It has also been designed to draw attention to wellbeing activities such as focusing on how much sleep colleagues get, how much water they drink throughout the day and also promoting positive feedback and comments to other members of the group. The awareness that the health and wellbeing programme has generated across the Group has been successful in promoting a healthy work-life balance whilst encouraging colleagues to chat to their peers about any mental or physical health problems. The trial, which was run in Manchester, was a great success. We are now in the planning phase of implementing this initiative into one of our client sites. 12 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship | By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development. PMP’s Impact Investment in People PMP has continued to invest in the Our Learning and Development team continues to build bespoke career paths, Step Up Academy, providing aligned with relevant training or apprenticeships, to ensure all employees are armed colleagues in junior roles with career with the skills, behaviours and knowledge to achieve their aspirations and be progression opportunities, and in successful in their roles. This year we have also introduced senior leadership ‘leaders of tomorrow’ through the development days which enables leaders of the business to reﬂect on how they can high potential and operational maximise their impact and drive the organisation forward. excellence programmes. 2019 YTD New for 2019, we launched a UN Global Compact workshop, to raise awareness of the Human Rights Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals. 119 2600 550 3505 5519 Additionally, all PMP managers attended a session on our social People Received preWorkshops Enrolled on Received business which included follow-up enrolled on employment conducted e-learning training online training. apprenticeships training 13 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere | Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision making in political, economic and public life | End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere. Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation. PMP’s Impact For the second year PMP published its gender pay gap report, and has a dedicated project team focused on monitoring potential discrimination in its operation through data analysis, role and responsibility review and by aligning hourly pay to the industry standard. We are also committed to gender equality in our job role advertising. Our research identiﬁed that hidden gender bias in job descriptions can result in reduced applications. The PMP working party ensures our adverts are not gender bias. PMP’s voluntary attrition rate for 2019 YTD is circa 15%, low for the temporary labour industry. 14 Human Rights The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversiﬁcation, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors. Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises, including through access to ﬁnancial services | By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value | By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training | Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms | Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. The Global Recruiter Award Winners Insert In June 2019 PMP was awarded Best Large Recruitment Business. photos Recognising PMP’s positive impact the judges said PMP were, “a great example of a from 2019 company that can completely change their game. Ground breaking, innovative and excellent SI report on all counts! A great vision and well executed... clearly a great place to work with a very set mission for everyone.” Campaign for Good Winners 2019 In July 2019 PMP was awarded Best Equality & Inclusion Cause Campaign. Our BE SEEN, BE HEARD campaign, in partnership with Charity Unseen, aimed to raise awareness of the Modern Slavery Helpline among workers most at risk. It also wanted to publicise the devastating impact of modern slavery to other businesses. Judge’s feedback on the campaign was, an incredible campaign so simple, but such a fantastic impact. 15 Guiding Principle Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 16 Labour The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms | Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment | By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. PMP’s Impact Eradicating Slavery We continue to focus on raising To date, 1,569 people have carried out modern slavery training, and 92 senior managers awareness of modern slavery. We attended partnership seminars with Unseen. have conducted national modern We have worked with the Medaille Trust to ﬁnd employment opportunities for 11 survivors of slavery seminars with guest speakers slavery, and partnered with UK charity Unseen to launch Be Seen, Be Heard. from Unseen, delivered training solutions to clients and hosted Be Seen, Be Heard won Best Equality and Inclusion Cause at the 2019 Campaign For fundraising activity including bake Good Awards sales and sponsored indoor bike rides The campaign also caught the attention of No.10 and the Home Office who we are now at clients sites. collaborating with on ‘Britain Thinks’, an ongoing research project which focuses on modern On Anti-Slavery Day, 18th October slavery within the manufacturing, warehousing, logistics and food processing sector. 2018, we officially launched the Be PMP’s commitment to raising awareness, and leading the ﬁght against modern slavery, Seen, Be Heard movement. Our social demonstrates that they are an ethical and compliant provider. It's great to know our media campaign reached 140,000 colleagues are sourced by a business focused on human rights and fair treatment of people. workers.” PMP also sit on the Cabinet Office Al Humphries, Head of Procurement UK & Ireland, XPO Logistics roundtable which created the ‘Hiding in Plain Sight’ campaign . 17 18 Labour 2019 Highlights Productive Working Fundamentals Training Supporting Evidence We believe a good working environment is We have continued to deliver our essential. We promote a culture where Fundamentals Training programme, which people are valued, respected, treated fairly was launched in 2018. This bespoke, eight and feel safe. As part of this commitment we week onboarding process enables new launched self-driven workplace audits, starters to ﬂourish in their new roles, and We became Disability across all locations to identify problem areas provides them with vital support in the ﬁrst Conﬁdent and are taking and by working with our clients, take steps to few weeks of working for PMP. make improvements wherever possible. steps to support job seekers, The programme covers company values, with long-term disabilities or This year we have listened to our people and structure and goals, health, safety and health conditions, in ﬁnding liaised with a number of clients to make site compliance in the workplace, IT systems, sustainable employment improvements including revamping kitchen policies and procedures, resourcing, plus facilities and improving office environments personal development training modules. by moving from portacabins to main buildings. This year we have invested in course ﬂuidity 644 individuals with by moving all modules to our e-learning disabilities now in work delivery platform. This has not only saved Representation paper and time, but also provides better traceability and control of the individuals Colleagues participated in Recognition with trade unions is not common learning journey. the Diana Awards practice within the recruitment industry however PMP has made a conscious effort To date, 149 new starters have completed to change this. the new e-learning fundamentals training programme. We’ve raised £48,000 for Workers are actively encouraged to get multiple charities representation. We are also working with many of our clients to have employee forum representation on site. 19 Labour Think Compliance Retain, Retrain, Redeploy 2019 Highlights We have introduced several new modules Retain, Retrain, Redeploy supports our mission 10,000+ colleagues receive to our e-learning platform this year to keep colleagues in employment and invest in including Disciplinary Grievance and each worker's future. the real living wage Supporting Evidence Social Business training. By utilising the power of the Group, PMP is supporting temporary colleagues through We converted 5,458 We have also strengthened the e-learning training opportunities, utilisation of the colleagues from temporary to compliance training with the relaunch of apprenticeship levy and redeployment to other PMP’s microsite which now includes permanent roles (group) sites or roles in sectors such as cleaning, documenting account processes. The security or healthcare. microsite contains all Standard Operating We put over 1,500 people Procedures which link to adherence of through modern day slavery policies, including any legislative requirements we must meet. Talent Development training (group) So far this year over 180 colleagues We continue to offer our internal talent 6,690 unbanked workers now completed and passed Modern Slavery, development opportunities including, Agency Worker Regulations and Eligibility receiving 100% earnings (group) Operational Excellence and High Potential. to Work training. These programmes are underpinned by professional qualiﬁcations, funded by the We found 11 survivors of Over 200 colleagues have attended the apprenticeship levy and include extensive slavery employment Right to Work workshop training on: supporting activities that provide further tools ● Home Office legislation covering and exposure to develop skills, behaviours and the prevention of illegal working knowledge across the business. 44 people on leaders of ● An employer's responsibility to 2019 success stories tomorrow programme hold a Statutory Excuse Laura Babb has progressed from branch ● Acceptable documents for UK, manager to regional branch manager. Her 119 colleagues on EEA, and Non-EEA nationals drive and motivation has established her as a ● Fraudulent documents and apprenticeships role model to others. Helen Buckingham has methods of forgery detection. progressed from project manager to national client service manager. 20 Labour Back to Work Success Stories 2217 PMP continue to work with the Medaille Trust, supporting survivors of modern slavery back into the workplace. Supporting Evidence Lives changed So far this year we have found employment for an through B2W additional 11 survivors. schemes We have also joined forces with Shaw Trust, a charity that 1050 helps disabled and disadvantaged people into employment and improve their wellbeing. Colleagues To date we have found 12 individuals employment through found sustainable our work with the Trust. employment We currently collaborate with 25 Back to Work partners across our network 21 Guiding Principle Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 22 Environment The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development PMP’s Impact Testimonials The development of our existing “I am currently completing a Level 5 Apprenticeship in leadership & management. I workforce is essential in creating chose this course because I wanted to improve my knowledge and skills in this area and to become a better manager for my team. The opportunities that it presented a sustainable future. PMP has to me so far are that I’ve been able to lead and be part of projects in the wider utilised the apprenticeship levy to: organisation. I’m also able to use this new knowledge and skills to mentor my team upskill colleagues, attract new on their PDRs and day-to-day tasks. talent, and revolutionise its I’m learning lots of new skills. It’s really challenging, pushing me and also instilling workforce. self-discipline to make sure that I get the work done.” Laura Babb, branch manager, Peterborough PMP recognises that investment and development of its people “The opportunities I’ve had since starting the Operational Excellence course are makes them feel valued and outstanding. The course is project managed here at River Island, as PMP setup a appreciated. By boosting skills, training academy for all new starters, which is ideal because that’s exactly what the and creating new programmes to course is about. I am able to put into practice the knowledge I’ve learnt at the training academy right from the start. It’s been extremely good, very useful and meet the needs of the industry, given me access to many more tools and skills.” PMP is creating more Eddie Tierney, site manager PMP River Island opportunities for personal growth. 23 Environment The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. PMP’s Impact PMP regionalised its operation with the objective of delivering the same 10% high level service but being more fuel efficient, and reducing mileage. Further reduction in We have continued to embrace the fuel expenses the use of technology into 2019 by (2018 ‘v’ 2019) replacing face-to-face meetings, wherever possible, with conference calls or Google hangouts. 45k In the last 12 months, we have helped 6,690 unbanked colleagues, who were losing out on up to 20% of their salary due to cheque cashing fees, Less miles travelled open a bank account. approximately (2018 ‘v’ 2019) 24 Guiding Principle Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 25 Anti-Corruption The Sustainable Development Goal that underpins the UN Guiding Principles and is relevant to PMP: Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Our modern slavery strategy aims to empower all of us to help our colleagues. We’re making sure that we have the skills to spot when someone might be Unseen is exploited or in danger, and provide tools and procedures to address the problem. incredibly proud to join forces with PMP in our shared mission PMP’s Impact to tackle modern slavery. PMP’s partnership with charity Unseen continues to evolve. Following the official I am impressed launch of BE SEEN BE HEARD on Anti-Slavery Day in October 2018, Unseen by PMP’s enthusiasm nominated PMP for ‘Outstanding Contribution to the Fight Against Slavery’ at and genuine commitment to the 2018 March Awards. increasing understanding of forced labour in the sector and it’s great to To date PMP has raised over £40,000 for Unseen through multiple initiatives. see them encouraging others to follow suit. They are now seen as one of the Calls to the Modern Slavery helpline increase by 29% and 2000+ victims were leaders in their sector for raising identiﬁed during the campaign’s run from October to November 2018. awareness of forced labour and Many of our clients are now collaborating with Unseen including Amazon, Nestle tackling modern slavery.” and XPO Logistics. Andrew Wallis, OBE, CEO of Unseen Multilingual BE SEEN, BE HEARD posters are on sites, promoting details of authorities and charities who support victims of modern day slavery. ‘Spot the Signs’ mandatory modern slavery and document check training has also been introduced. 26 2019 Communication of Progress Corporate Goal: Targets 27 Target Review 2018/19 Good Job Strategy We want to reconnect people with a sense of delight in their work and strive to create more sustainable jobs for all Sustainable Pay & Working Hours We created the wage calculator tool and are in discussions with a key client regarding its trial We conducted the welfare facilities audit of workers environments and have implemented a number of improvements at Safe, Productive Working Environments client sites Promoting Success We increased the number of temporary to permanent colleagues by 12% Inclusion & Diversity We achieved Disability Conﬁdent level 2, and now produce social mobility reports Giving Forward Strategy We will give back to society through charity work and social partnerships which positively impact our communities Supporting Social Business We moved signage print to Nuneaton signs, who are a social enterprise Charity Work and Volunteering We continue to encourage colleagues to engage with fundraising activities and continue to support Unseen Maximising Potential Strategy We will provide opportunities for our people to enhance their earning potential in order to live a more fulﬁlled life Internal jobs are now visible to all colleagues and the evaluation of the Personal Development Review conducted and Progression Opportunities recommendations are made Development Academy We introduced the Emerging Talent Programme Building Resilience Strategy We will promote health and wellbeing by supporting our people to live meaningful lives and overcome challenges Health and Wellbeing Trailed a health and wellbeing initiative in the North West, encouraging colleagues to improve their health In partnership with Neyber we rolled out a wellbeing survey, the results will inform initiatives to promote ﬁnancial Financial Wellbeing resilience 28 Social Alignment Our Strategy PMP is proud to be part of the Cordant Group, the largest social business in the UK, using purpose to drive meaningful proﬁt, and to improve society. As a social business, we’re about so much more than just jobs. We’re about helping thousands of people to live good lives. Our success lies in our positive impact. We’re welcoming a new era of shared values, enhanced cooperation, and building a stronger society together, person by person. OUR SOCIAL BUSINESS STRATEGY GOOD REVIVING JOBS BUSINESS GIVING BUILDING FORWARD RESILIENCE MAXIMISING POTENTIAL 29 Social Alignment Our Strategy Good Jobs Promoting a diverse and inclusive workforce, Giving Forward enabling people to ﬁnd good jobs which suit their personal needs and circumstances. Making a difference by supporting social businesses and charities, and We help people overcome hardship by allowing colleagues to volunteer their time to good causes. providing them with good jobs, sustainable earnings and the tools to build personal resilience. Maximising Potential Our modern slavery strategy aims to empower all of us to help our colleagues. Supporting underrepresented social groups to realise their potential, enhance We’re making sure that we learn to see when their earnings and improve their health and wellbeing. someone might be exploited or in danger, and provide tools and procedures to address the problem. Building Resilience To date, 1,569 people have carried out Implementing wellbeing strategies to help people build ﬁnancial and personal modern slavery training, and 92 senior resilience needed to live a sustainable and fulﬁlling life. managers attended partnership seminars with Unseen. We have worked with the Medaille Trust to Reviving Business ﬁnd employment opportunities for 11 survivors of slavery, and partnered with Becoming better business role models and inﬂuencing the social business Unseen UK to launch Be Seen, Be Heard, debate through engagement with thought leaders. which raises awareness of modern slavery in high volume workforces. 30 Target 2019/20 SURVIVE THRIVE REVIVE Good Job Strategy We will promote a diverse and inclusive workforce enabling people to ﬁnd sustainable jobs that suit their needs. Labour market technology Implement labour market demographic technology to provide clients with accurate data and promote living wage rates Sustainable working hours Increase the average number of worker hours Sustainable employment Develop technology to assist job seekers in ﬁnding sustainable employment Accreditations Become Living Wage Foundation accredited by the end of 2020 Giving Forward Strategy We will support social businesses and charities, and allow colleagues to volunteer their time to good causes. Volunteering opportunity Develop a ‘second job’ policy that enables colleagues to volunteer and contribute to society Recycling Increase the recycling activities across our branches Reward Cord Relaunch and increase the number of users beneﬁting from Reward Cord 31 Target 2019/20 SURVIVE THRIVE REVIVE Maximising Potential Strategy We will support underrepresented social groups to enhance their earnings and improve their health and wellbeing. Health and wellbeing initiative Introduce our health and wellbeing partner to one of our clients Develop partnerships To establish career coaching and mentoring hubs across the UK Building Resilience Strategy We will develop wellbeing strategies to help people build ﬁnancial and personal resilience Community health & wellbeing Devise a solution to promote, support and encourage physical, mental, social and ﬁnancial wellbeing in our community Reviving Business Strategy We will become business role models and inﬂuence the social business debate through engagement with thought leaders Review ﬂeet Review of company vehicle ﬂeet towards more environmentally friendly options Review energy suppliers Introduce renewable energy supplier to PMP colleagues 32 Oriel House | 55-57 Sheep Street | Northampton | NN1 2NE | UK 01604 602700 | www.pmprecruitment.co.uk As a stakeholder of the UNGC, and as business on a journey to becoming a Social Enterprise, PMP Recruitment would appreciate any feedback and comments on its 2019 Communication of Progress which now includes an assessment of how PMP supports some of the Sustainable Development Goals.
