INTRODUCTION Table of Contents CORPORATE MIND INTRODUCTION PAGE 3 PLANET AWARE PAGE 31 PEOPLE CARE (CONT.) Overview 4 Responding to Climate Change 33 Building Relationships and 54 Connections Letter from the CEO 5 Minimizing Electricity Usage 34 and Emissions Prioritizing Employee Health CORPORATE MIND PAGE 7 55 and Well-Being Conserving Natural Gas 35 PRODUCT REACH Purpose, Vision and Values 10 Resources and Benefits to Building for a 57 36 Support Employee Wellness Investment in the Future 11 Sustainable Future COMMUNITY TOUCH PAGE 61 Conscious Leadership 13 Tracking and Reducing Effects 38 from Product Distribution Supporting Science A Broader Sense of Place 16 62 Around the World Minimizing Effects from Aligning Values Throughout 40 17 Business Travel Committing to Cornerstone 68 the Supply Chain Initiatives PLANET AWARE Preserving Natural Capital 42 Our Economic Benefit 17 Engaging In Community: Minimizing Waste 42 70 Supporting Global and Local PRODUCT REACH PAGE 19 Conserving Water 44 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PAGE 77 Forensics and Paternity 21 Connecting with Customers Laboratories 44 2019 Report Parameters 77 without Paper Government and Academic Key Indicators 79 PEOPLE CARE 22 Reducing Packaging Materials 45 Research Laboratories GRI Index 80 Pharmaceutical and PEOPLE CARE PAGE 47 23 Biotechnology Industries Nurturing Employee Creativity, 49 Environmental and Food Growth and Self-Actualization 24 Testing Laboratories Creating Workspaces COMMUNITY TOUCH 50 Clinical and Molecular to Inspire 25 Diagnostics Laboratories Cultivating Emotional & Social 51 Intelligence (ESI) Medical Affairs 26 Providing Personal Development Investment in Innovation 27 52 and Growth for Employees Quality Process and Product 29 ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 2 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE We use an image of an animal cell to represent our corporate organization because the cell represents non-hierarchical, independent structure. If each area of the cell is functioning properly, then the entire cell is healthy. COMMUNITY TOUCH It’s a reminder that our success must come through a sense of responsibility to the whole. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 3 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE OVERVIEW As we reflect on 2018, we appreciate the deepening synergy taking place of commitments to environmental sustainability, innovation, employee at Promega among employees. Together we are creating an atmosphere wellbeing and community support generate meaning and purpose for where we all can thrive by contributing to life science solutions, building all stakeholders. This report shares the philosophies, corporate mindset, stronger relationships, embracing community wellness and reducing product benefit, sustainability practices, work culture and community PEOPLE CARE our environmental effects. This mindset and increasing employee outreach embodied by Promega. In it, we hope to demonstrate how engagement have resulted in meaningful connections and value for our Promega works to actualize a vision of thoughtful growth and a purpose customers, communities, environment and each other. that exceeds just the bottom line. We appreciate, that just like life itself, the notion of sustaining life for COMMUNITY TOUCH the long term is complex and interdependent. For Promega, the intersection ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 4 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND LETTER FROM THE CEO I am pleased to share the eleventh annual report of our corporate responsibility initiatives, looking back on our sustainable practices and resulting aggregate trends through 2018. We not only spend time reinforcing why this is important, but also examine how we achieve these results, and for us this begins with each person at Promega. PRODUCT REACH Individuals make a difference both as a part of teams working together, as well as the unique potential and perspective of each person. Over the years and around the world, we have grown and improved because someone had an idea and brought it forward. Promega employees, tapping into their own unique passions and expertise, have been the source of many innovative and meaningful ideas. These ideas, in turn, have helped our company invent new products, recycle materials, create innovative health programs, exceed customer expectations and support local communities. PLANET AWARE Someone sparked an idea and the rest of us fanned the flame. At a time when some find the needs in our world overwhelming, individual efforts may feel futile, and yet, the influence of an individual is just what we need. There’s a sentiment that we articulated decades ago in our 1992 Annual Report at Promega that still rings true for all of us today: “…we find that as we develop the full potential inherent in each of us; our perceptions of limitations change: PEOPLE CARE the impossibilities of yesterday become the probabilities of tomorrow.” May we each find the potential in ourselves, turning the impossible to possible, and the possible into the world we live in. COMMUNITY TOUCH WILLIAM A. LINTON Chairman and CEO ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 5 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE A Shipping Specialist pulls products for distribution out of Promega COMMUNITY TOUCH Madison’s Kepler Center. Promega made changes to its packaging in 2018 to be more sustainable. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 6 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND More than any product, technology, or market in guiding our path, we continue to look toward, relationship as our North Star to a fulfilling future. WILLIAM A. LINTON Chairman and CEO PRODUCT REACH CORPORATE PLANET AWARE MIND In a rapidly changing world, we reflect on how Promega can continue contributing to scientific advancement and improving life around the PEOPLE CARE globe. We look for qualities that stand the test of time—the sense that we can seek and create purpose and meaning for the larger community of customers, suppliers and stakeholders, both as an organization and for ourselves as individuals. Our business is life science, but our lives are fueled by curiosity and life-long learning, a thread that appears in COMMUNITY TOUCH countless forms across our global organization. Founded in 1978, our company is headquartered in Madison, WI, USA, with sales branches in 16 countries, more than 50 global distributors, and three global manufacturing locations. Promega is governed by a Board of Directors, while daily operations are led by the Corporate Leadership Team and global Branch Managers. This diverse group brings wide-ranging expertise and unique cultural experience to management decisions. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 7 INTRODUCTION 10 CORPORATE MIND OVER 16 % SALES BRANCHES IN PRODUCT REACH 1,601 COUNTRIES OF REVENUE INVESTED IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEES 4,000+ PRODUCTS PLANET AWARE 56 NEW PATENT FILINGS IN 2018 NEW PRODUCTS LAUNCHED IN 2018 21 PEOPLE CARE 450M REVENUE APPROACHING COMMUNITY TOUCH 569 ISSUED AND PENDING PATENTS 50+ $ GLOBAL DISTRIBUTORS ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 8 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Promega Promega Branch Office Distributor Headquarters Manufacturing Facilities ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 9 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PURPOSE, VISION AND VALUES Purpose Values Promega exists on an evolutionary frontier where the values of science, Promega continues to reflect a set of living values that include: business and human well-being intersect. Acknowledging these interdependencies, Promega cultivates its environment to allow employees • Contributing to the advancement of science for improving life in PRODUCT REACH to flourish, develop deep and enduring relationships with all stakeholders the global community. and create intelligent life-science solutions. • Appreciating that we operate as an adaptable living organism in Vision which each element and human contribution are a vital part of a Promega Corporation grows from a vision where success is measured in whole, capable of responding to the emerging complexities of our time. meaning generated for people and in relationships sustained by both PLANET AWARE value and purpose. With an eye toward a changing future, Promega • Encouraging personal development through inner and outer continues to evolve: exploration and self-awareness practices. • Our life sciences tools to accelerate discovery and make possible • Recognizing that both work and home are places to cultivate increasingly innovative and practical applications of advanced wholeness and wholeheartedness through learning, offering the best technology. of ourselves, integrating new insights and developing inner and outer qualities that allow each individual to be present and engaged. PEOPLE CARE • Our commitment to improving human health. • Rewarding and acknowledging achievement through creativity, risk • Our work environments, which support and perpetuate curiosity, taking, process improvements and innovation. self-awareness and community integration. • Promoting adaptability and flexibility in the workplace. COMMUNITY TOUCH • Our capacity as a stable resource for the growth and transformation of the people and communities we touch. In essence, our vision includes all life and moves us to act on the knowledge that we are all interdependent. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 10 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE Performing applications work on automated liquid handlers allows for more flexibility and higher throughput testing. PEOPLE CARE INVESTMENT IN THE FUTURE COMMUNITY TOUCH We believe that a sustainable organization must evolve as the world and In 2018, this commitment was shown by our investment in scientific customer needs change. As a result, we look at human needs to anticipate innovation, expansion of global facilities and developing our technical our customers’ wishes while providing an inspiring place for employees and leadership capabilities. Our focus in these areas means we can to work and supporting the communities in which we live. We are continue to meet customer needs and generate increased value. committed to building a long-term sustainable future through investments in innovation, people, products and services, infrastructure and community outreach. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 11 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Effects of Products and Innovation We provide innovative solutions and technical support to researchers, technicians and analysts in life sciences, industry and government. Over 4,000 catalog and additional custom products enable our worldwide customers to advance knowledge in the fields of genomics, proteomics, cellular analysis, molecular diagnostics, human identification and applied PRODUCT REACH biotechnology. In 2018, product revenue approached $450 million. The Product Reach section of this report expands on how our products benefit human health and advance the scientific community. Our growing investment in innovative research resulted in 56 new patent filings in 2018, bringing our intellectual property library to over 380 PLANET AWARE granted patents and 187 pending patents. In addition, 21 new products were launched, fulfilling customer needs by: • Aiding life science research with automated solutions. • Advancing forensic DNA testing. PEOPLE CARE Our microsatellite instability (MSI) technology was recently • Improving methods for studying protein structure and function. granted innovation designation by the Chinese National Medical Products Administration on its path to being classified as in • Optimizing research in clinical labs. vitro diagnostic (IVD). This technology can help physicians investigate the best treatment for colon cancer. Learn more • Expediting discovery of biotherapeutics. COMMUNITY TOUCH about this MSI test and how other technologies are making a difference in the Product Reach section. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 12 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Investments in People and Place In 2018, our global facilities exceeded 1.1 million square feet or 110,000 square meters. Expansion of our branch facilities in the UK and Germany are well underway and should be completed in 2019. Using sustainable design approaches, these new facilities will provide creative workplaces and healthy spaces for our employees, customers and community outreach. PRODUCT REACH In addition, a world-class research building is under construction and a state-of-the-art component manufacturing facility will start construction in Spring 2019 in Madison, WI. These buildings will add 435,000 ft2 or 40,000 m2 to the Promega footprint when completed in the next few years. For details on these expansions and environmental focus of all operations, see the Planet Aware section of this report. PLANET AWARE CONSCIOUS LEADERSHIP At the heart of science is the understanding of the interdependent, complex and dynamic nature of systems. With over 1,600 individuals worldwide, this complexity is increasingly true at Promega as well. In rapidly changing environments, our leadership must use their mind and PEOPLE CARE Our active and continuously developing Emotional and Social heart to flourish. We are actively and continuously developing an Intelligence initiative emphasizes connection and encourages organizational environment that fosters deep personal connections, employees to grow and become their best. Over 130 employees creates trust in the face of ambiguity to encourage conscientious and have attended an immersive ESI Bootcamp to cultivate these skills courageous action, and supports the simultaneous use of intuition and and apply them daily. Learn about all the ways Promega supports intelligence when developing vision and outlook. Ultimately, we also COMMUNITY TOUCH employees in the People Care section. want to provide space in which everyone has an opportunity for selfawareness, personal transformation and professional development. The People Care section of this report expands on ways that Promega invests in our people and focuses on strengthening relationships. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 13 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE General managers from our global branches at their annual COMMUNITY TOUCH gathering in Madison are photographed with a time capsule commemorating the company’s 40th anniversary. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 14 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Valuing Diversity Promega believes in and practices equal opportunity and affirmative action. As a global company, we acknowledge and honor the fundamental value and dignity of all individuals and pledge ourselves to creating and maintaining an environment that respects diverse traditions, heritages, experiences and perspectives. With offices in 16 culturally diverse PRODUCT REACH locations, the organization benefits from the unique cultures and experiences of all employees. Women represent approximately 47% of employees worldwide and occupy 43% of management positions. Respecting Human Rights As a member to the UN Global Compact, Promega follows all regulations PLANET AWARE regarding employment and has zero tolerance for violations of human rights. We are committed to upholding and advancing The Universal Declaration of Human Rights by developing productive business relationships around the world to continue working cooperatively among different customs and cultures. Issues that we take very seriously include: • Protecting children from exploitation. PEOPLE CARE Used nitrite gloves and protective garments from Promega labs are boxed and ready to be shipped to a recycling facility as part • Protecting all workers from modern slavery. of the RightCycle recycling program. Kimberly-Clark Professional recognized Promega in 2018 with a Chelsea Santucci Greenovation • Paying at least minimum wage. Award for diverting 3.6 metric tons (nearly 8,000 pounds) of COMMUNITY TOUCH materials from landfills through our employee-initiated glove and • Safe working conditions. garment recycling programs. Learn more about our commitment to environmental sustainability in the Planet Aware section. Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and ensures that our employees and community members are treated with respect and dignity. We hold the same expectations for our suppliers and look to align with organizations that uphold international human rights and labor standards. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 15 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Prioritizing Anti-Corruption Promega aims to operate with the greatest integrity and has zero tolerance for corruption or bribery. This commitment to anti-corruption is communicated to all employees in a Code of Conduct and additional training is provided to managers and employees in purchasing or sales departments. PRODUCT REACH A BROADER SENSE OF PLACE We think of place as the integration of work, home and community. In addition to supporting employee community engagement, we support advancement of science, education, arts and community wellness. Stories PLANET AWARE showing our commitment to the communities in which we work are shared in the Community Touch section of this report. PEOPLE CARE To support the exploration of new solutions for confronting significant environmental challenges, Promega was the first corporate sponsor of the Revive & Restore Catalyst Science Fund. The Fund helps identify and develop biotechnology solutions for “It´s inspiring to see how people are going the climate change resilience. Learn more about all the ways we give extra mile to deliver results that benefit our customers, the environment and the people working COMMUNITY TOUCH back in the Community Touch section. at Promega. This truly is a ‘little things can change the world’ attitude lived.” Nina Petters, Manager eBusiness Europe, Promega GmbH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 16 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE An Applications Scientist works in a Promega Madison lab. ALIGNING VALUES THROUGHOUT OUR ECONOMIC BENEFIT THE SUPPLY CHAIN PEOPLE CARE Growth and success of any business, especially one the size and scope Promega recognizes the effect and importance that suppliers have in the of Promega, has a positive ripple effect on the communities in which it scope of our Corporate Responsibility, and forms partnerships with operates. In the state of Wisconsin alone, a third-party economist has companies who have similar commitments. Our Supplier Code of estimated our multiplied annual economic impact at more than $600 Conduct outlines our expectations relating to business ethics, labor, million. This analysis accounts for direct, indirect and induced Promega COMMUNITY TOUCH health and safety, and environmental responsibility. This document is effects from job creation to expense of good and services. shared with new and existing suppliers to encourage collaboration in these areas. A focus on sourcing from local suppliers also supports local Mindful focus on building a long-term sustainable organization, along communities and reduces environmental effects from shipping. with continued investment in infrastructure, will help us meet the rapidly changing needs of the scientific community. Promega values suppliers of goods and services that adhere to the highest social, ethical and environmental standards. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 17 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Automated, high throughput dispensing at Promega. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 18 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND What I find so inspiring about Promega’s culture is the commitment to innovation—not just technological—but also in our business practices. We have the freedom and encouragement to align our business practices with what is good for the world. PRODUCT REACH JESSICA ROSSOL-ANDERSON Scientific Client Support Specialist, North American Branch PRODUCT PLANET AWARE REACH Science is continuously evolving, so the needs of our customers are always changing. Developing the innovative solutions customers need PEOPLE CARE begins with one crucial skill: listening. The solid relationships we build with our customers, taking the time to truly understand their work, allows us to anticipate their needs and problem solve together. Scientists, technicians and analysts use our products and technical expertise every day in laboratory and industrial settings around the world. Our alliance COMMUNITY TOUCH with them, coupled with determined scientific exploration and flexible manufacturing capabilities, enable us to support our customers in their important work to improve the world in profound ways using science. With high-quality, reliable products at their disposal, basic researchers, applied researchers, clinical practitioners, forensic analysts, quality assurance personnel and others have more freedom to focus on specific ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 19 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Breadth of Capabilities Scientific Segments Academic/ Pharma/ Clinical Applied and Genetic Government 25 % Biotech 28 % Diagnostics 24 % Enviro Testing 3 % Identity 20 % PRODUCT REACH Sample Preparation Solutions Manual to Automated Nucleic Acid Purification · Instruments Sample Analysis Solutions PLANET AWARE Nucleic Acid Quantification · Amplification · NGS/Sequencing · Instruments · STR Analysis Core Technologies Protein Analysis and Molecular Cloning Cloning · Protein Expression and Purification · Mass Spec · Immunoassays PEOPLE CARE Cellular Reporting and Signaling Genetic Reporters · Protein Reporters · Target Engagement · Cell Signaling · Instruments · Bioassays Cell Health and Functional Analysis Real Time Assays · Energy Metabolism · 3D Analysis · ADME · Instruments · Protein Degradation COMMUNITY TOUCH Segment Services Custom & OEM Manufacturing · Custom Assays · Platform Integration · Application Development ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 20 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND questions at the forefront of scientific discovery, genotyping, quality GIVING NAMES TO THE MIGRANTS IN A DEADLY SHIPWRECK assurance or clinical practice. The result is better science, healthcare, justice, and product quality, using better tools for faster and more accurate answers. More than 1 million migrants and refugees crossed the Mediterranean Sea in 2015 during a massive immigration from the CUSTOMER FOCUS Greater Middle East and Africa to Europe. Deaths at sea rose to record levels in April 2015 when five boats sank with an estimated PRODUCT REACH Forensics and Paternity Laboratories death toll of 1,200 people. One of the worst disasters was a Forensics and paternity laboratories deal with unrelenting caseloads and fishing boat carrying nearly 1,000 people that sank off the coast tight turnaround times. Dependable results, fast throughput and reliable of Libya. News reports state the accident happened after people product supply are critical in this setting. These labs use limited, and saw a merchant ship in the distance and scrambled to attract its often challenging samples, to develop investigative leads from crime attention, overturning the crowded vessel. The Italian coast guard scenes. Sexual assault evidence kit backlogs and property crime samples was only able to retrieve 28 survivors. In the months after the PLANET AWARE are some of the more challenging samples for labs to process. In addition, deadly shipwreck, only 118 bodies were recovered with hundreds forensic labs process large numbers of reference samples to populate more presumed to be trapped below deck. The Italian government local, state and national databases. These reference databases help law created a task force to recover the boat and identify the victims. enforcement connect arrestees to other crimes for identifying possible repeat offenders. The ongoing testing of the rape kit backlog has identified The Forensic Genetics lab at the University of Pavia was brought over 1,000 suspected serial rapists in the United States alone. in to use DNA analysis to identify some of these victims. However, the challenge was extracting DNA from human remains that had PEOPLE CARE In addition to analyzing evidence collected at crime scenes, forensics been submerged in seawater for 3–14 months. This prolonged and paternity labs help bring closure to families whose loved ones are exposure to water can damage DNA, making identification missing or lost in mass disasters, and even help exonerate those who difficult. Bone samples from 80 individuals were prepared for DNA have been wrongly convicted of a crime. Researchers and analysts need extraction and the recovered DNA was then used for STR analysis to know that they will get optimal and reliable results from the valuable using the PowerPlex® ESX and ESI 17 Fast Systems. These kits COMMUNITY TOUCH and often irreplaceable samples. were provided by Promega Italy to help with the effort to give names to the shipwreck victims. Work is ongoing to compare the More than ever before, labs will be able to gain more information from DNA profiles generated by the STR kits with antemortem records challenging sample types, save time with increased sample processing to give closure to those wondering if their loved ones were aboard capacity, and experience the flexibility to add samples during runs. All the sunken fishing boat. of this will be available with the same high level of service and support that customers have come to expect from Promega. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 21 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND TRACKING MALARIAL INFECTION We have worked with forensic and paternity laboratories for more than 30 years and support their challenging workflow procedures by providing Eradicating malaria is difficult partially because the transmission advanced technologies for efficient DNA extraction through discriminating cycle is complex with multiple different stages that occur inside STR analysis. mosquitoes after consuming a blood meal from humans. Compounds that could kill the parasite or block transmission in Government and Academic Research Laboratories PRODUCT REACH the mosquito during early stages of parasite maturation would Despite increasing pressure and demands, today’s academic and government be ideal. A recent study describes how our reporter enzyme researchers are still at the front line of discovery but require more sensitive NanoLuc® luciferase was combined with a Plasmodium parasite research tools to test their hypotheses. They need the newest available and used to create a model to identify drug compounds that block tools with enhanced sensitivity and specificity to address more complex malarial transmission during the stage where male and female biological questions compared to the methods used just a few years ago. reproductive cells are fertilized. From routine applications to more focused ones, Promega continues to PLANET AWARE Expression and activity of the luciferase gene in this mutant strain develop these improved technologies from next generation nucleic acid is controlled by an element that responds only to the sexual states isolation and PCR, to advanced assays for cellular biology, metabolism, of the parasite. When the parasite was just circulating in the blood, 3D cellular structures and organoids, to protein manipulation and there was little bioluminescence. When the parasite converted CRISPR knock-ins for tagging cell lines. To help the modern researcher into the cells that form a zygote like the stage in a mosquito, the successfully publish their results, fulfill their research programs and amount of bioluminescence increased, suggesting that NanoLuc® luciferase was only expressed when these reproductive cells PEOPLE CARE developed. This NanoLuc® malaria strain called Ookluc was used to test compounds in the Pathogen Box from the Medicines for Malaria Venture. This research kit contains 400 compounds that are active against neglected tropical diseases—125 of the compounds are COMMUNITY TOUCH known to target malaria. Researchers found 31 compounds that blocked over 95% of the reporter parasite conversion into the reproductive cells, preventing the early reproductive stage. These results suggested the NanoLuc® luciferase-based Ookluc model is ideal for high-throughput screening of compounds that block malaria transmission. Thus, we are one step closer to identifying possible drugs that may eradicate malaria. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 22 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND nurture carefully planned careers, Promega is committed to developing the most advanced bioassays, target engagement and protein degradation tools. Promega values people, and we understand that every researcher is an individual with their own stresses and strains. Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Industries PRODUCT REACH Scientists within the pharmaceutical industry are continuously developing new small molecule drugs that can enter cells easily and affect specific target proteins. Targeted cancer therapies that block the growth and spread of cancer by interfering specifically with the disease cells, but not ISOLATING DNA FOR ANCESTRY TESTING normal healthy cells are one example where small molecule drugs are used therapeutically. At early phases of drug development, researchers PLANET AWARE For generations the Greek maxim ‘know thyself’ has inspired many may need to screen more than 100,000 compounds at once to identify to search inwardly and externally about who they are. With modern leads that can be further optimized and turned into new drugs. The scientific advances it has become more accessible for humans to availability of high-throughput compatible, reliable and predictable tools discover exactly where their genealogical roots lie as a step on the and assays reagents is crucial to the success of these researchers to discover journey to understand ourselves. With AncestryDNA, this process new drugs that would be safe and effective in treating cancer patients. can be done easily from the comfort of your home. With a saliva sample AncestryDNA can estimate your origins to more than 350 Over the years, we have developed a broad portfolio of assay reagents PEOPLE CARE regions around the world enabling you to get inspired by your past, that meet the needs of these pharmaceutical researchers and have been connect with living relatives or complete missing pieces of your used widely during various phases of drug discovery and development. family tree. For example, our NanoBRET™ Target Engagement Assays allow researchers The magic in that saliva sample that enables AncestryDNA to to quantitatively measure the interaction between a molecule and a analyze your past is genetic material called DNA, which must protein in live cells reliably in a high-throughput manner. This is a COMMUNITY TOUCH be extracted and analyzed. As a result of AncestryDNA’s strong significant advancement as these cellular assays can better predict sales growth, a robust laboratory workflow and reliable partner compound performance. In addition to common drug targets like was required. This critical workflow incorporates the Promega kinases, this NanoBRET™ Target Engagement technology has also been Maxwell® HT gDNA isolation chemistry, which is used to process applied to CRISPR-Cas9 gene edited cells to help identify drugs that every sample. To date, over 7 million people have used Ancestry can lead to oncoprotein degradation. DNA to better understand the journeys of their ancestors that continues today in each us. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 23 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Environmental and Food Testing Laboratories The increasing demands on water and food testing facilities mean there is a need for rapid, reliable solutions to ensure products are safe and authenticate food ingredient claims. Biotechnology offers tools for these testing labs to detect bacterial or other contaminants in food, water or plants. From GMO testing and pathogen detection in food to water PRODUCT REACH quality and contamination analysis, assays need to satisfy the requirements of food and water testing laboratories, including sensitive detection of unwanted microbes and undeclared ingredients. PROVIDING ALTERNATIVES TO ANIMAL TESTING To screen plants for GMOs or analyze food for pathogen contamination or authenticating ingredients, extracting DNA from these samples is a Companies that manufacture cosmetics and personal care PLANET AWARE necessary step. The resulting DNA needs to pure enough to work in products need a way to test products they are developing for PCR-based analysis, the method most food testing labs use for detection. safety, but there are few alternatives that replace animal skin. In Europe, our DNA purification reagents has become a reference Compounds in cosmetics or personal products can potentially standard in authenticity determination of meat products, and European cause allergic responses on the skin, known as skin sensitization. Union Reference Laboratory for Animal Proteins in feeding stuffs (EURL) This response takes place in the outer layer of the skin, the has developed a Standard Operating Procedure for DNA extraction keratinocytes, and involve inflammatory response in cells and based on our purification chemistry. In addition, our Maxwell® RSC upregulation of antioxidant/electrophile response element (ARE)PEOPLE CARE PureFood GMO and Authentication Kit was recently selected by the dependent pathways that respond to the skin cell inflammation. European Reference Laboratory on GMO Food and Feed Testing for By developing luciferase reporter cell lines that detect when AREdeveloping new SOPs for food DNA extraction, influencing food dependent pathways are triggered by cosmetics or personal care companies to use our products as part of their routine quality control products, we have created an alternative to animal skin testing. testing. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development COMMUNITY TOUCH (OECD) has published Test Guidelines for In Vitro Skin Water treatment facilities and desalination plants test the water quality Sensitisation (OECD TG 442D) for two validated cell lines called and biofilm formation to reduce energy consumption and improve plant KeratinoSens™ and LuSens that have been made available globally operational efficiency. By partnering with these facilities, we have been through acCELLerate (http://www.accellerate.me). These cell lines, able to improve our luminescent bacterial detection assay for specific when used with the Steady-Glo® or One-Glo™ Luciferase Assay use with water sampling to help with industrial processes like biocide System luminescent detection assays, are a way to measure skin dosage and timing for water cooling systems. The use of Water-Glo™ sensitization. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 24 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND microbial analysis by measuring the amount of ATP in a sample by ESTABLISHED TOOLS FIND NEW MEANING bioluminescence applies to drinking water, desalination and other areas, and offers a tool by which to improve plant efficiency and is part of Promega first developed its microsatellite instability (MSI) Analysis ongoing research. System 15 years ago as a NASA-funded effort for monitoring the effects of radiation on astronauts. The “Research Use Only” Clinical and Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories technology grew to become the gold standard in nucleic acidPRODUCT REACH Clinical laboratories rely on access to high-quality, consistently performing based MSI testing for research labs around the world. With the products for their assays. Promega manufactures reagents under a rigorous recent advent of the new cancer immunotherapy treatment quality program that contributes to reproducible and reliably performing Keytruda® (pembrolizumab) based on a common biomarker rather molecular assays. Products are manufactured to the highest quality than where in the body a tumor originates, a new application for standards through maintenance of ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 certification our MSI technology emerged. as well as enhanced capabilities for cGMP manufacturing. The PCR In late 2018, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare PLANET AWARE Optimization Kit, which launched in 2016, allows customers to rapidly approved a companion diagnostic based on our MSI technology define their own unique PCR master mix for a variety of applications to identify patients suitable for treatment with Keytruda®. The test in research or clinical use. This is just one example of how we can provide was developed in collaboration with FALCO biosystems of Kyoto, flexible solutions with product customization options to meet the needs Japan. The MSI-IVD Kit (FALCO) is a DNA analysis test used to of the clinical laboratory or IVD manufacturer. detect high microsatellite instability (MSI-H). MSI-H is a biomarker in tumor tissue indicating that certain sections of DNA, called microsatellites, have become unstable. This instability biomarker PEOPLE CARE shows the major mismatch repair genes that correct errors during DNA replication are not functioning properly. Keytruda® works to boost the ability of one’s immune system to identify and fight these tumor cells, and has been approved for use in patients with the MSI-H biomarker in many countries, including the US COMMUNITY TOUCH and Japan. The MSI-IVD Kit (FALCO) is the first such pan-tumor companion diagnostic test in Japan. Our latest MSI technology was also recently granted “innovation designation” by the Chinese National Medical Products Administration (NMPA), and we intend to seek US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for an in vitro diagnostic (IVD) version of our MSI 1.2 platform. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 25 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH HiBiT Protein Tagging System. PLANET AWARE Medical Affairs For over 40 years, Promega Corporation has supported global clinical researchers by providing high-quality, innovative research tools and support. Those researchers evolved their clinical discoveries into today’s PEOPLE CARE “Our Medical Affairs Department allows us to focus on precise, personalized medicine. increase our ability to share our knowledge of scientific advances to help physicians and With individualized patient care in mind, we are proud to announce make a difference for families.” our newest department, Medical Affairs. Our Medical Affairs team, staffed by scientists, will work to provide scientific and clinical expertise COMMUNITY TOUCH RANDY DIMOND, Vice President & Chief Scientific Officer to our clients, through medical education. Promega and our Medical Affairs department are here to provide support to the needs of the clinical customer focused on the concept that every patient has a story, every patient has a family, and the research never stops. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 26 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND INVESTMENT IN INNOVATION To sustain our contributions to scientific exploration and application, Our growing investment in innovative research resulted in 56 new patent we continue to invest in the development and discovery of new technologies. filings in 2018, bringing our intellectual property library to over 380 In 2018, 10.8% of total revenue was allocated to research and development. granted patents and 187 pending patents. Promega research scientists Research is not solely focused on the development of new products as had 20 scientific papers published in 2018. We also work with academic PRODUCT REACH our Advanced Technology Group and a group funded by the Federal institutions and other entities to license and develop promising technologies. Government perform basic research. Patents PLANET AWARE Issued and Pending Applications CELLULAR ANALYSIS 446 52 569 PEOPLE CARE GENOMICS GENETIC IDENTITY & OTHER 20 PROTEOMICS 32 COMMUNITY TOUCH TOTAL INSTRUMENTATION 19 ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 27 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Retrieving a cryogenically stored product for shipping. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 28 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND QUALITY PROCESS AND PRODUCT SCIENTISTS SERVING SCIENTISTS Promega Corporation has a long history of supporting our customers In 2018, Promega Technical Support scientists handled 15,829 with high-quality products, services and information. Promega headquarters new service requests from Promega customers and more than in Madison, WI, USA, was first certified to international standards for 30,000 total customer contacts through a variety of channels quality management systems in 1998, and our commitment continues including phone, email, chat, web-based forms and social media PRODUCT REACH with our current ISO 13485 and ISO 9001 certifications. The ISO series accounts. Technical Support scientists help customers choose the of quality management system standards are developed and maintained right products, understand how to use them and overcome any by the International Organization for Standardization. An organization issues that may occur. achieving ISO certification has demonstrated to a third party that the organization meets all requirements of the standard and has implemented a quality system capable of developing, manufacturing, testing and PLANET AWARE delivering high-quality products around the world. ISO certification assures our global customers that Promega is committed to quality and has established reliable and effective processes. The ISO certification exemplifies commitment to our customers, our business, and all those who rely on and benefit from the use of our products. Currently, 16 Promega locations around the world are certified to meet the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 13485 or both. PEOPLE CARE In February 2016, ISO 18385:2016 was published as the first international standard specific to the forensic manufacturing community. In 2017, Promega became the first major forensic manufacturer to achieve thirdparty certification of the published ISO 18385 standard to minimize COMMUNITY TOUCH the risk of human DNA contamination in products used to collect, store and analyze biological material for forensic purposes. Promega products manufactured in alignment with the ISO 18385 standard include a “Forensic Grade” certification logo. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 29 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE The Prairie Swale that highlights the Promega campus in Madison, WI, is the COMMUNITY TOUCH result of an effort that began in 2000 to transform a simple concrete storm water spillway into an ecologically diverse seven-acre prairie restoration. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 30 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Being future focused has accelerated our sustainable mindset to growth. Every time we invest in infrastructure, we add new learning and sensibilities that bring in expertise related to environmental sustainability. COREY MEEK PRODUCT REACH Corporate Responsibility Program Lead, Promega Biosciences PLANET PLANET AWARE AWARE As we evaluate what it will take for Promega to thrive in the first 100 years and beyond, awareness of our natural environment is integral to PEOPLE CARE this process. As a result, we are focused on reducing our ecological footprint across all aspects of our business, including the way we design and operate facilities, ship products and engage with customers. This endeavor relies on the efforts of all Promega employees and operations worldwide. COMMUNITY TOUCH By focusing on the future, we have made facility and infrastructure investments that will enable sustainable growth for many years to come. During the last ten years, our building footprint has grown by over 90% with most of this growth in energy-intensive spaces. In addition, we have been renovating existing facilities to add more laboratory and manufacturing space. While this growth has been challenging for meeting ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 31 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND our environmental goals, it has also provided an opportunity to apply Upholding the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we more efficient and sustainable technologies. A key component of our are focused on our 2020 environmental reduction goals for greenhouse growth is the people that have helped us arrive where we are and will gas emissions, electricity, natural gas, water, outgoing product distribution guide us in the future. Significant investment has been made in full-time emissions and waste. Our environmental sustainability actions cover a individuals, consultants and advisors with expertise in sustainability. broad range of topics and our environmental goals represent key areas Employee-lead teams are vital in driving grassroots efforts and promoting of environmental effect and focus. PRODUCT REACH a culture of sustainability. These efforts have resulted in an 8% reduction in our carbon footprint as indexed to revenue since 2015. Status Toward 2020 Goals PLANET AWARE AHEAD OF TARGET ON TARGET BELOW TARGET Electricity 8% Carbon 8% Gas PEOPLE CARE 5% 2% Goal Water 17% 10% Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH Waste 0% 15% Goal Distribution 10% Goal 10% 10% Goal 5% Goal ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 32 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE Global Carbon Promega supports limiting anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. Footprint Composition We actively track greenhouse gas emissions and work to reduce emissions from all global operations. We consider fuel combustion, purchased electricity and indirect emissions from business travel, outgoing distribution, PRODUCT REACH water usage and paper usage (see graph below). We are currently on target to achieve our carbon emissions goal for 2020 thanks to significant focus placed on energy efficiency and efficient product distribution. 50 % 19 % Carbon Footprint Electrical Usage Natural Gas PLANET AWARE Tons of CO2 Per Million USD 105 107 100 100 96 19 Distribution % 7 % Air Travel 20 21 20 20 Fuel Combustion PEOPLE CARE Purchased Electricity 2 % Automobile Travel 0 % Rail Travel 54 55 51 51 COMMUNITY TOUCH Business Travel 0 0 Outgoing Distribution Water Usage 31 31 29 29 Paper Usage % % Water Paper 2015 2018 2020 Goal ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 33 INTRODUCTION Electricity CORPORATE MIND 100,000 kWh annually. In fall 2017 Promega France was renovated Thousands of kWh Per Million USD with LED lighting, reducing electricity usage by 12% in 2018. 79.7 81.4 78.1 • A newly formed sustainability committee at Promega hosted an 74 73.2 LED lighting fair on campus to encourage employees to save energy at homes. This fair provided 800 lighting products to employees PRODUCT REACH that are projected to save over 800,000 kWh. • By connecting our R&D facility to a more efficient central chiller plant, we continue to save approximately 5,000,000 kWh each year at our R&D facility in Madison, WI. PLANET AWARE • Air change surveys and control upgrades for select laboratories are planned for 2019 to further reduce energy consumption. 2015 2018 2020 Goal Renewable energy helps run our facilities without producing greenhouse gas emissions. Our use of renewable energy has increased 13-fold in the Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions last ten years, providing enough energy to power 50 homes each year. Electricity usage is a primary sustainability focus at all Promega locations In 2019, several new and existing facilities will add photovoltaics. Facilities PEOPLE CARE because it makes up over half our total carbon emissions. To minimize that use renewable energy sources such as photovoltaic and geothermal the effects of electricity usage, we invest in energy efficiency, generate currently include: electricity from photovoltaic panels and purchase electricity from renewable sources. In the last year, electricity usage decreased by 1.1% • Promega GmbH and Promega Euro Hub in Mannheim, Germany as indexed to revenue even with growth in energy-intensive environmentally • Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo COMMUNITY TOUCH controlled rooms. This was made possible because of initiatives implemented • Promega Italia in Milan by full-time specialists trained in energy efficiency and the efforts of all • Promega Biotech Ibérica in Alcobendas, Spain employees worldwide. Actions in 2018 included: • Promega Biotech AB in Stockholm, Sweden • The Aviation Operations building in Madison, WI C  ompany-wide initiatives to incorporate high-efficiency LED • The da Vinci facility in Madison, WI lighting. Renovations were completed at four facilities in 2018, affecting over 475 light fixtures and saving approximately ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 34 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Natural Gas Therms Per Million USD PRODUCT REACH 3,444 3,391 3,321 3,287 3,100 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 PLANET AWARE Goal Conserving Natural Gas Natural gas is our largest source of direct air emissions and third in overall emissions. Natural gas is used primarily at manufacturing sites for heating and production-related processes. Geothermal wells, solar PEOPLE CARE water heaters and heat capture technology in many facilities minimize heating requirements and related emissions. In the last year, natural gas usage was reduced by 1% as indexed to revenue. COMMUNITY TOUCH Geothermal wells, solar water heaters and heat capture technology in many facilities minimize heating requirements and related emissions. Promega Biosciences in California replaced over 200 lighting fixtures with LEDs in 2018. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 35 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH The new Promega UK facility will support Our largest European facility is being built in sales, logistics, and customers service. Germany and is expected to open in 2019. Building a Sustainable Future Construction of the new 1,700 m2 (18,000 ft2) Promega UK PLANET AWARE Environmental sustainability remains a core value for how Promega facility was launched in 2018 to support our sales, logistics and designs and builds our facilities. In 2018, we continued to work on customer service staff. This project is expected to be completed in the several new facilities with aggressive sustainability goals and strategies summer of 2019. During design, we developed a sustainability decision incorporated in the designs. matrix for the UK facility that has now been applied to all new or substantially remodeled Promega facilities worldwide. This site will substantially exceed UK code requirements by meeting British green building (BREEAM ‘Excellent’) requirements for energy, carbon emissions PEOPLE CARE and water conservation. Outstanding features include a green roof, combined mechanical ventilation and operable windows, a landscape Environmental sustainability remains a core value for that substantially improves the ecological value of the site, and using how Promega designs and builds our facilities. environmentally certified materials. Employee health and well-being, ecology and landscaping, and active community engagement were all COMMUNITY TOUCH factored into the Promega UK facility. Construction of our largest European facility began last year and is now past the halfway mark. When complete, the 14,000 m2 (150,000 ft2) Germany facility will support our largest overseas branch, our Europe distribution center (Euro Hub) and Terso Europe. This facility should be completed by the end of 2019. Advanced energy ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 36 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH A rendering of the new Research and Development Our Component Manufacturing Center Facility being constructed in Madison, Wisconsin. will break ground in spring 2019. features include active slab heating and cooling, nighttime mass cooling, heat and cool three Promega buildings from a single central plant. Fed PLANET AWARE geothermal energy wells and advanced heat recovery. These techniques by geothermal wells, our new facility is projected to use 60% less energy will exceed compliance with the strenuous energy performance and per square foot than the existing R&D Center. This facility will be green building standards of the German building code. Additional topped with a green roof, incorporating photovoltaics while a rainwater features include a green roof with integrated photovoltaic, combined capture system will substantially reduce municipal water demand. The mechanical ventilation and operable windows, and advanced daylight expanded parking garage will also significantly increase the capacity for design. This commitment to sustainability also means a responsibility electric vehicle charging. In addition, we have targeted ambitious waste for a quality of experience inside and outside the facility. reduction in both construction and operation. The Madison R&D PEOPLE CARE Center is expected to open in late 2020. Our new 26,600 m2 (287,000 ft2) Madison Research and Development Center, now under construction, combines all Madison, WisconsinConstruction will begin in spring 2019 on our Component based research and development (R&D) in one highly collaborative and Manufacturing Center that will complement existing manufacturing stimulating space. The new R&D center is our first double-envelope capacities in Madison and California. This facility is expected to be COMMUNITY TOUCH building in Madison with two exterior walls to enhance comfort, energy approximately 14,600 m2 (158,000 ft2) and will provide large-scale performance and maximize solar use. The walls in desk areas will also component manufacturing capacity and substantial expansion space for provide generous daylight and operable windows for natural ventilation. newly developed product manufacturing lines. Environmental sustainability This will be our fourth major building featuring a timber structure that and employee wellbeing are key areas of focus for the design of this reduces the embedded carbon footprint and provides a unique environment facility. The Component Manufacturing Center is expected to open in 2021. indoors. Mass cooling and displacement ventilation systems will provide energy efficient cooling. An integrated district energy system will efficiently ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 37 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PROMEGA KK RECOGNIZED WITH Tracking and Reducing Effects from Product Distribution GREEN LOGISTICS PARTNERSHIP AWARD With a focus on reducing air emission from outgoing product distribution, we continue to find opportunities to decrease the size and weight of Our Japanese branch was recognized with the Green Logistics packaging materials. This approach, in concert with more efficient modes Partnership Award by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade of transportation, reduces emissions and maintains our quick and safe and Industry for the support of Chemilogi, a logistics cooperation service. As a result, we have seen a 30% reduction in distribution emissions PRODUCT REACH in Japan. Chemilogi specializes in distribution services for the as indexed to revenue in the last 10 years. life science industry and consolidates shipments among Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka and Nagoya. Promega KK was the first customer During the last several years, we have transitioned to smaller shipping for Chemilogi, and this partnership has also reused and recycled boxes and made packaging improvements that minimize weight, optimize packaging materials like polystyrene foam coolers. Promega was dry and gel ice requirements and use more sustainable materials. Our the only non-investing partner recognized with this award due to European distribution center also recently transitioned to gel ice packs PLANET AWARE the consulting and support Promega has provided to Chemilogi without plastic as part of a larger initiative to reduce dependence on since 2011. Chemilogi continues to grow in the regions serviced plastic. and the number of companies it works with. In the last year Promega evaluated product lines that currently ship on dry or gel ice that may be able to ship at room temperature. Our ‘Ship Ambient Project’ rigorously tested DNA molecular weight markers shipping at room temperature, and the results showed that there were PEOPLE CARE no changes in product performance. The first phase of this project launched in early 2019 and is expected to save 17,000 kg of dry ice annually. We will continue analysis for other product lines to reduce carbon emissions during shipping and minimize waste from foam coolers. COMMUNITY TOUCH To understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipments, data were collected from Promega-owned global distribution hubs on weight, distance and mode of transportation. Promega KK general manager accepting the Green Logistics Partnership Award in Japan. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 38 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Solar water heating in India was supported by Helix in 2018. PRODUCT REACH Net Zero Emissions from our Helix® On-Site Stocking System Our state-of-the-art, on-site inventory management system called Helix Distribution Emissions further reduces emissions through precise consolidated restocking Tons of CO2 Per Million USD PLANET AWARE shipments. The Helix® program uses RFID technology that tracks product use in real time, and results in more efficient shipping. This automated 21.1 20.3 20.0 inventory management system ensures that customers have uninterrupted 19.3 18.9 access to supplies while reducing the effect on our planet. In addition, Promega purchases carbon credits to offset all greenhouse gas emissions from the Helix® program, including energy usage and PEOPLE CARE distribution of units and product stocking. In 2018, Helix® on-site stocking offset 820 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting the following projects: • Blandin Improved Forest Management COMMUNITY TOUCH Project in Minnesota, United States • Solar Water Heating in India Since 2010, the Helix® program has offset over 6,300 tons of carbon dioxide. To see more information and learn how to participate, please 2015 2018 2020 visit www.promega.com/helix. Goal ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 39 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE left Minimizing Effects from Business Travel Employees at Promega Biosciences in California participate in National Bike-to-Work Day. The increasing importance of and focus on building relationships means more travel for personal interactions, not just with customers but also right with collaborators and colleagues. Business travel via air, automobile Employees had the opportunity to test drive electric vehicles at Promega Corporation. and rail comprise approximately 10% of our current carbon footprint. In the last year, we saw a 4% increase in emissions as indexed to revenue PEOPLE CARE from business travel. We work to minimizing effects from travel by using fuel-efficient vehicles and environmentally sensitive modes of transportation. Efficient Travel For several years, Promega has actively sought out fuel-efficient COMMUNITY TOUCH vehicles for our use. Promega Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Italia, Promega AG in Switzerland and Promega KK in Japan have moved to a more efficient and ecologically sound fleet, leading to improved global vehicle fuel efficiency. In the United States, we have continued participating in the Emkay GoGreen fleet program, which offsets all fleet emissions by planting trees. Since our Emkay GoGreen enrollment in 2009, we have offset 3,000 tons of CO2. Many locations also encourage ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 40 INTRODUCTION Promega Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Italia, CORPORATE MIND Promega AG in Switzerland and Promega KK in Japan have moved to a more efficient and ecologically sound fleet, leading to improved PRODUCT REACH global vehicle fuel efficiency. PLANET AWARE the use of high-speed rail as a more efficient alternative to air and automobile travel. We also encourage the use of electric vehicles by employees to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. Electric vehicle charging stations are available on our Promega Madison campus, as well as Promega Benelux, Promega PEOPLE CARE AG and Promega Biosciences in California. These placements cover two-thirds of our employees globally, and we are looking to expand to other locations. Alternative Transportation COMMUNITY TOUCH Alternate transportation programs have been implemented by a number of locations worldwide to reduce environmental effects. Employees are encouraged to use public transportation, ridesharing or biking to work. All buildings at Promega Madison and Promega Biosciences in California offer bicycles for employees to use, as well as resources to support cyclists, Electrical vehicle charging stations are available on our Promega Madison campus as well as in Benelux, including access to pumps and bike repair kits. Many locations worldwide Switzerland, and California. have similar programs in place. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 41 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRESERVING NATURAL CAPITAL Non-Hazardous Waste Minimizing Waste Cubic Meters Per Million USD To reduce waste, Promega locations globally focus on improving recycling programs and increasing employee awareness about minimizing waste. 30.5 32.4 35.3 36.6 This has included segregating materials for recycling, composting, and 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 PRODUCT REACH encouraging reuse by providing reusable materials in cafeterias and 20.1 14.7 16.3 20.9 kitchenettes. Employees embrace the mantra “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have championed this effort. In 2018, we saw recycling increase by 15.2 15.7 14.8 15.2 14.2 13% with the following highlights: 2015 2018 2020 • Promega was the proud recipient of the 2018 Chelsea Santucci Goal PLANET AWARE Greenovation Award from Kimberly-Clark Professional for significant Landfilled Recycled Incinerated efforts to reduce solid waste by collecting and recycling nitrile gloves and protective garments. In 2018, Promega diverted 3.6 metric tons (nearly 8,000 pounds) of garments and nitrile gloves from landfills through Hazardous Waste the RightCycle recycling program in Wisconsin and California. • Segregating plastic shrink wrap, banding and bottles for recycling Kilograms Per Million USD PEOPLE CARE from our shipping and dispensing areas across the Promega campus started in 2017 and expanded in 2018. This effort diverted over 16 262.0 277.2 289.0 246.7 tons of plastic in the last year. 15.1 16.8 105.1 83.8 101.8 • Promega has been successfully segregating and recycling pipette tip 137.8 COMMUNITY TOUCH boxes since 2010 and diverts more than 2 tons of plastic from 69.2 landfills each year. Some pipette tip boxes were also provided to 161.4 160.3 114.8 58.9 local artists. 49.9 2015 2018 • Multiple facilities in Madison, WI and San Luis Obispo, CA, feature employee-managed composting programs to divert organic waste Recycled Treated Incinerated and support our employee passions for gardening. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 42 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Recycling of nitrile gloves Electronics recycling is offered at and protective garments. Promega each year for Earth Day. PLANET AWARE • An annual electronics recycling drive at our Promega Madison Earth Day celebration collected over 20 pallets worth of materials, making it the most successful employee recycling drive to date. Promega locations in Switzerland and Germany made concerned efforts in 2018 to reduce plastic consumption by switching PEOPLE CARE to glass containers for water instead of plastic. Promega Germany and our Euro Hub also provided reusable bottles to employees that supported ocean cleanup efforts. Managing Hazardous and Infectious Wastes COMMUNITY TOUCH In the biotech industry, manufacturing processes can require use of potentially hazardous substances, along with the obligation to minimize waste and ensure its proper disposal. In the last year hazardous waste reduced by 15% as indexed to revenue. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 43 INTRODUCTION Water Usage CORPORATE MIND Conserving Water Thousands of Liters Per Million USD Promega evaluates initiatives to conserve water in manufacturing, landscaping and other everyday needs. In the last year, water usage decreased by 8% as indexed to revenue. Notable reductions were seen at the Feynman Center in Madison, WI, as a result of a project completed in July 2018 to reuse wastewater generated from our water purification PRODUCT REACH system. This project saved over 500,000 gallons or 1.8 million liters in less than 6 months by using captured waste water in cooling towers. 342 334 307 283 291 Many global locations incorporate design features to conserve and ensure proper disposal of water. Offices in Sydney, Australia, collect rain water 2015 2018 2020 for cleaning, flushing toilets and irrigating plants. Similarly, the MadisonGoal PLANET AWARE based global headquarters uses rainwater collection and rain gardens for natural filtration. Promega Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, has a long history of water conservation projects and designed custom water recirculating system for distilled water. Since 2009, gross water usage Paper Usage has decreased by over 50% at our San Luis Obispo facility despite a significant increase in headcount and manufacturing levels. Reams Per Million USD PEOPLE CARE Connecting with Customers without Paper Approximately 10 years ago, Promega transitioned away from printed corporate communications such as catalogs, instruction manuals and marketing materials. Adopting electronic communications reduced total paper usage by over 80% in the following year. Reduction in paper usage COMMUNITY TOUCH has continued with an additional 8% reduction as indexed to revenue 2015 since 2015. 2016 Expanded use of modern technologies and emerging social media channels 2017 in recent years has enhanced communication with customers and further 2018 reduced the need for printed materials. When printed paper is needed, we use recycled paper and duplex printing to minimize paper consumption. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 44 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND New kit boxes use sustainably sourced PRODUCT REACH fibers and reduce material usage. Promega shipping team from Madison, WI. PLANET AWARE Reducing Packaging Materials • Implemented packaging designs that minimize air space while also Many Promega products are temperature sensitive, creating unique reducing dry ice usage and shipment weight. requirements in packaging that involve use of dry ice, gel ice and foam coolers. We continually evaluate the effect of packaging on the environment, • Changed to unbleached shipping boxes that contain sustainably and search for innovative ways to reduce packaging, use environmentally harvested materials. friendly materials, and design for recycling or reuse. Environmental PEOPLE CARE sustainability, product protection and quality are all key priorities. • Used biodegradable and recyclable air pouches that protect our products with fewer environmental effects. In 2018, Promega implemented changes to our kit packaging boxes that use sustainably sourced materials, reduce material used and promote In 2019 Promega will begin reporting with Australian Packaging recycling for customers. Covenant Organization to support the goal of reducing the COMMUNITY TOUCH environmental effects of packaging. As part of this effort Promega will To reduce environmental effects of packaging, Promega has also: develop a process for measuring packaging materials and the effect of our initiatives related to sustainable packaging. • Switched to smaller shipping boxes to use less packaging materials. • Incorporated new materials that provide better insulation and reduce the amount of dry ice needed. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 45 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Promega employees participate in yoga during ESI Bootcamp in Europe. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 46 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND I’m proud to be part of a company that recognizes my potential and supports my professional development. CHRISTIAN WALCZUCH Communications and Media Specialist, Promega GmbH PRODUCT REACH PEOPLE PLANET AWARE CARE The culture at Promega emphasizes self-actualization, nurtures creativity, and prioritizes emotional and physical well-being. Investing in our PEOPLE CARE employees on a professional and personal level allows them to flourish, and in turn they continue to drive our progress. Employees are given flexibility in how they work, and we acknowledge the individual differences of each employee. Our 19 worldwide locations provide support in ways that meet the specific needs of each region and encourage employees to COMMUNITY TOUCH achieve a balance of work-home integration. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 47 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Employees tend to a community garden. PLANET AWARE “I am getting up early and I am on my PEOPLE CARE way to work with a real good feeling!” MAXIMILIAN BECK, System Administrator, Promega GmbH COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 48 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND NURTURING EMPLOYEE CREATIVITY, GROWTH b. Decision making that is shared among the group, not controlled, AND SELF-ACTUALIZATION and the organization remains nimble because people in key nodes are empowered to act, having considered all voices. Feeling fulfilled is crucial to our development as humans, and realizing our personal potential means we grow and strive to achieve our true c. P hysical work environments, including design, lighting, capabilities. As a company, Promega provides a work environment and communication systems and access to information. PRODUCT REACH culture that offers each employee the opportunity for individual development and build meaningful relationships with one another. d. Resources that employees need to do their best work. The Promega Culture e. A financial structure that supports organizational goals and The psychology of the organization—our “cultural DNA”—provides a values for personal development. Economic metrics provide foundation through which company principles and operations are shaped. guidance on sustainable business practices but are not the only PLANET AWARE For us, these principles include: drivers for business decisions. 1. Nurturing creativity, self-discovery and individual growth, creating f. Selection and support of employees entering the organization an environment where the unique contributions of each employee who reflect our values. are embraced. 4. Contributing to life science research and related discoveries have 2. Believing that both people and companies can self-actualize, and been and will continue to be important to society and human PEOPLE CARE that growth at either level lifts the other into realizing their greater development by designing and supplying products, systems and potential. services that simplify this research and give more reliable and accurate results. 3. Structuring a culture that reinforces all stakeholders (customers, employees, community and shareholders) can find growth and We seek employee feedback in annual climate surveys and monthly COMMUNITY TOUCH transformation through: employee sessions to understand employee happiness and engagement. Feedback from the survey in 2018 highlighted that employees feel they a. Organizational reporting that provides for easy collaborative work in a collaborative environment, are proud to work at Promega, communication across and at all levels of the organization. enjoy the people they work with, and find their work to be meaningful. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 49 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Creating Workspaces to Inspire As a business based on creative output and employee satisfaction, Promega prioritizes environmental quality and stimulating experiences in the workplace. Invigorating spaces come both in the components and the variety of space offerings. Key components of work spaces include abundant light (natural light whenever possible), a variety of art and PRODUCT REACH comfortable, warm furniture. The variety of spaces gives employees the opportunity to work in a creative “third space”, exercise, meditate or grab a bite to eat. Throughout Promega, there are opportunities to discover stories, history and whimsy. Employees are engaged in design of new space and the renovation of PLANET AWARE existing workspaces to improve functionality, ergonomics and foster group collaboration. This process considers all aspects of a space, including types and quality of lighting, sound levels and air flow. Additionally, customizable work spaces for employees encourage collaboration. Architecture and design that “brings the outdoors in” encourages an appreciation of natural beauty. For example, our new German facility PEOPLE CARE is incorporating an extensive array of indoor plants and trees to add life and warmth. Locations globally use local resources, art and culture to provide comfortable, functional and unique work environments. Our priority is to create environments with an attention to detail that is inspiring, flexible and aligned with the needs of employees. COMMUNITY TOUCH Third space in the research and development facility in Madison, WI. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 50 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Cultivating Emotional and Social Intelligence (ESI) To foster a supportive and dynamic work environment, Promega embraces the principles of emotional and social intelligence (ESI). ESI helps employees improve relationships, manage stress and enhance connections. The ProMindful program is an introduction to mindfulness practices comprised of 15-minute community sessions including silent and guided PRODUCT REACH meditation, mindful movement and sound meditation. Beyond strengthening our ESI skills, these programs bring employees together in ways that are both professional and personal, thereby strengthening our community. Employee at Promega Italy develop their ESI skills at Wanderlust 108. To date over 130 employees have attended our ESI Bootcamp, which PLANET AWARE is an immersive experience that gives participants the time, space and support to focus deeply on the building blocks of ESI. At the Bootcamp, participants take a deep dive into ESI through introspection, dialogue After years spent in several companies, you realize that success always and group process that together awakens areas of potential in themselves. relies on the people who compose it and their ability to work efficiently as Over three and a half days surrounded by nature and supported in a team. But teamwork can’t come without a deep respect for the other, learning, participants report a new sense of well-being and dedication kindness and empathy and a desire to understand your colleagues and to their inner and outer work. share with them. These key social components as well as the well-being PEOPLE CARE you feel working in your company will clearly impact the results. The very In day-to-day life, employees interested in ESI cluster together to form strong human values conveyed by Promega are for most of us, the reason Climate Catalyst teams, which function to sustain community. Specifically, for our presence in this atypical company. The ESI (Emotional and Social teams support each other in conducting “ESI micro-experiments” for Intelligence) program is certainly the most striking example of this desire personal growth, social and cultural enrichment, and enhancing workplace to build on the men and women who make up our society. COMMUNITY TOUCH practices. Open to all employees, Promega’s 11 self-guided teams are made up of people new to ESI and a large fraction of Bootcamp graduates Nicolas Bardonnet who wish to stay engaged. General Manager, Promega France ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 51 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE left PROVIDING PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT Employee at Promega Italy develop their ESI skills at Wanderlust 108. AND GROWTH FOR EMPLOYEES right Promega takes an innovative approach to employee development, as Scientific training offered in Singapore. featured in Chip Conley’s book “Peak”, that focuses on a series of opposite, right conversations to recognize employee strengths and encourage growth PEOPLE CARE Meeting space at Promega Korea. based on employee passions. Since growth starts from the inside, we have shifted from the more standard manager-driven review process to one that starts with the employee. More and more departments use a conversational approach that facilitates individual development plans, personalized growth goals and a listening session to understand what COMMUNITY TOUCH our talent needs to keep them with Promega. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 52 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE Leadership Training and Employee Development the positive feedback on this internal program, we are increasing the Professional development such as Coaching for Leaders, Leadership number of sessions and program variety in 2019. Forum, Transformational Leadership, Leadership Conversations and Manager Roundtable programs support managers at all levels. Scientific Training Individually-targeted leadership development is available on site, or with The Scientific Training team designs, develops and implements external or training partners. In addition, organizational development product and sales trainings for employees around the globe, which PEOPLE CARE services include talent management resources, personality/leadership are delivered in live and virtual classrooms. Live courses are available in assessments, coaching and consulting. Initially these programs were Madison, WI; Lyon, France; and Singapore to address the training needs limited to North America, but they have recently expanded to Europe. of employees globally. These facilities also incorporate video conferencing The teams in France, Benelux and Spain were the most recent branches equipment for scientists and trainers to participate from off-site locations. to complete the program. English Classes for Employees COMMUNITY TOUCH An employee development project was launched in 2018 including Our branches in Korea, Japan, and Germany offer employees programs such as Core Principles, Conflict Management, Influence English lessons to improve communication across the company without Authority, and Presentation Skills just to name a few. The and with clientele. These efforts help employees access the resources they response to this new program has been overwhelming with sessions need to advance their career. filling in less than one hour! These on-site programs are facilitated by Human Resource team members or external training partners. Due to ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 53 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH The Promega AG team visiting the world’s largest particle accelerator at CERN. BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS AND CONNECTIONS PLANET AWARE The team from Promega Italia celebrating 20 years at Mount Etna. We cultivate an environment of connection among employees so strong bonds can be nurtured and extend through the company to our families and community. From team-building activities to employees joining together to share in hobbies, strong relationships are the foundation of what we do. Here are some examples from 2018: PEOPLE CARE •  elebrating 20 Years for Promega Italia. The team in Italy C celebrated their 20th anniversary with a trip to Etna, the biggest and most active volcano in Europe. Whether it was hiking around the volcano or enjoying a meal together, the emphasis was COMMUNITY TOUCH placed on building connections with colleagues. Like the Etna volcano that changes daily and modifies the landscape, the team reflected on the ways they have evolved to meet the needs of their customers over the last 20 years. • Bonding in France at the ‘Ideal Palace’. Promega France took a team trip to Le Palais Idéal (the “Ideal Palace”) in ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 54 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH The Promega France team building The team from Promega India at Le Palais Idéal. in Bali, Indonesia. PLANET AWARE Hauterives. This palace took over 33 years to construct and •  uilding Relationships in Bali. Our newest branch in Promega B incorporated unique rocks and shells. On this trip, the team also India traveled on a team building trip to Bali, Indonesia, in 2018. learned how chocolate is made and how to appropriately taste it. On this trip the team was able to appreciate the unique backgrounds and cultural norms of team members and had fun learning a group dance. •  Visiting CERN for Promega AG. During a company outing in August 2018, our team in Switzerland visited PRIORITIZING EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING CERN, the world’s largest particle accelerator. On the tour, the PEOPLE CARE team marveled that only 6 meters of concrete separated them from Promega takes a multifaceted approach towards employee well-being. particle accelerator and detector. Physical health and wellness start with safety but expand to include fitness and health care facilities, wellness programs and benefits packages. • Uniting for the Love of Music at Madison, WI. Employees at Each of these offerings ensure employees feel empowered to take care Promega headquarters who are musically-inclined have joined forces of their health at work. COMMUNITY TOUCH to create the band “Lead Generation.” For over a decade, employees ranging from scientists, marketers, IT specialists, and administrators Employee Safety have come together to share their talents and spend time making Employee health and safety is a high priority. Environmental Health music. The 45 active participants perform at functions throughout and Safety programs are committed to establishing, maintaining and the year such as all-company meetings and employee-recognition improving work environments for the safety and well-being of our breakfasts. employees as well as the communities in which we operate. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 55 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND 731 234 1,700 1,518 FUN RUN REGISTRANTS KNOW YOUR NUMBERS PRODUCT REACH PARTICIPANTS PHYSICAL THERAPY APPOINTMENTS PLANET AWARE WELLNESS CENTER VISITS 20 FITNESS CLASSES/WEEK PEOPLE CARE 362 597 FLU VACCINES ADMINISTERED 2 102 NEW YOGA INSTRUCTORS COMMUNITY TOUCH FOOD DONATIONS ADDED IN 2018 5 FROM FUN RUN WITH A TOTAL OF ACUPUNCTURE APPOINTMENTS 6 WELLNESS-RELATED LUNCH N’ LEARNS 250+ WELLNESS FAIR ATTENDEES YOGIS ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 56 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Resources and Benefits That Support Employee Wellness Supporting Employees During Times of Need Promega employees are offered comprehensive benefit packages based Caregiver Leave was made available to Promega employees in the US in on country standards. These programs typically include medical, dental 2018. Employees can use two weeks of paid time to care for aging parents, and vision coverage as well as a competitive 401(k) plan and flexible ill spouses, children with medical needs, or time off to bond with a spending accounts for healthcare. Shortand long-term disability newborn or newly adopted child without sacrificing their own paid sick insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance and paid time off are also leave or vacation. One hundred and twenty employees used this leave PRODUCT REACH provided to ensure the well-being of our employees and their families. in 2018 with one employee sharing their experience: Wellness Center Offerings My mom was diagnosed with Stage IV Ovarian Cancer in August of 2015. The Wellness Center located at our Madison, WI, headquarters provides We went through three years of treatments, planned and unplanned all employees on-site health consultations and counseling, which is surgeries and countless hospital stays. I was granted Caregiver Leave in available five days a week. Services include routine blood draws, travel April 2018 when she had a severe reaction to her treatment and spent a PLANET AWARE and routine immunizations, consultations for general health concerns, week in the ICU. Caregiver Leave allowed me to be in the hospital and at physical examinations and physical therapy. In 2019, Promega added a home with her while she was at her sickest and during the last moments licensed professional counselor and a registered dietician to the Wellness of her life without me having to worry about maxing out my PTO or having Center Staff, offering free consultations to all employees. Counseling to take time off unpaid. services can help a variety of needs like anxiety, depression, or navigating career and workplace challenges. Nutrition counseling helps to improve Leslie Tracy health from the inside out. Promega employee PEOPLE CARE Health Assessments with ‘Know Your Numbers’ Encouraging Active Lifestyles Each year Promega employees are encouraged to participate in the Know A multitude of options are made available to employees so that they Your Numbers program, which provides a free basic health screening may develop healthy and active lifestyles supported by Promega at our for those interested in participating. Employees obtain a finger-stick test headquarters and across the globe. Many locations offer on-site fitness COMMUNITY TOUCH and meet with our Nurse Practitioner the same day to review their results. facilities, yoga classes and group fitness instructions. Some branches also This program is offered every year and aims to help employees understand offer reimbursement for health club memberships and support for what health risks they might face. These diagnostic indicators can help participation in sports or competitive events like marathons or triathlons. employees formulate a plan around lifestyle changes they can make to prevent or delay the onset of certain diseases such as diabetes and heart disease. In 2018, 731 employees participated in this program. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 57 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega Biosystems Korea Employees in Singapore participated PRODUCT REACH celebrates 12 years. in the Make-A-Wish charity run. PLANET AWARE Promega C25k Promega Biosystems Korea Gets Active Each year Promega challenges employees to train for the annual Couch To celebrate 12 years of operations at Promega Biosystems–Korea, to 5K program, which provides new runners the education and training the team went white-water rafting and hiked outdoors. support to complete a 5k race. Run-for-A-Wish in Singapore Moving For a Cause The Promega team participated in a charity run for Make-APEOPLE CARE The Berbee Derby is a combination 5k/10k, offering the Fitchburg, WI Wish Singapore to help bring cheer and hope to children with community an opportunity to get out and stay healthy on Thanksgiving life-threatening medical conditions. Day each year. Promega employees got together to create their own team to help raise money that went towards the Technology and Education Promega Annual Fun Run/Walk 5k Fund. The 9th Annual Promega Madison 5k Fun Run/Walk encourages COMMUNITY TOUCH employees to stay active and collects donations for the local food bank. Wanderlust 108 in Milan Employees from Promega Italia participated in Wanderlust 108 Eating Well, Living Well in September 2018. Wanderlust is dubbed ‘the world’s only Employees have access to fresh and local produce from our on-site mindful triathlon’ featuring a 5k run, 75 minutes of yoga and a 25culinary garden at the Madison, WI location. Thousands of pounds of minute guided meditation in an outdoor setting. This gathering looks produce are harvested annually from the garden and, in conjunction to spread love, peace, compassion and well-being into the world. with over three dozen local farms, are used to create healthy and organic ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 58 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND menus across the campus. Additionally, employees may also select their own plots within an on-site community garden so they can exercise their own green thumbs. Bee Hives in France Our team at Promega France has added honey bee hives at their PRODUCT REACH office in Lyon to help safeguard the bee population and educate employees on how to maintain a hive. An added benefit has been the ability to harvest fresh honey for employees to take home. left Thousands of pounds of produce are PLANET AWARE harvested annually from our culinary garden. bottom Harvesting honey from bee hives located at Promega France. PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 59 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH Promega supports science education by sponsoring the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM). ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 60 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND During my time at Promega I have had countless opportunities to witness the sincere dedication to supporting employees, customers and members of the community. The sense is that we are all in this together, working towards a better future for ourselves and our communities. PRODUCT REACH BECCA MCKNIGHT Integrative Employee Development Partner COMMUNITY PLANET AWARE TOUCH Meaningful engagement in the many global communities in which Promega makes its home begins with each of our employees. After all, PEOPLE CARE they are most familiar with the unique needs of their own communities and the most effective approaches to address those needs. They seek to better the world in the distinctive ways that match their unique skills and talents and also bring meaning to their lives. COMMUNITY TOUCH Employees are the DNA of the company, and what they value is expressed in all the ways Promega connects with the world, but especially in our approach to community engagement. From the company’s beginning, Promega employees have valued science and service, sustained commitment and common purpose. These priorities have formed the foundation and guided our community relationships over the last 40 years. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 61 INTRODUCTION The iGEM 2018 Giant Jamboree Promega was the first corporate sponsor for CORPORATE MIND in Boston, MA. the Revive & Restore Catalyst Science Fund. PRODUCT REACH Promega celebrates this passion and supports a culture that catalyzes and distributors in Spain, Singapore, France, Switzerland, Germany and employee involvement through polices such as volunteer time off and the Netherlands sponsored a total of 16 additional teams. Moreover, matching gifts. There is also an overall sensibility that not only encourages Promega provided technical support and informational resources such but actively backs the unlimited potential of employees who put action as the “iGEM Crash Course: Ask the Experts” webinar for all iGEM behind ideas for how they, their team or the company as a whole can teams globally. engage meaningfully in the world. On a global scale, each branch and PLANET AWARE manufacturing location has the autonomy to focus on the unique needs To support the exploration of new solutions for confronting significant of its community thorough an integrative and authentic approach to environmental challenges, Promega pledged $3 million in 2018 to the provide support at a local level. nonprofit Revive & Restore Catalyst Science Fund. This was the first corporate pledge to a recently launched fund designed to identify and SUPPORTING SCIENCE AROUND THE WORLD develop advanced techniques for genetic rescue and bring new tools to to change the world for the better conservation work that enhance biodiversity. The Fund invests primarily in proof-of-concept projects applied toward effective solutions to PEOPLE CARE In 2018, Promega became a corporate Partner Sponsor of the conservation challenges. Research supported by this fund aims to produce International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) innovative scientific solutions that offer significant conservation benefits competition following the initiatives taken by many global Promega and broad applicability for endangered species and threatened ecosystems. branches over the last several years to support iGEM teams in their own countries. This annual competition encourages the advancement of Revive & Restore awarded the first grant to the laboratory of marine COMMUNITY TOUCH synthetic biology, education and collaboration as multidisciplinary teams biologist Steve Palumbi at Stanford University’s Hopkins Marine Station. of high school and university students from around the world design, The $100,000 research grant will enable the Palumbi team to investigate build, test and measure a system of their own creation using interchangeable the genomic “stress trigger” that may cause corals to bleach as a result biological parts and standard molecular biology techniques. of warming ocean conditions. This catalytic science could be an essential step forward in understanding the large-scale bleaching of coral reefs Promega awarded $2,000 corporate sponsorships to ten international and the potential to engineer genomic resilience to climate change. Learn teams competing in the 2018 iGEM competition. Promega branches more at reviverestore.org. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 62 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH left Sydney Roberts, a student at UW-Madison majoring in Community Sydney Roberts, left, at work at a rural community outreach health clinic outside of and Nonprofit Leadership with a certificate in Global Health, was Kabale, Uganda where she helped conduct basic health screenings. one of four 2018 recipients of the Promega International Scientific above Internship Scholarship. She spent time in spring 2018 in Kabale, The Promega Discovery Fund supports the Marine Biological Laboratory. Uganda, a town in the southwestern part of the country near the border of Rwanda, working as an intern with the Kigezi Healthcare The Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) is one of the largest nonprofit PLANET AWARE Foundation (KIHEFO). biological laboratories in the world, attracting leading life scientists and KIHEFO operates a primary care clinic, HIV/AIDS clinic, Nutrition students from around the globe to its facility in Woods Hole, MA. The and Rehabilitation center, and works with rural community groups. Promega Discovery Fund, established in 2013, supports the MBL Sydney supported local staff members as they treated clients, Education Department in offering highly competitive, discovery-based provided counseling sessions for families affected by disease, and courses and research programs, as well as tools and technologies. A worked on global health initiatives that support prevention of these Promega scientist also works on-site to assist students during summer diseases and health complications. She had only been in Uganda courses. Promega provides additional monetary support for the MBL PEOPLE CARE for a few weeks when she sent Promega a letter letting us know Director’s Vision Implementation Fund to ensure the institute’s future that her experiences had already been life-changing. growth. “I have already learned so much about global health in the developing world. My role at KIHEFO is to observe the doctors, but I The Promega International Scientific Internship Scholarship supports also support the organization in other ways. For example, I used a undergraduate students at the University of Wisconsin–Madison who COMMUNITY TOUCH new medical technique of rubbing cold water on a baby’s lower are undertaking an international internship aimed at using science to abdomen to collect a urine sample, since there are no pediatric improve the quality of life in the world. Students from all scientific fields catheters here in the field. This urine sample revealed that the baby are eligible but preference is given to those whose internships use molecular was extremely malnourished (1 year, 2 months old and weighed 5 biology techniques. Students must be based in a country other than kg). It is small tasks like this that have impacted me the most. This their own for at least six weeks and cannot be in a country where the baby was then admitted to the KIHEFO nutrition clinic for re-feeding recipient has already spent significant time. The scholarship is awarded and is on her way back to a healthy life.” annually to four students. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 63 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND The Asturian Biology Olympiad (OAsB) event gives high school students from the Asturias region of Spain the opportunity to learn more about scientific research and preservation of the natural environment. In 2018, Promega Spain sponsored the event aimed at Biology students in their second year of high school, both in public centers as well as private or subsidized ones. Some 100 students from PRODUCT REACH 20 centers participated. Promega AG, the Promega branch in Switzerland, has donated products for the last several years to Teaching and Research in Neurosciences for Development (TReND) in Africa. The nonprofit, run entirely by volunteer scientists at universities worldwide, supports PLANET AWARE establishing top-level scientific facilities in several African countries by leveraging large-scale, low-cost approaches to innovation and research. The Promega Award for Biochemistry is given to innovative researchers in China. Our Australian branch supports the Lorne Genome Conference each year with a student prize, which is awarded to a delegate enrolled in a post-graduate or undergraduate degree who as first author, Established in 2013, the Promega Award for Biochemistry submits the best abstract for oral presentation. Over the years, the PEOPLE CARE recognizes important collaborations in the study of stem cells meeting organizers have consistently placed great importance on by innovative researchers in China. Promega grants the award annually accessibility to students by offering several free student registrations in partnership with the Chinese Society of Biochemistry and Molecular when the supervisor registers, as well as making student travel awards Biology (CSBMB). Two researchers, Xu Chenqi, Ph.D., and Zhou Bin, available. M.D., Ph.D., were honored in 2018. Both are from the Institute of COMMUNITY TOUCH Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Promega GmbH supports science communication through the Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences. yearly scientist-communicator team competition Main Focus Biology. In addition, the branch organizes annual workshops for Promega Benelux was a sponsor of the 2018 DNA Gala, raising journalists from national and regional media to inform them about funds to support immunotherapy research at Netherlands Cancer current trends in bioscience and to encourage the transfer of knowledge Institute. The event raised € 919,530 for immunotherapy research at from science to society. NKI. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 64 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH The International Symposium of Human Identification PLANET AWARE (ISHI) attracts visitors from over 40 countries. PEOPLE CARE Launched by Promega in 1998, the annual International Symposium Promega Spain brought together researchers and writers in 2018 on Human Identification (ISHI) has grown into the world’s largest for science journalism workshops, explaining the latest conference focused on technologies, policies and innovations in forensic biotechnology innovations. Journalists had the opportunity to learn DNA analysis for human identification. Nearly 1,000 scientists, DNA about liquid biopsy and microsatellite instability technologies. analysts, law enforcement professionals, and legal and ethical experts COMMUNITY TOUCH from 40+ countries gather to share knowledge through interactive The Wisconsin Science Festival is a four-day statewide celebration workshops, presentations, case studies and scientific poster sessions. of science for people of all ages. Events across Wisconsin include handsMany labs and industry agencies count hours attended towards continuing on science exhibitions, demonstrations, workshops, speakers and more. education requirements. While sponsored by Promega, ISHI is an For the 2018 Festival, Promega sponsored the panel discussion “Living inclusive forum open to all practitioners and suppliers of DNA analysis in the Anthropocene” moderated by Dennis Dimick, former environment for human identification. Learn more at: ishinews.com editor for National Geographic, that explored the scale and implications of humanity’s effect on Earth and its systems. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 65 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH A winner of “Cool Science Image contest” showing the complex spiral patterns in the nanostructure of tungsten diselenide. (Photo: Melinda Shearer) PLANET AWARE The Cool Science Image Contest, sponsored by Promega, gives a nod to $2,000 in Promega products to supplement their classes. For more to the link between science and art. Images from microscopes, satellites, information, visit: promega.com/products/pm/na/training-support-program telescopes and other technologies are informative, but they can also be true works of art. The annual competition challenges students, staff and Scientists at Promega Germany stepped up in 2018 to revive faculty at the University of Wisconsin–Madison to capture and share the BlueGenes Project. The initiative provides middle school compelling science images. Winning artwork is showcased at Promega students an early microbiology experience through two basic molecular PEOPLE CARE headquarters, the Wisconsin Science Festival, and UW-Madison web biology experiments that can be performed safely in schools with limited sites and communications. reagents and lab materials provided at a discount. The German Promega branch had partnered 20 years ago with two other bioscience companies Technical Services Scientists from Promega Madison regularly visit to launch the project. One of the companies recently stopped manufacturing local elementary and middle school classrooms to provide students with products required for the experiments, threatening the end of the project. COMMUNITY TOUCH hands-on experience in molecular biology. In 2018, Promega scientists However, our German branch created a new set of BlueGenes experiments, visited 80 classes in 16 Madison and surrounding area schools where protocols and web site support based on Promega products we will they helped 1,780 students extract DNA from strawberries. provide at a significant discount. The Promega Training Support Program gives instructors at the high school, undergraduate and graduate levels who teach courses using DNA, RNA, protein or cell-based techniques the opportunity to receive up ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 66 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Workshop provided for post-doctoral students at Molecular Oncology Institute in Milan. PLANET AWARE Promega Italy continued in 2018 to refine an innovative initiative Promega aided Field Projects International in setting up a to support and connect with post-doctoral students at the genetics lab in Peru by providing genomics products and a Molecular Oncology Institute in Milan. For the last two years, the Italy Quantus™ Fluorometer instrument, used by scientists to measure light branch has offered a two-day course with Human Resources facilitators emanating from biological molecules. Field Projects International is a from Promega Madison leading management training sessions that nonprofit dedicated to tropical ecosystem conservation that conducts focus on leadership conversations, as well as identifying strengths, wildlife research and provides field training in tropical biology. PEOPLE CARE motivators and challenges in oneself and team members. Promega AG hosted students for National Future Day, an annual “Companies usually provide workshops on the latest developments in event in Switzerland aimed at encouraging 5th to 7th grade equipment or chemicals which can be used in our research. That is useful. students to explore various career options. Students were able to see However, I found the workshop on soft skills unique and essential. Since themselves as future scientists while conducting an experiment with COMMUNITY TOUCH the workshop I feel more engaged with Promega now than with other using one of our Maxwell® instruments. companies. Promega is providing added value for my career. Overall, thank you very much for your time and that you shared your knowledge with us.” —MANAGEMENT TRAINING SESSION PARTICIPANT ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 67 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND COMMITTING TO CORNERSTONE INITIATIVES maintaining long-term, deep-rooted ties for meaningful outcomes PRODUCT REACH The BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute (BTC Institute) is a not-for-profit organization founded by Promega in 1993 and located on the Madison, WI campus that provides educational, scientific and cultural enrichment experiences. Educational programs focus on the life sciences for a wide range of learners from upper elementary students to PLANET AWARE college and graduate students, as well as career scientists in academia and industry and the general public. During the 2017–2018 academic year, the ever-popular Biotechnology Field Trips program served approximately 3,000 middleand high-school students from Wisconsin and Illinois. Students and their teachers either visited BTC Institute labs for hands-on, molecular biology-based field PEOPLE CARE trips or were served by an on-the-road program that brings BTC Institute teachers and lab activities directly to classrooms. These students participated in more than 4,000 lab experiences. In addition, the BTC Institute offered six graduate level courses for UW-Madison, including all three Molecular Technologies courses for the Master’s in Biotechnology COMMUNITY TOUCH Program. Annually, BTC Institute hosts the International Forum on Consciousness, bringing together the worlds of natural and social sciences, and the Wisconsin Stem Cell Symposium in partnership with the UW-Madison Student from the BTCI Field Trips program. Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Center. Learn more at: btci.org ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 68 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE Woods Hollow Children’s Center is located on the main corporate Science is a truly creative endeavor, so is it not surprising that, for campus and serves Promega employees as well as families from surrounding more than 20 years, Promega has hosted the Promega Art Showcase communities. The nonprofit facility provides early childhood education on the Madison, WI campus. These quarterly art shows feature the work and care for children 6 weeks to 10 years old and is fully accredited by of local and international painters, photographers, sculptors and artists the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). in many other media. Professionally curated exhibitions free and open Promega founded Woods Hollow in 1991 and has provided ongoing to the public offer both well-established and up-and-coming artists a PEOPLE CARE support ever since. In line with the company’s commitment to the longvenue for their work and provide opportunities for Promega employees term success of Woods Hollow, Promega funded a 9,300 square foot and the surrounding community alike to explore diverse perspectives. expansion in 2018 that included construction of additional classrooms Showcase opening symposiums consistently attract hundreds of art for after-school programming for school-age children and a gymnasium enthusiasts. An annual Promega Employee Art Show supports a corporate for indoor large-motor activities for all enrolled children. Learn more culture that encourages creative expression. Learn more at: promegaCOMMUNITY TOUCH at: woodshollow.org artshow.com left “We all need creativity and exposure to new perspectives to live our best lives Wood’s Hollow Children’s Center has served Promega employees and local families. and do our best work, so it’s only natural that a company like Promega would exhibit art from around the world.” right Daniel Swadener curates quarterly art shows featuring work of local and international events. —DANIEL SWADENER, Art Curator ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 69 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND ENGAGING IN COMMUNITY: SUPPORTING GLOBAL AND LOCAL initiatives and organizations that enrich humanity Promega in Action is a program that offers employees at its corporate office in Madison, Wisconsin, the opportunity to apply for up to five PRODUCT REACH business days (40 hours) of paid time to volunteer for the charity or organization of their choice. The employee is asked to document his or her interactions through writing, videos or photographs and then present Jeremy Schrab supported Sizabantwana Children’s Benefit Organization. and share these insights with colleagues. Here’s how one 2018 Promega in Action participant described his experience: PLANET AWARE “I worked with the organization Sizabantwana Children’s Benefit Organization from Hazyview, South Africa. I’ve had the ‘once in a lifetime’ experience THREE 2018 Promega in Action awardees donated their volunteer hours to the times since 2014 of traveling to South Africa to participate in the daily activities following organizations and programs: of caring for nearly 800 children affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic supported by the Sizabantwana organization. We raise money for food, clothing and • Sizabantwana Children’s Benefit Organization necessities, and also experience the joy of the kids of receiving items we • Glenn Stephens Elementary School take with us on our trip to distribute to different care centers. • St. Vincent de Paul Food Pantry PEOPLE CARE • Second Harvest Food Bank In 2018 we raised enough money to bring the founders of Sizabantwana to • Badger Prairie Needs Network the USA. The family of four traveled from South Africa to Wisconsin and • Challenged Sailors in San Diego stayed with our family for two weeks. This was truly a once in a lifetime • Girls Scouts of America experience for them. They were able to experience many Wisconsin traditions • Girls on the Run COMMUNITY TOUCH and continue to form the global connections we began in 2014. Most • Royal Oaks School Community Organization (ROSCO) importantly, they helped us put the finishing touches on our US based non• Science Olympiad profit ‘Friends of Sizabantwana’. The nonprofit became official in June of • YMCA Y Strong Girls 2018. I appreciate all of the support and time Promega has provided to me • Childhood Arthritis and Rheumatology Research Alliance to help make this a reality!” • DaneNet • Next Step Ministries —JEREMY SCHRAB, Senior Supervisor, Materials Management ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 70 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH Promega Biosciences’ Community Promega India helped destitute Action Team raised funds for a local and abandoned elderly people. humane society during Oktoberfest. PLANET AWARE Promega India partnered in 2018 with SHEOWS (Saint Hardyal The employee-lead Community Action Team (CAT) at Promega Educational and Orphans Welfare Society), a leading nonprofit Biosciences in San Luis Obispo, CA, works to support the growth of in India working for nearly two decades helping destitute and abandoned their local community in civic vitality, cultural richness, human welfare, elderly people. SHEOWS provides medical care, food, clothing and environmental sensitivity, educational opportunities and providing for housing at Old Age Homes for those neglected by their families or lost and protecting those in need. In 2018, CAT supported 16 local or separated due to dementia, Alzheimer’s or paralysis. Promega employees organizations through fundraisers and employee match requests including PEOPLE CARE spent time with some of these elderly residents, providing companionship Land Conservancy of SLO County, Santa Maria Valley Humane and conversation. Society, United Way and Ronald McDonald House. Promega Biosciences also offers all full-time employees four hours of paid time each month “Team India celebrated Pre-Christmas brunch with all of them at their premises to use toward volunteer activities. where [a] few among them cut the cake, danced and ate together. We (us & COMMUNITY TOUCH they) all together had a wonderful time, prayed for them for good health and For 22 years, the Promega Madison Employee Giving Campaign has [that] they can be reunited with their families. God bless them.” matched dollar for dollar employee charitable donations to Community Shares of Wisconsin and United Way of Dane County. Following —DR. RAJNISH BHARTI, General Manager, Promega India devastating flooding in southern Wisconsin in 2018, the Employee Giving Campaign expanded to include an option to give to the Dane Employees in Wisconsin and California regularly volunteer time to County Flood Relief fund. Since its beginning, the Employee Giving clean stretches of local roadway as part of the Adopt-a-Highway program. Campaign has donated $2M USD for philanthropic causes. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 71 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega contributions support more than 200 organizations globally each year. Some examples include: PRODUCT REACH SAN LUIS OBISPO, CA MADISON, WI United Way United Way of Dane County Ronald McDonald House Community Shares of Wisconsin PLANET AWARE Land Conservancy of SLO County American Players Theatre Santa Maria Valley Humane Society University of Wisconsin Foundation PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 72 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY Save the Children’s Christmas Jumper Day Arbeitstherapeutische Werkstätte iGEM PRODUCT REACH FRANCE INDIA L’association docteur CLOWN Saint Hardyal Educational and Orphans Welfare Society iGEM PLANET AWARE NETHERLANDS ITALY SINGAPORE iGEM Banco Alimentare della Lombardia iGEM National Cancer Institute iGEM PEOPLE CARE Fondazione Umberto Veronese SPAIN AUSTRALIA (Not Pictured) Fútbol Alcobendas Sport Foundation SWITZERLAND Genome Inc for COMMUNITY TOUCH Lorne Genome Conference iGEM iGEM Teaching Research in Neuroscience for Development (TReND) in Africa ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 73 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega leadership are lending their expertise to Edgewood College in Madison, Wisconsin, by serving on the school’s Advisory Council on Sustainable Leadership. Edgewood offers the first place-based, face-toface social innovation and sustainability leadership MA program in the nation. The program teaches leadership that co-creates well-being “in ourselves, our workplaces and in our communities…” PRODUCT REACH L’ a s s o c i a t i o n d o c t e u r CLOWN is a nonprofit organization in France that brings clowns, jugglers and professional magicians to visit and entertain PLANET AWARE hospitalized children. Promega France asks customers using Promega Helix® on-site stocking freezers to collect the RFID chips that are placed above inside product packaging for the Promega Italia collected monetary donations and food to benefit babies and children in need. program. (Helix® units use RFID technology to identify which products are present and which have been PEOPLE CARE right Promega France collects RFID chips from Helix products removed.) The branch donates €0.20 per chip to the Doctor Clown and donates money to benefit hospitalized children. organization. In December 2018, the employees at the Promega Italy branch The Promega EuroHub distribution center in Mannheim, collected donations for Banco Alimentare della Lombardia, a Germany, contracts with the local organization Arbeitstherapeutische COMMUNITY TOUCH food bank in northern Italy. The entire staff collected monetary donations Werkstätte, which employs people with mental illnesses, for package and more than 40 kilos of food for babies and children. assembling and landscape work. Promega sponsors the Advanced Manufacturing Scholarship at Promega Spain supports the Fútbol Alcobendas Sport Foundation, Madison Area Technical College to support students training in the community outreach program of a Spanish football club in advanced manufacturing technology and processes–skills vital to the Madrid. The organization supports social programs and events that future success and innovation of Promega as a biotech manufacturer. promote active and healthy lifestyle habits. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 74 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Promega UK supported Save the Children’s Christmas Jumper “Our work at YEN moves on smoothly and all our groups are happy. The Day in 2018. The initiative encourages people to wear a crazy reading is moving on well… The library idea will continue growing until we Christmas sweater (known as “jumpers” in the UK) on December 14 shall have a real Community Library. Thanks for initiating this project for our and donate £2 to Save the Children benefiting kids in need in the UK community.” and around the world. —Youth Education Network (Gertrude) PRODUCT REACH Employees from the custom manufacturing division at Promega Madison earned a $1,000 grant for Second Harvest Food Bank in exchange for their volunteer work at the 2018 American Family Professional Golfers Association (PGA) tournament, held annually in Madison. The group spent an entire day sorting, washing and drying trash to help the PLANET AWARE tournament’s ecology team achieve “zero waste” from the event, meaning 97% of the waste could be recycled. PEOPLE CARE Promega UK participated in the Save the Children Christmas Jumper Day. COMMUNITY TOUCH An ongoing employee-led initiative to send books to Africa for a small traveling library allowed Kenya’s Youth Education Network Several employee groups volunteer at the in 2018 to start its own community library. To date, Promega Madison Second Harvest Food Bank in Madison, WI. employees, supported by the Promega shipping department, have sent 702 books ranging from children’s picture to college textbooks. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 75 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH The Kepler Center in Madison, WI, is home to customer service, kit packaging and shipping. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 76 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND PRODUCT REACH ADDITIONAL PLANET AWARE INFORMATION 2019 Report Parameters Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is completed PEOPLE CARE on a calendar year basis with information in this report sharing results and actions from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018. This is the eleventh Promega report in this area following the initial report released in July of 2009. This process of reporting will continue annually in the future. Corporate Responsibility reporting attempts to focus on the COMMUNITY TOUCH environmental and social impacts of Promega operations worldwide using the framework established by the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Information for this report has been gathered from all 22 Promega branch and subsidiary locations worldwide. Engagement with internal stakeholders has been focused on areas identified as key impacts or ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 77 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND opporuntities. Our current process captures information on a wide range of indicators but we recognize that there is still room for growth in the information we capture. In rare instances, additional or adjusted information for prior periods was captured resulting in slight variations from previously reported indicators. PRODUCT REACH Carbon footprint calculations have been made using emission factors provided by the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol on energy information and emission factors from the resources above. Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report will be addressed below. In 2018 we had no incidents or issues in the following PLANET AWARE areas: • Environmental fines or sanctions (307-1) • Incidents of discrimination and action taken (406-1) • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous PEOPLE CARE people and actions taken. (411-1) • Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. (206-1) COMMUNITY TOUCH • Fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. (419-1) Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any questions on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. Promega scientist working on large scale protein manufacturing. ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 78 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Key Indicators Economic 2008 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of Employees 973 1,381 1,440 1,483 1,601 Building Footprint (Square Meters) 56,757 101,722 104,601 110,373 107,941 PRODUCT REACH Number of Global Locations 16 19 19 19 19 Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Tons of CO2) 22,397 37,021 38,983 39,154 41,996 Emissions Per Million in Revenue 111.1 106.2 106.1 99.0 98.0 (Tons of CO2/Million Dollars) PLANET AWARE Emissions Per Building Footprint 394.6 363.9 372.7 365.1 389.1 (Tons of CO2/Thousand Sq. Meters) Energy Consumption Electricity (kWh) 16,880,814 27,784,046 29,915,972 29,263,972 31,352,221 Natural Gas (Therms) 683,201 1,200,449 1,246,266 1,313,131 1,408,187 PEOPLE CARE Water Consumption (Liters) 53,909,442 119,265,434 122,648,487 121,627,418 121,472,799 Total Paper (Reams) 127,631 12,275 14,367 11,787 13,992 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste (Cubic Meters) 7,884 10,622 11,912 13,947 15,673 Incinerated (Cubic Meters) 249 214 163 162 174 COMMUNITY TOUCH Land filled (Cubic Meters) 3,973 5,297 5,752 5,854 6,528 Recycled (Cubic Meters) 3,661 5,111 5,996 7,932 8,971 Chemical Waste (Kilograms) 65,950 83,949 92,444 104,104 94,014 Infectious Waste (Kilograms) 4,226 7,475 9,527 10,446 12,518 ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 79 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND GRI Index We are committed to transparent reporting on our environmental, social and economic performance. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines. The following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. Content GRI Section # Page # PRODUCT REACH Overview 4 CEO Letter 102-14 5 Corporate Mind GRI Section # Page # PLANET AWARE Overview 102-1, 102-2 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-7, 102-8, 201-1, 401-1 7 Purpose, Vision and Values 102-16 10 Investment in the Future 102-10, 203-1 11 Conscious Leadership 102-1, 102-18, 103-2, 205-2, 405-1 13 PEOPLE CARE A Broader Sense of Place 16 Aligning Values Throughout the Supply Chain 102-9, 204-1 17 Our Economic Benefit 203-2, 204-1 17 COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 80 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND Product Reach GRI Section # Page # Overview 19 Customer Focus 102-2, 102-6 21 Investment in Innovation 27 PRODUCT REACH Quality Process and Product 416-1 29 Planet Aware GRI Section # Page # Overview 102-11, 102-15 31 Responding to Climate Change 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 33 PLANET AWARE Minimizing Electricity Usage and Emissions 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 34 Conserving Natural Gas 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 35 Building a Sustainable Future 36 Tracking and Reducing Effects from Product Distribution 302-5, 305-3 38 PEOPLE CARE Minimizing Effects from Business Travel 305-3 40 Preserving Natural Capital 42 Minimizing Waste 306-2, 306-4 42 Conserving Water 303-5, 304-3 44 COMMUNITY TOUCH Connecting with Customers without Paper 301-1, 301-2 44 Reducing Packaging Materials 301-1, 301-2 45 ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 81 INTRODUCTION CORPORATE MIND People Care GRI Section # Page # Overview 47 Nurturing Employee Creativity, Growth and Self-Actualization 49 Providing Personal Development and Growth for Employees 404-2, 404-3 52 PRODUCT REACH Building Relationships and Connections 54 Prioritizing Employee Health and Well-Being 201-3, 401-2, 401-3, 403-1 55 Community Touch GRI Section # Page # Overview 203-2 61 PLANET AWARE Supporting Science Around the World 413-1 62 Committing to Cornerstone Initiatives 413-1 68 Engaging in Community: Supporting Global and Local Initiatives 413-1 70 PEOPLE CARE Additional Information GRI Section # Page # 102-12, 102-45, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, Report Parameters 77 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 307-1, 417-2, 417-3 Key Indicators 79 COMMUNITY TOUCH GRI Index 102-55 80 ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 82 INTRODUCTION BACK Carbon Footprint Tons of CO2 Per Million USD CORPORATE MIND 105 107 PRODUCT REACH 100 100 96 20 21 20 20 Fuel Combustion PLANET AWARE Purchased Electricity 54 55 51 51 PEOPLE CARE Business Travel Outgoing Distribution Water Usage 31 31 29 29 Paper Usage COMMUNITY TOUCH 2015 2018 2020 Goal ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 83 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Global Carbon Footprint Composition PRODUCT REACH 50 % Electrical Usage 19 Natural Gas % PLANET AWARE 19 Distribution % 7 % Air Travel PEOPLE CARE 2 % Automobile Travel 0 % Rail Travel COMMUNITY TOUCH 0 % Water 0 Paper % ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 84 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Electricity PRODUCT REACH Thousands of kWh Per Million USD 79.7 81.4 78.1 74 73.2 PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE 2015 2018 2020 Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 85 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Natural Gas PRODUCT REACH Therms Per Million USD PLANET AWARE 3,444 3,391 3,321 3,287 3,100 PEOPLE CARE 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 86 INTRODUCTION BACK Distribution Emissions CORPORATE MIND Tons of CO2 Per Million USD 21.1 20.3 20.0 19.3 PRODUCT REACH 18.9 PLANET AWARE PEOPLE CARE COMMUNITY TOUCH 2015 2018 2020 Goal ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 87 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Non-Hazardous Waste PRODUCT REACH Cubic Meters Per Million USD 30.5 32.4 35.3 36.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 PLANET AWARE 14.7 16.3 20.1 20.9 15.2 15.7 14.8 15.2 14.2 PEOPLE CARE 2015 2018 2020 Goal Landfilled Recycled Incinerated COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 88 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Hazardous Waste Kilograms Per Million USD PRODUCT REACH 262.0 277.2 289.0 246.7 15.1 16.8 105.1 PLANET AWARE 83.8 101.8 137.8 69.2 161.4 160.3 58.9 114.8 49.9 PEOPLE CARE 2015 2018 Recycled Treated Incinerated COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 89 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Water Usage PRODUCT REACH Thousands of Liters Per Million USD PLANET AWARE 342 334 307 283 291 PEOPLE CARE 2015 2018 2020 Goal COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 90 INTRODUCTION BACK CORPORATE MIND Paper Usage PRODUCT REACH Reams Per Million USD PLANET AWARE 2015 2016 PEOPLE CARE 2017 2018 COMMUNITY TOUCH ADDITIONAL INFO PROMEGA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 | 91 PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2019 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • PRINTED IN USA 06/2019 • 49912438
