UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 15TH AUGUST 2019 Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 12.07.2018 To: 11.08.2019 Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited 1-A Danepur Road, GOR-1, Lahore, Pakistan +92-42-36311881-3 www.hitechlubricants.com shaukat@masgroup.org Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT .................................................................................................................. 3 OUR MISSION .......................................................................................................................... 4 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ......................................................................................... 8 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS............................................................................. 8 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................................................... 10 LABOR PRINCIPLES ........................................................................................................... 22 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 22 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ................................................................................... 25 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 25 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 26 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ................................................................................ 31 ASSESSMENT POLICY AND GOALS........................................................................... 31 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ................................................................................. 32 SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... 33 2|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 3|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 OUR MISSION “Earning customer satisfaction through provision of quality services to our client system by employing state of the art technologies and processes and by investing in our stakeholders” OUR VISION “Delivering Products & Services for Client Satisfaction” OUR CORPORATE VALUES We at MAS Group, are guided by the Core Values of Integrity, Respect, Quality & Responsibility. These values describe us as we want our image to be. We ensure that our decisions and actions consistently demonstrate these values. And by practicing the same we will be able to achieve long term commitments with our stakeholders including distributors, institutions, customers, employees, suppliers, and the communities we serve. Respect – We value people Quality – We make you ask for us Integrity – We provide the real deal Responsible – We value our community ABOUT US Hi-Tech Lubricants is ISO 9001:2015 Certified Company. We have been hitherto focusing marketing efforts mainly in the retail markets and our performance in industrial sector has been satisfactory and our products are available in more than seventy-two stations in Pakistan through our network of distributors. With a well-trained marketing team, we provide quality service to our clients. The lubricants we are marketing in Pakistan are manufactured by the world renowned M/s SK Corporation, South Korea. SK facilities and its products have the required ISO approval i.e. ISO 9002 and the coveted Environment Management System ISO 14001. 4|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 In the Lubricant Sector, SK enjoys an enviable position as it is the single largest producer for VHVI Base Oil. Our experience in grass root marketing, the strong and motivated field force and extensive network of distributors all over the country enable us to offer strong marketing base for launching new products in Pakistan. ACTING RESPONSIBLE THINKING SUSTAINABLE HTL is committed to be a socially responsible company with a result driven approach, accountable for its every action in lieu to make difference in the society. At HTL, we take our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) seriously as over the decades, Corporate Social responsibility has taken a centric role in the company’s overall business practices. As a responsible company, we respect the interests of our stakeholders—our shareholders, employees, customers and the community. We believe that active collaborations blended with positive energy can lead to better and much significant results for which we actively seek opportunities both to improve the environment and to contribute to the well-being of the communities in which we do business. Our CSR strategy is in compliance with the dignified UNGC Sustainable Development Goals based on which the company assess the need and take all due measures to deliver maximum benefits and reveal greater impact. This fiscal year, though, began with a little crunch due to national economic slowdown, but our motivation remained positive and that did not halt us to progress and achieve our targeted goals set in Education, Healthcare and Environment. We believe that there is always room for 5|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 improvement by means of which the company keep reviewing the impact for every initiative and further devise actions for meaningful implementation. As a responsible corporate citizen, HTL aims to act in a socially responsible manner at all times. HTL seeks to conduct its business in a way which achieves profitable but sustainable growth by demonstrating a high degree of integrity and social awareness. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPOSIBILITY EXCELLENCE 2018 Hi-Tech Lubricants limited wins Living the UN Global Compact Business Sustainability Award 2018 6|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 United Nations Global Compact has once again recognized Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd for its sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility efforts by awarding Second prize in the Large National Category. The award signifies HTL’s continued commitment towards embracing and enhancing the quality of its people’s life while investing for their bright future aligning with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and embedding the ten UNGC principles in its core business practices. EFP 6th EMPLOYER OF THE YEAR AWARD 2017 Human resource is ever striving to become the Employer of choice. Employers Federation of Pakistan unanimously declared Hi-Tech Lubricants limited as the rightful choice of the recognition award in the best employment practices at the 6th employer of the year award 2017. This award is HTL’s sincere commitment towards fostering positive employee engagement, promoting worklife balance, embracing diversity and offering an exceptional workplace for its employees. 5. 7|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 Human Rights PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals 5.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We are devoted to UNGC Human Rights principles as reflected within our Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct upholds the international Human Rights principles as a whole.. Driving growth through innovation is our objective. The critical feature of our commitment to business is by “doing it right” in an ethical and transparent manner . This Code of Conduct provides a clear framework for critical decision making and provides details of expected behavior to maintain the standard s. The following policies stated within our Code show our compliance with the above mentioned principles. Clause 1 Personal Maintenance & Ethical Conduct: Each one of us owes a duty to the Company to act with integrity. Integrity requires, among other things, being honest and ethical. It is of high importance that each one of us maintains certain personal standards to make sure we stay on top of our game with outstanding results Employer and employees shall collectively encourage the work environment where all of us can practice the organizational values and job goals both effectively and efficiently. Clause 2 Health & Safety Environment Policy: Hi-Tech has successfully planned and developed Health & Safety Environment Policy. As an employee, we are expected to take an active part in maintaining a s afe and healthy environment. We are expected to be mentally and physically fit for work and rem ain fit while on duty. As per our job nature, each employee observe all safety rules and instructions provided by our supervisor and use safety equipment where required. We make sure that our workspace is kept neat, clean and orderly. Moreover, we emphasize on mitigation of health loss, continual health and safety awareness via staff trainings and ensure an overall healthy and safe environment. 8|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 Clause 3 Anti-Bullying and Discrimination: Bullying or discrimination, including behavior, comments, jokes, slurs, e -mail messages, photographs, or other conducts that contribute to an intimidating or offensive environment have Zero Tolerance at HTL. We have a zero tolerance policy for any type of intimidating or offensive environment. We are committed to maintaining a nondiscriminatory workplace, free of bullying. Acts or threats of intimidation, sabotage, physical or mental harm, terrorization and similar activities are not tolerated. Clause 4 Sexual Harassment at Workplace: We practice Zero Tolerance for sexual harassment, physical or mental, that contributes to a sexually offensive environment for either male or female. Clause 5 Fraud, Deception, Dishonesty, Bribery & Corruption: Hi-Tech upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests. Clause 6 Whistle blowing Procedure: Hi-Tech respects the need to report any unfair, dishonest and corrupt practices by the employees. To ensure fair governance, quality work practices and an ethically congenial environment, HTL, as a company listed on Pakistan Stock Exchange has adopted and is in complete compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance, a comprehensive internal Code of Conduct and all other applicable laws and regulations. However, to mitigate constantly emerging risks of illegal or unethical practices such as noncompliance of legal and regulatory frameworks, insider trading, misconduct and malpractices, HTL in accordance with the Code of Corporate Governance, has devised and implemented a detailed policy to manage the risks of “Whistle-blowing”. This policy will not only address the aforementioned risks but will also safeguard the interests of our employees to freely communicate their genuine concerns in relation to any illegal or unethical practice being carried out to the Company. 9|Page Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 Clause 7 We are a Socially Responsible Business: Hi-Tech upholds its value of treating everyone fairly, equally and also valuing diversity within the workplace while carefully practicing human rights. We are a socially responsible corporate citizen, providing opportunities to make desired changes within the community. We have developed robust policies and we try to make sure that our third party contractors or business partners reflect the same ethos in Human Rights principles as ours. We conduct businesses with entities that do not actively violate the International Human Rights standards. We deal with suppliers that uphold Human Rights and promote the same to them through our business operations with them. 2. Measurement of outcomes In the past 13 months Hi-Tech has achieved measurable improvements in our processes, systems and culture.  Disciplinary Committee Formulation: Disciplinary Committee which was formulated in 2014 is now actively handling all kinds of grievances to smooth the working environment. The purpose of formulation of this committee is to make sure that Rights of each employee are protected, maintained and upheld at all levels. Exact disciplinary steps taken will be determined based on the circumstances of any violation.  Bi-Annual Management Reviews: As per our annual strategic review, our best practice involves bi-annual management review meetings. Mid annual and annual meeting consisting of the BOD and all departmental heads takes place for the regular review of all company operations and business growth. Regular meetings also take place among the management for similar purposes. 10 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION MONTH APRIL 2019 With the prevailing moral crisis, the subject of Child Abuse cannot be neglected. Which is why, second year in a row, Ilmgah School Systems observed the Child Abuse prevention month. A 2 day-workshop was arranged, where the parents and students were informed about Child abuse and its prevention. On the first day of the workshop, only the mothers of the students were invited, discussing the impacts of domestic violence on children. While on the second day, both students and mothers attended for a detailed discussion on Child Abuse. Different types of Child abuses were elaborated other than the physical or sexual abuse. They were made aware of the mental and psychological abuse the children undergo due to harsh or ill treatment even from the parents. A Child Psychologist talked about practical implications to solve and prevent everyday stress challenges. She also guided parents to focus on building a healthy relationship with their children, and to make sure they feel safe and secure. The mothers were given a chance to voice their views and raise any question regarding the topic in discussion. It was important to hold such seminars to spread awareness and to make sure of establishing a safe and healthy society. 11 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019  Helmet For All Campaign – we mean safety by all means Since 2014 Helmet for All campaign has been implemented that continues till today along Traffic Police Lahore with the objective of creating awareness about benefit of wearing helmet among motor bike drivers.  Extending Collaboration with City Police HTL (ZIC Motor Oil) has always been at the forefront when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives regarding implementation of Traffic rules and regulations. Collaborating with traffic police in different cities in Pakistan ZIC has extended this collaboration to the other cities of Pakistan besides Lahore by sponsoring police cabins to be placed throughout these major cities in order to assist our law abiders perform their duties to the best of their capabilities. 12 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 CSR – Focusing Education HTL marking excellence under Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in the field of Education ILMGAH SCHOOL SYSTEMS The HTL-CSR Era of change began in 2011 with the initiative of setting up Ilmgah School in Lahore for the children of Green Town Area. The idea behind setting up a school in this locality was to educate the less privileged segment of our society. The school initially started from primary level till Grade 3 with 35 students and 5 teachers’ accommodated in a 5 marla building. Since the response from the community was beyond expectations that within two years adjacent two buildings were acquired to manage the increasing number of enrollments. The buildings were renovated according to the rising educational needs of School. This new building got registered in 2014 as Ilmgah Boys Middle School and the school upgraded to grade 5. From day one, teachers have been hired on merit ensuring that the international teaching standards are not compromised. Today 370 children of the Green town area are getting high standard education through Ilmgah. We are certain that our students are equally capable than students attending private schools around the country. The students have been performing exceptionally well as the results of Punjab Examination Commission for Grade 5 proved that Ilmgah has surpassed all other institutions by grasping top positions consistently. Today, the management has successully registered Ilmgah as Ilmgah School Systems. We are in the transitional phase where the management of Ilmgah plans to introduce students to the Tech Based Learning for which we are undergoing the expansion of the school to have more spacious rooms for maximum number to cater. Within few years, the school has become a promising platform for children to learn, experiment and grow confident to live their dreams, fighting all odds. Ilmgah School systems has undoubtedly happens to be a pride of Hi-Tech Lubricants and with time it is proving its existence for the Company as a true reflection of attaining corporate social sustainability with highest integrity. We believe that it is always two ways, and only through give and take we learn, we grow, we sustain. We consider ourselves fortunate to have opened the school in such a vicinity where people craved for education besides struggling for their livelihood. Green town happens to be a learning community that desire to build itself into a respectful and responsible citizens. The HTL management has kept its commitment to provide Quality Education 13 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 and by all possible means is supporting to empower these families to create for themselves a sustainable future. The company is determined to start another school soon. This school shall be opened in a different vicinity the need assessment for the project has been initiated. We aim at expanding education footprints through purposeful collaborations. We believe in imparting education by engaging all students in partnership with family and community to become informed, compassionate, global citizens. Inauguration of ILmgah School Systems Girls Wing Another milestone achieved in acquiring a new building to establish the Girls section of Ilmgah School System. The inauguration held at the campus on 27th Oct 2018 was organized and celebrated with full zeal and zest. The interior of the school embellished beautifully while the girls welcomed the distinguished guests with showers of flower petals. The new campus has been named after late Mr. Basit Hassan (Executive Director Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd). His wife, also a Trustee Ms. Sana Sabir conducted the Ribbon Cutting Ceremony in the presence of other Sabra Hamida Trust (SHT) trustees . A prayer was made for further expansion of the campus and it's establishment. 14 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 Commencement of Afternoon Shift Program Assessing the need and affirm on the narrative that only through education progressive nations are built who can serve as change makers for themselves and others on the whole. Evening shift program has been started at Ilmgah School Systems from this march onwards. The evening shift caters Nursery, KG and Class I from 2:30pm to 5:30pm. 79 students have been enrolled in the evening program and thus getting equal opportunity to read and learn and become useful citizen. The response so far has been very encouraging. Parents are greatly delighted and thankful to the management for their Commitment to educate and nurture families so they may grow towards responsible global citizenship. 15 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 The Citizens Foundation visit to Ilmgah Mr. Ali Safdar Raja (Head of Resource Mobilization) representing The Citizens Foundation visited Ilmgah school systems earlier this week. The purpose of the visit was to introduce TCF to Ilmgah School. And seek their assistance in improving students learning and enhancing teachers’ teaching methodology skills. Mr. Ali Safdar appreciated the Ilmgah faculty for their hardwork and commitment in obtaining academic excellence. He admired the management for providing quality learning space and healthy environment for the students to excel and grow with confidence. Health goes Hand in Hand at Ilmgah In continuation with routine medical checkups at Ilmgah School Systems, Dr. Muhammad Shafiq re-visited the school earlier in the month to examine the students with any ailment. During his visit, he showed satisfaction regarding the improved health conditions of the students. He praised the management saying that Consistent and regular medical checkups certainly speak that the Management of Sabra Hamida Trust has deep concern about the welfare and health of the students. 16 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 EYE CARE CHECK UP AT ILMGAH SCHOOL SYSTEMS Children represent the future of any country and ensuring their healthy growth and development Hi-tech Lubricants considers it a prime concern to pay attention to. Hence, a purposeful visit of Dr. Ibrar Elahi Malik, a renowned Eye Surgeon (Opthalmologist) was arranged earlier this week with the immediate efforts of Mr. Shaukat Hassan, Chairman Hi-Tech Lubricants for the students who were having eye sight issues. It was generous of Dr. Ibrar who happily accepted to volunteer for the eye checkup. Dr. Ibrar showed his deepest care and affection for the students of Ilmgah 17 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 and thoroughly examined them, suggested them medicines and advised proper care to assure improvement in the eye sights. A Hobby and a Guaranteed Stress Reliever One Day Workshop Hi-Tech Lubricants Ltd arranged a One Day workshop on Vegetable Gardening for its Lahore based employees in collaboration with the Park & Horticulture Authority (PHA). The officials of PHA gave a hands-on learning about some of the most delicious, easy-to-grow summer vegetables. The employees not only find it enjoyable yet quote it as a healthy exercise too which makes you feel better, helps your troubles and stresses of the day to simply float away and has proven to lower blood pressure and relax the mind. The employees took home for their Goodie Bag “A Customized Summer Seed Collection” and a confidence of having a vegetable Garden of their own. 18 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 HI-TECH LUBRICANTS LIMITED MEMORIZES WORLD DONOR DAY. Hi-tech lubricants limited memorized World Donor Day in collaboration with Sundas Foundation and Hussaini Blood Bank by setting up two separate camps in Lahore and at HTL office Karachi. The aim of the camp was to encourage employees to donate blood frequently as by donating blood it certainly help save millions of lives each year besides, it is also useful for one’s own good health. This camp also highlighted the benefits of donating blood and helped raise awareness about Thalassemia and Hemophilia diseases. The staff compassionately participated and contributed a little share to the huge cause. 19 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 MDICAL CAMP AT GREEN TOWN – LAHORE – Health is the Greatest Wealth Green Town is one of the vicinity where people lack health facilities and remain at mercy of the hospitals operating in the city. Nor do they have adequate money to pay for treatment and medicines. Keeping in view the dire need of the area, HiTech Lubricants operated a one-day General medical Camp in collaboration with Transparent Hands at the premises of IlmGah School Green Town Lahore on October 11th 2018. A team of Doctors and paramedics provided by Transparent Hands treated around 500 patients free of charge. 20 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019  MOU SIGNING WITH TRANSPARENT HANDS Healthcare being the one important pillar of HTL’s CSR strategy and we take it as our lawful responsibility to contribute our share in life saving of many deprived from basic healthcare. HTL signed an agreement with Transparent Hands to work in collaboration for the purpose to reach out to as many as possible and provide free healthcare services. During the MOU signing ceremony the Chairman HTL Mr. shaukat Hassan gave an overview to the CEO Transparent Hands Ms. Rameeza Moin about the CSR work the company has been aggressively doing for the past few years and ensure his full support to address to this global Issue partnering with their organization. 21 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 6.0. Labor Principle Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals It is our goal to have a high rate of employee satisfaction with sound health. Hi-Tech is continuously developing its employee workforce and protection measures through employee trainings. We believe in the safety and protection of our employees especially those employed on the field for providing oil and gas services. As well as our warehouse staff responsible for storage and maintenance of our products. It is part of Hi-Tech’ vision and policy to recruit and hire employees without discrimination of race, color, religion, sex, age, language, physical condition etc. and treat them equally with respect to compensation and opportunities for advancement and career growth, including promotions & transfer. Ours is a culture of zero tolerance against any such discrimination and with an open door policy for all old and new employees. Various occupational hazards are associated with the nature of the work that Hi-Tech is engaged in. We provide appropriate medical attention in the event of serious incidents and subsequent injuries to personnel. We follow best practice through the provision of medical insurance to employees and their families that covers medical issues, assets and business risk. 22 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 6.2. Measurement of Outcomes Hi-Tech is committed to achieve measurable improvements in our processes and systems with regard to UNGC Labor Principles.  ERADICATING CHILD LABOR THROUGH PROVISION OF EDUCATION: Our company is directly involved in abolishing child labor through the provision of education to those children of Green Town area, Lahore who have no other means of acquiring education to score a bright future for themselves. Ilmgah School is involved in this community development project since 2011.  Grievance Handling and Harassment policy: We have reviewed and updated our Harassment and Grievance policy procedures for fair and confidential resolution of all such related conflicts. As previously discussed, our Audit and Human Resources Divisions have created a transparent and accountable system through Disciplinary Committee. The committee ensures fulfillment of all accountability requirements throughout their appeals procedures. We have also ensured that our employees are aware of these procedures and the routes they can take to get their complaints addressed and resolved.  HSE Trainings Series In the year 2018 HTL focused on enhancing its business success by reducing risks and adding values to its services and people. Organization wide training series designed for 2016 continued in the same spirit during 2018 to act in accordance with the ISO 14001 (Environment Management Systems) and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety) Standards. Following to this HTL has so far conducted following learning sessions on;  Manual handling & Injury prevention Skills  Defensive Driving 23 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 EMERGENCY EVACUATION DRILL AGAINST FIRE HAZARD & MOCK DRILLS HTL focuses on enhancing its business success by reducing risks and adding values to its services and people. HTLs’ wholly owned subsidiary company HTBL being an OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certified company has a comprehensive management system procedure in order to efficiently respond to any kind of uncertain emergency situation. As a step towards emergency preparedness different mock drills are carried out to assess the effectiveness of trainings held one among these is the emergency evacuation drill against fire hazard. This drill was conducted both in the HTL head office and the Blending Plant premises. Designated emergencies exits and evacuation areas (or “assembly points”) within or near the company premises were clearly marked and made clear to all employees. An evacuation plan / map or site layout is posted in near main gate of the company for the general awareness of everyone. The maps show evacuation routes, recovery routes, closest exits, fire protection equipment location, eye wash and shower station, spill control station etc. At the same time, HTL compels its employees to obtain essential practical knowledge about emergency handling procedures to minimize the harmful consequences of injuries and occupational illness. Continuing the HSE training series, Fire Evacuation Drill was conducted in Lahore lead by the external facilitator Mr. Hassan Zahid in collaboration with the administration department. The corporate office staff along with the Board of Directors also participated in the drill. The training provided the employees with must to-do guidelines associated with emergency evacuation procedures. 24 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 7.0. Environmental Principle Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 7.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals Within the scope of our business activities, Hi-Tech understands the value and worth of a sustainable environment. We are committed towards saving energy and using minimum resources for our activities to save national resources. Our environmental activities and following policy is reflective of our support towards UNGC environmental principles.  Environmental Policy: Our Code of Conduct clearly states that “we actively make efforts to create and maintain a clean and sustainable green environment.” We take responsibility for people and the environment. We are committed to the wellbeing of our employees and to the care of our environment. We conduct business activities in a way that is safe for our employees, our contractors, visitors to our sites, the communities we operate in, and our environment. We protect the environment by preventing or minimizing the environmental impact of our activities and products through appropriate design, distribution and disposal practices. 25 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 7.2. Measurement of Outcomes Hi-Tech has established standardized processes for measurable improvements in our environmental processes, systems and culture. These procedures and policies lie at the core of our products and development.  Our Environment Friendly Products: Our products are standardized so as to decrease their hazardous effect on the environment. Our products are certified as being environment friendly. Our brand provides ILSAC (International Lubricants Standardization and Approval Committee) approved lubricants which show Environment Friendly characteristics as mentioned below: 1. More fuel economy. 2. Low wear rate of engine metallic parts which can destroy the environment 3. Low SAPS (Sulphated Ash, Phosphorus and Sulphur) 4. Maximum emission control system (exhaust gas catalytic converters) protection 5. Compatible with CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) Laws 6. Low engine smoke generation  Environmental Responsibility:  Caring for environment is an integral part of HTL business practices. We respect environment and we take full responsibility with integrity to make sure that our actions do not come in the line of our duty towards environment. Greener Pakistan Initiative since 2016, has become a regular drive. We have reached colleges, schools, universities, vocational training institutes with a clear message that it is our divine obligation to protect environment and we have to plant as many trees as possible to safeguard our future our planet. We are fully aware how brutal it can turn for our health if we do nothing for the environment now. During the period under review, we have been successful in planting 15000 trees collaborating with different government and Private organizations and this will continue for years to come. 26 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 HTL is fully aware of its responsibilities towards the environment. HTL aims to protect and preserve the environment as well as avoiding any practice that is harmful to the environment, executing their work strictly by observing legal, legislative and administrative acts. Knowing its responsibility towards environment HTL is committed; i. To minimize discharges of noise, air pollution and waste products ii. To continually monitor the environmental impact of our operations iii. To comply with environmental legislation and other requirements iv. To minimize our impact on the environment and promote good environmental practices within our business operations and activities v. To participate in discussions about environmental issues vi. To educate HTL employees in all environmental issues and the environmental effects of their activities vii. To monitor the progress and review environmental performance against targets and objectives set by the company on a regular basis viii. To launch environmental and health initiatives for friendly and healthy Pakistan  ZIC Lubricants awareness program HTL always strives to educate the end consumer that HTL entire product range is environment friendly and is also a right product to enhance the life of their vehicle engines. For this purpose HTL ZIC sales teams has been arranging Lubricant awareness programs at vocational training institutes of Punjab for automotive students (Future Market Mechanics) with the following objectives;  Give Education & awareness on Safety riding and Traffic rules  Promote ZIC products at the Grass root level  Educate about Plantation and its importance for Greener Pakistan  And to contribute to Plantation in colleges for a better tomorrow HTL ZIC M sales teams planned and executed this intensive campaign, conducting 2 activities per day at division level, district level and the distribution city level of central region. The campaign continued for 35 days facilitating 50 cities and turned out to be a great success by gathering a large number of audience (7044 participants). 27 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 GREENER PAKISTAN DRIVE The youth is our future hope! Which is why HTL targetted the aspiring youth to play their part in saving the environment. ZIC Sales Team led by Deputy Sales Manager Mr. Mohsin Raza Ansari conducted Tree Plantation activity in three different branches of Lahore Grammar School Multan, where students planted trees to help build a greener, a better Pakistan! Exhilaration and devotion emanated from these young students. This is just the beginning, HTL's tireless efforts will help reach more schools and bring awareness regarding the dire need of trees for a hopeful future. 28 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 CELEBRATION OF PAKISTAN INDEPENDENCE DAY For the first time ever, HTL celebrated Independence Day with the entire staff. The Flag Hoisting Ceremony took place at HTL premises, followed by the cake cutting ceremony. In light of our Trees Plantation Campaign, more trees were planted this day to ensure for a Greener Pakistan! The entire gathering resonated unity, respect and gratitude for our beloved Nation. 29 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 Community Knowledge Sharing Sessions: In order to sustain a top position a brand has to keep on improvising on how to reach its target market and convey their message in an influential way. Since ZIC is the best lubricant available in the market and the majority of the mechanics vow for ZIC hence trainings, seminars have been made a regular part to educate the mechanics of the new trends especially with the induction of new imported cars including hybrid vehicles and ZIC applications. These seminars revolve around the innovations taking place in the automobile industry in retrospect with the lubricants. These seminars are open to question answer sessions regarding engine, engine oil and the necessities of quality lubrication for the health of engine with the objective to satisfy end customers. 1. USE of ENERGY SAVING Technology – IDEAL FOR CONSERVING ENERGY Global warming is one of the biggest problems the world is facing today. Hi-Tech acts responsibly to avoid its causes. Hi-Tech has deployed energy savers with SMD (Surface Mount Device) – LED (Low Emission Diode) Technology. HTL believes that by making small changes now, in the way we live we can avoid huge changes in the future. 30 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 8. Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 8.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our Code of Conduct has a specific clause for “FRAUD, DECEPTION, DISHONESTY, BRIBERY & CORRUPTION” as detailed below” “Hi-Tech Lubricants Limited upholds its value of never indulging in any fraudulent or dishonest act with its employees or any third party. Fraud basically means to deceive or to act dishonestly or to abuse your power or position to take advantage of an individual or the company assets. We do not get involved in bribery or corruption to retain the reputation for a long time. We do not choose business partners who indulge in such activities. We do not give, receive, ask for or permit anyone else to give bribes or undertake any corrupt activities to win new business share, retain existing MAS business or to further our interests.” We do not pay more than the fair price for received goods and services . We do not indulge in corrupt acts. We do not hide, falsify or fail to record business activities along with other records and accounts. We double check that payments made by business partners or third parties are legitimate, fair and according to the services provided by us . We make sure that we are aware of all anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws within our country and that of our business partner’s . All employees and employers are required to report any bribes or suspicions of bribes or any corrupt behavior against HTL business. 31 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 8.2. Measurement of Outcomes According to UNGC Anti-Corruption Principle, Hi-Tech has been trying to achieve measurable improvements in our related processes and systems.  Anti-Corruption Check System: We have an effective Anti-Corruption check and balance system. Headed by our Internal Audit and Planning Department. This system overviews all business Operations and supply chain procedures to make sure that we are 100% in compliance with the ISO standards.  Inventory Transparency Check System: Our Market Audit and Procurement teams jointly follow a Transparency check procedure for gifts procurement from our inventory or external market. A trade scheme is announced firstly based on point value. Gifts are allocated based on those points (purchase bars of our product). A claim listing all gifts is forwarded to the market audit department who verify the list and offer the complete list of existing gifts within our inventory to the procurement department. These items are procured from within our inventory through the above mentioned transparency check procedure.  Financial records and reporting system: Preparing complete and accurate financial statements is the responsibility of the Financials and Audit Departments according to the generally accepted accounting principles. Internal controls must always be in place to make sure that all reporting complies with accounting standards, laws and regulations. The assurance of this compliance is processed by our internal and independent auditors. We further assure that full information shall be provided at all times to our auditors and accountants. 32 | P a g e Hi-Tech Communication On Progress 2019 9. Summary Through our various activities, sessions and implemented processes, we continue to foster the acceptance, implementation and development of the 10 UNGC Principles relating to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption within our operations. Our future outcome is related to furthering this developmental process and to publish our next Communication on Progress (COP) with a broader spectrum of initiatives with a more strengthened foothold within the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. Prepared by: Shafaq Masood 33 | P a g e
