International Standard Serial Number 2019-10302-005 11 TH REPORT Sustainability Report 2019 ABOUT THIS REPORT Overview Korea Rail Network Authority (KR) is committed to fulfilling its social responsibility and role as a state-owned rail infrastructure manager in charge of efficient construction and management of the national rail network including high speed, conventional and urban railways. KR has been sharing its activities and performances with stakeholders for transparency through sustainability reports since 2007 and this is the 11th report. Reporting period and boundary This report contains sustainability management activities and performances of KR’s head office and regional offices for 2018 from 1 January to 31 December. Data for past three years are used to chart performances of key quantitative items for better understanding and activities from the first half of 2019 have been included for vital issues. In particular, management approach (MA) to key issues identified through materiality assessment in accordance with GRI Standards has been enhanced and described as their impacts on stakeholders and control methods. Reporting standards This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiatives) Standard’s Core Option. Reporting contents were prioritized based on the level of stakeholder interest and impact identified through stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment process. We also disclosed our management approach to reporting issues and relevant indicators and separately specified unit and calculation methods. Assurance The contents of this report were verified by an independent agency to ensure quality Website | www.kr.or.kr and reliability. For more detailed information regarding assurance, please refer to the Address | 2 42, Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, assurance report in the Appendix. Daejeon, 34618, Republic of Korea Department |  Distribution and feedback Innovation & Performance Division  More detailed information on KR’s sustainability management activities can be found on Office of Planning & Coordination  the corporate website. Our sustainability report in both Korean and English is available in Strategic Planning Department PDF format for download. If you have any opinion or inquiry on this report, please use the Tel. | 82-1588-7270 contact information below. Fax. | 82-42-607-3629 E-mail | csr@kr.or.kr CONTENTS About this report 02 OUR PROMISE FOR CEO’s Message 04 SUSTAINABILITY KR Sustainability Highlights 2018 06 Special Page KR Sustainable Way 08 #1. Inter-Korean Rail Network 32 #2. Safe Railway 34 OVERVIEW Sustainable Growth Overview of KR 12 Strengthen Railway Network 39 KR Vision 2025 14 Expand Global Business 44 Corporate Governance 16 Develop Railway Technologies 48 Ethical Management 18 Improve Railway Asset Values 52 Risk Management 22 Creation of Social Value Stakeholder Engagement 25 Job Creation 55 Materiality Analysis 28 Social Contribution 58 Shared Growth 62 Enhancement of Human Rights 66 Management Efforts for Safety and Environment Construct Safe Railway 69 Build Eco-friendly Railway 71 Enhancement of Organizational Culture Create Exciting Workplace 75 Develop Human Resources 78 APPENDIX Sustainability Management 82 Performance SDGs and UNGC Principles 89 GRI/ISO 26000 Index 90 Independent Assurance Report 92 Awards and Association 94 Memberships 04 CEO Message Dear stakeholders, KR is pleased to publish the 11th sustainability report since it joined the UN Global Compact in 2007 through the support of stakeholders and continual effort of KR employees to fulfill the social responsibility. KR is expanding the rail network and modernizing railway facilities for balanced national development and improvement of transport convenience for the people with as the highest priority. KR is also implementing sustainable management by utilizing the railway asset for shared growth with local communities and entering overseas markets jointly with private sector enterprises. KR pledges to fulfill customer satisfaction and social values through open communication by approaching stakeholders with the open mind of asking “What can we do for you?” Internally, KR intends to establish innovative organizational culture under the motto of 3-ZERO (ZERO accident, Zero corruption, and ZERO carryover of budget) to strengthen its role and status as “the enterprise specializing in railway construction and facility management” that is trusted by the public and renowned worldwide. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 05 Korea Rail Network Authority is committed to preparing for long-term national prosperity by constructing “faster, safer, and more comfortable railway” that people can enjoy and trust KR will expand the rail network to improve transportation KR will strengthen partnership with private sector companies convenience for people and prepare for the inter-Korean for greater participation in global railway projects. rail network construction project to lay the foundation for In 2018, KR was awarded a project in Egypt to lay the foundation for entry prosperity and peace on the Korean Peninsula. into the Middle East and North Africa region and successfully completed the KR completed the construction of Pohang-Yeongdeok section of Donghae Line Lucknow Metro project in India. By capitalizing on overseas business capability that connects the eastern coastal corridor in January 2018 and the doubleaccumulated over the years, KR will be proactive in winning new projects in track railway between Sosa and Weonsi that runs across the southwestern part Mongolia and Indonesia. Moreover, KR will strengthen our position in the world of the capital region in June 2018. KR plans to extend the total railway length railway market by building the ecosystem for robust public-private joint railway to 5,020km by 2025 by completing the planned railway construction projects export through customized supports such as joint technology development and such as Phase 2 of Honam High Speed Rail and the link between Seojeongconsortium formed with SMEs, and funding. ri and Jije. Moreover, KR intends to make a thorough plan to construct the integrated rail network of Korean Peninsula and implement the blueprint for KR will create ecosystem of fair economy for win-win the future railway that extends to transcontinental railways. partnership based on integrity and transparency. KR strives to become a transparent public institution by pursuing enterpriseKR will establish railway environments that protect people wide practice of integrity. KR will firmly establish transparent and fair trade from disaster and accident. practice by continually identifying and correcting corruption risks and unfair With “safety of people and workers for sustainable management as its systems and practices. Moreover, KR will build the railway business ecosystem priority,” KR will strengthen the organization and workforce dedicated to for shared growth with suppliers and social enterprises. safety and improve professionalism in disaster and accident control. KR will designate management staff of project employers as field supervisors and It is said that trees that survived the pain of rain and snowstorms in the operate preemptive safety management systems to eliminate potential risk rugged valleys become the best material for the resonance of the world’s factors at sites. Moreover, KR will control risk factors in advance by building the premier violins. KR asks for your continued interest so that KR may grow into Fourth Industrial Revolution Technology-based safety management system a world-class organization leading in sustainability based on the knowhow such as the smart railway facility management system to ensure methodical and outcomes accumulated over the past 15 years by overcoming many maintenance and improvement of outdated facilities. KR pledges to establish difficulties along the way. zero-defect and zero-accident railway environment so that all people can use railways safety and comfortably. Thank you. KR will strengthen public utilization of railway assets in cooperation with local communities to fulfill its social responsibility. KR intends to promote the local economy and create jobs by creatively utilizing idle railway and lands according to regional characteristics. KR will also be proactive in creating resident-friendly spaces such as eco-friendly forest Kim Sang-gyun trails based on communication with local communities and expanding youth Chairman & CEO startup spaces and daycare centers. Going forward, KR will continue to pursue coexistence with local communities through creative utilization of railway assets. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 06 KR Sustainability Highlights 2018 01. Groundbreaking of the inter-Korean rail network project 02. World’s first development of “LTE-R based train control system” KR held the groundbreaking ceremony of the interKR developed the world’s first train control system Korean rail network project at the Panmun Station (KTCS2*) using LTE-R* as part of the national R&D in Gaeseong in December 2018 after conducting program. KTCS2 completed field demonstration test joint survey of 1,200 kilometers of railways (Gyeongui on testbed in Honam HSR using next generation high Line and Donghae Line) extending from Gaeseong to speed train HEMU-430 at speeds up to 350 km/h and Tumen River in November 2018. According to phased has undergone verification for interoperability with strategy of the inter-Korean rail network project, ETCS by an independent agency. Going forward, KR our dedicated team conducted a joint survey of will expand the application of the KTCS2 to increase rail connection section in preparation for survey train operation efficiency and standardize and train operation, and then, established the basic localize the railway communication system to reduce plan to modernize the North Korean railway. Active costs and to replace imported technologies with exchange through multilateral cooperation system Korean technologies, thereby securing the national allowed us to secure a driving force for the project. competitiveness in the world railway market. KR will lead the inter-Korean rail network project to Movement open the era of transcontinental rail network. authority (MA) Radio Block Center Train (RBC) control LTE-R information (LTE-R) LTE-R Automatic Train Stop Cab Device Balise Line circuit (train location detection and check integrity) Interlock device 03. First public institution in infrastructure sector to receive ISO 37001 04. Won the Safety Management Award and the Presidential Award for National In October 2016, KR became first public institution Disaster Management in 2018 under the Ministr y of Land, Infrastructure and KR won the “2018 Safet y Management Award” in Transport to receive ISO 37001, the international recognition for dissemination of culture of voluntary standard for anti-corruption management system. KR safety management. Our efforts for voluntary safety prepared anti-corruption risk management manual, control resulted in achieving the lowest accident rate built corruption risk management process, and at construction site. KR also received the Presidential appointed heads of each department as corruption Prize for national disaster control in recognition for our risk managers to produce in-house examiners. We contribution to disaster management from the Ministry also identified risks in different sectors and carried of Public Administration and Security. KR achieved zero training, monitoring and internal examinations in order natural disaster and accident for three years in a row by to be issued the ISO certification. KR will endeavor to enhancing prevention activities in accordance with the become even more transparent by applying ISO 37001 4-step disaster management (prevention, preparation, to its anti-corruption management system. response, and recovery) process. Going forward, KR will focus on site-centered voluntary safety management. * LTE-R (LTE based Railway wireless communication system) : The world’s first system developed in Korea to optimize LTE, the 4th wireless communication technology, for the railway environment * KTCS (Korean Train Control System) : The train control system developed in Korea that is compatible with the international standard and can control trains that move at up to 400km/h * ETCS (European Train Control System) : The train control system developed in 1991 by the International Union of Railways to be standard system applied to countries in Europe KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 07 05. Received award in the ICQCC for four years in a row 06. First public institution to be named Excellent State Asset Management KR won the Gold Prize and Special Prize at the 2018 Institution International Convention on QC Circles (ICQCC) KR was awarded the Minister Prize of Strategy and held in Singapore in October 2018. At the ICQCC, Finance in October 2018 as the excellent public KR introduced “winning orders for the LRT* project institution in state-owned asset management. KR in Jakarta, Indonesia, through collaboration with has been highly recognized for efficiently utilizing SMEs” and “reduction of environmental complaints 53.1% of idle railway sites until 2018 with the by enhancing the process of national property establishment of guideline. Particularly, we have operation” to share management innovation cases. created people-friendly spaces and startup support Winning the award for four years in a row has proven offices under bridges by selecting 24 ideas about the excellence of Korea’s railway technologies utilizing idle railway sites submitted by 20 local and KR’s innovative management. KR intends to governments, greatly contributing to social value. KR do its best to spread its railway technologies and intends to contribute to the promotion of the local innovation capability. economy and improvement of people’s quality of lives based on the efficient asset operation strategy. 07. Developed the soundproof facility optimization technology and eco08. Received 2018 Korea Voluntary Service Award friendly bridge technology CEO of KR received the Korea Grand Award for Considering that the railway noises mostly generated Voluntary Service by the United Nations Volunteers under the train, KR developed the soundproof facility Korea in November 2018. KR has been carrying out optimization technolog y. The technolog y reduced community-based sharing programs for the neglected construction cost and improved prospect right by installing groups such as KR Hope Project to support the welfare the soundproof wall closer and lower to the track, resulting of the youth with the social contribution fund created in winning the “Top 10 Railway Technologies for 2018 by employees. Moreover, KR employees visited sites of hosted by the Korean Society for Railway. Moreover, KR natural disaster in countries such as Indonesia, where developed the eco-friendly bridge technology using low KR is carrying out a project, to provide materials and carbon material, which improved the safety and strength services for recovery. KR intends to continue to carry of bridges and slowed down corrosion. It received the out voluntary social activities actively to help shared Steel Structural Technology Award in June 2018. KR will growth and development of local communities. continue R&D to construct safe and comfortable railways. * LRT (Light Rail Transit): Electric train that is lighter than a subway train or conventional electric train, operates in urban routes, and has the advantage of excellent passenger capacity and lower construction and labor cost SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 08 KR Sustainable Way Railway Construction KR is here to provide people safe, fast and convenient rail transport services based on advanced railway Job creation technologies and safety. 6,566persons Social Contribution Total length of railways 4,230km KR engages interactively with local communities and stimulates Facility local economies by promoting public services and community-friendly Maintenance sharing activities utilizing railway assets. Safety factor of railway facilities 0.31% * Safety factor : KR strives to realize advanced railway facility Number of railway facility related accidents/total length maintenance by expanding facilities focused of railways (km) on safety and convenience of people and building the culture of voluntary safety control at sites. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 09 2004 ˙Korea Rail Network Authority established ˙Gyeongbu High Speed Rail Phase 1 opened Opened the era of high speed ˙Awarded HSR construction supervision contract in China 2005 Asset ˙E lectrified and double-tracked Jungang Line (Cheongnyangni-Deokso) opened Revenue from Management rail (300km/h) railway asset ˙Entire Gyeongbu Line electrified utilization 2006 ˙Electrified and double-tracked Gyeongwon Line opened ˙Railway Traffic Control Center opened KRW 924.8 2007 ˙Best rating received for construction supervision services in China billion ˙Trial operations run on inter-Korean railway ˙Tunneling between Wangsimni and Seolleung under Han River completed ˙E lectrified and double-tracked Cheonan-Onyang KR makes efforts 2008 Oncheon-Sinchang Line and Janghang Line opened ˙Electrified and double-tracked Jungang Line (Paldangfor efficient management Increased the speed to 350km/h Guksu) opened and diverse development of ˙Awarded overseas contracts valued at KRW 10 billion state-owned assets to optimize the ˙Electrified and double-tracked Gyeongui Line (Seongsanuse of railway assets, thus improving 2009 Munsan) opened profitability and social value. ˙Electrified and double-tracked Jungang Line (GuksuYongmun) opened ˙Awarded HSR construction supervision contracts in China worth KRW 36.5 billion 2010 ˙Gyeongbu High Speed Rail Phase 2 opened ˙Electrified double-tracked Sinsangbong-Chuncheon and Samryangjin-Masan sections of Gyeongchun Line opened Overseas projects (accumulated) KRW310.9billion 2011 ˙Electrified and double-tracked Jeolla Line (Iksan-Yeosu) opened ˙Electrified and double-tracked Jungang Line (JecheonDodam) opened 61projects in 18countries 2012 ˙S peed enhanced Gyeongchun Line (YongsanChuncheon) opened ˙Speed enhanced Jeolla Line (Iksan-Yeosu) opened ˙Electrified and double-tracked Jungang Line (YongmunSeowonju) opened KR creates sustainable ecosystem ˙Relocated railway from inundation of Yeongju Dam opened for rail exports by expanding 2013 Preparing the era of speed of 400km/h ˙Electrified and double-tracked Taebaek Line (Jecheonglobal networks and strengthening Ipseokri) opened ˙Electrified and double-tracked Bundang Line (Mangpocapacities of railway professionals. Suwon) opened ˙Received commendation for excellent construction 2014 supervision services in China ˙Construction supervision of Beijing-Shenyang HSR performed ˙Singyeongju-Pohang section of Donghae Nambu Line 2015 opened ˙Honam High Speed Rail Phase 1 opened ˙Gyeongbu HSR linking city centers of Daejeon and Daegu opened ˙Suseo High Speed Rail opened 2016 ˙Shinbundang Line (Jenongja-Gwanggyo) opened ˙Suin Line (Incheon-Songdo) opened ˙Gyeongjeon Line (Jinju-Gwangyang) opened Overseas ˙Donghae Nambu Line (Bujeon-Ilgwang) opened 2017 Business ˙Gyeonggang Line (Wonju-Gangneung) opened ˙Rail link to Incheon Airport's Terminal 2 opened 2018 ˙Donghae Line (Pohang-Yeongdeok) opened ˙Electrified and double-tracked Seohae Line (Sosa-Wonsi) opened SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KR SUSTAINABLE OVERVIEW 01 Overview of KR 02 KR Vision 2025 03 Corporate Governance 04 Ethical Management 05 Risk Management 06 Stakeholder Engagement 07 Materiality Analysis 12 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Overview of KR OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Profile of KR KR, as a public institution responsible for efficient construction and management of railway facilities, was established in January 2004 with the aim of constructing rapid, safe, and comfortable railways, contributing to convenient public transport and national economic development. We focus not only on connecting isolated sections and enhancing the access to high-speed railway to improve transport convenience in neglected regions and metropolitan areas, but also on revamping outdated railway facilities and expanding infrastructure. KR is committed to reflecting public opinions in management activities through open communication. ▪No. of employees Maximum Current Profile *As of June 2019 (As of June 2019) Corporate name Basis for foundation Government Korea Rail Network Railroad Development Act, contribution 1,842 Authority Korea Rail Network Authority Act KRW 4,112.1 billion 1,443 1,466 1,807 1,392 Credit ratings 1,401 Date of foundation CEO Domestic: AAA 1 January 2004 Kim Sang-gyun Overseas: Aa2(Moody’s), AA(S&P) Type of organization Head office Total budget Quasi-government 242, Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, 2016 2017 2018 KRW 8,291.9 billion agency Daejeon Organization KR is comprised of seven divisions, two offices, one group, one research institute, and five regional offices. We operate regional offices in Seoul, Busan, Suncheon, Daejeon, and Wonju to efficiently manage railway ▪Offices construction and facility maintenance. To be ready for the rapidly changing business environment, KR is focusing on optimizing the organizational operation and solidifying the foundation to secure future growth engines such as asset development, construction of railway network across Korean Peninsula, and railway technology development for sustainable growth. KR strives to become a competitive specialized organization Gangwon Metropolitan Regional Office in the railway business to provide the best quality railway service and enhance the public interest. Regional Office Head Office & Chungcheong Regional Office Organization Auditor General Chairman & CEO Yeongnam Office of Regional Audit & Administrative Public Relations Honam Office Inspection Assistant Regional Safety & Office Vice Chairman Quality Dept. Head Office & Chungcheong Regional Office 242, Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Strategic Administration Railway Railway Railway Facilities International Planning Dept.* Services Dept. Construction Dept. Systems Dept. Management Dept. Business Dept. Metropolitan Regional Office Office of Planning Office of Asset 378, Cheongpa-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul & Coordination Office of Design Management Yeongnam Regional Office 46, 9beon-gil, Chungjangdae-ro, Jung-gu, Busan Honam Regional Office Technology & Seoul Metropolitan Yeongnam Honam Chungcheong Gangwon 16, Yeokjeon-gil, Suncheon-si, Jeollanam-do Education Institute Regional Office Regional Office Regional Office Regional Office Regional Office Gangwon Regional Office 2650, Bukwon-ro, Wonju-si, Gangwon-do * Promoting sustainability management by the Planning & Budget Div. under the Strategic Planning Dept. (21 persons) * Office of Administrative Assistant, Public Relations, and Audit & Inspection are division level (Article 11 of the KR Organization Rule) KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 13 Main Business and Role Based on the 3rd National Rail Network Plan, KR is focusing on building high-speed and efficient ▪Structure of the railway industry railways connecting major footholds. We are also modernizing railway facilities and upgrading the railway safety management for passengers. Business portfolio extends to managing railway facilities Establishment of railway policies including station, utilizing rail assets such as idle land, expanding overseas railway projects, and Ministry of Land, developing railway technologies linked with the Fourth Industrial Revolution with the aim of securing Infrastructure future competitiveness. On top of that, we are listening to public opinions on ways to mutually grow and Transport with local communities and to contribute to improving the quality of lives of people. Korea Rail Railroad Business Scope Business Goal Network operators Authority Establishment of next-generation traffic networks Realization of high-speed and efficient rail networks including high-speed railways, general railways, Railway expansion of rail logistics infrastructure, and Railway Rail transport metropolitan railways, tilting, and magnetic construction connection of south-north & Eurasia rail networks construction services and levitation trains, etc. and facility marketing management Safety diagnosis and repairs, installation of screen doors, crossing dimensionality, enlargement of rails, Modernization of railway facilities for safety and installation of soundproof walls, improvement of Railway facility convenience of users and establishment of a futureoutdated facilities, and installation of convenient management oriented rail management system platform facilities ▪Map of HSR network Development of station areas and complex stations, Efficient management of state-owned assets and utilization of idle lands, and management of statepursuit of the balance between publicity and Railway asset owned assets management profitability Seoul Yongsan Gwangmyeong Suseo Dongtan Jijae Development of future railway technologies, Railway Development of future technologies and global Cheonan Asan localization of railway products, etc. competitiveness Osong technology development Gongju Daejeon Gimcheon Pohang Gumi Iksan Singyeongju Development of overseas projects, new orders Dongdaegu for engineering, construction, and supervision, Enhancement of global competitiveness and Jeongeup Ulsan Overseas ODA projects, and establishment of public-private profitability railway Muan Gwangju networks business Airport Songjeong Busan Mokpo High speed rail projects Gyeongbu Honam Project Location Cost (billion KRW) Length (km) Period High Speed High Speed Railway Railway Gyeongbu HSR Phase 2 Daegu~Busan, Daejeon/Daegu urban area 7,872.3 169.5 ~2021 Honam High Speed Rail Osong~Mokpo 10,130.3 249.1 ~2025 Suseo High Pohang Speed connection Suseo HSR Suseo~Pyeongtaek 3,058.3 61.1 ~2018 Railway line HSR link to Incheon Eocheon~Gyeongbu High Speed Rail 393.6 6.2 ~2021 HSR link to Suwon Seojeongri~Jijae 270.2 9.5 ~2021 Conventional rail projects Line Section Description Length (km) Cost (billion KRW) Line Section Description Length (km) Cost (billion KRW) Gyeongjeon Boseong-Limseongri Single track 82.5 1,351.5 Pohang Sinhang Pohang-Yeongilman New Port Single track 9.3 167.6 Jungang Wonju-Jecheon Double track 44.1 1,161.2 Donghae Nambu Busan-Ulsan Double track 65.8 2,725.2 Seohae Sosa-Wonsi Double track(BTL) 23.3 1,355.1 Seohae Songsan-Hongseong Double track 90.0 3,782.3 Gyeonggang Wonju-Gangneung Double track 120.7 3,766.9 Jungbu Naeryuk Icheon-Mungyeong Single track 93.2 2,242.1 Gyeongjeon Bujeon-Masan Double track(BTL) 32.7 1,533.0 Janghang Sinseong-Jupo, Nampo-Ganchi Single track upgrade 32.4 856.0 Gunsan Yaksan-Daeya Double track 14.3 478.4 Gyeongwon Dongducheon-Yeoncheon Single track 20.8 424.5 Daegu Dongdaegu-Yeongcheon Double track 38.6 766.3 Rail Test Seochang-Osong Rail Yard Railway test track 13.0 239.9 Poseung Jungang Dodam-Yeongcheon Double track 145.1 3,805.0 Poseung Pyeongtaek Single track 30.3 686.2 Pyeongtaek Jungang Yeongcheon-Singyeongju Double track 20.4 526.5 Donghae Nambu Ulsan-Pohang Double track 76.5 2,662.5 Electrified doubleDaeya-Gunjang Industrial Seohae Daegok-Sosa 18.4 1,576.7 Gunjang Sandan Single track 28.6 613.8 track (BTL) Complex Gyeongui Munsan-Limjingak Single track 6.0 38.8 Ulsan Sinhang Mangyang-Ulsan New Port Single track 9.3 211.9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE KR Vision 2025 OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Advancement of KR’s Sustainability Management Strategy KR reestablished its mission and vision statements and updated the 2025 Management Strategy to preemptively respond to changing business environment and ensure public interest and efficiency. The new mission “Faster, Safer and More Comfortable Railways Going with the People” emphasizes our commitment to people-oriented business while the new vision “Rail Network That Goes beyond the Korean Peninsula, towards the World” represents KR’s intention to lead the global railway market. We also set up four key management goals – constructing inter-Korean rail network, reinforcing railway safety system for people, securing future growth engines, and creating social value. KR will lead the future railway industry and create social values from which the public can benefit. KR’s Sustainable Management Strategy System Mission Faster, safer and more comfortable railways going with the people Vision Rail Network going beyond the Korean Peninsula, towards the world 2025 Goals Construct Reinforce integrated Secure railway safety Create social rail network future growth system for values in Korean engines people Peninsula Expand the length of Decrease railway railways to 5,020km Achieve revenue of Create 73,000 facilities related and modernize North KRW 1 trillion new jobs accidents by 30% Korea’s railways Strategic 01 High speed and 01 Modernize rail 01 Improve the 01 Create quality efficiency of facilities value of railway jobs tasks railways asset (12 items) 02 Expand logistics railway 02 Build railway future 02 Reinforce platforms for 02 Build a culture of fairness and infrastructure management overseas business communication system 03 Prepare foundation for 03 Enhance professionalism 03 Lay a foundation for sustainability south-north & 03 Upgrade railway safety in railway management Eurasia railway technologies networks management Core value Communication Safety Innovation Fairness KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 15 Core Values of KR KR is practicing its mission and vision through the advancement of core values to ensure sustainable * P a r t i c i p a t o r y i m m e r s i o n e d u c a t i o n (internalization of core values): An education development. We established four core values of Communication, Safety, Innovation, and Fairness program aimed at pursuing organizational that reflected our focus on people, business, and employees and designed the enterprise operation change rather than individual development to help employees internalize the core values. KR also conducts various participatory immersion education* to help employees better understand the core values. Four Core Values Communication Safety Fairness Innovation Become an open-minded Construct and manage Conduct business fairly and Consistently innovate public organization by safe railways for people transparently in accordance to become communicating with people with laws and principles railway specialists Business Innovation for Implementing Core Values KR is carrying out various programs to practice sharing and implementation of core values. With the action strategies of “Field communication,” “Preventive safety,” “Open innovation,” and “More fairness,” it is implementing the enterprise-wide campaign for work innovation of its employees. Its activities include the “3-ZERO” campaign to eliminate accident, corruption, and carryover of budget and the “What can we do for you?” campaign to practice proactive working and customer satisfaction through sincere communication with customers. [Activities for Realizing Core Values] Communication Safety Innovation Fairness Pursue open Enhance safety Promote organizational Conduct transparent and CEO communication fundamentally innovation fair business Message Build a communication Focus on safety check Improve conventional Improve fair contract venue and control attitudes system Aims Communication at sites Preventive safety Open innovation Fairness enhancement · Expand the communi·R  einforce safety orga· I nnovate the way of · Improve unfair systems Action cation venue nization working ·E  nhance anti-corruption plans · Enhance labor-manage· Focus on safety check ·E  xpand the participamanagement ment trust and control tion of people Companywide activities Accident ZERO Establish site-centered “May I Help You?” campaign safety culture Build a corporate culture for 3-ZERO cooperation and co-prosperity campaign Carryover among departments Corruption ZERO ZERO Full execution of Create an integrity Secure trust through stakeholder environment budgets → communication economic without corruption vitalization SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 16 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Corporate Governance OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Board of Directors The Board of Directors (BOD) is the supreme decision-making body at KR and consists of six executive directors and seven non-executive directors as of June 2019. The BOD checks the management and is operated independently and transparently. We operate the Financial Risk Management Committee, Budget Review Committee, and Conflict & Co-prosperity Cooperation Committee as specialized committees to help the BOD create efficient and innovative performances. Subcommittees (Planning Management, Construction, and Facility) also contribute to realizing transparent and reasonable management activities. BOD Members (As of April 2019) Executive director Non-executive director Name Current position Name Career Song, Gwang-seok Kim, Sang-gyun Chairman CEO, Good Morning Chungcheong (Male) Son, Nan-joo Chun, Man-kyung Vice Chairman Lawyer, Dasan Law Firm (female) Former Director General for Aviation Jang, Jong-sik Lee, Jong-do Head of Management Dept. Polity, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and (male) Transport Chun, Hee-kwang Head of Railway Construction Dept. Seo, Young-jin Member of the Urban Planning (male) Committee, Mapo-gu Head of Railway System Engineering Lim, Eun-sook Partner of the Audit Division, Jeongdong Park, Min-joo Dept. (female) Accounting Firm ▪Appointing Authorities Head of Railway Facility Management Kim, Young-dong Kim, Young-ha Former Auditor, Samsung Futures Dept. (male) Appointment Shin, Ye-kyung Professor in Architecture Engineering, Position authority (female) Namsroul University BOD Chairman President of Korea Auditor General President of Korea Director Appointment Process Executive BOD Chairman Directors To ensure professionalism of directors and objectivity in appointment process, KR operates the Director Minister of Land, Non-executive Recommendation Committee. Director candidates are selected through public invitation and a short list Infrastructure and Directors is confirmed after the Committee’s document screening and in-depth interviews. And then, the authority Transport appoints optimal candidates as directors. Particularly, to ensure fairness in appointing directors, KR expanded the number of non-executive directors who are members of the Committee to seven from ▪BOD Activities (Five steps) existing three. The acceptability evaluation* by all employees is conducted when recommending a civil Making agendas (Office/Div.) member. In 2018, a union member became the Committee member and a female took the director Pre-review by position for the first time in our history, which contributed to securing the diversity of BOD composition Step 1 subcommittees (executive/ and trust and transparency in BOD operation. non-executive directors) * Acceptability evaluation by all employees: Four candidates (two from the pool consisting of 27 civil candidates recommended through BOD Chairman the representative meeting by each position and two by the union’s recommendation) are recommended. And then, two candidates are  Step 2 nominated by all employees’ vote and the BOD finally appoints a member. (CEO’s review) Pre-review by nonStep 3 Activation of the BOD Operation executive members BOD Chairman The BOD holds monthly meeting in Seoul and Daejeon in sequence to discuss pending management Step 4 (fixing agendas) issues and resolutions. The emergency BOD meeting is held when urgent items are occurred. The nonexecutive director meeting is mandatory seven days before the BOD meeting to discuss agendas and Step 5 BOD meeting collect opinions in advance. The scope of preceding explanation at the briefing to the CEO before the BOD meeting extends to all agendas to secure better understanding of those and enhance preliminary review. These activities contribute to internalizing the operation of the BOD. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 17 Active Participation of Non-executive Directors in Management Our non-executive directors are professionals in various areas and KR is proactive in utilizing their expertise for management activities. For example, they actively make proposals for improving our policies and business activities and those are reflected in management innovation and work efficiency. They also have a majority of each subcommittee and rights on service term, audit request, and information request, which ensure their independence and transparent participation in management activities. The non-executive board meeting results are shared and discussed at the BOD meeting to help make better decisions. Committee Operation in 2018 Committee Major activities Led by Director Recommendation Committee Compose and operate the Director Recommendation Committee transparently Human Resource Div. Financial Risk Management Committee Evaluate financial risks to ensure financial soundness Financial Strategy Div. Enhance competence and fairness of internal audit and review midto long-term audit strategy and followAudit & Consulting Committee Audit and Inspection up measures of audit results Budget Review Committee Consult budget related works including formulation, settlement, and early execution Planning and Budget Div. Budget Performance Examination Conduct examinations for transparent payment of bonus based on budget execution Planning and Budget Div. Committee Facility Subcommittee Review the adequacy of railway asset development, overseas projects, local subsidiary establishment, etc. Facility Planning Div. Planning & Management Subcommittee Review midto long-term strategic goals, business plans, and budget changes Planning and Budget Div. Construction Subcommittee Check railway construction status, field quality, safety, and pending issues Construction Planning Div. Auditor Appointment Committee Select independent auditors to check KR’s management in a transparent manner Audit and Inspection 17 BOD meetings held* 15 15 Participation rate 97.7% 97.1% of non-executive 96.5% 96.5% 96.0% directors 94.9% 2016 2017 2018 BOD Non-executive director 34 34 2016 2017 2018 32 Resolutions and 31 reports 25 20 74.5% 74.5% 74.4% Resolutions Remarks of Reports non-executive 2016 2017 2018 directors** 94.1% 100% 100% Pre-review ratio 2016 2017 2018 121 2016 2017 2018 112 101 Management 83 91 proposals by non71 10 executive directors Resolutions of 4 3 Advice 20 20 modified agendas Proposal 14 Proposals accepted 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 * Including regular, ad-hoc, and non-executive BOD meetings ** Remarks of non-executive directors out of all directors SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 18 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Ethical Management OUR PROMISE APPENDIX With the “Three-in-One (the CEO, employees, and suppliers)” as its key direction of ethical management, KR is proactive in rooting out corruption and disseminating the cultures of integrity recognized by all people. To encourage all employees to internalize ethical management, KR is promoting voluntary ethical management systems and activities. ▪Ethical Management Results Participatory Ethical Management Item Unit 2016 2017 2018 Clean & Fair Ethical Management Promotion System Integrity Grade 5 4 3 External To meet the government’s policy emphasizing anti-corruption and integrity and increasing needs for Point 7.58 8.09 8.70 integrity integrity of public officers, KR has established a midto long-term ethical management promotion Internal Point 8.04 8.46 8.25 strategy and action plans. We have operated the Ethical Management Committee led by the CEO, integrity Evaluation Integrity Keeper program by each division, and the Ombudsman to listen to stakeholders’ opinions, on antiGrade 2 2 2 through which we have identified four promotion directions and 77 action plans. KR will become corruption activities a transparent public institution by improving ethics systems, enhancing compliance activities, and KoBEX SM Grade AAA AAA AAA preventing corruptions in advance. [Ethical Management Strategy System] Vision More transparent, fairer, more considerate KR Strategic goal First grade in integrity and anti-corruption Zero corruption policy evaluation Promotion direction Operate a Disseminate Conduct Advance ethical cooperative and internalize preemptive management system based on the culture of anti-corruption system consensus and integrity activities communication Strategic task ・Establish IT-based ethical ・Conduct participatory ・Enhance preemptive anti・Reinforce communication management system integrity activities corruption regulations with stakeholders ・Advance feedback ・Provide tailored integrity ・Manage corruption risks ・Expand public-private systems training cooperation Anti-corruption Ethical Ethical Management Integrity Inspection Responsible Integrity Keeper Management Committee Dept. Dept. organization and role Prevent, monitor, and Deliberate and conclude Manage overall ethical inspect violations of Disseminate and share major ethical management management works integrity (Audit and integrity policies policies Inspection) ▪Smart Ethical Management System My Integrity Ethics training and integrity activities Smart Ethical Management System Reemployed Manage reemployed worker worker contact histories KR established the smart ethical management system to help employees approach ethical management management Evaluation on Anti-corruption plans and information at any time. This system is linked with performance evaluation and provides integrity activities by dept. execution rate by dept. promotion plans and results to individuals and their departments. Moreover, registration and control of Report of external Online report system of lessons external lessons contact points for reemployment, consulting of corruptions, and regular operation of report center are Anti-graft case available through the system, which prevents employees from being exposed to corruption risks. counselling and Regular operation report center KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 19 Corruption ZERO Campaign together with Stakeholders KR has revamped ethical management systems by reflecting opinions of suppliers, experts, and the public as well as employees to help stakeholders better understand its commitment to anti-corruption and integrity practices. We have improved eight systems by gathering opinions for transparent management from the integrity club, integrity keeper, supplier interview, Daejeon Private-Public Cooperation Council for the Society of Integrity, public mentor group, and integrity ombudsman. Now we are promoting the Corruption ZERO campaign as an action plan. [Stakeholders’ Participation in KR’s Ethical Management] Ethical Management Committee supervised by the CEO (Apr. and Jul.) Internal Integrity Keeper workshop (five times) / Integrity Club workshop (nine times) Supplier discussion meeting supervised by the CEO (trice), collection of 220 VOC items Suppliers Visiting supplier interview (Mar. and May), response from 322 persons in 105 sites Daejeon Private-Public Cooperation Council for the Society of Integrity (Aug. ad Sep.) / Private-Public Cooperation Council for Public Institutions of Integrity (Nov.) People, Integrity ombudsman meeting (five times) and joint ombudsman council of four institutions (Jul.) experts System improvement Corruption ZERO campaign ・Improve order methods for better transparency and ・Integrity Day campaign (2nd & 4th Tuesday every month) fairness (4 items) ・Integrity Week around National Holiday (integrity quiz, ・Expand social responsibility add points to integrity proof picture) comprehensive bidding system (1 point → 2 points) ・Installation of integrity table at customer service room ・Reflect recommendation for improving the integrity ・Evaluation on integrity systems by public mentor group ombudsman system (one item) ・Integrity determination event and praise relay at sites Sympathetic and Participatory Ethics Training KR provides employees and suppliers with impressive ethics training. New recruits, those who are promoted, and managers receive trainings tailored to their life cycle and suppliers and regional offices are provided with visiting integrity trainings. Those are offered in connection with healing programs such as music concert and performance to enhance awareness of anti-corruption. We are also expanding opportunities for overseas anti-corruption training and cultivating internal instructors in integrity by Integrity training for second year employees encouraging employees to participate in the training course hosted by the Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission (ACRC). [Integrity Training Programs in 2018] Participatory training Cultivation of experts in integrity ・Integrity concert with the ACRC  ・Completion of the integrity instructor Common (869 persons) cultivation course (5 persons) Experts area ・Visiting integrity training  ・Completion of the international  Integrity concert with the ACRC (1,004 persons) anti-corruption academy (5 persons) KR’s Integrity Training Programs Customized training Visiting integrity training ・Integrity training for second year ・Training linked with integrity resolution  Life Suppliers cycle employees (80 persons) event at sites (981 persons) ・Integrity leadership training for those ・Training for managers and field workers  who are promoted (65 persons) vulnerable to corruption (503 persons) International anti-corruption academy (IACA) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 20 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Improvement of Anti-corruption Infrastructure APPENDIX Anti-corruption Management System (ISO 37001) Ethical KR has reinforced internal control and work transparency by obtaining the SIO 37001 certification for the Management first time among public institutions engaging in construction under the MOLIT. We set up anti-corruption guidelines in accordance with the ISO 37001 criteria and have reflected the results of corruption risk diagnosis in each business process, thereby establishing a global-level anti-corruption system. [ISO 37001 Certification Obtainment Process] Process Evaluate corruption risk Establish anti-corruption system Certification audit Analysis of status and corruption Setup of anti-corruption system, report Certification audit on ISO risks (Ethical Management Dept. to the management, and result sharing 37001 (BSI, British Standard 114 corruption risk cases Integrity Keeper) (All employees including the CEO) Institution) identified and corrected Details Corruption risk by job Improvement plan [Construction] Inadequate design change ˙External members in Design Change Deliberation Committee [Facility] Unfair project cost execution ˙Internal and external special audit (MOLIT, BAI) ▪ISO 37001 certification (BSI) [Contract] Prior information leakage when bidding ˙Take cell phones of staff and auditors away when evaluating [Finance] Private use of corporate credit card ˙Introduce the Clean Credit Card system [HR] Corruption in recruitment process ˙Majority of external members when conducting interviews Results First to get the ISO 37001 among public institutions in the construction sector Modification of Internal Rules for Activating Ethical Management To meet increasing needs for ethics, KR has enhanced corruption report systems and disciplinary measures against violations of integrity by modifying internal ethics rules. The Code of Conduct was revamped, and it requires managers to be stricter to integrity by restricting their positions when junior staff commit an irregularity. KR also revised whistle blower protection guides to activate the system and integrated duplicated ethics rules to help employees become well-acquainted with and comply with integrity. [Modification of Internal Rules] Employee Code of Conduct HR Rule ・Add articles that prohibit requests for Corruption ・Add articles that exclude unethical employees sponsorship and private needs control from jobs and restrict their managers’ position Whistle blower protection guides Corruption report and disciplinary guides ・Increase compensation for whistle blowing Whistle ・Strengthen penalties for violations of whistle (from KRW 2 billion → to KRW 3 billion) blowing blower protection Manual for anti-corruption management Corruption risk management process ・Establish anti-corruption manuals and Prevention of ・Prepare corruption risk evaluation methods guidelines corruption and set up related processes for improvement Zero Tolerance based on the National Task “Intensive Punishment on Corruption Crime” KR enhanced zero tolerance against corruption by adding related articles. Those who commit corruption are promptly transferred to other positions and their positions are restricted. Suppliers who violate integrity cannot participate in biddings for a certain period and KR makes subcontract inspection on integrity mandatory. Moreover, the one strike-out system is applied to construction workers at sites against willful unethical and fraudulent construction and their records are managed. On top of that. KR monitors and responds to rigged bids through the rigged bid signature analysis system in case of the comprehensive evaluation bidding. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 21 Internal Check System for Better Ethical Management 2025 Midto Long-term Audit Strategy and Internal Check System Based on the 2025 midto long-term audit strategy aimed at “realizing KR of integrity and justice through high-quality and fair audit,” KR has prepared eight strategic tasks and 12 internal check system promotion tasks. We also laid a foundation for efficient internal check promotion in connection with ethical management strategy and audit strategy. Vision Realizing KR of integrity and justice through high-quality and fair audit 2025 strategic goals Evaluation Audit result General Public service on self-audit execution rate integrity management activities 100% 1st grade Excellent A grade Strategic Reliable professional Audit for responsible Audit for anti-corruption Audit for upright directions and audit management and integrity management tasks ・Enhance expertise of ・Advance internal control ・Remove blind areas of  ・Advance preventive audit auditors ・Prevent reoccurrence and corruption ・Enhance the soundness ・Improve independence strengthen feedbacks ・Expand the culture of of social responsibility and objectivity of auditors integrity Internal Prevention Regular monitoring Post-control Voluntary compliance check system ・Regular consulting & audit ・Irregularity report center ・Common and special audit ・Integrity ombudsman practice ・Corruption impact check ・Anonymous report (Help・Inspection on civil service ・Compliance Officer ・Attendance in hiring and Line) ・Civil affairs survey, etc. ・In-company expert group,  evaluation, etc. ・Regular monitoring, etc. etc. Feedbacks Follow-up management Result check and analysis Feedback ・Notice audit results on intranet and ・Analyze annual audit results and  ・Reflect audit plans of the next year website quality evaluation results ・Improve audit-related regulations ・Check audit results execution ・Auditor workshop (quarterly) ・Publish and share audit casebooks Internal Check System Operation Performance KR has maximized internal check system operation performances by tightening prevention and follow▪Ethical Management Performance up actions in audit. Seven anonymous reports and KRW 53 million were treated through prevention Audit 2017 38 times activities and KRW 32.5 billion worth of budget was saved through preventive audit activities. Internal execution 2018 42 times anti-corruption rules were also revamped, including the Code of Conduct. As a result, KR achieved A rating and 1.3-point increase year-on-year in evaluation on self-audit activities. 2017 323 cases Treated 2018 352 cases Activate report system  Expand preventive Improve system and Check the execution Information sharing Finanremove corruption 2017 KRW 44.2 bn and interview audit in advance of audit results system cially factors in advance treated 2018 KRW 35.7 bn ・Receive and inspect six  ・Review and remove bud・“A” rating in self-audit ・Complete 99.8% of ・Establish audit inforRegular 2017 2,183 cases anonymous reports get waste factors (KRW quality evaluation audit treatments at the mation DB audit 2018 2,270 cases Treat seven request cases  32.5 billion) and suggest Up 1.3 points year- end of Dec. A total of 3,147 items and KRW 53 million business guides on-year 461 items pointed from 2004 to 2018 out and one unexe* Decrease in financial treatment: Compre・Share FGI results and train  ・Encourage fair com・Increase of one grade cuted case hensive audit (thrice → twice) and decline of factors vulnerable to corruption petition and improve in comprehensive project expenditure (KRW 7.4585 trillion in 2017 Increase of two grades in transparency integrity evaluation in → KRW 4.6577 trillion in 2018 external integrity evaluation 2018 (zero penalty for external Up 0.48 point year-onaccident) year SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 22 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Risk Management OUR PROMISE APPENDIX The society is today undergoing a paradigm shift in each field and business environment is also rapidly changing. In response, KR is multilaterally analyzing and forecasting financial and security risks by utilizing advanced inspection systems, preventing risk factors in advance. Financial Risk Management Creation of Net Profit for Two Years in a Row KR achieved KRW 165.2 billion in net profit in 2018 (1.18% interest coverage ratio*) through intensive efforts for substantial growth, realizing surplus for two consecutive years. We secured fund resources for railway construction on the strength of increase in railway use fee and earnings from leasing and were proactive in utilizing idle assets. Overseas business was also active in Egypt and Indonesia and costs were efficiently saved by enhancing audits on maintenance cost control. Going forward, KR will make best efforts to realize the target of at least 1.2 multiple interest coverage ratio by 2023 in accordance with the minto long-term financial management plan (2019~2023). * Interest coverage ratio=operating profit/interest costs [Midto Long-term Financial Management Plan] 2023 Stable financing and healthy financial structure for the realization of management goals Financial goal Less than KRW 21.6 trillion At least 1.2 times in interest Stable financing (KRW 42 trillion) in total liabilities coverage ratio Action plans Expansion of Stable financing revenue from Practical debt and efficient assets and debt control execution redemption sources ・Financing cost↓,  ・Business expense savings → bond ・Strategic utilization of KR assets↑ investment efficiency↑ issuance↓→ debt increase control ・Creative development of state- ・Contribute to vitalizing economy owned assets↑ Mid-/long-term manageMid-term investment plan Mid-/long-term financial Short-term business plan Feedbacks ment strategy (10 years) (5 years) plan (5 years) (one year) National rail network Mid-term financial Financing/financial Revenue/capital budget construction plan operation plan management [Summarized Financial Results in 2018] Classification Liabilities Interest cost Net profit Interest coverage ratio Target KRW 20.77 trillion KRW 675.1 billion KRW 47.6 billion 1.03 times Result KRW 19.96 trillion KRW 628.2 billion KRW 165.2 billion 1.18 times Achievement rate 104.1% 107.5% 347.1% 114.6% * KR, as a non-capital special corporation, does not calculate debt-to-equity ratio. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 23 Operation of Financial Risk Response System KR’s financial risk management focuses on mitigating investment, revenue, and interest rate risks, enhancing profitability, and reducing costs. Based on excellent credit ratings of AAA (domestic), Aa2 (Moody’s), and AA (S&P), KR has laid a groundwork for borrowings at low interest rate through diversified issuance of bonds and regular monitoring of financing conditions and financial market status. Moreover, railway use fee and revenue from leasing state-owned assets increased, while maintenance costs were efficiently saved. Regular Financial Risk Management and Strategic Financing * EaR (Earnings at Risk,): Statistical market risk KR conducts year-round online and offline monitoring of financial risks through its FRM (financial risk measurement. Expected maximum loss which management) system. Online monitoring covers EaR* limit exhaustion rate, interest rate, liquidity rate, and can occur during a certain period of possession at a given confidence level on the premise current maturity of bonds, while offline monitoring includes credit rating investigation of financial firms, that market price fluctuation follows a normal correction of accounting system errors, and advice from experts including the Financial Risk Management distribution. Committee. KR also pursues strategic financing and fund management by establishing annual, monthly, weekly, and daily plans. The time and size of bond issuance are determined by reporting weekly financing conditions and financial market status to the management. [Stabilize Fund Management by Establishing and Adjusting Financial Plans] Establishment of annual funds Monthly funds supply and Rolling of weekly and daily supply and demand plans demand plans fund management plans ・MOLIT → KR ・Business dept. → Finance dept. ・Gap analysis between funds Establish annual financing plans Reflect the time and amount implementation plan and practices according to the government’s of practical funds for business and feedback on financial plans early budget execution plan departments Enhancement of Debt Control based on Segment Accounting System KR decides the direction of debt management through the segment accounting system which was introduced in 2015. This system contributes to identifying accounting information including detailed profits and losses by each business and preparing countermeasures. KR strives to offset losses from high speed railway business which is a national project for people’s benefit by gains from diversified revenuemaking businesses and promotes adequate and systematic debt management. [Debt Control by Using the Segment Accounting System (as of 2017)] Future debt quality By project Result analysis directions (KRW in billions) Borrowings Net profit Borrowings of KRW 18.4981 trillion resulted from high・Expand national subsidy Gyeongbu 12,112.0 71.6 speed railway business to KTX from Suwon and Incheon Honam 4,622.4 ▲ 93.3 * including KRW 171.9 billion HSR from self-investment in Metropolitan 1,763.7 ▲ 30.6 screen door installation ・Increase the track use fee rate Subtotal 18,498.1 ▲ 52.3 Loss of KRW 52.3 billion as net ・Save maintenance expense HSR track use fee revenue is ・Reduce financial cost General rail, etc. 171.9 56.9 only 91% of interest costs Profit business 116.9 Offset loss from HSR operation ・Continue self-effort for profit by KRW 116.9 billion self-effort increase Total 18,670.0 121.5 revenue SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Enhance Information Security and Personal Information Protection APPENDIX Reinforcing Information Security Management System Risk To protect information assets and secure safe cyber space, KR has tightened security control competence Management in each sector. For example, we prepared punishment criteria on violations of information security, added items to be complied with when conducting service works, and made review of security in all informationoriented projects mandatory. Besides, to cultivate in-house security experts, KR put an additional point description in HR regulations and conducted trainings about cyber-attack. We are also operating a program for automatically checking factors vulnerable to security which was developed independently. [Improvement of Information Security Management System] ▪Performance in Information Information ・Establish punishment criteria on information security violators Security security policy ・Add terms of compliance with information security for outsourcing companies (11 items → 15 items) (Unit: points) Information asset ・Make review of security in all information-oriented projects mandatory review of security (43 cases), protection security suitability (24 cases) Evaluation on information security (NIS) 13.4 points higher than average score ・Reflect addition point description by experts in HR regulations ・Support entering the Graduate Specialization of School of Information Security and obtaining licenses ・Complete special training about cyber management system breach (attack & response) Ranked 11th at the Security Contest despite the first participation 79.68 Personal security ・Lectures by external information security experts ・Security check for suppliers (six times) 66.28 Pre-inspection of ・Independently develop and operate an automatic security fragility check program Selected as  Quasi-gov. KR weak points an excellent case by the National Intelligence Service Inspection on security fragility (MOLIT) Setup of Cyber Breach Prevention and Response Systems The lowest level in security accident In response to increasingly intelligent and sophisticated cyber-attacks, KR is promoting the advancement 97.7 of independent cyber-attack drills. We are also thorough in inspecting and correcting security fragilities at national security facilities in advance to prevent any cyber breaches. On top of that, KR has conducted 97.1 93.8 active security control and real-time monitoring of crisis situations by experts, thereby reducing malicious 2016 2017 2018 code infection. Security solutions installed in overall areas help block intelligent cyber-attacks in advance. Inspection on personal information [Enhancement of Cyber Breach Prevention and Response Activities] protection (MOLIT) Existing Improved “Excellent” for 5 years in a row 98.6 98.6 ・Active security control by experts 97.0 Enhance・Passive control when external Crisis situation (24 hours) and regularly (weekly) ment of institutions request drills (no ★ Decrease of malicious code infection control experts) rate (↓49%) (1,576 cases in 2016 → 1,210 cases  system in 2017 → 804 cases in 2018) 2016 2017 2018 ・In-house crisis response drill ・Independent development and operation of cyber-attack  Reinforce(once a year) response drill system ment of [Add] Response to DDoS attack and penetration into  Focus on map-based drill, mail  computer networks drills hacking response drill ★ Received a perfect score at the cyber-attack response * Insufficient actual drill drill by the NIS ・Visiting guidance for all ・Reinforce prevention of national security facilities departments (twice a year) Inspection of security fragilities in preparation for the Visiting Pyeongchang Winter Olympics (four places including guidance Visiting inspection in the first and  Pyeongchang and Gangneung Station) second half of year, respectively ★ Won the Minister Prize of MOLIT ・Operation of security solutions ・Establish security solutions for all areas (work, internet, and  Improvecentered on business networks public service) ment of security ・Dependence on external services  IPS, APT protectin system and simple blocking Network forensic system (analysis of alternative attacks) ・Manual diagnosis Advancement of harmful website blocking system, etc. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 25 Stakeholder Engagement KR strives to activate regular, horizontal, and interactive communication with stakeholders to expand their engagement and stakeholder network, thereby creating social value beyond just satisfying customers. Definition of Stakeholders “Railway Day” hosted by the Korea Railway Association (impacts of value) Classification of Stakeholders KR strives to create innovative social value of railway services through active communication with stakeholders. To this end, we classify stakeholders into three groups. Impacts of value Creation of value Sharing of value Stakeholders ・Government, media, local ・Employees, labor union, ・Rail passengers, people, communities, etc. suppliers, KORAIL, etc. etc. KR Junior Board (creation of value) Expansion of Stakeholder Communication Channel KR has established diversified interactive communication channels tailored to each stakeholder group. Through the channels, we are improving people’s transportation convenience by identifying needs of local communities through operating cooperative railway policy governance and preemptively solving conflicts in railway construction and maintenance process. Moreover, anyone can participate in KR’s business and management activities by utilizing the people-participatory railway policy proposal system and open People-participatory railway policy proposal innovation platform (Civil-Participatory Innovation Group, People Mentor Group, etc.) (sharing of value) [Communication Channels and Activities] Impacts of Creation of Sharing of value value value Regular and balanced growth, clean environment, Service-oriented public institution, realization of People’s participation and cooperation, Key issues safe society social value improvement of the quality of people’s life CommunicaSecuring a foundation for sustainability Creation of a culture of co-prosperity and Diversification of people-participatory programs tion direction management for fulfilling CSR cooperation Junior BOD, Labor-Management Council, supplier People-participatory railway policy proposal, CommunicaKorea Railway Association, South-North Railway meeting, Rail Development Cooperation Group KR Civil-Participatory Innovation Group, tion channels Council, media meeting SNS Civil Media Group [Government] Joint check & inspection on south[Employees] Regular operation of the labor-manage[Passengers] Civil-Participatory Innovation Group north railway connection (South-North Railway Council, ment council / KR Junior Board (four times) (13 persons) / People Mentor Group (100 persons) / policy seminar, etc.) [Suppliers] Technology Development Trustee CompaPeople-participatory railway policy proposal (regular) / Major [Media] Meeting with journalists (regular) ny Council (16 firms, three times) / SME R&D presentaSNS Civil Media Group (41 persons) activities [Local communities] Consulting of tailored idle land tion (50 firms, Nov. 1) [People] Policy sharing through SNS, newsletter, corpouse (regular) / Land Purchase Task Force (18 times) [KORAIL] Railway development cooperation meeting rate magazine / Renewal of VOC channel on the website (four times), working-level meeting between KR and / Social contribution through tangible and intangible regional HQ of KORAIL (regular) assets and networks [Government] Preparation for alternative forms of [Employees] The CEO’s congratulatory message for the [Passengers] Setup of monitoring and evaluation of transportation for the inter-Korean summit / Groundfirst time in the history of labor union (Jun. 21) / Satisfaction 25 innovative tasks / Reflection of people proposals in breaking ceremony for south-north railway connection on change and innovation (78.6 points in 2017→80.4 points management (303 ideas) / Production of PR contents (11 and modernization (Dec. 26) in 2018) times) Major [Media] Reduction of negative news articles (90 items in [Suppliers] Development of purchase-option projects [People] SNS subscribers: 3,203,708 persons (15.5%↑ performances 2017 → 64 items in 2018) (four cases) / Regulation improvement by listening to YoY) / Satisfaction on website: 97.84 points (0.56 point↑ [Local communities] Utilization of idle lands in proposals at sites (49 items) YoY) / Volunteer works for 10.5 hours twice a year per cooperation with local governments (9 cases, KRW 12.4 [KORAIL] Solution of pending issues through close coemployee billion) / Satisfaction increase by compensation through operation (completed 43 items out of 55 items, ongoing community engagement 12 items) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 26 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Engagement of People APPENDIX People-participatory Innovation Promotion Network Stakeholder KR operates the “KR Civil-Participatory Innovation Group” and “People Mentor Group” in pursuit of Engagement active communication with people and people-oriented open innovation. The former, an advisory body aimed at creating innovative performances people can empathize, engages in monitoring innovation plans and results and making policy proposals on a regular basis. In 2018, the Group joined diagnosis and evaluation of major projects including the selection of a daycare center space at station. The latter is an executive body that evaluates KR’s innovative tasks and implement proposals. It also conducts surveys, discussions, votes, idea proposals, and regular monitoring. [Innovation Promotion Network and Activities] Civil-Participatory Innovation Group People Mentor Group ・Experts in academia and civil society, passengers, ・Expanded the number of members from 50 to 100 in employees of KR and suppliers, etc. consideration of gender, age, region, job, and career ・Sharing of pending issues through newsletter ・Quarterly meeting (three times) Survey on policy preference, evaluation and  Monitoring of Innovation plans and results KR suggestion of policies Launching of the Civil-Participatory Innovation ・Policy proposals ・[Policy evaluation] Integrity Proof Shot  Group Diagnosis and evaluation on innovation campaign (98 persons), Interesting Proposal & competence and tasks Open KR (56 persons) Selection of daycare space at station, etc. ・[Policy suggestion] Omniscient Mentors’ View (77 items) Railway Policy Idea Contest for the Public With the aim of improving railway policies and expanding investment in railway based on people-driven bottom-up open innovation, KR held the “Railway Policy Idea Contest for the Public.” Ideas on four themes including the direction of national rail network construction, development of the 4th Industrial Revolution technologies, and railway-oriented transportation system for passengers were submitted through the website. We evaluated the ideas in the aspects of freshness, possibility, and effectiveness and winners received the CEO Prize and money. Excellent and valuable ideas were delivered to relevant departments for application to business. KR will continue to make efforts to create social value by maximizing engagement and supports of people. Railway policy idea contest for the public ◦Realize flat transfer by integrating subway and bus stop platforms Best Award◦Improve HSR parking lot usage methods for the handicapped winning ◦Reduce noise by utilizing the destructive interference of wave railway Excellent ◦Realize more convenient railway services for the handicapped policy ideas ◦Prevent train delays by installing entry/exit time disply on the train door ◦Prepare a checklist for station design in consideration of aging society ◦Location guide and navigation service for the visually handicapped Participation ◦Anywhere with train ticket: KTX linked bus service ◦Standardized men’s and women’s toilet location at stations KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 27 Interview with Stakeholders Chang Gyeong-hee, professor in Electronic Kim Hong-hyeon, Manager of Science and Lee Su-jun, General Manager, SR Co., Ltd. Engineering, Inha University Technology, Gyeonggi Provincial Government KR contributes to balanced national development The role of rail network extends to enhancing KR plays a crucial role of constructing and operating by constructing a nationwide rail network. KR growth potential of region across the nation by imrailways. We successfully opened the SRT Line in recently completed the integrated railway wireless proving accessibility to major cities, reducing GHG partnership with KR in December 2016 after signing communication network (KR LTE-R) for safe and emissions in preparation for the Paris Agreement, the business agreement with KR in 2014. During efficient railway operation to secure the global and shortening travel time and costs. KR is required the period, we have continuously communicated top-level technology capability and is trying to to overcome the limitation due to the slowing down with KR to maximize passenger convenience and export the technology to the world. KR needs railway construction market in Korea and create were able to construct the railway facility favorably to communicate with stakeholders to minimize new growth engines in the global market. To this accepted by customers as a result. Partnering with conflicts and disputes when executing railway end, it is important to secure global competitiveness KR in the fields of VOC handling, solution of major construction projects. Moreover, I hope KR grow by commercializing and localizing railway technoloissues of local communities around stations, and sointo a leading global railway company through gies. cial contribution, both companies will create social systematic support for employees to develop their value more efficiently. specialized expertise. Park Nam-gi, Director of Daejeon & Noh Yang-wook, Executive Secretary Han Jung-hwan, Director, Daelim E&C Chungcheong Div., Beautiful Store of KR Labor Union KR has greatly contributed to activating logistics KR pursues sustainable growth by creating a As a quasi-government agency, KR is delegated by and passenger transport through the railway safe railway environment, fulfilling social values the government to construct and manage national construction and operation business. To ensure and public interest, and penetrating overseas railway network. The government is implementing sustainable growth, KR should focus on develmarkets. I believe that KR is continuously comSOC projects with a focus on strengthening public oping new technologies, cultivating rail-specific municating with various stakeholders in the interest to realize social value. KR will solidify its potalents, and reducing costs based on accumulated economic, social, and environmental sectors to sition as the public institution trusted by the public if knowhow about constructing and managing rail promote sustainability management. Particuwe secure proper project budgets and make efforts network for decades. Those efforts will help KR larly, “Chick-Chick Cook-Cook,” the youth food for safe rail construction and management to ensecure global competitiveness in the rail business. startup support center, and “Daycare Center sure balanced national development and passenger To improve corporate value in the long term, it is at Pyeongnae Hopyeong Station” which were convenience. Moreover, it is necessary for the labor necessary to consistently develop and win new promoted to transform idle rail assets into puband management to discuss and implement labor overseas projects without complacent to current lic facilities for job creation and local economic conditions and sustainable growth based on trust. monopolistic status in Korea. activation present KR’s differentiated social contribution program. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 28 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Materiality Analysis APPENDIX KR pursues sustainable growth by widely reflecting economic, social, and environmental issues in management activities. As part of that, we identified important issues in accordance with materiality analysis recommended by the ISO 26000 and GRI Standards. Materiality Analysis Process To identify material sustainability management issues, KR conducted analysis of internal and external environments and materiality analysis in accordance with context, materiality, and completeness principles as well as stakeholder engagement presented by the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 Analysis of internal & Internal and external Materiality analysis Verification of validity external environments review ・Benchmarking ・Relevance assessment ・Confirmation of scope, ・Survey of employees Analysis of reports of Relevance assessment of boundary, period, and and stakeholders peers at home and identified issues through validity R  eview of validity of abroad and excellent internal and external Review of validity of scope, boundary, companies in sustainability environment analysis selected critical issues period, and activities ・Media research ・Significance and confirmation through interviews with Analysis of news articles assessment of reporting scope, responsible staff about related with sustainability Selection of critical boundary, and period analysis results management for recent issues through survey of ・Assurance three years employees and external V  erification of the stakeholders propriety of reporting process and data by a 3rd party assurance agency Relevance Assessment Results We identified a total of 35 relevant issues in the aspects of general sustainability management (5), economy (6), society, (16), and environment (8) and then, conducted materiality analysis. ・Increasing requirements on transparency (governance) ・Energy consumption management ・Environmental impacts ・Build ethical management system and compliance with regulations including transportation ・Environment related expenditure ・Economic, social, environmental risk management and investment ・Environmental damage (air, water, soil) ・Air ・Sustainability management strategy system pollutants (GHG, fine dust, etc.) ・Wastewater and waste control General sustainability Environment ・Stakeholder engagement (communication channel expansion,  ・Climate change (global warming) ・Reinforce environmental management (5 issues) (68 issues) response to matters of concern) regulations ・Diversify and enhance customer requirements ・Participate in and develop local communities (social contribution, investment in local communities, etc.) ・Supports for and shared growth with suppliers/ ・Economic performance SMEs ・Disseminate CSR management to suppliers ・Comply with ・Respond to changes in passenger and cargo demands social regulations ・Increasing needs for safety of products and ・Improve infrastructure around stations and build support facilities services ・Prevent anti-competition behaviors (price-fixing) Economy ・Enhance safety of railway workers and facilities ・Increasing ・Enhance railway-related technology R&D (6 issues) requirements on fair competition and trade ・Reinforce informa・Increase customer satisfaction Society tion security system ・Participate in establishing public policies ・ (16 issues) Importance of securing talents ・Employee education and training ・Employee diversity and equal opportunity (hiring socially marginalized, increase of female managers, etc.) ・Work-life balance ・ Labor-management relationship ・Anti-corruption KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 29 Materiality Analysis Results General sustainability management Economy Significance to external stakeholders Society Environment 1 2 3 5 4 9 7 10 15 6 14 11 13 12 8 Significance to internal stakeholders [Material Issues] Boundary No. Material Issue GRI Topic Internal External 1 Enhance the safety of railway workers and facilities GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety ● 2 Anti-corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption ● 3 Compliance with social regulations GRI 419: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area ● 4 Establish ethical management system and comply with regulations GRI 205: Anti-corruption ● 5 Increasing requirements on KR’s transparency (governance) ● 6 Enhance railway-related technology R&D ● 7 Prevent anti-competition behaviors GRI 206: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices ● 8 Work-life balance ● 9 Increasing requirements on the safety of products and services GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety ● 10 Increasing requirements on fair competition and trade ● 11 Importance of securing talents ● 12 Sustainability management strategy system ● 13 Improve infrastructure around stations and build support facilities GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts ● 14 Economic, social, environmental risk management ● 15 Air pollutants (GHG, fine dust, etc.) GRI 305: Emissions ● SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PROMISE FOR SUSTAINABILITY 01 Sustainable Growth 02 Creation of Social Value 03 Efforts for Safety and Environment 04 Enhancement of Organizational Culture 32 SPECIAL TOPIC 1 Inter-Korean Rail Network As part of the new economic roadmap of the Korean Peninsula, KR is leading the inter-Korean rail network project. We will establish ways to modernize railways in North Korea based on the joint survey results and construct inter-Korean rail network through mutual cooperation. By doing so, we are committed to laying the foundation for prosperity and peace on the Korean Peninsula and constructing the rail-driven Silk Road that runs across the Eurasian continent. Promote the Construction of Inter-Korean Rail Network KR is promoting the construction of the inter-Koran rail network based on a master plan. We formed the Inter-Korean Rail Network Promotion Unit led by the CEO to inspect railway conditions in North Korea and prepared the “Phased Railway Modernization Strategy in North Korea.” Based on the strategy, KR is focusing on reviewing technical standards, developing training programs, and supporting the establishment of the East Asia Railway Community (EARC). [North Korean Railway Modernization Process and Strategy] Preparation (~2017, cooling inter-Korean relation) ・Prior preparation and foundation 01 → Establish a masterplan for integrated inter-Korean rail network, etc. Initiation (2018~2019, thawing inter-Korean relation) ・Establish implementation plans and groundbreaking → Joint inspection on North Korean railways 02 → Preparation for detailed plans for modernization Execution (after 2020, active exchange) ・PromotE integrated inter-Korean rail network 03 → Improve and modernize North Korean railways → Promote connection with transcontinental railroads [Execution Strategy by Stage] [Launch of the Inter-Korean Rail Network Promotion Unit] Performance recovery of north section of Seohae Line and ・Increased staff members (8 persons to 30 persons) ShortDonghae Line term → Full replacement of existing rails and sleepers and reinforcement Director of bridges and tunnels (KR’s CEO) Train operation of the inter-Korean Seohae Line and Donghae Deputy Director MidLine and linkage with transcontinental railroads Secretary term → Railway improvement & elongation, modernization of systems (power, telecommunication, signal) Planning & Admin. Construction Team Technology Team Facility Team Team Speed up of major railways (Pyeongna Line, etc.), construction of LongSeoul-Beijing HSR  Modernization Establishment of Technical supports Review of facility term → Recovery of Gyeongwon Line and Geumgangsan Line, construction strategy, fundraisengineering criteria, for systems and safety check and of integrated rail network throughout Korean Peninsula ing measures, etc. etc. rails, etc. maintenance plans, etc. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 33 Build a Social Consensus and Collaboration System KR has been spreading the social consensus on the inter-Korean rail network project to overcome constraints due to political environment and ensure continuity of cooperation. International seminars were held to discuss diplomatic security and economic cooperation for this project among the government, academia, and international organizations, which created favorable public opinion on this project. Moreover, we laid a foundation for this project by organizing a joint research group, launching a consultative council for spatial information in North Korea, and operating the Inter-Korean Railway Council. Particularly, KR participated in the international conference held by the Transportation Subcommittee of GTI* to build a network for cooperation with GTI Secretariat and lay the foundation for the promotion of the EARC project. * GTI: Global Trade and Investment Expo created through the cooperation of Northeast Asian countries International seminar (Aug. 21, 2018) [Collaboration with Internal and External Institutions] Institution Major performance ・Government: Ministry of Unification, MOLIT, etc. ・Formed a council for joint inspection Inter-Korean Railway ・Public institution: KR, KORAIL ・Joint inspection for modernizing North Korean railways Joint Research Group ・North Korea: Ministry of Railways, etc. (Jun. 26) ・Groundbreaking ceremony for connecting inter-Korean railways ・MOLIT, Ministry of Unification, Ministry of National Defense, North Korean Space ・Promoted the establishment of GIS on eastern and western Ministry of Environment, Korea Forest Service, KR, Korea Information Integration lines in North Korea (1/5,0000) (plan to complete in Jun. 2019) Expressway, etc. Council (Jun. 27, 2016) ・GTI* Secretariat, KR, Korea Expressway, KEPCO, Korea GTI Transport ・Built a cooperative network with GTI Secretariat Eximbank, Korea Tourist Service Subcommittee ・Developed joint projects with the East Asia Railway Network * Member country: Korea, China, Mongolia, Russia (Oct. 11) ・Public institution for railroad ・Prepared the modernization of North Korean railways Inter-Korean Railway KR (construction and maintenance) ・Conducted joint study for building inter-Korean railroad Council (Jul. 3) KORAIL (railway operation) logistics infrastructure (Nov. 2018 to Nov. 2019) First Step toward the Inter-Korean Rail Network [Routes of the Joint Study Train] KR had held joint working conferences by forming an inter-Korean investigaDumangang Line (Mulgol~Dumangang) tion group and focused on safe operation of the joint investigation trains. As a result, South Korean trains successfully went to Sinuiju and Tumen River in North Korea for the first time since the liberation. Based on basic and detailed investigation results, KR established the “Basic Plan for Modernization Hambuk Line (Rajin~Mulgol) of North Korean Railway” and materialized promotion plans by preparing rail connection technology standards and fundraising methods. KR will continue Donghae Line joint to promote the connection with transcontinental railroad by utilizing the Jejin~Dumangang investigation section North Korean railway modernization project as the foundation. [Joint Study for North Korean Railways] Pyeongui Line Pyeongra Line (Pyeongyang~Sinuiju) (Gowon~Rajin) Preparation Check (Jul.) and repair (Aug.) of connection section to operate a joint study train Gangwon Line Gyeongui Line joint (Anbyeon~Gowon) Munsan~Sinuiju investigation section Geumgangsan Cheongnyeon Line ・Section: Gaeseong~Sinuiju (413.9km), Mt. Geumgang~Tumen River (777.4km) (Geumgangsan~ Anbyeon) ・Period: 18 days (6 for Gyeongui Line, 2 for train move, 10 for Donghae Line) Pyeongbu Line (Gaeseong~Pyeongyang) Donghae Line ・Participants: 28 persons from the Ministry of Unification, MOLIT, KR, experts (Jejin~Geumgangsan) Joint study ・Method Moved to check spots by train and conducted inspection by eye and equipment Donghae Bukbu Line (Gangneung~Jejin) Gathered railway data by installing action camera on the train Gyeongui Line (Munsan~Gaeseong) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 34 SPECIAL TOPIC 2 Safe Railway KR is upgrading the safety management system from prevention to restoration to realize “ZERO Accident” in railway construction and facility management. We will continue to ensure safety by expanding high-quality railway safety facilities and voluntary disaster control systems. Strengthen Railway Safety Management System Joint Innovation Group for Railway Facility Safety making and close cooperation and began safety innovation tasks, such as discussing pending safety issues, minimizing operational The Joint Innovation Group for Railway Facility Safety was organized risks in each phase, and specially managing critical facilities. Going by KR and KORAIL to resolve the blind spot of railway facility safety forward, both organizations will strengthen cooperation in innovation and coordinate and solve issues of railway safety efficiently. The and information on safe railway facility operation. Group was located in KR head office building for quick decision[Strategic System of the Joint Innovation Group for Railway Facility Safety] Mission Provide safe railway service by strengthening cooperation Vision Realize safe railway trusted by people Strategic Establish a safety cooperation Enhance the safety of rail facilities Build a virtuous circle in managing direction system between KR and KORAIL by correcting vulnerable factors the safety of rail facilities Strategic Reestablish the role of rail safety Set up timely countermeasures Revamp rail facility safety task 01 management system 01 by identifying facilities for 01 regulations intensive control 02 Enhance the review function in design and construction phases Intensively manage execution 02 Enhance cooperation system for rail facility safety 02 status of accident recurrence Standardize duty transfer for rail 03 facility maintenance prevention measures 03 Build a feedback system by identifying unsafe factors in the operation stage 04 Build a maintenance system by 03 Preemptively manage safety by enhancing site inspection changing the FMS provider of completed facilities * FMS (Facility Management System): Efficiently managing public facilities, large-scale factories, and pipeline network by digitizing the information of map and blueprint Enhance Organization and Workforce for Railway Safety office level to division level to play the role as the safety control tower and enhance preventive safety activities. KR also plans to reinforce KR hired 122 employees – 96 new employees and 26 experienced safety control and competitive railway construction project by employees in 10 safety areas, including safety management and transferring about 10% of head office personnel to the field. KR will public safety – in June 2019 to enhance the expertise in railway safety. serve the reorganization as a momentum for establishing higher safety The figure presents about 8% of total employees of KR. Moreover, management system and more comfortable railway environment. the organization dedicated to safety and quality was promoted from KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 35 Sophisticate Disaster and Accident Management System Establish Preemptive Disaster Management System to tightening real-time monitoring and install disaster broadcasting receiving system in all high-speed railway sections (including tunnels To ensure safe railway environment against natural disasters such as and underground sections) by 2022 (Seoul-Busan KTX in 2018) to earthquake, heat wave, and rainstorm, KR is operating a preemptive continue “ZERO Accidents from Natural Disaster.” disaster management system and expanding investments in IT-based * IoT (Internet of Things): Technology or environment of having objects exchanging data  disaster prevention system for rapid detection and sharing of abnormal through the Internet with sensors attached to the objects information. We have installed the remote monitoring system utilizing [Converted Accident Rate] Achieved the lowest accident rate (0.44%) of IoT* to detect abnormalities and the intelligent automatic detection public institutions under the MOLIT in 2018 system to monitor points vulnerable to natural disasters. KR will 2016 0.246% * A  verage accident rate in 2018: 1.09% also expand remote video detection devices (292 places at 101 sites) 2017 0.061% - Achieved the lowest converted accident rate 2018 0.038% (0.038%) since the foundation of KR (2004) * Converted accident rate = Average of (Converted number of victims×100/Number of fulltime employees) × 0.5) [Disaster Management System] Activities of preparing for all possible sitActivities to reduce and prevent disaster uations by assuming the natural disaster for employees and citizens Prevention Preparation and railway construction accident Disaster Management System A series of activities to restore the railway Activities to minimize damage to employinfrastructure to the condition before the ees and passengers and normalizing the disaster Recovery Response train operation at the time of disaster Infrastructure for Fast Response to and Recovery of Disaster Improve Safety Performance of Railway Facilities in KR is enhancing disaster response systems and dedicated organization Preparation for Disaster and Accident to secure golden time and minimize damages from disasters and acciIn response to increasing earthquakes in Korea, KR is expanding the dents. We are establishing the LTE-R*-based video call system to ensure earthquake monitoring system, which was installed only in KTX lines, to real-time information exchange without a communication interruption the general railway lines in the earthquake regions including Pohang and in emergency in train. Moreover, the video conference system was introGyeongju. Moreover, we strengthened the seismic design standard by duced, and workforce was added to the disaster control office in preparareflecting the unique characteristics of domestic ground and revised the tion for heat and cold wave situations. KR also enhances cooperation on railway design standard in December 2018 based on it. It preemptively indisaster follow-up measures with 9 institutions including MOLIT, MOPAS, spected and diagnosed fire response systems at 14 multi-purpose private firehouses, local governments, and KORAIL and conducts people-particicapital stations such as Seoul Station in the public-private cooperation. patory emergency drills, thereby enhancing disaster response capability. The safety diagnosis participated by citizens improved 733 cases and *L TE-R (LTE based Railway wireless communication system): Localized technology tailored shared the results on the website to help to form the public confidence in to the domestic railway environment which can significantly improve the safety and convenience of train operation by exchanging the information between the train, control the safety of railway facilities. center, maintenance staff, operating agency, and government agency [Establishment of Earthquake-proof Rail Facilities] Necessity Performance Expand ・Increasing needs for expanding earthquake monitoring ・Preferentially established the facilities in earthquake affected areas (Pohang, Gyeongju) earthquake facilities due to recent damages (Pohang, Gyeongju) monitoring Earthquake Signaling to Stopping *Completed facilities for HSR (65 spots in 2017) Alerts facilities occurrence control center trains ・Secure seismic performance for non-seismic engineering  ・Secured seismic performance for 99.4% of rail facilities Secure facilities and upgrade performance by revising construction laws *4,453 spots out of 4,481 spots in total in 2018 seismic Secured the performance at 4,373 spots out of 4,481 spots in  performance ・Conducted seismic performance evaluation on more facilities by revising total (97.6%)) -[Existing] over 500㎡ → [revised] over 200㎡ construction laws (Oct. 2018~Oct. 2020) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 36 SPECIAL TOPIC 2 Modernize Railway Facilities Expand Investment in Revamping Old Railway Facilities invested in revamping old railways and expanding safety facilities, resulting in decreasing railway-related safety accidents by 32% from KR established the “Midto Long-term Plan (2018-2022) for Investment 19 in 2017 to 13 in 2018. KR plans to focus on modernizing over in Railway Facilities” and has been conducting strategic investment 30-year old seven lines in the capital region with the schedule to in rapidly modernizing outdated railway facilities to meet increasing complete by 2022, thereby pursuing ZERO old electric equipment and requirements on safety. Approximately 83% of the total budget was securing the stability of the train operation. [Midto Long-term Rail Facility Improvement Plan (2018~2022)] ・Needs for establishing plans for investing in safe rail facilities Increasing interest in safe railways Rapid deterioration of facilities Increasing demand for maintenance Necessity Over 30-year old bridges and tunnels: Train delay at Osong Station due to Promote double-track and electrification 37.4%, power facilities which passed derailment of KTX to Gangneung of railroads in new construction endurance period: 34.8% Obstructive factors Efforts for overcoming ・Expand investments in deteriorated SOC facilities ・Persuade budget-handling departments and the National Assembly Rapid deterioration of railways and roads Preemptive investments in facilities vulnerable to safety Efforts for ・Limits in investing in railways due to budget conditions Improve passenger service by modernizing facilities investment Efforts for securing the safety in train operation by rapidly modernizing deteriorated facilities ・Four strategies of the midto long-term rail facility improvement plan (2018~2022) Intensive investments in deteriorated and unsafe facilities and flexible improvement of performance and convenient facilities Achieve 90.1% in facility improvement by 2025 (90,483 spots according to KR’s midto long-term plan) Midto long-term Strategy Improve deteriorated facilities Expand safety facilities Upgrade performance Expand convenient facilities plans Promotion Preferentially improve sections Secure the safety of passengers Evaluate facility performance and Secure convenient facilities and tasks with high operation density and workers adopt the latest technologies improve railway environment Investment KRW 5.0949 trillion KRW 3.4060 trillion KRW 6.7914 trillion KRW 1.2896 trillion plans Modernize Old Bridges KR has been carrying out large facility upgrade projects equivalent to new construction to modernize old railway bridges. We completed the upgrade project (replacing steel material with steel-concrete composite) of Ieoncheon Bridge (located between Shindong Station and Jicheon Ieoncheon Bridge (completed in 1934, modernized in 2018) Station of the Seoul-Bussan Line) constructed in 1934. This project resulted in reducing noise and vibration drastically and minimizing the damage to near farmlands from flood by decreasing the number of piers from 6 to 3. KR is currently modernizing Milyanggan Bridge (total extension of 2,620 m), constructed 115 years ago, with the goal of completing in 2022. KR will continue to modernize outdated railway facilities and bridges. Milyang Steel Bridge (completed in 1903, plan to modernize by 2022) KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 37 Expand Railway Safety Facilities Secure Public Safety by Expanding LTE-R Early Installation of 100% Platform Safety Door Commercializing KR LTE-R* in the high-speed railway between Weonju As the accidents on the railway platform have rapidly increased (a total and Gangneung, KR is expanding its application to nationwide railway of 122 cases) in the past 6 years, KR is carrying out the “ZERO Accident” network including three projects such as the Sosa-Weonsi section and campaign and completes the installation of platform safe doors in June Ulsan New Port in 2018. The LTE-R will enable the high-speed transfer of 2018, five years ahead of schedule. It was able to shorten the installation image and large-capacity data among train, control center, maintenance period by pre-investment through the issuance of industrial bonds after staff, and operating company. This change will improve the safety in considering the investment trend and limited utilization of available train operation and sophisticate maintenance and logistics services resources when relying solely on government finance. As a result, through real-time monitoring. Moreover, it will enable the safety KR was able to install the platform safety door in 246 stations of the management service utilizing the IoT function and interface to the (PSmetropolitan railway in the capital region, resulting 75% reduction of LTE), an integrated wireless communication network of agencies related accidents on the platform in the past three years as well as the reduction to national disaster, will significantly contribute to coping with disaster of indirect social cost and the improvement of air quality in the station. situation and recovery promptly. KR plans to extend LTE-R to 4,726 km of railway routes nationwide by 2027 to ensure safety. [100% installation of platform screen doors] * LTE-R (LTE based Railway wireless communication system): Localized technology 246 stations tailored to the domestic railway environment which can significantly improve the safety 233 stations (100%) and convenience of train operation by exchanging the information between the train, 118 stations (95%) control center, maintenance staff, operating agency, and government agency (48%) [LTE-R Construction Plan] ~ 2016 2017 2018 ・Period: 2018~2027 ・Scope: 4,726 km including high speed, conventional and regional rails ・Cost: Approx. KRW 1.1 trillion (incl. trackside equipment and mobile terminals) [Fatal platform accidents] ・Down by 75% in past 3 years Dongducheon Sokcho 12 cases 9 cases Dorasan 7 cases Chuncheon Gangneung 3 cases Daegok Seoul Donghae Incheon Wonju Suseo Samcheok Wonsi Yeoju Jecheon 2015 2016 2017 2018 Baeksan Pyeongtaek Chungju Cheonan Yeongju Hwayang Osong Jochiwon Jeongchon Daejeon Railway stations customized for mobility disabled Dongdaegu Pohang KR is expanding facilities and services for mobility disabled persons Iksan Gimcheon Gunsan so that everyone can use railways safely and conveniently. Public Singyeongju Jeonju contest was held to hear ideas to make design changes to railway Samnangjin stations including designating at least 10% of chairs in waiting room for persons with mobility disability and preparing standards on path Gwangju Jinju Busan guiding systems inside stations to install beacons (mobile phone Suncheon position transmissions) for visually impaired persons. In addition, Mokpo Geoje 4 elevators and 16 escalators have been installed at 4 stations on Boseong Yeosu Bungdang Line and comfort zones for protection from the heat and cold have been opened at 9 stations on Gyeongbu Line to minimize inconveniences. Conventional rail (planned) High speed rail (planned) Regional rail (planned) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 38 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Sustainable Growth PROMISE 1 Management Approach KR focuses on increasing train speed and expanding the national rail network to improve transportation convenience of citizens and balanced national development. We also strive to initiate railway projects earlier for the prompt expenditure of the budget. Moreover, diversified railway asset development and creative utilization of idle railways and lands are promoted to enhance public interest and revenue diversification. KR has also built a rail business ecosystem for SMEs to win more overseas projects and localize railway technologies. Major Performance 1,651.6 KRW in billion 4,230 km 7.0 KRW in billion 924.8 KRW in billion Sales Total length of New overseas Revenue from in 2018 railways projects utilizing rail assets In This Section 01_ Strengthen Rail Network 03_ Develop Railway Technologies 02_ Expand Global Business 04_ Improve Railway Asset Values KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 39 PROMISE 1 Strengthen Rail Network KR is actively implementing the nationwide railway linkage project based on the 3rd National Rail Network Plan to provide the fast and convenient railway transportation service to all citizens. We are doing utmost to expand the metro railway network to help the residents in the metropolitan region to manage “leisurely evening with family.” KR also strives to connect the isolated railway lines to create “rural villages where people return” and the efficiency of railway use. Opening of Railways 3rd National Rail Network Plan ▪Effect of the 3rd National Rail KR is carrying out a project to extend the railway to 5,364 km by 2026. With the goal of connecting major Network Plan cities within two hours and metropolitan area within 30 minutes, we are expanding metro railways to Electrification* resolve traffic congestion and high-speed railway to enhance the transportation service for neglected regions. Other plans include efficient maintenance and advancement of management system for 82% (4,421km) ensuring optimized railway performance, modernization of North Korea’s railways, and connection with the transcontinental railroad. Modal share*: 20.8% in 2013 → 26.6% in 2026 [3rd National Rail Network Plan] Population serviced by HSR: 46% → 60% Vision Rail network to realize the happiness of people and regional development Population serviced by speed enhanced railways: 5%→ Goal 25% Ripple effect on local economy Efficient and Railway that Safe and convenient KRW 140.2 trillion competitive railway leads regional railway development ・Production: KRW 122.1 trillion ・Job creation: KRW 18.1 trillion * Electrification = length of electrified railways /  total length of railways Promotion Improve the efficiency of Provide high-speed mobility Solve traffic congestion in * Modal share: percentage of passengers and  railway operation service among footholds metropolitan area freight using rail transport tasks · Solve capacity shortage · Expand the coverage of HSR · Speed up main metro railways · Connect unconnected sections · Improve general railway · Improve access to suburb regions · Match the level of facilities · Build new fast general railway · Use existing rails for metro network Build safe and convenient Enhance the competitiveness Build an integrated rail facilities in railway logistics network in Korean Peninsula · Improve deteriorated facilities · Support industrial activities · Connect South-North railways · Strengthen operational safety · Improve cargo treatment facility · Prepare the operation of interKorean and continent railways · Improve convenience in rail use SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Opening of Pohang-Yeongdeok Section of Donghae Line APPENDIX KR opened the railway section between Pohang and Yeongdeok (44.1 km) of the Pohang-Samcheok (Donghae Line) Phase 1 (total length of 166.3 km) in January 2018. The transport time between two Strengthen regions shortened from one hour by car to 34 minutes and transfer connection with KTX at Pohang Station Rail is available, which will contribute to easing inconvenience of local people. This line also helps better accessibility to local tourist attractions such as Wolpo and Jangsa beach and Ganggu Port in Yeongdeok, Network contributing to the creation of new demand for tourism and local economic development. In reality, the number of tourists to these regions in 1Q 2018 increased 529 thousand from the previous year. Despite damages from a 5.4 magnitude earthquake in Pohang in November 2017, KR rapidly recovered damaged structures through emergency safety diagnosis, survey on impact scope, and efforts for securing safety. [Pohang~Yeongdeok Line] Time reduction 1h 50min 1h 20min 3h 10min After opening Before opening Seoul Samcheok (intecity bus) Pohang-Yeongdeok Line opening ceremony 2 tion Sec ine Time reduction Uljin ▪Expected Effects eL 1h 16min gha Don 3h 4min 4h 20min 166.3 km Mugunghwa+KTX Deluxe Express transfer Bus Yeongdeok Expanding national rail network Donghae Li Ganggu ne Section and promoting local development Jangsa 1 Time reduction 44.1 by building the East Sea Rim 26min km (14 times operation a day) Wolpo 34min 60min Pohang After opening Before opening (intecity bus) Expanding the coverage of KTX benefits and maximizing [Project History] investment effect by connecting with KTX Pohang Station 1997. 5. 2000. 12. 2006. 12. 2008. 3. 2015. 9. 2018. 1. 26. Feasibility study Master planning Working design Approval of Construction of Opening of Pohangof roadbeds working design, tracks, building, Yeongdeok Line groundbreaking of electricity, signal, and roadbeds telecommunication infrastructures [Key Figures for Pohang~Yeongdeok Line] 11-year construction 13 tunnels, total length 11 from 2008 to 2018 13 of 17km 5 stations (Pohang, 21 bridges, total length Wolpo, Jangsa, Ganggu, 21 of 11km 5 and Yeongdeok) Total length of engineering 16 works: around 16km 150 Design speed: 150km/h KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 41 PROMISE 1 Opening of Double-Track Electric Train in Sosa-Wonsi Section The Sosa-Wonsi double-track electric railway (Seohae Line) with the length of 23.3km connecting Bucheon, Siheung, and Ansan, started the construction in April 2011, was completed in June 2018. This project shortened transport time between two regions to only 33 minutes, a decrease of one hour. Upon the completion of Shinansan Line, Weolgot-Pangyo Line, and Gyeonggang Line (Yeoju-Wonju), it is possible to travel from the western metropolitan area to Gangneung by train. The Seohae Line will be the key longitudinal railway network in the west coastal area in the Korean Peninsula in the future. Sosa-Wonsi Line opening ceremony [Project Process] 2007. 12. 28. 2008. 8. 25. 2008. 9. 12. 2010. 12. 21. 2011. 3. 25. 2011. 4. 22. 2018. 6. 19. ▪Business Effects Notification of Submission of Designation of Agreement on the Notification Groundbreaking Opening of the the Sosa-Wonsi proporals preferred bidder project execution of approval of Sosa-Wonsi project's basic project execution double-track plan electric railway Provide transport services [Key Figures for Sosa-Wonsi double-tracked rail of Seohae Line] connecting southwest and southnorth metropolitan areas Construction period: 7 12 stations between years and 2 months from 7 Apr. 2011 to Jun. 2018 12 Sosa Station and Wonsi Station Construct wide rail network Total length of 23.4km 32 minutes from Sosa connecting Ansan Line, Gyeongin 23 between Sosa Station and Wonsi Station 32 Station to Wonsi Station Line, Gyeongui Line, Sinansan Line, and Seohae Line Standard speed of 132 times shuttle 41 41.3km/h 132 operation a day Opening of Railway Connecting the T2 of Incheon International Airport KR opened the 6.4km-long railway section that connected the Second Passenger Terminal in Incheon ▪Railway Project for the 2018 International Airport in January 2018. KR completed the transport support project for 2018 Pyeongchang Pyeongchang Winter Olympics Winter Olympics to construct a 284.3km-long railway from Incheon International Airport to Ganneung by Incheon investing more than 50,000 people per year and total project cost of KRW 424.8 billion for 54 months between Existing line International (Incheon 2013 and 2018. To ensure the safety and maximize the safety and transport efficiency of passengers, the Airport T2 International connection project applied the TRcM* and the shield TBM*, which minimize ground subsidence, to construct a railway in Airport T1-Susaek) railway project (48.8km) the underground of Incheon International Airport which had soft ground as a result of landfilling of the sea. (6.4km) * TRcM (TubularRoof Construction Method): A method of excavating a tunnel after installing a wall structure first to prevent ground subsidence and Speed-up underground water loss so as not to affect nearby facilities and facility Wonju-Gangneung *S  hield TBM (Shield Tunnel Boring Machine Method): A method of excavating a tunnel by cutting the ground with a cylindrical excavating improvement railway machine while inserting ground stabilizer to prevent a collapse of the surrounding ground of the existing construction line (Susaek(120.7km) Seowonju) (108.4km) [Railway Lines for Pyeongchang Winter Olympics and Connection with T2 of Incheon International Airport] Susaek-Seowonju high-speed railway Gangneung project (108.4km) Jinbu Daegwalleong Susaek Cheongnyangni Hoengseong Samcheok Mangu Pyeongchang Seoul Station Dunnae Incheon International Airport Seowonju Manjong (Wonju) Uljin Railway connection with T2 (6.4km) Wonju-Gangneung double-track railway (120.7km) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 42 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Connect Speeded up Railways and Expand Regional Rail Network APPENDIX Connect Missing Links and Construct Links with HSRs Strengthen KR is exerting utmost efforts at improving high speed rail links among major hubs around the country Rail by filling in missing links in the national rail network. In particular, projects to link Weolgot-Pangyo (39.4 km) and Yeoju-WonJu (21.8 km) sections have been begun for non-stop rail network between Network Incheon and Gangneung and projects to link Seojeongri-Jije (4.4 km) and Eocheon-Gyeongbu HSR (6.24 km) sections have been launched for enhanced high speed rail services in the capital region's Suwon, Incheon, Ansan and Hwaseong. In addition, Honam HSR Phase 2 project connecting Gomagweon and Imseongri is being implemented at full speed for improved transport services in regions south of Gwangju and to benefit airport users with high-speed rail transport services. [Speeded up railway connection between major hubs] Seoul-Busan (579.3km, 130min.) ・New links: Seoul Dongdaegu (opened in 2004) / Dongdaegu Busan (opened in 2010) / City centers of Daejeon and Daegu (completed in 2019) / Geoncheon link (opened in 2015) ・Existing line: Daegu-Busan ※ To be completed in 2021 Suwon-Busan (376.5km, 136min.) Osong-Mokpo (259.9km, 83min.) Suwon-Mokpo‧Gwanju Songjeong ・New connection lines: (Mokpo: 332.9km, 131 min. / Songjeong: 266.1km) Osong-Gwangju Songjeong (opened in Apr. 2015) / ・New connection lines: Seojeongni-Jije (plan to open in 2023) Gomakwon-Imseongni (plan to open in 2025) ・Existing line: Suwon-Seojeongni ・Existing line: Imseongni-Mokpo ・High-speed line: Jije-Busan‧Mokpo (Gyeongbu‧Honam HSR) Nationwide High・Improvement of existing line: Speed Railway Gwangju Songjeong-Gomakwon (started in 2017) Status Incheon Songdo-Busan (415.9km, 162min.) Suseo-Pyeongtaek Jije Incheon Songdo-Gwangju Songjeong‧Mokpo (61.1km, 122min. to Busan / 118min. to Mokpo) (Songjeong 318.3km, 107 min. / Mokpo 385.1km) ・New connection lines: Suseo-Dongtan-Jije (opened in 2016) ・New connection lines: Eocheon-Gyeongbu HSR lines (plan to open in 2024) ※ Completed in 2019 ・Intercity railway: Songdo-Eocheon ・HSR line: Gyeongbu & Honam HSR [High-Speed Railway Performance] Classification 2016 2017 2018 ∑(Length by line × maximum speed) (A) 433,979㎢/h 461,487㎢/h 490,605㎢/h High-Speed Total length of railways (B) 3,184.9km 3,256.0km 3,334.1km Railway High-speed railway performance (A/B) 136.261km/h 141.734km/h 147.148km/h KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 43 PROMISE 1 Expand Metropolitan Railway Network to Improve Transportation Convenience in Metropolitan Regions KR is actively carrying out the expansion of metropolitan railway network to improve transportation environment in metropolitan regions and increase the satisfaction of railway use. The opening of Magoknaru Station of Airport Railway in September 2018 shortened transportation time between New Town and Seoul Station by 15 minutes and transfer time into 3 minutes. Moreover, KR began the construction of the railway between Indeogweon and Dongtan (35.6km) to improve the metropolitan transportation system in the southwestern metropolitan area and undertook the construction of private-invested GTX-A (Woonjeong-Samseong, 42.7km) project to mitigate the long-distance commuting burden of residents in Goyang and Paju. [Expansion of Metropolitan Rail Networks] New conUnder construction struction ① Gyeryong-Sintanjin (35.4km, plan to open in 2023) ① Suwon-Incheon (52.8km, plan to open in 2019) ・Improve accessibility among regions around Daejeon ・Improve traffic convenience for people in southwestern ・Notify basic plan (Dec. 2018), undertake basic and metropolitan areas and increase transport capacity working design of roadbeds (2019) ・Oido-Songdo (opened in Jun. 2012), Songdo-Incheon (opened in Jun. 2016), Suwon-Hanyang Univ. at Ansan ② Indeokwon-Dongtan (35.6km, plan to open in 2026) (plan to open in 2019) ・Improve traffic convenience in Gwanggyo, Yeongtong, ② Yongsan-Gangnam of Sinbundang Line and Dongtan (7.8km, plan to open in 2024) ・Undertake working design (Sep. 2018) ・Improve accessibility of Pangyo, Gwanggyo, Bundang, ③ GTX-A Paju Unjeong-Samsung and Suji to Seoul (42.7km, plan to open in 2023) ・Roadbed construction of section 1 (Sinsa-Gangnam) (plan to open in 2019) ・Solve traffic congestion by taking only around 30 minutes from outer region to urban area ③ Samsung-Dongtan (39.5km, plan to open in 2021) ・Approval of working design (Dec. 2018), land ・Dispersion of metropolitan population by satisfying demand for transport in southeastern metropolitan area purchasing and roadbed construction (2019) ・Roadbed construction in entire five sections (plan to ④ Ansan-Yoido of Sinansan Line open in 2019) (43.6km, plan to open in 2024) ④ Danggogae-Jinjeop (14.9km, plan to open in 2021) ・Connect the center of Seoul and southwestern ・Solve traffic congestion in northeastern metropolitan areas metropolitan and build a linked transport system with ・Roadbed construction in entire four sections (plan to Gwangmyeong Station open in 2019) ・Sign an execution agreement (Dec. 2018), purchase ⑤ Gumi-Gyeongsan (61.85km, plan to open in 2021) land and undertake roadbed construction (2019) ・Improve traffic convenience in Daegu ▪Electrification Expansion of ・Improvement of existing five stations (Gumi, Waegwan, Daegu, Dongdaegu, and Gyeongsan) and roadbed Regional Rail Network construction (plan to complete in 2019) Classification 2016 2017 2018 Electrification 0.726 0.734 Reduce Environmental Pollution by Expanding Electric Railways rate* 183.1 Expansion of km* To provide low carbon, eco-friendly transportation service, KR is actively constructing electric railways. 168.9 176.0 regional rail Electric railway projects for the Gyeongjeon Line (Jinju-Gwangyang) and Janghang Line (Shinchang-Daeya) km km network began working design after the preliminary feasibility study. The Jinju-Gwangyang (51.5km) section, the * Electrification rate=Electrified railway distance only non-electric track of the Gyeongjeon Line connecting Yeongnam and Honam regions, will become [km]/total railway distance [km] electric railway by 2021, which will reduce logistics costs and shorten transportation time between two * O ur electrification rate has outperformed regions. Upon the completion of the Shinchang-Daeya (118.6km) electric train project in 2022, the Seohae advanced countries. Data in 2018 was excluded as it didn’t include in the management Line will become fully electric railways. KR intends to reduce air pollutants and increase train operation evaluation indices. speed and transport capacity by completing Weonju-Jecheon electric double-track, Icheon-Chungju electric single-track, and Dodam-Yeongcheon electric double-track construction projects. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 44 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Expand Global Business OUR PROMISE APPENDIX KR is strategically trying to enter the overseas markets based on the experience and capability accumulated while executing the railway construction and facility management projects in Korea. Since the consulting project for the high-speed railway in China in 2005, KR had received 61 railway projects in 18 countries as of 2018. Enhance Overseas Expansion Establish Overseas Business Strategic Plan to Secure Future Growth Engines With the shift of overseas business strategy from directly winning new orders to making joint inroads with SMEs, KR is focusing on developing new projects and joint participation in bidding for medium and largescale projects. To this end, KR has strived to build networks for strengthen order competitiveness and promote strategic order-receiving activities by forming a consortium with domestic and local partners. As a result, sales from overseas business driven by collaboration with SMEs reached KRW 67.52 billion in 2018. Strategy for Overseas Business Strategic goal Create jobs by exporting railway infrastructure and pursue sustainable growth through collaboration Obstacles Sluggish domestic railway market and difficulties in global business due to intensive competition By 2019 2020 ~ 2022 By 2025 Roadmap Expand new markets and Build systems and upgrade Evolve into a global railway collaboration competence company ・Promote large-scale ・Enhance overseas ・Enter advanced railway Major tasks overseas projects business capability markets ・Expand joint entrance ・Recruit professional man・Create a brand for with private companies power at home and abroad overseas business ▪Railway Project in Egypt Jul. 2018~Mar. 2022 Period (45 months) Lay a Foundation to Enter the Middle East and Africa Regions Around KRW 4 billion Expenditure (KRW 0.32 billion for KR) KR received the order for consulting service for Nagh Hammady-Luxor railway signal modernization project Consortium KR, ARTech, ACE(current) sized KRW 4.0 billion in June 2018 and began basic design and bidding support in July. This project aims to extend the railway to 118km and modernize the signal system in 16 stations to increase the railway transport capacity in Egypt. KR worked with a domestic SME and expects the project will expand the sales channel in the overseas railway market and create quality jobs. The order is the first railway project in Egypt and will be the bridgehead for Korean SMEs in the railway industry to enter the Middle East and North African markets. [Process for Winning Railway Project in Egypt] Foundation Strategy Performance Nagh Hammady -Luxor railroad map in Egypt Establish a foundation for winning Sign agreement on MOUs between KR Win an order for consulting on signal new orders by operating the railway and ordering organizations and build modernization of Nagahamadi-Luxor school five times since 2014 collaboration network with local players Line (118km) KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 45 PROMISE 1 Successfully Complete the First Project in Bangladesh KR completed the first railway project in Bangladesh, Chinki Astana Chittagong railway signal system modernization project sized KRW 2.2 billion, in July 2018. This project aims to modernize the signal system at 11 stations from existing electric interlocking devices to electronic ones for the purpose of increasing transportation volume through major railways (about 70km) in the eastern area of Bangladesh. KR executed this project jointly with SMEs and Seoul Metro. Beginning with the design and construction audit in 2014, it took 54 months to complete the project. Based on the experience, KR plans to expand the entry to the railway business in the South Asian region, which is undergoing rapid development, and contribute to the growth of Korean SMEs and creation of quality jobs. Implement the Government’s New Southern Policy by Focusing on Indonesian Market with Growth Potential KR fist participated in bidding the PPP (Public-Private Partnership) railway projects such as Jakarta LRT project and Makassar~Pare Pare railway construction project in Indonesia. We promoted excellent Korean railway technologies, shared our railway know-how accumulated over 120 years, and proposed joint entry to the railway business in third countries at the IIW* (Indonesia Infrastructure Week). Moreover, KR signed an MOU with Lotte and a local company for the development of Manggarai Station PR booth at the IIW (Indonesia Infrastructure Week) Commercial District and generated LRT 3-Step TOD (Transportation Oriented Development) Strategy. Indonesia which demonstrates the world’s fourth population and high growth potential in railway market will be the best partner for the Korean Government’s New Southern Policy. * IIW (Indonesia Infrastructure Week): Indonesia’s largest construction industrial exhibit held in Jakarta Expo each year since 2013 to introduce and promote Indonesia’s infrastructure development Strategic Order-Receiving Activities to Develop New Markets KR intends to expand its presence in the global railway markets by building network with local ordering organizations and partnering with leading local companies. Our current activities include developing new markets in South Asia including Sri Lanka, expanding Southeast Asian markets based on the bidding for consulting service for light railway in Manila, Philippines, entering the CIS countries through the Participation in the GICC bidding for audit service of railway upgrading in Azerbaijan, and exploring European markets through the participation in high-speed train in Turkey. KR is committed to developing new overseas railway markets jointly with domestic SMEs. [Strategic Order-Receiving Activities by Country] ・Enhance relationship with ordering companies by operating railway schools (Aug. 2018) ・Establish cooperative relationship with the Ministry of Traffic & Aviation of Sri Lanka Expand South through GICC* (Sep. 2018) Asian market → Win an order for engineering service for Candy suburban railway in Sri Lanka (KRW 6 (Sri Lanka) billion) * G ICC (Global Infrastructure Cooperation Conference): International conference for governments, ordering organizations, and financial firms Expand ・정부 고위급 수주지원단과 합동 수주지원 활동(2018.7) Southeast → 필리핀 마닐라 경전철 컨설팅 용역 입찰(80억원) Asian market * 국토부, 공단, 인천공항공사, 한국철도연구원, 한국지능형교통체계 협회 (Philippines) ・Strategic collaboration with European companies in the CIS region (Oct. 2018) Explore CIS → Win an order for railway improvement supervision in the Azerbaijani Public (KRW 8 market billion) * Build collaborative relationship with Temelsu (Turkey) to explore the CIS market Explore ・Promote entrance into Turkey market to build a bridgehead for European market European → Consultation for participating HSR project in Turkey (Oct. 2018) market * Collaboration with the Ministry of Transport and TCDD of Turkey (Turkey) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 46 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Technology Interchange and Cooperation APPENDIX Build Sustainable Export Ecosystem through Collaboration with Relevant Agencies Expand To enhance order capability in the global railway market and pursue shared growth with SMEs, KR is Global building a sustainable ecosystem for export with relevant organization. In 2018, we introduced the railway export support system and signed a business agreement with the Korea Railway Association to proactiveBusiness ly support SMEs’ overseas expansion including the obtainment of international certifications. Based on those, KR provides SMEs with systematic supports for training on certification, consulting, market survey, and total solutions for export. Moreover, KR signed an MOU with Korea Land and Housing Corporation, K-water, and Korea Expressway Corporation and introduced the youth internship for overseas infrastructure. A total of 26 interns to be dispatched to 13 countries were hired through this program. [Introduction of Railway Export Support System through Collaboration among the Government, KR, and KORASS] Ministry of Land, Performance Infrastructure and KR Transport ・Establish export support ・Build railway business policy support plans ・Support securing relevant ・Secure and manage budget Youth internship program for overseas budget infrastructure ・Assist private sector companies to obtain international certifications (4 companies, KRW 390 million) ・Conduct certification KORASS SMEs capability enhancement ・Select target companies to ・Expand application to trainings be supported international certifications *1 1 companies (30 persons, ・Train about international ・Explore new overseas KRW 110 million) certifications markets Secure Strategic Order Basis by Specializing Core Competency To respond to increasingly intensive global railway market, KR is proactive in conducting language education, utilizing professionals, and introducing core technology education programs to explore new markets in Southeast Asia and enhance order-receiving capabilities. We also held the “Railway School” in Sri Lanka, Egypt, and Indonesia to jointly conduct the technology training program with KOTRA to Training in Korea for Indonesian railway officials expand the technology interchange in the public sector and the overseas marketing. Moreover, a training program was implemented by inviting high-level public officials from Indonesia and six countries in Latin America to transfer Korea’s advanced railway technologies. More diverse programs will be developed to enhance the expertise needed to win orders. Strengthen Technology Interchange to Build the EARC With the aim of building the EARC (East Asian Railway Network), KR has been discussing with highlevel public officials in various countries and holding forums. We held the “Forum to Enter Overseas Construction Markets Using Smart Technologies” participated by 47 organizations including the MOLIT, Cooperation forum for overseas construction public organizations and private companies. Moreover, KR formed the task force to build the EARC and projects signed an MOU with Mongolia and Russia, which were the two countries in the Eurasian continent, for interchange and cooperation of railway technologies. KR intends to hold more meetings for cooperation in interchanging railway technologies to build the railway community in east Asia. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 47 PROMISE 1 Performances in Overseas Business Mongolia Nepal U.S.A. Egypt China Vietnam The BanglaPhilipdesh pines Thailand CamLaos eroon CamSudan bodia ParaIndoSinga18 countries guay nesia pore Malaysia India 61 projects China Bangladesh Paraguay India 2005  onstruction supervision on SuC 2013  onsulting on signal modernizaC 2011 P  MC for railway construction feasi2012 C  onsulting on working design for Ching line tion in eastern area bility study HSR 2006 Construction process supervision 2015 Construction supervision on 2014 F/S for intercity railway construction 2015 F/S for improving Delhi-Mumbai on Wu-Guang line Akhaura-Laksam line 2015 Consultation on bidding the main line 2008 Engineering consulting on Ha-Da 2016 Supervision on Akhaura-Laksam contract of light rail project PM contract for Lucknow Metro line line 2016 F/S for New Delhi Station modern2010 Engineering consulting on Xi-Bao 2018 Additional consulting on signal ization line modernization in eastern area Indonesia Engineering consulting on Tian-Qin (contract revision) 2011 P  MC for Jabotabek master plan line Nepal 2012 Invitation of railway officers for Engineering consulting on Pan-Xin training 2011 F/S for Kathmandu city railway line Vietnam Laos 2014 Invitation of railway officers for Working design for electric railway Engineering consulting on Ha-Qi 2012  upervision on railway improveS training phase 1 line ment 2015 F/S for HSR phase 2 2012 Working design for electric railway Technical consulting on Lan-Xing 2015 Laos-Vietnam connection F/S PM 2016 Pre-F/S for Jakarta LRT phase 2 section 2-1 line (Xingang section) service Construction of Jakarta LRT1 Working design for electric railway Technical consulting on Lan-Xing system section 2-2 line (Gamcheong section) 2017 Pre-F/S for Jakarta-Surabaya line 2014 Invitation of railway officers for Construction supervision on Malaysia Singapore 2018 Invitation of senior railway officers training Chang-Kun line (Guizhou section) for training 2015 Invitation of railway officers for Construction supervision on 2012  stablishment of MRT communicaE Establishment of the TOD strategy training Chang-Kun line (Yunnan section) tion system PMC for Jakarta LRT phase 3 2016 Working design for electric railway 2012 Construction supervision on 2015 Advancement of MRT communicasection 4-1 Zheng-Xu line tion system PMC Working design for electric railway 2014 Construction supervision on BeiShen line (Liaoning section) Mongolia section 4-2 2015 Construction supervision on Bei2013 I nvitation of railway officers for Shen line (Beijing section 5) Cambodia training Construction supervision on ShanEgypt 2011 PMC for railway master plan 2015 Invitation of railway officers for Hef-Hang line (Anhui-Zhejiang 2012 Invitation of railway officers for training 2018 T  echnical service for Nagahamasection) training da-Luxor line signal modernization Construction supervision on Zheng-Nam line (Chongging secThe Philippines tion) Sudan Cameroon 2014 C  ivil engineering supervision on 2014 I nvitation of railway officers for Manila LRT-2 line 2009 C  onsulting on building the railway Thailand training master plan 2017 P  re-F/S for east-west railway in the 2011 F/S for railway construction U.S.A. northern area 2013 Consultation on HSR in California SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 48 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Develop Railway Technologies OUR PROMISE APPENDIX *G lobal Technology Level KR is implementing the core railway technology development plan based on the Fourth The level of Korea’s railway technology compared with the highest global level Industrial Revolution. With the goal of “developing safe and comfortable railway technologies to fulfill social values,” we set up four strategies of “strengthening railway competitiveness,” (Technology Level Report of the Korea Agency for Infrastructure Technology Advancement) (Unit : points) “improving social value of railway,” “leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies,” and “pursuing shared growth” and 12 strategic tasks. KR is currently focusing on implementing Comparison of the railway technology in 2018 Hi-Five+, safety and environmental technology development, Fourth Industrial technologies Global KR Comparison such as IoT* and ICT*, and technical support for shared growth and has the goal of achieving 95% of global technology level* in 2025. 100.0 82.6 Vs. Germany Secure Railway Technology Competitiveness Opening of Comprehensive Railway Test Line for Self-Sufficiency of Railway Technology On March 2019, KR completed the construction of Korea’s first comprehensive railway test line to test trains, railway devices, systems, and new technologies. The 12.990 km-long core infrastructure railway testing between Jeondong-myeon in Sejong City and Osong-eup in Cheongju City along Seoul-Busan Opening of Comprehensive Railway Test Track (15 March 2019) KTX can test 447 types in 198 subjects including train, track, bridge, system, noise, and aerodynamics. It enables the efficient field demonstration of new railway technologies and systematic verification of new technologies to minimize railway accidents or failures and greatly improve the railway technical competitiveness in Korea. [Test Items of Comprehensive Railway Test Line] Aerodynamic* test, riding Vibration test and Rail switch test Concrete track test Electric railroad test comfort, and vibration test navigation stability test (signal sector) (rail sector) (subway sector) (tunnel/train sector) (train sector) ▪Summary of the Comprehensive Railway Test Line Start point Total length (current) 0km Seochang Station 12.990km Subway Integrated End of line control (current) 12km 989.98 substation center Maximum speed Osong Jeondong Station base 250km/h Test tunnel #1 Test tunnel #2 Test bridge #8 DC Test bridge #7 Test bridge #1 Test tunnel #3 R=250 Test Test tunnel #4 substation tunnel Test tunnel #5 R=400 Major facilities Test bridge #2 #6 Test bridge #3 9bridges(1.5km) Test bridge #4 Test bridge #5 Test bridge #6 6tunnels(4.2km) Power AC transformaBridge remodeling High-speed track Soundproof wall, Earthwork(7.3km) tion test (transformaTrain stopping test Gradient* starting and change test switch* test noise, and vibration (signal sector) test (train sector) Track(16.075km) tion sector) (bridge sector) (rail sector) test (rail sector) Test items 198items 447kinds * Aerodynamic: Interactive power in accordance with relative motion between an object and air * Gradient: Slope of rail * Rail switch: Facility on the rail that moves train to another rail KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 49 PROMISE 1 Develop Core Technologies through Collaboration with SMEs KR created the Integrated Technology Market for SOC Public Institutions to support commercialization and sales channel for innovative technologies of SMEs in SOC. Unlike other platforms, KR’s platform provides one-stop support from the technology development stage to purchase. The SMEs can receive the information on the support system and the new technology contest plan, propose the technology R&D to public institutions, and promote their capabilities. KR intends to use the integrated technology market to support the growth of SMEs by resolving the entry barrier of technology development and localizing various railway parts such as smart power quality improvement system. Agreement ceremony for the SOC integrated technology market [Operation of the Integrated Technology Market] Existing methods Integrated technology market for SOC-related public institutions Technology Integrated technology market contest Individual for SOC-related public SOC-related public institutions SME PR of public institution SME (contest, proposal, and PR of technology institutions technologies) Internalize Railway Facility Design KR strives to improve the processes from the railway facility design to construction to secure the best quality railway network. We instituted the Hold Point scheme to set the inspection point for technical review in each area so that internal and external expert group can inspect and approve using a checklist before proceeding to the next stage. Moreover, the group review by experts at each Hold Point improves the design quality and accumulates the know-how of design service supervisor. KR intends to expand this scheme to improve the administrative procedure of the design and enhance the design know-how and expertise. [Hold Point Process] YES Hold Hold Inspection Suitability? Next stage Point Point NO Classification Roadbed Construction Hold Point 32 items including technical review 17 items including technical review Inspector Engineering service supervisor + Internal & external expert group First Real-Time Disclosure of the Entire Compensation Process among Public Institutions *GIS (Geographic Information System) : A system that inputs, informationizes, and treats geographic information and then, provides KR developed KR-Land Compensation System based on GIS* to disclose the entire process of information tailored to demand of users compensating for land to owners through the Internet and mobile. In the past, the people had to visit KR to read the land compensation information in documents. Anyone now can check whether their land is included, the progress of compensation, checking compensation amount and file an objection, and file complaints. People can also check the history of the transfer of land registration. As a result, KR expects to save about 54,979 hours and KRW 1.8 billion in cost for the railway construction process from the approval of the project to the acquisition of properties. KR intends to continue to improve the efficiency and quality of public services by applying innovative technologies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 50 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution APPENDIX Implement the Hi-Five+, Five Advanced Innovative Technologies Develop KR is carrying out the Hi-Five+ program, an upgraded version of Hi-Five*, to improve the competitiveness of Railway the railway industry. The Hi-Five+ is the advancement program to sophisticate five innovative technologies by commercializing and standardizing three core technologies developed by the Hi-Five program and Technologies developing two new technologies. The KR ECS*, one of Hi-Five technologies, was tested for the speed up to 200-400km/h and applied to Honam and capital region KTX, and Weonju-Gangneung KTX. The KR LAS* was applied to Suseo KTX and Pyeongchang Olympics Support project (Incheon International Airport Gangneung) and received a patent in August 2018. KR intends to continue to lead the future railway industry by commercializing and advancing innovative technologies. * Hi-Five : High Five Innovative Valuable Engineering * KR ECS(KR Express Catenary System) : A system that supplies stable electricity to trains * KR LAS(KR Line Allocation System) : A system that allocates the tracks by adjusting the train operation count, sequence, and time [Hi-Five+, Five Advanced Innovative Technologies] 1 4 KR Power Supply KR Railway Fastening System (KR PSS) Device (KR RFD) A system to supply A system that fastens the power needed for 2 rails to enable trains to train operation operate safely Integrated Railway Wireless Network (LTE-R) A smart railway communication system that transfers high-capacity data (image and multimedia contents) in high speed over the LTE network 5 KR Smart Energy System 3 (KR SGS) Railway Control System An energy storage (KTCS-2) system (ESS) for new and A system that understands renewable energy to supply the train position and the photovoltaic and speed in real-time and internal power, reduce the automatically prevents peak power, and supply the collision emergency power * IoT (Internet of Things) : The technology or environment of having objects exchanging Create Demand for Innovative Growth by Leading the Fourth Industrial data through the Internet with sensors Revolution Technologies attached to the objects * I CT (Information and Communication KR is improving social values by increasing the convenience of railway users and preventing accidents Te c h n o l o g i e s ) : A n o v e ra l l t e r m f o r t h e i n f o r m at i o n te c h n o l o g y a n d t h e through the R&D and commercialization of the Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies. We plan to communication technology develop IoT*-based smart railway facility management system to collect, analyze, and accumulate the * A I (Artificial Intelligence): An advanced computer program that mimics human data to enable the remote monitoring of railway facilities and use them to forecast and prevent accident intelligence using the logical method that and maintain facilities efficiently. Moreover, KR intends to provide customized information, improve the thinks, learns, and decides like humans atmospheric environment, and reduce energy by developing the smart station based on ICT* and AI*. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 51 PROMISE 1 [Smart Station & Smart Railway Facility Management System] Development of smart stations Smart railway facility management system [Convenience improvement] [Efficient maintenance] Real-time facility information measurement ▶ remote inspection Offering tailored information through ICT technologies ▶ [Accident prevention] Creating big data ▶ possible to anticipate accidents congestion↓, convenience↑ Monitoring of [Efficient maintenance] tunnel condition Efficient energy use and DB accumulation Monitoring of Monitoring of entire Monitoring of slope condition track and rail track condition Measurement vehicle Information app. Maintenance Context awareness Drone DID IoT Platform Sensor AP Rail space Weather disaster Monitoring of Monitoring of road Railway safety information sensor bridge condition condition facility Train Waiting Platform room Platform Maintenance history and Real-time disaster information Measurement information (vehicle) inspection information (IoT, drone, etc.) Smart railway facility ˙Efficient maintenance work by analyzing and sharing railway facility condition management system ˙Prevention of railway accidents and optimized maintenance World’s First Development of the Korean Train Control System (KTCS-2) KR collaborated with 15 organizations in the industry, academia, and research and developed KTCS-2* * K TCS-2 (Korean Radio-based Train Control Sy s tem) : A t r ain cont rol s y s tem t hat is to overcome the constrained integration of operation due to the different train control system in each compatible with the international standard and route and time. The system was tested in the 180km section between Iksan and Yeosu of Jeolla Line in applies the 4G LTE-R optimized for the railway environment to control high-speed trains 2018. KR plans to carry out a pilot test in a commercial line until 2021 to stabilize the system, verify the operating at the speed of up to 400km/h. performance, and attain operation know-how. It will be applied to entire national rail network by 2032. * E TCS (European Train Control System) : The It is compatible with ETCS* and can substitute imports, increase the transport capacity by 16%, and European train control system developed in 1991 by the International Union of Railways to be improve operational stability. It will also contribute to creating new jobs in the domestic railway business. standard system applied to countries in Europe Effects from the KTCS-2 Existing Improved ・[Transfer] Wire / [Telecommunication] VHF, TRS (low・[Transfer] Wireless / [Telecommunication] LTE-R capacity transfer) (high-capacity transfer) ・[Compatibility] Difference in high-speed, general, wide ・[Compatibility] Unification of train control systems railways ▶ High-speed (ATC), general (ATP), wide (CBTC) ▶ Compatible in both Korea and Europe Movement RBC Authority (Radio Block Center) (MA) location information On-vehicle (LTE-R) equipment On-vehicle Balise (variable, fixed) equipment Engineer ▪High Speed Track Inspection Car Track circuit (fixed block) Balise (variable, fixed) (train location detection, train integrity confirmation) Track circuit (fixed block) Line Side Electronic (train location detection, train Computer Based Unit (LEU) integrity confirmation) Computer Based Electric rail Interlocking Interlocking inspection Signal inspection Efficient Maintenance with Cutting-Edge Equipment and System Gathering Location & analyzing KR manages life cycle of advanced facilities and identifies problems in facility operation in advance based detection data on bid data analysis by building a comprehensive railway facility information pilot system. Drone is utilized Train vibration for the management of protective districts to conduct safer field survey. We are also introducing the cuttingmeasurement edge repair equipment such as track inspection car, high-speed inspection car, remote monitoring system, Track and small stemming system for inspection automation and repair mechanization. Such cutting-edge measurement equipment and system are helpful in improving the durability of railway facilities and timely maintenance. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 52 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Improve Railway Asset Values OUR PROMISE APPENDIX KR has been establishing a clear standard and system to operate railway assets efficiently. Moreover, we strive to promote local economy, contribute to creating quality jobs, and balancing the profitability and public interest by utilizing idle lands for resident-friendly projects. Efficient Operation of Railway Assets Expand the Authority as the Railway Facility Manager KR is improving its financial soundness by recovering investment timely through railway facility usage fees and reinvesting its railway facility to complete the virtuous cycle of investing. In December 2018, we acquired assets of 28 completed projects and added the general railway facility management rights (KRW 2.4694 trillion) to secure KRW 609.7 billion for debt redemption. Moreover, KR developed the track and station facility fee calculation system following the restructuring of the unit usage fee to manage the national property history more efficiently. KR intends to carry out its role as the railway facility manager faithfully by utilizing railway facilities and assets with consideration to profitability and efficiency. Excellent institution in state-owned asset Efficient Management of National Properties management KR established the system to manage and utilize the national properties consistently. The Asset Operation Group was launched to strengthen the cycle of “asset utilization, development, and private-invested station.” Under the vision of “Increasing Profitability and Social Value through Optimized Rail Asset Utilization,” the “2022 Mid to Long-term Asset Operation Strategy” was established. Especially, to increase revenue from asset operation, KR established a mid to long-term asset management plan (544 plots for KRW 35.5 billion) to prepare the order of priority and private contract criteria and conducted fact-finding surveys on uncoupled sections of Donghae Line by utilizing drones. We also collaborated with local governments to identify ways to utilize idle lands including the guidelines for utilization of the unused track in Donghae Nambu Line (Gijang Ilgwang Station-Gyeongju Bujo Station, 78.8km). These efforts resulted in creating KRW 158.2 billion from leasing assets in 2018 and being selected as the outstanding agency for national property management by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance for the first time among the public institutions. Strategy of the 2022 Midto Long-term Asset Operation Group ▪Lease Revenue in 2018 Vision Improve profitability and social value by optimizing railway asset utilization KRW 158.2 billion Revenue from assets Asset development SPC Creation of social jobs 330 50 28,000 persons Goal (2022) KRW billion a year units (up 24% YoY) Enhance (Unit : KRW in billions) Strategic Expand revenue Diversify Realize social Reorganize asset organization direction from asset development value operation base capability and 2017 2018 Change and tasks operation projects professionalism 128.0 158.2 30.2 ・Increase gains on ・Expand station area ・Utilize idle lands of ・Enhance asset man・Expand developusage fee development local governments agement authority ment by SPCs ・Increase gains on ・Develop transit centers ・Create social jobs ・Strengthen acquisi・Establish subsidiaroccupation fee at complex stations ・Support social ecotion and disposal of ies ・Expand usage of ・Expand development of nomic enterprises state-owned assets ・Expand asset operaspace under bridges existing railway facilities ・Organize a council ・Preemptively mantion organization ・Expand usage of ・Enhance management for asset operation age idle lands ・Prepare working non-constructed of private stations to be ・Strengthen cooper・Prepare performanuals Donghae Line reverted to the governation with KORAIL mance-based com・Cultivate talents ・Efforts for collecting ment pensation system receivables ・Connect development ・Improve process with railway construcsystems tion KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 53 PROMISE 1 [Active Asset Utilization Based on Regional Characteristic and Creative Ideas] ・Maegok waste station of Jungang Line → Camping and experience ground (KRW 11 million) Reuse of waste ・Osan waste tunnel → Wine Byeolbit tunnel (KRW 18 million) facilities ・Milyang waste tunnel → Twin tunnel and tourism attraction (KRW 36 million) ・Pyeongchan Olympics support facilities → Tourism platform and parking lot (KRW 60 million) ・Space under bridge at Chuncheon station → Container-type art creation space Space under bridge ・On-deck parking lot at Busan station → Attraction of solar power generation pilot project and on railway ・Underground section in Gangneung → Flea market on Monday and Tuesday (KRW 70 million) ・Daejeon station → Attraction of short-term ads (KRW 220 million) Short-term ・Gyeonggang Line/Poseung ~ Pyeongtaek Line → Storage yard for construction (KRW 65 million) leasing ・Equipment vehicle → Revenue from leasing for supporting construction and maintenance (KRW 3.3 billion) ・Locked lands around railway → Soundproof wall equipped with solar power facility (KRW 10 million) Lands adjacent ・Track side area of Noryangjin station → Ad board (KRW 14 million) to railway ・Rail protection district → Site office and storage yard (KRW 83 million) ・Additional fee collection after joint site inspection with common carriers (KRW 67 million) Prevention of ・Ad status study with KORAIL (KRW 60 million) fee leakage ・New revenue after factual survey of state-owned assets (KRW 371 million) Secure New Growth Engines by Developing Railway Assets Develop Railway Facility Assets KR promotes rapid asset development projects through collaboration with stakeholders. The operation of a parking lot (D district) at Hongik University Station and Gwangmyeong Station initiated in 2018 for convenience of local people. As for the Suseo Station development, we formed a council participated by the local government and people to hold workshops with residents, briefing, and compensation council meetings to discuss the ways to share the profits from the development. This effort helped us to resolve conflicts with landowners and residents. KR’s asset development based on participation, collaboration, and sharing created 3,571 jobs in addition to the promotion of local economy and urban regeneration. Transfer parking lot D district at Gwangmyeong Stabilize the Operation of Returned Private-Invested Stations Station KR has implemented a plan for stable operation of existing private-invested Seoul Station and Yeongdeungpo Station which were returned to the government after the expiration of occupation period (30 years). Two-year clearance period was given to leaseholders and workforce was dispatched to those stations for facility supervision. We also held an idea contest to utilize the commercial section (1,055 ㎡) in the Seoul Station. A total of 131 ideas were submitted and excellent ideas were adopted to the project. For example, KR opened the first Chick-Chick Cook-Cook, youth food business startup support center, in December 2018, through which 92 jobs were created. In 2018, operating revenue of KRW 28.4 billion, up KRW 15.5 billion year-on-year, was created from operating private-invested stations. Opening of the Chick-Chick Cook-Cook [Promotion of the Youth Food Startup Support Center “Chick-Chick Cook-Cook”] Collaboration system Financial support, etc. Consulting & operation Follow-up management Offering of Operation of ・Provide basic ・6 months (mento・Give excellent startup space KR Chick-Chick infrastructure ring) + 6 months participants opporfor free Cook-Cook including interior (sales activities) tunities for entering design the food court MOLIT Startup Seoul City ・Provide coaching ・Conduct the 2nd ・Install shared services of experts session after manTransfer Support of kitchen facilities in laws, accounting, aging performancPrivate startup experts and PR incubation sector es of the 1st session knowhow (MOU) (9 shops) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 54 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Creation of Social Value PROMISE 2 Management Approach To improve the social values of railway, KR has organized the Quality Job Creation Promotion Unit (T/F), created jobs based on 5-year roadmap, and conducted social contribution activities for local communities. Moreover, we strive to prevent corruption risk and establish fair contracting through collaborative with suppliers and disperse the protection of human rights of employees, citizens, and suppliers to strengthen the public interest of railway. Major Performance Minister Citation of Health 6,566 10.5 94.65 and Welfare in 2018 (In commemoration of 70th persons hours points anniversary of ChildFund Korea) Job creation Time spent on Satisfaction of Award community suppliers service per capita In This Section 01_ Job Creation 03_ Shared Growth 02_ Social Contribution 04_ Enhancement of Human Rights Management KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 55 PROMISE 2 Job Creation KR organized the Quality Job Creation Promotion Unit (T/F) in May 2018 and established the Five-Year (2018-2022) Roadmap for Job Creation to carry out the enterprise-wide efforts with the goal of creating 37,000 jobs in public and private sectors by 2022. Expand the Foundation for Job Creation to Realize Sustainable Social Values Implementation Strategy for Sustainable Job Creation KR is carrying out the quality job creation strategy to revitalize the stagnant national economy and restore the virtuous cycle of Growth Job Distribution. We established three strategic directions of “quality jobs led by railway,” shared jobs with people,” and “new jobs for the future” under the vision of “fulfillment of social values by creating quality jobs” as the strategy implementation system. As for the detailed measures, KR selected 10 programs such as the expansion of new hiring through job sharing and linked them with KPI for the systematic execution and management of the strategic tasks. Sustainable Job Creation Scheme Vision Realize social value through creating quality jobs Goal Create 36,900 jobs by 2022 (6,560 jobs in 2018) Strategic direction Railway related Sharing jobs Future-oriented quality jobs with people new jobs Execution ・Expand investment in ・Increase new ・Accelerate the utilization strategies railway construction and employment through job of idle lands and station (10 agendas) improvement sharing facilities ・Eliminate power abuse ・Expand employment of ・Cultivate the 4th and improve working the socially marginalized Industrial Revolution and environment new growth businesses ・Create jobs and improve ・Create innovative jobs ・Strengthen shared systems to ensure quality through private-public growth and co-prosperity cooperation with SMEs ・Form a job ecosystem together with local communities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 56 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Establish and Operate Job Creation System APPENDIX KR organized the Quality Job Creation Promotion Unit (T/F) to build an ecosystem for sustainable job creation as part of our commitment to realizing social value that ensure publicness, public interest, Job Creation and community spirit. We have also continued communication with stakeholders including suppliers and non-regular workers to improve their labor conditions and sought diverse utilization methods of railway facilities. As a result, a total of 6,566 quality jobs, up 10% compared with our target of 5,933 were created in 2018. Going forward, KR will create quality jobs by revamping HR systems and utilizing railway facilities. Reorganization for Better Job Creation 좋은 일자리 창출 추진단 TF (단장 CEO) Existing Improved Regular Job Job Planning Youth Job Quality Job Team New Job Team Job Planning Transition Team(Head of Team(Head of (Head of Construc(Head of Facility Team Planning Div.) Management Div.) tion Div.) Div.) Team •P  romote rapid decision-making by elevating team leader level to Div. head Railway New Growth from Dept. head Business Team Business Team •R  ealize social value through creating sustainable quality jobs • J ob creation support system Reorganization Details led by general manager (Head of Planning Div.), team leader • Complete the change to regular position and focus Youth Job Team (Dept. head), and team member on the government-led youth job creation (manager level) Quality Job • Improve the quality of jobs (guaranteed wage, • Focus on employment stability Team better labor condition, etc.) beyond job creation and labor conditions by changing non-regular position • Realize social value by creating jobs through the New Job Team to regular one utilization of idle lands and station facilities Create Quality Jobs for Public Interest Create “Innovative” Jobs by Supporting Youth Startups KR has strived to transform idle lands under railway bridges and part of stations into spaces for youth startup. For example, the “Station-G,” a platform under a bridge of Gojan Station in Ansan, provides young potential entrepreneurs with offices for free. Moreover, KR opened the Chick-Chick Cook-Cook, a food business startup support center for youths, in the corner of former Seoul Station. The food court “Station-G” located in space under the bridge of Gojan Station. Ansan-si offers many benefits such as exemption of the facility usage fee and the public facility management fee to help tenants overcome many difficulties at the beginning. The projects created 1,318 jobs. Expand Jobs in the Private Sector through Diversification of Asset Development KR has initiated 27 projects such as building complex stations, constructing transfer centers, developing station areas, and installing solar power facilities by utilizing idle railway assets, contributing to creating jobs for local communities. In particular, the Hongik University Station development project included the creation of Book Park, childcare facility, and business startup support center. These facilities are available for free. In 2018, KR was selected as the outstanding agency for national property management by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance for the first time among public institutions in recognition for Development of Hongik Univ. Station improving the living environment of residents and creating 3,517 jobs by utilizing idle assets. KR plans to (Gyeongui Line) as a complex station expand the number of asset development projects to 50 by 2020 for more job creation. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 57 PROMISE 2 Create Jobs in the Public Sector with “Warm-Hearted Companion” KR leads employment stability and job sharing by restructuring human resources system. We restructured the management of the job quota and status such as job opening and supplementation and advanced notice of leave of absence. As a result, it was able to substitute 100% of 29 vacancy due to leave of absence and expanded new hiring (106 people) through new projects and insourcing of railway safety duties in 2018. Moreover, our goal of youth employment has been achieved for five years in a row despite setting up an aggressive goal. Most of all, we organized a decision-making body for job transition and converted 347 non-regular workers to regular ones through continuous company-wide communication. KR intends to continue to lead in creating sustainable and stable jobs so that more people can share the benefits. [Achievement of Alternative Employment and Aggressive Employment Goals] Youth employment goal (5 years in a row) (Unit: %) 7.4 Alternative employment to 5.8 Youth employment 87 leave users (Unit: %) 3.1 3.4 3.1 persons 2017 25.9 3% 5.8% of fixed number. 2018 100 Passed the legal requirement (3%) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and goal (5%) [Additional Employment of 133 Persons beyond Quota] Transition to regular position For new business : 347 persons : 24 persons Employment Additional 415 133 quota employment 548 Wage peak system Alternative employment to : 14 persons leave users : 29 persons Total persons The largest-ever persons persons employment since Vacancy including retirees Youth interns : 54 persons : 80 persons the founding in 2004 Create Quality Jobs in the Private Sector by Building an Ecosystem for Innovative Growth KR is creating jobs in the private sector by localizing core railway technologies through the collaboration of the industry, academia, and research and disclosing the technology standard to the public to expand the opportunity to purchase the products from the private sector. The development of the world’s first LTE-based integrated railway wireless network and train control system are two of the examples. The development is expected to substitute imports worth KRW 1.3 trillion and create 70,000 jobs by 2023. Support for Matching of Job Seekers and Employers through the Job Portal KR has created a hotline between job seekers and employers in its KR Job Portal to provide customized jobs. A job seeker can register information such as the type of job, region, and working type in the portal which then searches the job opening pool of KR and its more than 1,000 vendors and sends a text message to notify if it finds the matching job. Moreover, it interfaces to the government-operated websites such as “Korea Job Situation Board” and “Job Center” so that job seekers can access the job information quickly. Employment of new staff Suppliers’ employment Hope Ladder for SMEs Job creation portal on KR’s website SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 58 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Social Contribution OUR PROMISE APPENDIX KR strives to support community residents and socially underprivileged by expanding the network with local societies. KR utilizes railway assets to create facilities for self-sufficiency and econ-friendly space to promote the local economy and expands the public values through sharing activities. Utilize Railway Facilities Realize Social Values by Utilizing Railway Infrastructure for Public Interest KR strives to go beyond the efficient railway operation by strengthening the public interest of railway assets. In 2018, in collaboration with Namyangju City Hall, KORAIL, private daycare foundations, and Public Workers Solidarity Foundation, we opened a daycare center in the Pyeongnae Hopyeong Station, contributing to easing childcare burden of residents and solving low birth problem. In particular, utilization of idle lands is promoted to support self-sufficiency of the underprivileged and vitalize local economies. In 2018, KR opened the “Bridge-Zone” on idle railway lands in collaboration with the local government to provide self-support spaces such as pop-up stores and flea markets to NGOs, young entrepreneurs, and small businesses. In addition, we selected 9 places, including culture and art platforms, to promote resident-friendly areas. KR will make a concerted effort to solve social problems and improve welfare through creative utilization of the railway infrastructure. [Promotion of Railway Asset Utilization Projects and Effects] 기대효과 Space under ・[Station-G] Mobile module-type office and workroom ⇨ Plan to expand to 5 Create jobs for 40 startup bridge stations (Sangnoksu‧Choji‧Nokyang‧Geumchon‧Wolgot) preparers Startup ・[Chick-Chick Cook-Cook] Youth food startup support center at former Seoul Station Create 92 direct and space Former Seoul Operation period: one year (incubation for 6 months → direct management for 6 indirect jobs Station months) ・Promote lease to the socially marginalized (Bridge-ZONE) Create jobs for 10 startup Idle lands KR Goyang-si Urban Restoration Lease to Center(Managepreparers the socially (Approval of use) (Facility installation) ment & operation) marginalized ・Build a daycare center under a station to solve nursing issues Operation by Namyangju City to lighten the burden of parents Location Before construction After construction Quota: 30 children Space under Gyeongchun bridge Line Lighten the burden of Incubation space Pyeongnaehoparents pyeong Station 270㎡ KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 59 PROMISE 2 [Facility Arrangement of the Station-G] ▪Idle Land Utilization Projects in 2018 Startup Zone Collaboration Zone Community Zone • Gyeonggi-do Youth startup space 8 standard-module containers One large-scale module One small-scale module • Ansan Culture and art platform container container • Incheon Urban forest (Integration of 4 standard(One-half size of standard• Goyang Lease to the socially marginalized module containers) module container) Gongju • Gongju Station culture platform Chuncheon • Container-type startup space Daegu • Environmental improvement Gyeongsan • Rest area for local people Expand Comfortable and Convenient Railway Facilities Gimhae • Forest on waste railways KR has been working to improve soundproof and traffic facilities. To solve inconvenience of residents due to noise and vibration, we established a plan to install soundproof facilities by 2022. This plan has * 지자체 기준 been implemented with the priority according to the noise level. Moreover, we expanded the width and height of the underground road below the railway to two lanes and 4m from one lane and 2.5m to prevent accidents and enable large trucks to enter. In addition, KR agreed with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and local governments to install 13 multidimensional crosswalks to prevent crosswalk accidents that occur on an average of 10 cases per year, thereby laying a foundation for project execution through the public notification in December 2018. [Midto Long-term Soundproof Facilities Installation Plan] Necessity Solutions ・Increasing civil complaints about noise ・Prioritize soundproof wall 14.0 14.3 Total length 327 384 324 334 installation according to noise level 9.1 9.7 50.3km 224 ・Establish a midto long-term Budget plan considering budget and 3.2 245 251 278 environment (May) 170 KRW 106.2 118 No. of complaints [Period] 2018~2022 [Budget] KRW 106.2 billion billion (Unit: cases) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 [Underpass Expansion] Naepan Underpass Namdong Over Road Bridge Before After Before After improvement improvement improvement improvement Single lane Double lane Single lane Double lane Width 2.5m Width 9.5m Width 5m Width 10m Height 2.5m Height 4.5m Height 3.9m Height 4.5m SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 60 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Sharing Activities for Local Communities APPENDIX Improve Child Welfare through the “KR Hope Project” Social Since 2010, KR has organized the “KR Youth Group” consisting of marginalized teenagers living around Contribution the head office and five regional offices and performed the “KR Hope Project.” Major programs include granting monthly scholarships, supporting school fee, uniform, and supplies, providing opportunities to experience diverse rail culture, and sharing Kimchi. These efforts resulted in winning the Minister Citation of Health and Welfare in 2018. In addition to physical support, KR strives to practice sharing to create new social values linked to KR’s characteristics and capability. * KR Youth Group : Organized of 100 elementary, middle school, and high school students from the underprivileged families including 40 from Daejeon and Chungcheong near KR’s head office, and 15 each from the Yeongnam, Gangwon, Honam regions Expenditure and Beneficiaries of the KR Hope Project (since 2010) Over 800persons KRW 898million The KR Boy Scouts visiting facility equipment office Operate the Railway School in Sri Lanka, Egypt, and Indonesia KR carries out the local education of public officials in developing countries such as Sri Lanka, Egypt, and Indonesia about railway technology and railway project know-how as part of its CSR* program. Particularly, we held the “Railway School” for 30 public officials in Sri Lanka as a comprehensive technology training program to introduce Korea’s railway technology, PPP*, and light train project know-how. This program was also offered to 30 public officials in Egypt about railway construction practical technology related to Luxor signal modernization project and 30 public officials in Railway school in Sri Lanka Indonesia about railway technology related to the Makassar Pare Pare railway construction project. Such customized railway technology education has been held in eight countries, including Egypt, in cooperation with KOTRA since 2014. The program was so favorably accepted that 100% of trainees were satisfied with and hoped to participate again. KR’s high-quality education program is contributing to the creation of global social values while training the local railway personnel and strengthening the relationship with customers. * CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) : The management technique of fulfilling the legal and ethical responsibilities required by stakeholders in addition to seeking profits * PPP (Public-Private Partnership) : A scheme in which the private sector is responsible for investment, construction, and maintenance of public infrastructure and realizes the return on investment through the operation. The government provides tax exemption and some financial support. Energy Efficiency Service KR executed an energy welfare project jointly with the Daejeon Chapter of Friends of the Earth to educate the local energy underprivileged on increasing energy efficiency and better-consuming energy. Our employees visited more than 20 households in Seonhwa-dong, Jung-gu in Daejeon to clean and replace parts of home appliances such as air conditioner and fan. They also donated the cleaning kit consisting of sodium percarbonate, baking soda, and citric acid, and showed the ecofriendly cleaning methods, helping them to increase cooling efficiency by about 58% and reduce Visiting energy efficiency improvement service energy by about 15%. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 61 PROMISE 2 Hold the Foreign Workers’ Day Event As more foreigners work in railway construction sites in Korea, KR held the Foreign Workers’ Day event to help them adapt to Korean society. More than 250 foreign workers from Myanmar, Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, and Sri Lanka working in 12 railway construction sites participated in the event to experience Korea’s traditional culture and athletic programs while building a friendship. The participating foreign workers were given a day off with pay, and the interpreters were assigned to help them enjoy the event better. KR intends to continue to provide support so that the foreign workers Foreign Workers’ Day in 2018 adapt to Korea and work better in the construction sites. Bazaar for Love-Sharing through Communication with Local People Our employees held the Bazaar for Love-Sharing participated by local welfare agencies (Daejeon Nazareth House and Dong-gu multifunctional center for senior citizens), social enterprises (Han Ultari and Cheonghwa Farm), village enterprises (Barley and Wheat), and sisterhood village (Yeongdong Geumgang Mochi Village) at KR’s head office building. The event sold household goods and foods, including more than 3,000 items donated by employees and aroma oil and fruit syrup produced by the welfare facilities and social enterprises. KR has been holding the Bazaar for six years since 2013 and used entire revenue for social contribution fund. Going forward, KR will continue to conduct diverse sharing activities for local communities, fulfilling its social responsibility as a public institution. Love Sharing bazaar in 2018 Promote Railway Stations and Create Local Landmarks KR promoted a project to transform railway station into local landmark. For example, we have installed a landmark stone for completion displaying the station name, design concept, and intention in the area where passengers congregate in the railway station to help users to understand the railway station and promote it. The first landmark stone was installed at Magoknaru Station of Airport Railway in 2018 and this project will be expanded. Moreover, KR began producing the storytelling records that contain the construction drawings, design concept, story of the station and local Installation of a landmark stone for completion community, and local cultural and tourist attractions of about 650 railway stations. KR plans to post them on its website and post the QR code in the station so that the visitors to the station can quickly access the story of the station with a mobile device. The project will be an opportunity to promote railway stations and create new added value to the local communities. Win the 2018 Korea Award for Voluntary Service KR won the “2018 Korea Award for Voluntary Service” in recognition for supports for disaster recovery and love sharing activities. Kim Sang-gyun, the CEO of KR, also received the “Beautiful Korean Award” which was given only to twelve people among the recipients of the former award at the same time. Completion sign board at Magoknaru Station KR has provided briquettes to the underprivileged in Daejeon in every winter (approximately 400,000 pieces up to now) since 2006 and assisted senior citizens living alone by inspecting electrical facilities that may be short-circuited during the rainy season and replacing old lamps with LED lights to help save electricity bills since 2012. In 2018, our employees working on local projects visited the disaster sites to provide the materials and participate in recovery activities when there was an earthquake in Nepal and Indonesia. KR is committed to becoming a warm-hearted public institution that provides practical comfort and support where they are needed. * The Korea Grand Award for Voluntary Service is a renowned award given by the United Nations Volunteers Korea to individuals and organizations that have contributed greatly for national and local community development and actively participated in sharing and voluntary services. Support for recovery of earthquake damage in Indonesia SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 62 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Shared Growth OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Believing that the growth of SMEs is the basis for our growth, KR has carried out various programs to support SMEs and cooperate with them to establish the culture of shared growth. Expand the Foundation for Fair Competition and Collaboration Shared Growth System Under the vision of “Leading Institute for Shared Growth with SMEs in the Railway Industry” and the CEO’s commitment to win-win management, KR is implementing 3 strategic directions and 27 programs. Moreover, we formed the Shared Growth Promotion Team (T/F) to solidify the foundation for cooperation with SMEs by resolving unfair practice, supporting sales channels, supporting the technical development, financial support, and joint entry to overseas markets. KR intends to develop new growth engines and strengthen order competitiveness in the global railway market through shared growth with SMEs. Shared Growth Promotion System Vision Institution that leads shared growth with SMEs Goal Realize social value through shared growth 3 strategic Expansion of sales routes Creation of quality jobs directions Activation of fair trade for jointly developed for co-prosperity technologies 6 ❶ Upgrade shared growth ❸ Realize fair and corruption❺ Expand the platform for strategies infrastructure and expand free rail business joint overseas business communication ❷ Create jobs for shared ❹ Enhance financial ❻ Support new technology growth with SMEs supports and safety development and sales control for subcontractors route expansion 27 action 1-1. Organize and operate 3-1. Revamp systems to 5-1. Support SMEs’ overseas tasks the Shared Growth prevent reoccurrence expansion and Promotion Team (TF) of corruption and poor continuously promote 1-2. Organize and operate the construction hope-sharing activities Fair Economy Activation 3-2. Self-purification through 5-2. 3 items including placing Group (TF) site inspection and more orders to SMEs 1-3. Internalize the operation instruction of the Empathy Sharing 3-3. 5 items including the Committee elimination of unfair 1-4. 6 items including the practices between KR activation of Power and suppliers Abuse Zero Center 2-1. Improve contract 4-1. Expand the zero 6-1. Conditional purchase systems by reflecting overdue wage system and privatesocial value 4-2. Labor cost classification public technology 2-2. Prepare bidding criteria and payment development projects meeting the government identification system 6-2. 3 items including policy 4-3. 6 items including supports for technology 2-3. 4 items including the supports for Green Biz and sales routes of SMEs operation of Shared certification of suppliers Growth Fund KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 63 PROMISE 2 [Organization Dedicated to Shared Growth] Chairman Vice Chairman Empathy Sharing Committee Fair Economy Activation Group (TF) Shared Growth Team • Head of Planning Dept. • Head of Planning & Coordination Office • Head of Planning Div. • Head of Social Value Div. Shared Growth Promotion Team (TF) Overseas Technology Sales route Safety Fair trade expansion development expansion management ▪Launch of the Fair Economy Activation Promotion Group (Apr. 2018) Remove Entry Barriers against SMEs by Rectifying Unfair Practices KR held a supplier workshop chaired by the CEO to listen to their voices and collected 220 cases of VOC to implement regulatory reformation such as improvement of the unreasonable contracting system. Afterward, we organized the Fair Economy Vitalization Unit (T/F)* dedicated to regulatory reform. The TF analyzed the collected VOCs, identified three improvement direction and 49 detailed tasks, and completed the improvement of 100% of VOCs. The regulatory reform includes disposition of unfairly disqualified parties in the evaluation of bidder qualification and bidding winner qualification, elimination of duplicate deduction criteria, providing participation opportunities for SMEs, and extra credit for job-creating companies. It is expected to expand the opportunity for SMEs to participate and create more jobs. * Fair Economy Vitalization Unit : Three subgroups focusing on fair competition, co-prosperity, and social value under the Vice Chairman [Improvement of Contract System] ▪Contract system improvement casebook (Jun. 2018) CEO-led supplier Launch of a steering Preparation of 49 tasks (100%) meeting group, improvement plans Completion of Collected 220 VOCs VOC analysis (Apr.) 49 tasks (May) improvements (Dec.) (Mar.) Improvement directions Improvement tasks Improvement results • 23 tasks including the • Abolish excessive regulations • Establish a transparent and fair improvement of comprehensive including duplicated subtract contract system bidding evaluation methods point system Sharing of improvement cases by • 23 tasks including separate order • Provide participation publishing a casebook • Enhance cooperation among KR, of engineering and construction opportunities to SMEs large companies, and SMEs services • Add points to job-creating • 3 tasks including the expansion suppliers • Realize social value through job of career engineer grade scope • Promote youth engineer creation for youth employment employment SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 64 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Growth Ladder for the Expansion of SMEs’ Sales Channels APPENDIX Joint Overseas Expansion with SMEs Shared KR seeks to grow together with SMEs by forming a consortium or carrying out joint marketing campaigns Growth in the overseas railway market. In 2018, we won the order for Nagh Hammady-Luxor railway signal modernization project jointly with private partners by utilizing the overseas network to lay the foundation to enter the Middle East and North Africa markets, participating in seven biddings and receiving two orders worth KRW 4.5 billion. KR will create a new model for shared growth through various cooperation with SMEs such as sharing of overseas bidding information and support of the human network. [Establishment of an Ecosystem Aimed at Winning Large-scale Orders through Cooperation] 1st stage 2nd stage 3rd stage Expansion of cooperation G2G Led by KR with private sector ・Enhance cooperation among ・Promote KR-centered leading ・Expand participation of domesgovernmental agencies projects tic companies ・Public sector-driven promotion ・Strategic cooperation with ・Diversify and upgrade projects companies at home and abroad [Supports for Overseas Sales Route Expansion of SMEs in 2018] Revenue No. of SMEs Project (KRW 100 million) participatKR SME ed Construction supervision on Akhaura-Laksam line double-track project in 4.3 14.5 1 Bangladesh Participation Consulting on signal modernization in eastern area in Bangladesh in bidding 6.4 7.0 1 7 projects Technical service for south-north section of Lucknow Metro in India 8.6 2.1 1 Technical service for Manila LRT-2 eastern extension line in the Philippines 7.2 1 Winning orders System package (EPC) of LRT phase 1 in Indonesia 2 projects / 46.5 639.9 4 TOD strategy establishment service for Jakarta LRT phase 3 in Indonesia KRW4.5billion 2.6 2 Consulting on Nagahamada-Luxor line signal modernization in Egypt 1.9 1 Strengthen Railway Technology Competitiveness of SMEs KR is actively supporting SMEs for new technology development to secure the infrastructure for railway technology development related to the Fourth Industrial Revolution. As the leader in technology development in railway industry, KR supports SMEs for the technology development through the joint R&D by forming the industry/academia/research network and training of talented professionals for railway technology. KR will lead the efforts for localization and commercialization of railway technologies by ▪Support for New Technology strengthening the public-private cooperation for railway technology interchange and development. Development (Unit: KRW in billions) [Role as a Hub for Railway Technology Development] 4.6 SME Academia 3.7 Joint development of rail materials Support for technology development 2017 2018 Improvement Joint development of national R&D ・Identify and execute new technology projects Activate R&D cooperation development projects (43 cases) ・Up KRW 900 million (24%) YoY KRRI Relevant institutions KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 65 PROMISE 2 Purchase SMEs’ Materials Based on Conditional Purchase Option KR promotes the “Joint New Product Development Based on Conditional Purchase Option” for SMEs. * Load break switch: Device installed on main lines to adjust or disconnect power supply It aims to co-develop new products, help sales channel expansion, and support development costs, through which KR pursues their management stability and improvement of our technical competence. This program contributed to localizing the load breaking switch*, which is a core technology for electric train track, in January 2018 and securing original technology. In 2018, KR supported development fund of over KRW 400 billion for four new railway products and shared technical information by holding the KR Technology Development Outsourcing Company Council. The joint R&D workshop for SMEs was also held. [Joint New Product Development Based on Conditional Purchase Option] Support system Amount Product (KRW in billions) ・Joint new product development ・Smart electricity quality (3 cases → 4 cases) 5.4 improvement device ・Development of high-strength ・KR Technology Development Entrusted 1.5 lattice girder Business Council (3 times) Sharing technology information with ・IP-based electronic interlocking 400.0 16 member companies device ・Promote joint R&D conference for SMEs ・Development of control relay Kit 1.2 held by KR and cooperative foundations (50 companies) Total 408.1 Expand Purchase of SMEs’ Products To expand purchase of technology development products and support sales routes of tech-driven startups, KR promoted the “Technology Development Product Pilot Purchase System” by signing a business agreement with seven agencies, including the Ministry of SMEs and Startups. We purchased KRW 6.6 billion worth of products by selecting eight items including switchboard and solar power device through the system and extended the startup scope and delivery record period from five years to seven Agreement on business cooperation for pilot years to lower the entry barrier against SMEs. KR will expand this system to actively support SMEs. purchase of technology development products [Selection of Suppliers for Pilot Purchase and Contract Process] • Selection of Suppliers for Pilot Purchase (Ministry of SMEs and Startups (MSS)) Selection of Notice of Purchase EvaluaPurchase Result purchasing items application to tion Committee Deliberation notification pilot purchase (Evaluation by Committee (Public institution (Winners) → MSS) (Invitation) applicant) (Evaluation result) • Contract (KR): Private contract with the top company decided at the Purchase Deliberation Committee Private contract Private contract Confirmation of the Request for order promotion discussion private contract (Public Procurement Contract target company (Business depart(Public Procurement conclusion Service or contract ment, Service or contract (Business department) office) regular audit) office) Establish a Channel for Sharing Outstanding Technologies of SMEs KR operates a monthly open presentation called “Railway Technology Talk-Talk” in which SMEs can freely promote their new railway technologies and patented technologies. The data released at the presentation are stored the technical data archive “Railway Technology Agora” and those are shared among suppliers in engineering and construction for the application to our projects. The program promotes the transparent communication between KR and SMEs related to technologies to prevent any possibility of corruption and resolves the entry barrier against excellent railway technologies to help to enhance the competitiveness of Korea’s railway construction industry. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 66 Enhancement of Human Rights OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Management OUR PROMISE APPENDIX KR has established the human rights management system to disseminate the culture of human rights protection throughout the company. Furthermore, a three-year (2018-2020) roadmap was prepared to take human rights management root in all areas. KR is committed to protecting the rights for safety of site workers and environment as well as the rights for transport and safety of the people. Lay a Foundation for Solid Human Rights Management Establish a Base for Practicing Human Rights Management and Human Rights Relief Procedure To lay a foundation for human rights management, KR has established an execution guideline and human rights impact assessment procedure. The Human Rights Management Committee consisting of outside experts, suppliers, citizens, and labor union was launched as the consultative and decision-making body on human rights management and educations on human rights were offered to executives. Moreover, we prepared a procedure to protect the reoccurrence of human rights infringement by investigating the case thoroughly to protect the victim and carrying out corrective measures through the appropriate sanction and education. [Creation of Human Rights Management Base] Creation of Revise human rights Hold the Human Rights base management execution guides Management Committee ・Improve the acceptance through Creation ・Experts, suppliers, local people, and of Human review of the top management labor union Rights ・Establish human rights impact Management ・Training on human rights (Nov. 26, assessment on major projects Base 130 senior managers) ▪3-Year Human Rights Establish human rights impact Conduct training on human Management Roadmap assessment process rights management Creation of human rights management Human rights Report on human rights base Inspection and consulting Corrective actions violation violation cases 2018 ˙Establish human relief rights regulations and procedure ・Human rights management ・Report violations to the ・Corrective actions against relevant organization for victims of human rights Chairman of Human Rights human rights violations violation Management Committee and ・Personnel actions and ・Report violations to the head of BOD Chairman and submit recurrence prevention training Execution of human responsible department those to the Committee for employees who violate rights management human rights ˙Prepare human rights management 2019 plans and perform human rights impact evaluation Human Rights Management Implementation System ˙Prevent human rights KR developed the human rights management implementation system and feedback system in accordance risk with the 3-year roadmap for human rights management. Based on the KR Human Rights Charter and Stabilization of human execution guideline, KR has set up the human rights protection measures such as the Human Rights rights management Management Committee, organization dedicated to human rights management, human rights relief 2020 ˙Share and disseminate system, and feedbacks to disseminate the culture of human rights protection. best practices of human rights KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 67 PROMISE 2 [Human Rights Management Execution & Feedback System] Human rights charter, human rights Human Rights Management Organization dedicated to human Human rights relief system execution guides Committee rights management Execution systme Human rights management policy, 4 external members and Dedicated organization and Unfair subcontract solution center, promotion system, rights violation relief 3 internal members staff (2 persons) employee grievance counselling system Human rights impact evaluation (annually) Human Rights Management Committee (quarterly) Human rights counselling and training (frequent) Feedback • Treatment of human rights impact evaluation and • Counselling and training on prevention system • Human risk prevention actions violation results • Training for preventing recurrence of human rights • Disclose of human rights impact evaluation results • Deliberation and resolution of execution results violation Improve Human Rights Management Prepare Measures for Human Rights of Emotional Labors KR has improved the emotional working environment of staff in charge of civil service based on internal survey results. Major activities for grievance handling were change of connection voices, training for the recovery of emotion, and one-on-one psychology consulting. The confidence index on organizational culture increased by 10 points (56 points -> 67 points) from the previous year on the strength of protecting human rights of emotional labors. [Human Rights Protection of Emotional Employees] Actions All employees Employees of emotional exhaustion Intensive emotional labor • Send connection voice to protect emotional • Conduct training to recover emotion (semi• Professional one-on-one psychology employees during waiting time annually) consultation, authorization of stopping call Results • Increase of the organizational culture trust index (57 points in 2017 → 67 points in 2018, 10 points ↑YoY) Promote the Three-in-One Human Rights Protection KR’s human rights protection extends to diverse stakeholders beyond employees. Internally, we held the Grievance Handling Committee composed of an equal number of members from labor and management to decide the transition of non-regular workers into regular positions and concluded the supplementary negotiations for a collective agreement that reflected the improved working conditions. We also operate the Safety-Call system, win-win settlement system, and Zero Power Abuse Center to protect human rights of suppliers. Diverse services for human rights of passengers have been improved as well. KR’s Three-in-One Human Rights Protection • Hold the Grievance Treatment Committee (same numbers between the labor and Performance management) (acceptance of 117 cases out of 139 cases) • 100% achievement in transition to regular employees (347 persons working in national Employees facility protection) • T he lowest accident rate among ordering public • Sign a collective agreement reasonably (7 articles for labor condition improvement) institutions under the MOLIT and won the  “Safety Management Award” from the • Conduct the Safety-Call system in case of risky situation of site workers Ministry of Employment and Labor • Improve the cooperative payment system to prevent overdue wages of subcontractors •T  he highest labor-management relationship Suppliers • Operate the Power Abuse Zero Center on the website level (80.1 points in 2017 → 85.7 points in 2018) • 100% installation of screen doors on the platforms in metropolitan area  on the Minister Citation of Health •W • Deliver scholarships to children and youths living around railways (KRW 898 million) and Welfare (contribution to the People • Install chairs for the transportation vulnerable in stations (over 10%) development of local children welfare) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 68 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Safety and Environment PROMISE 3 Management Approach To ensure the safety of passengers and site workers and systematic disaster control and accident prevention, KR has expanded the responsible organization and staff and focused on autonomous and preventive safety management. We also developed the IT-based railway facility management system to upgrade outdated railway facilities efficiently and systematically. KR also operates the environmental management system to cope with climate change by expanding electric railway, developing eco-friendly railway technologies, reducing GHG and fine dust, and utilizing eco-friendly railway assets. Major Performance Safety management 0.038 % 29.96 % 355.6 points award in the construction sector in 2018 Occupational Reduction of Environmental Award accident rate GHG emissions management (BAU) index In This Section 01_ Construct Safe Railway 02_ Build Eco-friendly Railway KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 69 PROMISE 3 Construct Safe Railway KR established the “Five Key Safety Management Measures” to ensure safety at railway construction sites based on autonomous safety management system. In response to diverse and complex accident causes, KR upgraded the IT-based safety management system to increase the accessibility to safety management and the ability to prevent accidents. KR will create a safe society in which all workers and people are safe. Strategy for Railway Safety Strengthen the Safety Management System and Accountability To establish voluntarily participating safety system beyond conventional safety control, KR is implementing the “Five Key Safety Management Measures.” Moreover, the smart safety system was introduced to preemptively detect accidents at construction sites and safety accidents of people and conduct company-wide prior inspection. To raise site staff’s awareness of safety, KR operates a variety of safety programs such as designating responsible staff, inspecting mutually, and conducting mandatory education for train guards. [5 Key Safety Management Plans] Existing safety management Improvement plans • Transition to voluntary and participatory safety control • Unilateral regulation and punitive safety management • Transition to cooperative safety management between • Construction company-centered safety management KR and contractors 5 Safety Policies Smart safety Transition to guidance Dissemination of fieldSecuring Enhancement of management based and prevention-type centered voluntary professionalism in disaster management on IT technology safety management safety culture safety management system • Operate smart safety control & CCTV system, introduce DFS, and execute field officer system Activities • Expand field incentive system, operate the Safety-Call system, execute strict inspection, and  enhance safety training • The lowest accident rate (0.44%) among public institutions under the MOLIT in 2018 * Average accident rate among public institutions under the MOLIT in 2018: 1.09% • The lowest converted accident rate (0.038%) since the founding in 2004 * Converted accident rate=(No. of converted injury victims×100/No. of regular workers)×0.5 Converted accident rate from 2004 to 2018 Results 0.321 0.275 0.256 0.246 0.229 0.206 0.165 0.173 0.118 0.082 0.087 0.102 0.083 0.061 0.038 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 70 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Build Safety Management System APPENDIX Paradigm Shift to Preventive and Autonomous Safety Management Construct Safe KR is spreading the safety management culture centered on guidance and prevention beyond just Railway response-driven safety control. As part of that, the DFS* was introduced to consider worker safety from the design stage and have the architects be responsible for safety management. It is being applied to design of all projects. Moreover, KR operates the Safety-Call system which enables field workers to notify dangerous situations on the railway construction sites anonymously to create the voluntary safety management environment, thereby rapidly conducting reports on potential risks and taking countermeasures. [DFS Support System] [Safety-Call Operation System] *DFS: KR Safety Dept. verifies the site worker Report on safety safety assurance report written in consideration in construction Review of site of working methods and space in the stage of engineering application Report on risky working design sites and works Site inspecArchitect Site worker tion and requirement Biz. KR on improveDept. ment Site Biz. worker Dept. & Work architect resumption Constructor Safety Dept. KR Preparation of safety plans and Verification of supplementation Confirmation of Elimination of safety risky factors against the incongruity corrective actions ▪CCTV Operation Develop IT-Based Smart Safety Management System KR is operating the smart safety management system to ensure more professional safety control. Operation in 2018 The ICT-based smart railway safety management system makes it easy to check the location of Seoul Metropolitan 79 locations in Regional Office 22 sites workers and equipment, control project history, evaluate risk level, and manage vulnerable places, Yeongnam Regional 103 locations in which enhance efficiency in safety management. Moreover, it developed the risk prediction system Office 34 sites to build the database of the accident case analysis and the risk factors of each work and notify the Honam Regional 26 locations in risk factors for each process to the field through a text message in advance. The CCTV management Office 14 sites Chungcheong 29 locations in system enables the inspection of sites in real-time through CCTV without having to visit the site and Regional Office 14 sites investigate the risk factors to take the countermeasures. Gangwon Regional 55 locations in * ICT (Information and Communication Technologies): A general term for the information technology and communication technology Office 17 sites Establish a System for the Safety of Operating Line Workers KR has developed the two-way automatic control signal system (installed it in three places and plan to install in one place in Gyeongui Line) to prevent accidents caused by human error such as misunderstanding of signal that may occur when the line is operated by hand signal between two stations when the train drives in reverse direction. The tunnel warning system was expanded to general railways as well as high-speed railways and activating an alert 30 seconds before trains enter the tunnel is mandatory. KR will strive to fundamentally remove risk factors at all worksites. [Tow-Way Operation Signal System] [Warning Device in Tunnel] Building two-way operation system Downline operation Warning 30 seconds before 250m Trouble WarnWarning ing Impossible upline operation Upline operation KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 71 PROMISE 3 Build Eco-friendly Railway In response to increasing environmental issues such as fine dust and global warming, KR is focusing on environmental management and eco-friendly railway projects. Our preventionfocused environmental management pursues railway construction in harmony with ecosystem and eco-friendly technology development to provide pleasant railway conditions. Establish Eco-friendly Management System Internalize the ISO 14001-Based Environmental Management System KR operates the international standard (ISO 14001) for systematic environmental management. ▪Environment Management System Through the system, we have identified and improved the problems in environmental management Plan and related procedures and secured the confidence on the adequacy of the system inside and outside the company. Moreover, it becomes possible to quantify and deeply analyze environmental EMS plans in 2018 performance and enhance feedback system. Our phased environmental management system helps construction department and suppliers comply with relevant regulations and efficiently perform their works. Do EMS operation Reestablish Social Value-Added Environmental Management Feed Back KR is expanding social values through proactive environmental management. Major activities include Check (application preparing air quality criteria for subway station, introducing high-pressure watering truck to solve to EMS in Environmental fine dust issue, minimizing impacts on ecosystem by operating the “Ecology Survey Group,” and 2019) performance creating ecological forest. KR also expanded the coverage of environmental information disclosure evaluation for recent three years by voluntarily adding items such as investment in reducing resource and energy Action consumption and wastewater discharge. Identification of improvements Three Directions for Eco-friendly Railway Construction Construct sustainable railway facilities for preserving Concept global environment and convenient living conditions Goal Realize social value through building eco-friendly rail network Internal & National tasks KR Mission external environ• Develop and foster eco-friendly future energy • Faster, safer and more comfortable railways ment • Faithfully respond to the Paris Agreement going with the people Three directions Low carbon Comfortable Nature-friendly railway railway railway • Cultivate eco-friendly railway • Reduce fine dust in subway • Perform environmental  business stations impact evaluation • Introduce low carbon  • Create park on idle rail sites • Promote animals and plants  technology and materials protection plans SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 72 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Eco-Friendly Railway to Cope with the Paris Agreement APPENDIX Solid Climate Change Response System Build Eco-friendly KR is responding to climate change, which is the global issue, by implementing the system to adapt to Railway climate change. With the goal of developing the sustainable foundation to cope with climate change for public safety, KR is implementing 19 tasks and has established the cooperation with government agencies and execution management process to strengthen the performance of the tasks. Climate Change Response System Vision Construct safe and comfortable railway by adapting to climate change initiative Goal Establish sustainable climate change response foundation for the safety of people Directions Establish risk management Enhance adaptation Prepare execution base system competence Detailed 1.1 Prepare efficient  2.1 Tighten engineering and 3.1 Train adaptation to climate goals management base construction criteria change 1.2 Connect railway asset  2.2 Improve disaster response 3.2 Enhance collaborative climate management ability change adaptation system 1.3 Build sustainable monitoring 2.3 Build damage prevention 3.3 Perform climate change impact system system evaluation 2.4 Secure expertise in climate 3.4 Strengthen connection system change response with relevant institutions Key tasks 5 tasks 9 tasks 5 tasks ▪KR’s GHG Reduction Target & Result (BAU) (Unit: %) Respond to Climate Change through Developing Eco-Friendly Technologies 29.96 25.14 KR is proactively coping with climate change by introducing eco-friendly technologies. We developed ● Result 22.58 ● Target 26.0 and applied 25.8kV eco-friendly insulator switch* and low-carbon bridge technology and expanded 22.0 24.0 the installation of EV charging system in railway stations and sophisticated eco-friendly soundproof walls. Particularly, KR reduced annual CO2 emission by 1.5 tons (29.96% reduction from BAU*, exceeding the original target) equivalent to the effect of planting 560,000 trees, which resulted in 2016 2017 2018 winning the “2018 Green Management Award.” * BAU (Business As Usual): Estimated greenhouse gas emission * Eco-Friendly Insulator Switch: Switchgear (to Switch Electric Tracks) Using Eco-Friendly Insulation Medium Effect from Effect from eco-friendly [Development of Eco-friendly Technologies] eco-friendly EV charging switchgear equipment EV charging equipment at stations Eco-friendly low carbon bridge Eco-friendly soundproof wall 1.3 tn. ton 0.2 tn. ton (annually) (annually) Co2 reduction 480 tn. trees 72 tn. trees (annually) (annually) Tree planting • Win technology award from KSSC (Jun.) • Win Top 10 Railway Technology Award 220 persons 16 persons Install rapid charging equipment on over • Non-painted eco-friendly bridge* in 2018 (eco-friendly soundproof wall) 1% space of parking lot • Double breakdown safety • Block noise and secure prospect right (5 years) (5 years) • Reduce KRW 6.7 billion per bridge (400m) • Reduce 18% of construction cost Job creation * Prevention of air and water pollution by fundamentally blocking environmental pollutants KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 73 PROMISE 3 Design of Sustainable Eco-Friendly Railway Station KR pursues the construction of eco-friendly station to be in step with the government’s GHG reduction policy and mandatory application of zero energy to public institutions in 2020. As part of that, we set up the “Zero Energy Roadmap for Stations” and performance guidelines and design criteria for each station facility. Other activities include holding discussion meetings with suppliers, attending the 2018 Railway Construction Forum, and publishing academic papers. KR will strive to provide passengers with eco-friendly spaces by constructing zero-energy consumption stations. [KR’s Zero Energy Station Roadmap] 2018 2020 2025 2030 Classification Minimum Suggestion Minimum Suggestion Minimum Suggestion Certification on zero energy building 5th grade 4th grade 3rd grade 1st grade Building energy efficiency grade 1 1+ 1 ++ 1 ++ 1 +++ 1+++ Energy independence rate (primary Over 20% Over 40% Over 60% Over 100% energy) Supply obligations rate of new and Over 24% Over 30% Over 30% Over 30% renewable energy Building energy management Installed Mandatory system (BEMS) Proactive Environmental Enhancement Activities ▪Air Quality Improvement by Introduce High-Pressure Watering Trucks to Reduce Fine Dust in Subway Stations Using Watering Truck To solve deteriorating air quality in subway stations and tunnels, KR has been using the highKR KR pressure watering trucks for the improvement of air quality in closed space by spraying water (ground Cost support and Equipment cleaning) and absorbing scattered dust. To maximize the improvement effect, we have cooperated effect analysis operation with external organizations for the test operation of watering trucks in Ulhyeon Tunnel of Suseo KTX, proving the reduction of fine dust by about 11.5% compared to the average concentration. Based on SR Airport Railway Monitoring of the result, KR decided to purchase more high-speed watering trucks in 2020 to ensure healthy railway Equipment lease air quality environment. Create Ecological Forest for Railway, Human, and Nature in Harmony KR pursues the harmony between development and ecological preservation in the railway construction process. For example, we constructed a park on the top with the space of 156,000 m2 of Ansan City section of Suin Line and the urban forest in Seonbu Station between Sosa and Weonsi by reflecting the needs of residents and local government gathered through surveys and meetings. We also signed an MOU with Gimhae City Hall to create an urban forest including bicycle road, walking trail, and rest area on idle tracks in Jinyeong with the schedule of completion in 2021. KR will continue to focus on eco-friendly state-owned asset development projects for coexistence of railway, human, and nature. Ecological forest on Ansan City section of Suin Line [Before & After the Creation of Urban Forest on Waste Rail Site in Jinyeong, Gimhae-si] Planting flowers Walkway on sleepers on road slope Japanese flowering cherry Planting B=1.5m B=3.0m hydrangeas Bike lane and B=1.5m B=3.0m walkway Bike lane SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 74 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Enhancement of Organizational Culture PROMISE 4 Management Approach KR is carrying out the campaign for open communication and unity among employees to create an exciting organizational culture. We also offer a wide range of fringe benefits such as resting and childbearing support for work-life balancing to meet employees’ requirements. Moreover, the Labor-Management Council and Labor-Management Joint Committee are regularly convened to discuss labor conditions and improve systems. Systematic job trainings are also provided to foster competence in railway business. Major Performance 67 points (Up 17% YoY) 43.10 % 109hours Family-friendly Company for six years in a row (Ministry of Gender Equality and Family) Great Rate of flexible Training hours External Workplace work system use per capita certification (GWP) index In This Section 01_ Create Exciting Workplace 02_ Develop Human Resources KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 75 PROMISE 4 Create Exciting Workplace KR is operating a welfare system for work-life balance that meets employees’ requirements by gathering various opinions based on horizontal communications. Moreover, with the establishment of joint declaration and goals between the labor and management, KR promotes partnership enhancement activities and strives to realize social value to make KR become great workplace. Work-Life Balance KR Smart Work Proposal for Work-Life Balance KR is seeking to establish a smart working environment by encouraging flexible working and reducing * Family-Accompanying Day overtime work based on employees’ needs for work-life balance. For example, the “KR Smart Work Early leave work once a month (40 work hours Proposal” campaign aimed at realizing “Great Place to Work” encourages employees to avoid a week by selecting morning and evening type working system) unnecessary overtime work and create modest after-work get-together. This campaign helps all employees from the CEO to staff adapt to flexible work system. Other programs for work-life balance * Monthly Day-Off Monthly day-off before or after national  include “Family-Accompanying Day (monthly)*,” “Childcare Leave (two days a year),” “Monthly Dayholidays, legal holidays, and weekend  Off*,” and “Annual Leave Saving” which were newly launched. KR also designated every Wednesday Connection with regular leave or long-term leave is possible. as the Family Day to encourage employees to leave work in time by forcing PC off, family song * Annual Leave Saving broadcasting, and lighting off. Saving 7 days of leave a year for maximum 3 years (saving of 62 days by 19 persons in 2018) Great Workplace (GWP) index 17% up (unit: persons) 2017 2018 ▪Plan for the execution of the Family Day Part-time job 14 22 (57 points in 2017 → 67 points in 2018) Flexible work 246 245 Rate of flexible work system use 373 24.5 %p up Family Day Total 260 640 [Rate of flexible work [Executives’ participation [Use of leave per capita] system use] in flexible work system] (Unit: %) (Unit: persons) (Unit: days) 43.1 83 10.0 8.9 18.6 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 76 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Obtain the Family-Friendliness Certification from the MOGEF for Six Years in a Row APPENDIX KR has established the work-childcare balance support system throughout the lifecycle to create happy workplace for working and raising children. We also gather employees’ opinions through the LaborCreate Exciting Management Council and the Labor-Management Conference and improve the system through the LaborWorkplace Management Joint Committee and the Gender Equality Committee to improve the schemes specific to each lifecycle. For example, 244 employees used the newly introduced “Parenting Event Leave” in 2018. Our efforts for work-childcare balance have resulted in obtaining the family-friendliness certification from the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family for six years in a row. KR is also steadily upgrading the work-life balance system through feedbacks including the alternative employment to leave of absence. [Work-Childcare Balance Supports Tailored to Life Cycle] ▪Certification on family-friendly Improvement management Marriage Existing Improved • No support for infertility treatment • Special leave for infertility treatment (3 days) • Leave for childbirth of spouse (5 days) • Double leave period (5 days / 10 days) • Within 12 weeks for pregnancy / reduction of • Shortening working hours for the entire  Childbirth working hours after 36 weeks pregnancy period • Prior notice of childcare leave when applying • Application for childcare leave after pregnancy for childbirth leave • New establishment of working hour reduction  • Wage cut when shortening working hours system for caring children under 5 years old • Use of annual leave for children’s school events • Parenting event leave (2 days a year) Childcare • No annual leave when returning to work after  • Reduce childcare burden by giving annual leave childcare leave to employees who returned to work Performance Increase of leave use Increase of childbirth & annual leave Reduction of working hours • Parenting event leave (244 persons,  • 80% in 2017 → 100% in 2018 • Shorten working hours for the entire  new launch) * Use of childcare leave after childbirth pregnancy period (5 persons) • Leave for childbirth of spouse  • Shorten working hours for childcare  (10 days per capita) (6 persons) Feedback ▪Employment of Socially Activate family-friendly systems Problems Effort for feedbacks Balanced Talents (Unit: persons) • Increase of childcare leave users • Extension of fixed-current  • 100% alternative employment to  9 27 Employment number gap leave users (29 persons) of socially bal+200% • Increase of full-time/part-time anced talents job transition • Insufficient job suitability • Develop suitable jobs and employ• Increase of flexible work system • Concerns about job  ment of part-time jobs (4 persons) blank • Flexible operation including job 9.5 21 New users female employ+121% rotation and group designation ment Female workforce 211 +9.5% 231 Improve HR System in Consideration of the Socially Underprivileged Female managers 35 +11.4% 39 KR expanded hiring of the socially underprivileged by creating a special screening procedure for them. We have also strived to break down the glass ceiling by increasing the rate of new female employees and appointing two female directors (three as of April 2019) for the first time. A total of 29 jobs in 10 duties were de8.43 8.75 HR integrity +3.8% (points) veloped to hire more part-time employees and give job opportunities to women who are on career breaks. Auditing staff participates in entire employment process and external experts hold a majority in interview2017 2018 er group. The blind hiring based on job ability is also conducted. KR operates a whistleblowing system and victim remedy measures to prevent hiring irregularities and provide equal opportunities to everyone. KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 77 PROMISE 4 Labor-Management Cooperation Adopt the Labor-Management Joint Declaration Based on Trust and Unity In accordance with the paradigm shift toward trustworthy and cooperative labor-management relationship, KR is operating the Labor-Management Council to build an organizational culture pursuing participation and co-prosperity. We also adopted the labor-management joint declaration and set up four strategies with the goal of “KR labor-management partnership to create social values and future” and specified the implementation tasks and KPI. The strong commitment of the CEO, who believes that he is a union member, and the active participation and cooperation of the labor union resulted in the highest satisfaction in labor-management relations (85.7 points) since the survey was conducted. Labor-management joint declaration (Mar. 15, 2018) [Midto Long-term Roadmap for Labor-Management Relationship] 2016 ~ 2017 2018 ~ 2019 2020 ~ 2021 Mutual Management Trustworthy checker partner companion Goal and Strategy for Labor-Management Relationship in 2018 Goal Trustworthy labor-management relationship that creates social value and a better future 4 key Ⅰ. Operate labor-management council II. Labor and management that based on trust and co-prosperity realizes social value strategies Tasks ① Labor-management joint declaration  Tasks ③ Labor-management joint resolution and strategy setup of social polarization issue소 ② Organization and operation of the  ④ Love-sharing social contribution  labor-management council activities Ⅳ. Improve working environment Ⅲ. Promote cooperative and based on cooperation participatory partnership Tasks ⑦ Organic labor-management council Tasks ⑤ Activation of labor-management  operation communication * Labor-management co-prosperity council ⑧ Reasonable wage and collective  ⑥ Enhancement of labor-management  Consultative organization (33 persons negotiation work competence including working-level staff, lawyers, labors, subcommittee representatives, etc.) and Deliberation Committee (8 persons including executives, lawyers, labor, etc.) Fulfill Social Responsibility by Practicing Labor-Management Sharing Culture KR implements various sharing programs through labor-management cooperation. All union members donated their performance-based incentives (KRW 340 million) to the Public Win-Win Solidarity Fund and KR held an idea contest for effective utilization of railway facilities, which resulted in opening a daycare center at Pyeongnae Hopyeong Station for people commuting to work by train. The Labor-Management Council* agreed to the transition of 347 non-regular workers engaging in protecting the head office and national facilities to regular positions. KR will continue to pursue cooperative labor-management relationship to Informal meeting of labor-management create higher social value. representatives (frequent) Promote Labor-Management Partnership Based on Communication and Sympathy With a consensus on jointly solving pending management issues, the labor and management are proactive in formal and informal communication between the representatives and cooperative activities. For example, the CEO of KR visited the labor union on the first day of his appointment to activate communication with them. Other programs aimed at improving labor-management relationship include “KR Generation Sympathy” which helps share culture and trend between generations, “From Junior to Senior” which shares opinions across organizational hierarchy, “KR Book Concert” which shares knowledge, and “Gender Safety prayer (Mar. 17, 2018) Equality Committee” to prevent sexual harassment to improve the labor and management relationship. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 78 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Develop Human Resources OUR PROMISE APPENDIX KR strives to strengthen the capabilities by job position and function with a focus on training the world-class professionals to realize its vision of “Rail network beyond Korea to the world.” Human-Centered Management Systematize Railway-Specific Talents Cultivation To cultivate railway-specific talents with global competitiveness, KR seeks to find three kinds of human resources – “creative person” who continuously challenges and pursues the creative ability, “professional person” who pursues the world’s best railway technology and global ability, and “social person” who develops ethics and the spirit of social contribution. We focus on strengthen job competence training, systematic knowledge transfer within the organization, and investment in the education of new growth engines. KR will continue to foster talents by developing systematic and specialized educational programs. Talents Cultivation Strategy CEO’s will Lead overseas expansion and promote sustainable growth by cultivating employee competence and securing global-level railway technologies KR People (C.S.I) Creative Specialized Incorrupt Continuous challenge and World’s top railway Commitment to ethics and creative ability technology and global social contribution competitiveness Mission Motivator that cultivates global No.1 railway-specific talents Strategic Improve training Skill transfer and sharFoster capabilities Reestablish R&R in systems to enhance ing between senior for new growth training and form a directions job competence and junior employees businesses consensus and tasks Improve and Systemize knowledge Expand investment Activate social contriinternalize job transfer methods in training for new bution such as lifetime training growth businesses education [Training System] Start essential job training I Course Evaluation I Training results Entry-level, intensive, and professional course by Institutionalize the reflection of evaluation position results in promotion Improvement training systems Start the establishment of a satisfaction Obtain licenses for engineer, accountant, etc. survey system Start training for license I Expertise Training classification I Systemization KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 79 PROMISE 4 Systematic Job Competence Training Considering the needs for systematic job competence development due to rapid shift in generations and changes in business environment, KR has built training systems and programs meeting the trend. All employees receive trainings tailored to their job and position and the results are reflected in promotion evaluation. KR will continue to develop training programs to cultivate railway-specific talents. [Tailored Job Competence Training] Establishment of Study for employees’ needs Training execution and performance training plans • Analysis of changes in internal  • Regularization of job training  • Job manuals and training execution and external environment for new employees In-house training by dept. (1,257 persons) • Survey on need for training • Standardization of work  Collective training for staff and assistant • Individual and group-based  process of core jobs managers (226 persons) interview • Improve expertise in • Operation of new business-specific  future business and facility professional training courses management 57 courses including overseas contract (339 persons) [Internalization of Job Training] Connect training and Systemize organization Introduce smart Designate 5-stage level-specific job promotion for better competence by attendance system training as an essential course and training results and activating in-house and actively utilize introduce test and evaluation motivation instructor system training return system 5-stage: Position-specific entry-level Apply training credit to Cultivate job-specific Introduce QR CodeⅠ (staff), entry-level Ⅱ (assistant promotion by 10% internal instructors based smart attendance manager), intensive course Ⅰ * (Existing) labor assessin each sector to shift system that uses GPS (manager), intensive course Ⅱ (senior ment (100%) personal competence Receive more training manager), management (Dept. head) →(changed) labor to organizational cost refund from the * Training session: Staff (2 days → 1 assessment (90%) and competence Human Resources week), assistant manager (2 days → 2 training credit (10%) Grant diverse incentives Development Service of weeks), manager (5 days → 2 weeks), Apply written test results such as instruction fee, Korea and save budget senior manager (5 days → 2 weeks), to promotion evaluation citation to excellent by expanding in-house Dept. head (5 days → 2 weeks) (10 points) instructors, and additional training courses Written test for better training results points to HR affairs and absorption in training * A pool consisting of 5 multiple questions and random sampling of test questions Support for Preparing Retirement through the Lifetime Education System ▪Systematic Female Workforce Cultivation KR has restructured the lifetime education system for the employees such as the heavy machinery operators who are subject to wage peak scheme. Recognizing that the satisfaction and completion Gender Equality Employment Target System levels of the education are low, KR conducted the personalized retirement design consulting Hiring Female employment  and support the education/training cost to prepare for retirement. In addition, we expanded the target (20%) educational benefits of non-professional employees and provided the opportunities for them to learn from the experience of experience the cases senior retirees in Jeju Island. KR intends to provide all Enhance manager Training capability by establishing support it can to help the employees to prepare for retired life methodically. academies Foster Female Leaders and Professionals Work-life Create family-friendly KR has established the 5-Year Roadmap for Training of Female Professionals to foster female balance working environment employees systematically “from hiring to promotion.” KR provides the female employees the opportunity to further their education in advanced educational institutes in Korea and abroad and Shorten period necessary the opportunity to work overseas and appoint female managers in core departments to strengthen for promotion by 44% Expansion within 5 years their capabilities. As a result of such efforts, the rate of female manager increased from 4.6% (35 of female persons) in 2017 to 5.3% (39 persons) in 2018, and the rate of female employees to total employees managers 2017 → 2022 128 months 71 months increased by 9.5% (from 211 to 231). We appointed two female executives for the first time in 2018 and expanded hiring of females in career breaks through the job-sharing program. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 APPENDIX 01 Sustainability Management Performance 02 SDGs and UNGC Principles 03 GRI/ISO 26000 Index 04 Independent Assurance Report 05 Awards and Association Memberships 82 Sustainability Management OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Performance OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Economic Performance Summarized Financial Position Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Current assets KRW 100 million 4,142 6,079 4,144 Assets Non-current assets KRW 100 million 173,768 176,584 178,499 Total assets KRW 100 million 177,910 182,663 182,643 Current liabilities KRW 100 million 31,833 36,334 32,156 Liabilities Non-current liabilities KRW 100 million 165,883 164,901 167,470 Total liabilities KRW 100 million 197,716 201,235 199,626 Deficit KRW 100 million (19,625) (18,410) (16,758) Equity Other equity components KRW 100 million (181) (162) (225) Total equity KRW 100 million (19,806) (18,572) (16,983) Summarized Income Statement Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sales KRW 100 million 13,411 14,530 16,516 Cost of sales KRW 100 million 7,833 7,283 9,124 Gross profit KRW 100 million 5,578 7,247 7,392 Operating profit KRW 100 million 5,578 7,247 7,392 Non-operating income KRW 100 million 567 771 637 Non-operating expense KRW 100 million 6,312 6,803 6,377 Net profit KRW 100 million (167) 1,215 1,652 Government Contribution Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Government contribution KRW 100 million 56,902 57,528 36,596 Distribution of Economic Value Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sales, government contribution, bond issuance, etc. KRW 100 million 117,443 119,453 105,371 Suppliers (ordering investment projects) KRW 100 million 22,527 20,195 18,035 Financial expense (principle and interest, etc.) KRW 100 million 30,442 28,195 29,640 Employees (labor cost) KRW 100 million 1,252 1,255 1,377 Government (tax and due) KRW 100 million 21 29 25 Operation expense of KR (current cost, etc.) KRW 100 million 346 354 461 KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 83 Social Performance Employment Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total Persons 1,443 1,466 1,842 Employment Regular position Persons 1,382 1,375 1,460 type Contract workers Persons 12 12 340 Non-regular position Persons 20 22 17 20~29 years old Persons 146 161 238 30~39 years old Persons 218 225 310 Age 40~49 years old Persons 512 497 556 50~59 years old Persons 495 523 727 Overs 60 years old Persons 11 11 29 Female employees Persons (%) 197 (14.2) 203 (14.8) 235 (16.1) Female employees serving as department head and higher positions Persons (%) 3 (0.2) 3 (0.2) 3 (0.2) Minority Female employees serving as senior and higher positions Persons (%) 29 (2.1) 32 (2.3) 40 (2.7) Employees with disabilities Persons (%) 48 (3.5) 49 (3.5) 57 (3.8) Total Persons 118 51 108 Employees with disabilities Persons 8 Female employees Persons 35 12 21 New High school graduates Persons 10 8 5 employment Vocational high school graduates Persons 8 5 4 Science and engineering graduates Persons 76 45 70 Local talents Persons 48 22 41 Turnover rate % 0.4 0.7 0.4 Turnover Regular retirement Persons 8 9 30 Voluntary retirement Persons 37 21 31 Average years of service Years 18.3 17.9 18.2 Employment Status by Job Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Office work Persons 411 403 472 Public work Persons 452 457 474 Construction Persons 81 78 81 Electricity Persons 214 216 227 Telecommunication Persons 54 61 60 Machinery Persons 84 80 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 84 Sustainability Management OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Performance OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Social Performance Labor Union No. of employees eligible No. of dedicated Name of labor union Date of establishment No. of union members for labor union members The Labor Union of Korea Rail Network Authority Jun. 9, 2005 1,573 1,652 7 Korea Rail Network Authority Labor Union Nov. 30, 2017 13 1,661 Job Creation Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Activation of rail business Persons 62,995 67,443 67,634 Partnership with the private sector Persons 4,010 3,869 6,018 Underprivileged class Persons 224 180 179 Youth interns Persons 110 179 80 Support for SMEs Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Rate of purchasing SME products % 33.3 35.5 36.6 Supports for joint R&D projects/No. of participating Case/companies 7 / 13 10 / 12 5 / 13 companies Training Hours and Investment Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Time spent on training per employee Hours 127 137 109 No. of trainees Persons 1,391 1,424 1,430 Investment in training per employee KRW in thousand 1,010 1,180 960 Welfare Benefit and Safety Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Employee satisfaction Points 78.7 78 77.6 Employees who used childcare leave Persons 23 29 25 Rate of return to work after childcare leave % 100 100 100 12-month service after return to work % 100 100 94 Safety and security accidents Cases KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 85 Flexible Work System Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Flextime work system Persons 17 14 18 Flexible work system Persons 199 246 245 Customer Satisfaction Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Satisfaction on complaints treatment through the Points 55.27 59.81 59.20 e-People system Supplier satisfaction Points 88.58 85.49 94.65 Public Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Points 92.96 90.76 90.986 Industrial Safety Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Accident rate % 0.246 0.061 0.038 Average accident rate in the construction industry % 0.57 0.59 0.75 Railway-related accidents Cases 14 9 10 Ethical Management and Violation of Laws Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Comprehensive integrity index of the Anti-Corruption Points 7.39 7.98 8.46 & Civil Rights Commission Anti-corruption practice evaluation of the AntiRatings 2 2 2 Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Violation of laws Cases Social Contribution Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Time spent on social contribution per employee Hours/person 7.1 12.3 10.5 Donation KRW 100 million 2.3 3.1 2.9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 86 Sustainability Management OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Performance OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Environmental Performance KR (Head Office and Regional Offices) Energy Consumption Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Building TJ 70.8 70.5 75.2 Vehicle TJ 11.2 8.8 8.7 Water Consumption – Water Supply Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Water consumption Ton 46,515.0 44,340.0 46,961.0 GHG Emissions Building, Vehicle Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Direct tCO2eq 698.5 687.7 957.0 Building Indirect tCO2eq 2,965.6 2,960.7 2,730.9 Vehicle tCO2eq 777.1 613.5 607.3 Waste Emission Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 General waste (including recycling) Ton 155.6 158.8 158.5 Designated waste (including recycling) Ton 17.3 20.0 18.0 Construction waste (including recycling) Ton 0.0 41.8 0.0 Recycling Ton 92.2 94.2 62.5 Major Environmental Indicators Indicator Unit 2016 2017 2018 Environmental management index Points 324.4 347.2 355.6 Rate of GHG emissions % 22.6 25.1 30.0 Violation of environmental regulations Cases 0.0 3.0 3.0 Rate of construction waste recycling % 66.0 95.7 98.8 KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 87 Railway Construction Site (Suppliers) Energy Consumption Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Building TJ 368.2 384.4 260.4 Vehicle TJ 159.2 235.4 161.2 Raw Materials Consumption Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Rebar Ton 319,542.8 370,641.0 284,496.0 New materials Ton 38,384.0 38,601.0 23,467.0 Rail Recycling Ton 412.0 156.0 236.0 New materials Units 168,232.0 590,476.0 219,303.0 PC sleeper Recycling Units 22,785.0 22,114.0 6,967.0 New materials Units 778.0 520.0 4,861.0 Wooden sleeper Recycling Units 480.0 1,900.0 General Ton 3,071,889.7 2,837,743.0 1,282,596.0 Aggregate Rotate Ton 71,189.7 31,366.0 18,966.0 Wood ㎡ 1,670,527.0 1,379,619.0 1,257,546.0 Cast Substitute ㎡ 1,256,673.0 1,703,017.0 1,038,674.0 Water Consumption Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total Ton 1,904,016.7 2,456,071.8 2,514,179.9 Recycled water Ton 38,053.5 47,697.0 8,212.0 GHG Emission Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Indirect tCO2eq 18,074.1 18,674.0 12,197.1 Building Direct tCO2eq 1,293.5 1,598.2 1,559.3 Vehicle Direct tCO2eq 11,055.8 13,347.9 11,204.5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 88 Sustainability Management OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Performance OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Environmental Performance Waste Emission Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Emissions Ton 1,272,028.3 754,975.6 694,382.3 Construction waste Recycled Ton 748,270.9 722,504.4 686,141.3 Emissions Ton 287,827.9 292,597.0 230,783.0 Worksite waste Recycled Ton 246,752.6 178,843.3 208,391.0 Emissions Ton 19,364.8 17,272.0 15,709.0 Designated waste Recycled Ton 6,556.5 5,633.0 105.0 Air Pollutants Emission Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Annual fine dust emission kg 104.6 160.0 Operation of air pollutants emission facilities Places 9.0 3.0 Water Pollutants Emission Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Annual wastewater emission Ton 6,001,193.0 11,959,153.7 8,653,491.0 Operation of wastewater emission facilities Places 145.0 189.0 144.0 KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 89 SDGs and UNGC Principles Execution of the UN SDGs UN SDGs KR’s Major Activities Goal 1 • Activate social contribution programs for local communities in Korea No poverty • Global contribution: Social contribution activities in overseas areas • Systematize railway-specific talents cultivation Goal 4 • Transfer railway technology and business knowhow to Sri Lanka, Egypt, and Indonesia Quality education • Conduct dispatched and commissioned education to cultivate global talents The UN’s Sustainable Development • Foster female leaders and professionals Goal 5 • Obtain the family-friendly certification from the MOGEF for 6 years in a row Goals (UN SDGs), suggested in SepGender equality • Activate communication on gender equality at the Gender Equality Committee tember 2015, are composed of 17 Goal 7 • Promote new and renewable energy business by utilizing railway infrastructure goals and 169 targets that the internaAffordable and • Design sustainable eco-friendly stations by establishing a zero energy roadmap clean energy tional society should achieve during Goal 8 • Revamp an organization dedicated to job creation next 15 years (2016-2030), and these Decent work and • Create quality private jobs by building an ecosystem for co-prosperity goals contain the concept of developeconomic growth • Support matching job seekers and firms through the job-creation portals ment that satisfies the needs of future Goal 9 • Promote the construction of inter-Korean rail network based on a master plan generations as well as the needs of Industry, innovation • Expand metro rail network which helps work-life balance of citizens and infrastructure • Improve outdated railway facilities and modernize outdated bridges today. KR positively supports the UN Goal 10 • Improve HR system to consider the socially marginalized SDGs, which have been established Reduced • Conduct the “Foreign Workers’ Day” to boost their morale and help social adaptation to change our world to a better place, inequalities • Eliminate barriers to SMEs by fully improving unfair practices and also wants to contribute to the Goal 11 • Promote the Bridge-ZONE for the socially marginalized by utilizing idle rail sites achievement of the SDGs through Sustainable cities • [Station-C] Install mobile module-type offices on five stations and communities • Build a daycare center in a station to ease childcare burden understanding the chances for future • Build a climate change response system business in response to the challengGoal 13 • Install rapid EV charging equipment on parking lots in stations Climate action es involved in sustainable develop• Apply low carbon bridge technology and install eco-friendly soundproof walls ment, and through strengthening the Goal 15 • Build and operate the environmental management system (ISO 14001) value of sustainability. Life on land • Create ecological forest where railway, people, and nature can coexist Subscription to and Support for the UNGC Principle Human Principle 1 Companies shall support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights Principle 2 Companies shall make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Companies shall uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Principle 3 to collective bargaining. Labor Principle 4 Companies shall uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Companies shall uphold the effective abolition of child labor. KR joined the UN Global Compact in Principle 6 Companies shall uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. 2007 and has been complying with Principle 7 Companies shall support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. the 10 principles in the areas of huEnvironPrinciple 8 Companies shall undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. ment man rights, labor, environment, and Principle 9 Companies shall encourage development and diffusion of environmental-friendly technologies. anti-corruption. AntiPrinciple 10 Companies shall work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. corruption SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 90 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE GRI/ISO 26000 Index OUR PROMISE APPENDIX Topic Disclosure ISO 26000 Page Universal Standards GRI 102: General Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization 12 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12 102-3 Location of headquarters 12 102-4 Location of operations 12 102-5 Ownership and legal form 12 Organizational profile 6.3.10/6.4.1-6.4.2/6.4.3/ 102-6 Markets served 6.4.4/6.4.5/6.8.5/7.8 12 102-7 Scale of the organization 12 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 12, 83 102-12 External initiatives 89 102-13 Membership of associations 94 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 4, 5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 18, 19 Ethics and integrity 4.4/6.6.3 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 20, 21 102-18 Governance structure 16, 17 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 16, 17 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 16 Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 16 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 17 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 22-24 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 17 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 25 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 67 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 5.3 25 engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 25, 26 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 25 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2, 29 102-47 List of material topics 5.2/7.3.2/7.3.3/7.3.4 29 102-48 Restatements of information 해당없음 102-49 Changes in reporting 중대한변화없음 102-50 Reporting period 2 Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 7.5.3/7.6.2 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-55 GRI content index 90, 91 102-56 External assurance 92, 93 Topic-specific Standards GRI 200: Economic Topics 103 Management Approach 38 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 82 Performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 12 KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 91 Topic Disclosure ISO 26000 Page 103 Management Approach 38 Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 6.3.9/6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.7/6.8.9 39-43 Impacts 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/6.7.8/6.8.1203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 39-43 6.8.2/6.8.5/6.8.7/6.8.9 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 20 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 18, 19 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 21 GRI 300: Environmental Topics 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 87 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.5.4 87 103 Management Approach 67 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 86 Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 6.5.4 87 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4/6.5.5 73 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 6.5.4 86, 87 Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.4 87 103 Management Approach 67 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 6.5.5 86 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 6.5.5 87 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 6.5.5 72, 86 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3/6.5.4 88 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 86, 88 GRI 400: Social Topcis 103 Management Approach 54 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 83 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.4 76, 84 103 Management Approach 68 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety Occupational Health 403-1 6.4.6 100%, 전직원 committees and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 6.4.6/6.8.8 69 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 103 Management Approach 74 Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4.7 84 Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 6.4.7/6.8.5 78, 79 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6.2.3/6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 83 Opportunity 103 Management Approach 54 Human Rights 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 6.3.3/6.3.5/6.6.6 66 Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 6.3.5 66, 67 103 Management Approach 54 Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 413-1 6.3.9/6.5.1-6.5.2/6.5.3/6.8 58-61 development programs Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.8.8 34-37 and Safety Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Customer Privacy 418-1 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.7 No case customer data Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 4.6/6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.6 No case Compliance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 92 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE Independent Assurance Report OUR PROMISE APPENDIX TO THE MANAGEMENT OF KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereinafter “Auditor”), hereby presents the following statement of assurance, upon the request for auditing the 2019 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “Report”) of Korea Rail Network Authority (hereinafter “KR”) as a licensed sustainability assurance provider. Responsibility & Objective KR is responsible for economic, environmental, and social dimensions of performance measures and all statements contained in this report. The objective of the assurance is to offer professional counsel for improving the quality of the report by; checking whether there were any errors or bias present in the Report; by assessing whether the data collection system is in appropriate working order; and by examining the process of identifying issues of material importance to sustainability management. Assurance Type & Level The Auditor referred to AA1000AP (2018)1, ISAE30002, and GRI Standards3 for the assurance of the Report. Assurance Scope Economic, environmental and social dimensions of the report’s performance measures and objectives Assurance Type & Level Type II Moderate level ˙ “IPS Assurance Manual™“ to verify compliance against the four core principles of AA1000AP (2008) Assurance Criteria ˙ “IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria™” to assess the reliability of performance indicators based on ISAE3000 ˙ GRI Standards: The compliance of the “Core Option” criteria Assurance Process and Activities The Auditor confirmed ① the inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, and impact of the reported content; ② the reliability of the reported performance data; and ③ the GRI Standards “In accordance” criteria. ˙Review of KR’s identification process of material issues and following results ˙Review of the stakeholder engagement process ˙Review of data samples, other than financial statements, used as sources for economic, social and environmental quantitative performance measures ˙Review of reference materials underlying economic, social and environmental qualitative performance measures ˙Review of the Report’s compliance with GRI Standards The Auditor conducted written correspondence and in-person interviews with the reporting management and staff, within KR, in the process of assurance measures. Assurance Findings The Auditor discussed about the Report’s editing with KR though written correspondence and in-person interviews and reviewed the final draft of the Report to confirm whether our requests and recommendations for revision were reflected. As a result, the Auditor could not find any contents violating the following assurance principles, or any evidence showing major errors or bias in the performance information or claims stated within the assurance scope. [Inclusivity] Were KR’s stakeholder engagement plans and processes appropriate? It is the Auditor's view that KR has put in place a process for stakeholder engagement to better reflect stakeholder views in its actual management activities, in recognition of the importance of communication and cooperation with stakeholders for pursuing sustainability management. It has been confirmed that the Public Participation Innovation Corps and the People Mentor Group are particularly representative processes for listening to the opinions of KR’s core stakeholders. The Auditor has not found any important stakeholders left out from this process. [Materiality] Does the Report offer substantive information of material importance to KR’s economic, environmental and social stakeholders? The Auditor confirmed that KR is identifying material issues affecting both stakeholders and management activities of the Authority and is appropriately disclosing the management status of those issues. In particular, the identification of sustainability issues through materiality analysis and the facilitation of methods to prioritize material issues through stakeholder survey results appear to be KR’s core “materiality assessment process.” No omissions were discovered by the Auditor, in terms of sustainability management information important to stakeholders. [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? The Auditor confirmed that KR is operating diverse engagement channels appropriate for each key stakeholder and is identifying material reporting issues through those opinions collected in the process. The introduced themes of “Securing the Safety of Rail Workers and Enhancing the Safety Management of Rail Facilities” were found to be areas of high stakeholder interest. It has been found in this process that KR has appropriately responded to stakeholder demands and interests. [Impact] Does KR identify and measure economic, social, and environmental impacts on stakeholders and disclose the results through the Report? 1  AA1000 – Accountability Principles 2018: One of the sustainability report assurance standard series established by the non-profit organization AccountAbility based in the UK, in order to audit corporate  social responsibility and sustainability development, thus explaining a set of auditing principles. It was revised with the addition of the “Impact” principle to the existing AA1000APS (2008) in 2018. 2 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: “Assurance Engagement Principle other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” established by the International  Federation of Accountants (IFAC) 3 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a non-profit organization established in 1997, by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), releasing a sustainability reporting framework in 2000 for multinational enterprises. Following the revised G4 version focused on supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures, the GRI released the GRI Standards in 2016, a new guideline with modular structure to ensure more systematic reporting process KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 93 It is the Auditor’s opinion that KR is appropriately disclosing economic, environmental, and social impacts through analysis of ripple effects on local economies, inspection of effects on rail facilities, and evaluation of effects on climate change through the Report. Moreover, the Auditor confirmed that KR conducts fact-findings and impact evaluation in the process of human rights management and analyzes their social and environmental impacts on stakeholders in the aspect of business operation. [GRI “In Accordance” Criteria] The Auditor has recognized that the Report is in accordance with the “Core Option” criteria of the GRI Standards. [Reliability of Performance Indicators] The Auditor confirmed that the performance indicators presented in the Report are free from bias or error that would affect stakeholders’ judgement of KR. Followings are the key performance indicators the Auditor has recognized. Category Issue Performance Indicator Performance in ethical management: 3rd grade (comprehensive integrity level), Anti-corruption 8.70 points (external integrity level), 8.25 points (internal integrity level) Ethical Management Establishment of Ethical Management System and Performance in system improvement: Adding points for social responsibility to the Compliance evaluation criteria for the Comprehensive Bidding System Securing the Safety of Rail Workers and Enhancing Lowest incident rate among public corporations: 0.038% Special Page #2 the Safety Management of Rail Facility No. of rail safety accidents: 19 in 2017 and 13 in 2018 Reinforcing the Development of Expected effects from building the land compensation system: Reduction of Expanding R&D of Rail-related Technologies Rail Technologies 54,979 hours a year and KRW 1.8 billion Improving Infrastructure and Building Support Improving the Value of Rail Assets Revenue from operating private-funded stations: KRW 28.4 billion Facilities around Stations Shared Growth Increasing Needs for Fair Competition and Trade VOC improvement rate by the Fair Economy Activation Corps (TF): 100% GHG emissions (buildings, vehicles): 957tCO2eq (direct), 2,730.9tCO2eq (indirect), Building Eco-friendly Rail Air Pollutants (GHG, PM-10, etc.) 607.3tCO2eq (other indirect) * 35 Qualitative and 17 quantitative performance indicators with regard to 15 material issues were reviewed, but only a few are presented in this assurance report. Recommendations The Auditor highly values the Report’s endeavor to ① establish material issues closely associated with KR’s four core values; ② appropriately reflect the key interests of every stakeholder through the Public Participation Innovation Corps, People Mentor Group, stakeholder interview, and surveys; ③ transparently disclose the Authority’s economic, environmental, and social performance improvement based on internal and external sustainability agendas including social value realization, human rights management, the UN SDGs, and the Ten Principles of UNGC. Recommended in future reports with better quality are the followings: ˙Clarity: Explaining technical terminologies and English abbreviations used in the railway industry, adding the basis and formula for calculating ripple effects ˙Accuracy: Securing a system to manage basic data including the number of employees which are subject to change due to source, gathering criteria, and disclosure condition ˙Comparability: Providing comparable benchmark data of public corporations under the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport or peers when presenting  performance indicators Independence of the Auditor The Auditor does not have any for-profit or commercial affiliation with KR and did not involve in any of the preparations of the Report, with the exception of this third party assurance statement. Qualifications of the Auditor The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies is a “Third Party Assurance Provider” engaging in sustainability report assurance for corporations and public organizations nationwide. The auditing team participating in the assurance of this report consists of experts specialized in disciplines of business administration, economics, and accounting, and also with many years of accumulated experience and professional training in the fields of ethical management, human rights management, CSR, and sustainability. August 2019 Chairman of the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, Tae Hyun Kim SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 94 OVERVIEW SPECIAL PAGE OUR PROMISE Awards and Association Memberships APPENDIX Awards in 2018 Achievement Hosted by Significance Korean Agency for Technology Presidential Prize at the National Quality Control Circles for 9 Increase of work efficiency, budget saving, and enhancement of public and Standards under the Korea consecutive years concern (Aug. 2018) Standards Association Gold Prize (2 kinds) and Special Prize (2 kinds) at the International Association of Pioneer Quality Sharing of KR’s best practices in management innovation with 475 teams Convention on Quality Control Circles 2018 Control Research from 13 countries and increase of KR brand awareness (Oct. 2018) Achievement of the lowest accidnet rate at construction site among Ministry of Employment and Grand Prize at the 2018 Safety Management Award ordering public institutions under the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Labor Transport (Dec. 2018) Recognition for developing Korean train control system and soundproof Top 10 Railway Technology Award in 2018 Korean Society for Railway facility optimization technologies (Nov. 2018) Efficient and systematic management of the Wonju-Gangneung railway Korea Project Management Grand Prize (transport sector) at the 2018 Project of the Year construction project and contribution to successful execution of the Association Pyeongchang Winter Olympics (Nov. 2018) Technology Award from the Korean Society of Steel Korean Society of Steel Development of eco-friendly low carbon bridge technologies (Jun. 2018) Construction Construction Participation Award (UCC sector) at the 2018 PeopleAnti-Corruption & Civil Rights Efforts for disseminating the culture of integrity (Dec. 2018) Participating Contents Contest Commission Ministry of Economy and Citation for Excellent Institution in Utilizing State-Owned Assets Creating social value through creative idle railway utilization (Oct. 2018) Finance Contribution to the development of child welfare (including marginalized Minister Prize in Commemoration of the ChildFund Korea’s 70th Ministry of Health and Welfare group around railway and support for youth) in local communities (Oct. Anniversary 2018) Grand Prize at the Idea Contest (public sector) of the Public Public Workers Solidarity Fulfillment of social responsibility by building a daycare center in a station Workers Solidarity Foundation Foundation (Jun. 2018) Association Memberships Association Association UIC: International Union of Railways Power Breakfast of KSA Daejeon Korea Industrial Technology Promotion Association IPMAK: International Project Management Association Korea Korea Institute of Electrical Engineers Daejeon Chungcheong Audit Conference Korea Suggestion System Association Korea Fire Safety Institute AKI: Asosiasi Kontraktor Indonesia UN Global Compact Korea Korean Association for Audit Korea Association of Ecological Restoration Korea Association for Railway Korea Emergency Planning Officer Council Business Ethics and Sustainability Management Forum Korea Railway Association Transparent Society Practice Network Korea Management Association Korea Industrial Safety Association Korean Tunneling and Underground Space Association Korea Public Institution Audit Conference AKCI: The Association of Korean Contractor in Indonesia International Contractors Association of Korea Korean Society of Transportation Korea Project Management Association KOREA RAIL NETWORK AUTHORITY 95 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City T. +82-1588-7270 F. +82-42-607-3629 www.kr.or.kr This report was printed in soy ink.
