DAI – DAN REPORT 2019 – 2020 Inspired by Light, Air & Water DAI-DAN CO., LTD. Contents Dai-Dan’s 116-year History Message from Management ........................................ 03 Inspired by Light, Dai-Dan’s Businesses ...................................................... 07 Corporate Profile / Financial Highlights ....................................... 07 Operational Highlights ................................................................... 08 Our Services .................................................................................. 09 Air & Water Haneda Airport Terminal 2, Tokyo (2010) Dai-Dan’s Corporate Social Responsibility ................................. 11 Feature: Steering Our Way to Sustainable Growth ... 12 Important Issues and Progress of Corresponding Efforts Taking on the Challenges in the Regenerative Medicine Business ...................................... 13 As a comprehensive building services engineering and installation provider, Dai-Dan has continued June Our Take on ZEB as a Building Services Engineering to use its advanced technology to add comfort and vibrancy to interior spaces where people gather. 2019 and Installation Provider ............................................................... 15 June For more than a century, we have been expanding the breadth of our expertise and securing the trust Labs and Center Building, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology May 2019 Contributions via Environment-friendly Technologies................ 17 of our customers. At the same time, we are helping to achieve greater harmony with nature. Graduate University, Okinawa (2010) October 2019 Dai-Dan Innovation ............................................................ 18 2017 May 2017 Start of Service for New Smart Buildings................................... 19 April Singapore 2017 Branch obtains Office Buildings .............................................................................. 20 May the certification April 2016 of ISO 45001. Pharmaceutical, Food and Research Facilities, Data Centers ... 21 2013 Groundbreaking begins Electronics and Precision Instruments Factories ....................... 22 for enefice Hokkaido (temporary name for a Medical Care and Welfare Service Facilities ............................... 22 new office building for the Hokkaido Branch). Technical Research Laboratory ................................................... 23 Sumitomo General Head Office Building, Osaka (1907) Nagoya City Library, Aichi (1923) Aichi Prefectural Government Office Building, Aichi (1938) Enefice Shikoku (new Shikoku Branch office building) is Dai-Dan’s Practical Competence ............................. 24 March 2003 completed. Introducing Our Installations ......................................................... 25 February 2002 The company is registered as a ZEB Leading Owner. What Dai-Dan Is Doing to Improve Productivity in the Field ..... 28 December 1999 The company is registered as a Enhancing Our Installation Expertise and September 1997 ZEB Planner. Ability to Provide Design Solutions .............................................. 30 August 1993 Regenerative Medicine Promotion Department Continuously Improving Health and Safety Initiatives April with the Goal of Eradicating Industrial Accidents ...................... 31 The company (Cellab Tonomachi, Kobe Office) is established. 1987 celebrates its October 100th anniversary. Enefice Kyushu (new Kyushu Branch office building) 1984 is completed. Application of the Meister Program and Establishment of February Partnerships with Our Subcontractors across Japan ............... 32 Bank of Japan Building, Hakodate Bank of Japan Head Office Building, Branch, Hokkaido (1909) Tokyo (1931) The company obtains a 1983 blanket certification of New Research Center is completed in September January 1981 ISO 14001 for all offices through the nation. Technical Research Laboratory. FY2018 CSR/ESG Performance and FY2019 Targets ... 33 1979 October All offices through the nation Fair and Transparent Business Practices ........... 35 1975 obtain the certification of January 1965 ISO 9000S. Environmental Contribution ......................................... 39 December Singapore Branch obtains the September 1946 certification of ISO 9000S. Meeting Customer Expectations .............................. 41 1943 Valuing Our Employees ................................................... 43 October The company lists its stock on the first 1933 section of Tokyo Stock Exchange. March 1903 The corporate name is changed to DAI-DAN CO., LTD. Partnering with Hosting Communities .................. 45 Technical Research Laboratory is constructed at Miyoshimachi, Iruma-gun, Saitama Prefecture. Third Party Opinion ............................................................ 47 CREATE, Singapore (2011) JP Tower, Tokyo (2012) The building of head office is constructed at the current place Global Network ..................................................................... 48 (Edobori, Nishi-ku, Osaka City). The company’s stock is designated on the first section of Osaka Securities Exchange. ● Editorial Policy Singapore Branch is opened. Since fiscal 2008, we have been publishing our CSR report as a means The company lists its stock on the second of informing our stakeholders of our business operations and CSR section of Osaka Securities Exchange. initiatives. In fiscal 2014, we renamed this publication the Dai-Dan Report. Compiled as an integrated corporate report, it contains both The corporate name is changed to financial and non-financial data in addition to the conventional content. Osaka Denki Danbo Co., Ltd. This year, we added a special feature on new initiatives, activities The corporate name is changed back to Osaka and projects we have under taken to steer ourselves towards Denki Shokai/Osaka Danbo Shokai Co., Ltd. Medical Innovation Center Building, Shinagawa Season Terrace, sustainable growth. In it, we lay out the issues we consider important Kyoto University, Kyoto (2013) Tokyo (2014) and report the progress we have made with the corresponding efforts. The corporate name is changed to Osaka Denki Tekkan Kogyo Co., Ltd. Supreme Court Office Building, Tokyo (1974) M-Wave Nagano Olympic Memorial Arena, Nagano (1996) ● Scope of This Report Target organization Osaka Denki Shokai/ Osaka Danbo Shokai Co., Ltd. is This report covers the operations of DAI-DAN CO., LTD. All financial incorporated. information is reported on a consolidated basis. Period Founded. This report covers the fiscal year spanning April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2019. Some data refers to activities after April 1, 2019. ● Report Guideline References ISO 26000 Ministry of the Environment Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018) Nippon Budokan, Tokyo (1964) Kansai International Airport Control Tower & GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Mozo Wonder City, Aichi (2009) New K-1 Building, Nichia Corporation, Kakogawa Central City Hospital, Passenger Terminal, Osaka (1994) Tokushima (2015) Hyogo (2016) 01 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 02 Message from Management Message from Management Creating better environments In April 2018, we began implementing a 3-year Mid-Term net sales of completed construction contracts two years The next generation in “comfort” Management Plan loaded with new strategies and polices to ahead of plans, thanks to increased investment in factories, Message from Management swiftly respond to changes in the business environment. We data centers and other industrial assets and multiple orders have since been promoting a variety of initiatives and efforts for large projects overseas. And, we are hoping to attain our with which we are “challenging ourselves and creating the operating income target one year ahead of time. created from light, air and water future with our technologies,” under the catchphrase of Moreover, we have already started retooling our “establishing the hopeful and attractive Dai-Dan with Mid-Term Management Plan and formulating a midand ‘Aggressive Strength’ and ‘Supportive Strength’.” long-term vision with our eyes fixed on our 120th On the performance front, we achieved our targets for anniversary four years down the road. both net sales of construction contract orders received and Dai-Dan is creating value for next-generation buildings by leveling off building energy The next generation in “comfort” created from light, air and water balance, building environments required for regenerative medicine and optimizing Mid-Term Management Plan Dai-Dan — challenging ourselves and lighting and air conditioning through IoT. Fiscal 2018–2020 creating the future with our technologies — Establish the hopeful and attractive Dai-Dan with “Aggressive Strength” and “Supportive Strength” Competitive Strengthening Strengthening practical competence Strengthening provision of advanced technology Aggressive Strength sales force Strength Growing Expansion of business areas by utilizing the characteristics Approach to new business Strength of building services engineering and installation business Management Establishment of a robust system that is Utilization of capital Improvement in employees’ satisfaction Supportive Foundation not affected by changes and financial bases Strength Corporate Ongoing promotion of the compliance Approach to environmental and social Achievement of the Responsibility management and strengthened governance contribution activities as corporate citizen sustainable society Targeted net sales of construction contract orders received Ichiro Fujisawa and net sales of completed construction contracts Projecting to achieve operating income target 1 year ahead of the Mid-Term Management Plan achieved 2 years ahead of the Mid-Term Management Plan Representative Director (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Orders received Net sales Operating income President 165 Mid-Term 161.0 161.0 Mid-Term 8.0 DAI-DAN CO., LTD. 160 158.5 8.0 Management Management 155.5 Plan started 155 Plan started 7.8 Orders received Operating income 150 8 billion yen 7.6 147.3 151 billion yen 7.6 145 143.4 Net sales 151 billion yen 7.4 7.3 140 135 7.2 130 7.0 0 0 FY March April FY March FY March FY March April FY March FY March 2018 2018 2019 2020 2018 2018 2019 2020 (Result) (Result) (Projected) (Result) (Result) (Projected) Shohei Kitano Representative Director Chairman DAI-DAN CO., LTD. Making maximum use of business resources With industrial structures and social practices changing as facilities that require high-tech building systems, and to much as they have as of recent, we are seeking intelligent challenge new areas of business via innovation. ways to innovate our business processes so that, no matter Moreover, in order to more flexibly relate to markets, we what the times, our customers will continue to choose divided operations geographically into the three markets of Dai-Dan. So, in April 2019, we reorganized our technical East, Central and West Japan. As a part of that, we have divisions to quickly meet rising demands for more tuned our strategies for gaining orders to regional sophisticated and specialized technologies. This included characteristics and are allocating business resources with our newly establishing an Engineering Division to strengthen eyes on the future. our engineering proposal activities and build At Dai-Dan, we are making maximum use of our environmentally advanced buildings like ZEB*, and an business resources to establish for ourselves management Innovation Division to better promote R&D and develop foundations that enable us to adapt to changes. business in regenerative medicine and IoT. Both will be working with the Technical Construction Division to * ZEB (Net-Zero Energy Building) is a state-of-the-art building technology combining photovoltaic power generation with highly energy-efficient improve our engineering performance in large projects and designs aiming at a Net-Zero energy balance throughout the year. 03 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 04 Message from Management Message from Management Our take on ZEB as a building services engineering and installation provider Our employees are our greatest assets. Message from Management At Dai-Dan, we are working to develop and spread ZEB Furthermore, as a new endeavor, we broke ground on The more than a century of history we have as a company that allows them to work efficiently. By accumulating, technologies that improve energy efficiency and utilize enefice Hokkaido (temporary name for a new office was built entirely by “people.” We have always thought of improving and diffusing this know-how, we will make renewable energy from a building systems perspective. As a building for the Hokkaido Branch) with the aim of bringing our employees as “our greatest assets” and, therefore, productivity-improvement-driven workstyle reform even part of those efforts, we took our ZEB technologies to the ZEB to cold regions. In addition to our position as a ZEB respected each and every one as individuals and gone to more visible. next level through lab verifications and pilot testing at Leading Owner 1 and ZEB Planner 2, we view it as our great lengths to create workplace environments where all In May 2019, Dai-Dan announced a Health Policy based buildings of our own, which included building a new responsibility to spread ZEB because it is essential to could bring any distinguishing qualities and demonstrate on the underlying belief that it is important that everyone in research center at our Technical Research Laboratory, shrinking carbon footprints and will, therefore, continue their abilities to the best extent possible. the corporate workforce lead a happy life and be part of a retrofitting our research centers with smart technologies the support we provide customers so that they can build or One effort we are making to modernize the way people concerted effort to grow the company and contribute to and rebuilding enefice Kyushu (Kyushu Branch) and enefice retrofit their building assets with ZEB technologies. work and improve productivity at the same time is to society. Therefore, as an employer, Dai-Dan takes The next generation in “comfort” created from light, air and water Shikoku (Shikoku Branch). promote i-Construction via “remote field support teams.” constructive action to enhance health awareness and create Intended to efficiently provide support from a remote motivating workplace environments so that all employees location, this new practice has steadfast produced good can build careers and feel fulfilled. Going forward, we will ZEB projects results by using webconferencing and cloud file servers so modernize our recruiting practices, work requirements and that – for example – women working shorter hours because employee benefits so that, in a world premised on diversity, Completed May 2016 Completed May 2019 of childcare responsibilities are afforded greater flexibility Dai-Dan looks like an interesting company to work for. enefice Kyushu enefice Shikoku Completion planned for March 2021 enefice Hokkaido (Temporary name for a new Working with stakeholders office building for the Hokkaido Branch) As a corporate entity, Dai-Dan agrees with the purport of the Moreover, Dai-Dan signed the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the became a registered participant-company in this global ZEB for cold regions United Nations General Assembly and, in connection platform for realizing a sustainable society in July 2019. thereto, is promoting various efforts to steer the company Under the four categories and ten principles raised in the BELS 5☆ BELS 5☆ along a path of sustainable growth and to help solve social UN Global Compact, Dai-Dan will help to protect the global ZEB Ready Certified ZEB Certified issues. We position “people-friendly environments,” a environment by applying its latest environmental control “sustainable society” and “solid corporate foundations” as technologies to first and foremost realizing a low-carbon important topics of corporate management and promote society. 1 A widely publicized program for registering businesses that are proactive in promoting energy-efficient buildings as “ZEB Leading Owners.” efforts to maximize the value we provide to our stakeholders. 2 The ZEB Planner registration system is a widely publicized program for registering design, installation, and consulting companies as “ZEB Planners” who proactively promote the ZEB concept among building owners. Taking on the challenges in the regenerative medicine business At Dai-Dan, we are pursuing a variety of challenges intended and continue our contribution to the development and to make regenerative medicine readily and widely available practical application of this budding field of medical care. because of the promising uses with incurable and untreatable diseases. As one such effort, we developed an “All-in-One CP Unit” with new technologies. It can be easily installed in existing medical care facilities and enables hospitals to build compact cleanrooms for culturing and processing treatment cells at low cost. We are also hosting periodic seminars and exchanges on regenerative medicine at our Cellab Tonomachi open innovation center and disseminating information with the cooperation of various companies. In the lead-up to our 120th anniversary four years from now, we will strive to continuously improve our corporate value Going forward, we will push open innovation to promote by maintaining a constructive dialog with our stakeholders — customers, shareholders and investors, subcontractors and development that serves the needs for regenerative medicine employees — and continuing to meet their expectations. Cellab Tonomachi open innovation center We hope that you understand and support what we do as a business. 05 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 06 Dai-Dan’s Businesses ■ Fiscal 2018 Orders Received and Net Sales Ratios by Segment Corporate Profile Plumbing installations Electrical installations Plumbing installations Electrical installations 39,553 million yen 25,690 million yen 38,232 million yen 24,393 million yen ■ Organization Chart 25.0% 16.2% 24.6% 15.7% Company (as of September 2019) DAI-DAN CO., LTD. Orders name Shareholders’ meeting Net sales received Auditors’ meeting 158,533 155,565 Board of Directors Executive Committee million yen million yen Air conditioning Air conditioning Head office 1-9-25 Edobori, Nishi-ku, Osaka, Japan installations installations Compliance Office 92,939 million yen Chairman 93,289 million yen 59.7% Dai-Dan’s Businesses 58.8% Compliance Committee President Internal Audit Office Founded March 4, 1903 Vice-president Corporate Planning Office Osaka Expo & IR Promotions Office ■ Orders Received/Net Sales Orders received Net sales (Millions of yen) Incorporated October 10, 1933 158,533 155,565 Innovation Division 160,000 143,503 138,346 144,007 147,335 143,448 Engineering Division 131,633 125,253 121,780 Corporate Profile / Financial Highlights / Operational Highlights Technical Construction Division 120,000 Capital fund 4,479,725,988 yen Sales Division 80,000 General Administration Division 40,000 Hokkaido 1,600 Employees (as of March 31, 2019) consolidated Tohoku 0 East Japan Division Niigata 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Singapore Branch Tokyo Head Office Stock listing The first section of Tokyo Stock Exchange Central Japan Division Nagoya ■ Operating Income ■ Ordinary Income ■ Net Income Hokuriku (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 7,674 8,057 Osaka Head Office 8,000 7,385 7,661 8,000 6,000 5,464 Okayama 6,537 6,750 6,770 6,939 5,109 West Japan Division Chugoku 5,000 4,638 6,000 6,000 4,248 Shikoku 4,547 4,875 4,000 Kyushu 2,921 4,000 4,000 3,000 International Affairs Office 2,000 2,000 2,000 1,000 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Financial Highlights ■ Total Assets/Net Assets/Equity Capital Ratio Total assets Net assets Equity capital ratio (Millions of yen) （％） 150,000 60.0 ■ Accounting Year (in million yen) 120,919 117,260 130,006 120,728 120,000 112,160 56.0 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 54.8% 90,000 64,417 52.0 Orders received 131,633 143,503 144,007 147,335 158,533 58,004 66,390 53,462 54,583 Net sales 121,780 138,346 125,253 143,448 155,565 60,000 49.4% 48.0 49.3% Selling, general and administrative expenses 10,016 10,176 11,038 11,400 11,450 47.5% 30,000 44.0 45.0% Operating income (loss) 4,547 6,537 6,750 7,385 7,661 0 40.0 Ordinary income (loss) 4,875 6,770 6,939 7,674 8,057 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Net income (loss) 2,921 4,248 4,638 5,109 5,464 Return on assets (ROA) (%) 4.4 5.8 5.8 6.2 6.4 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 5.9 7.9 8.3 8.4 8.4 Cash flows from operating activities 2,427 611 5,395 3,320 (13,541) Cash flows from investing activities (401) (493) (1,442) (315) (232) Operational Highlights Cash flows from financing activities (2,344) (894) (925) (1,711) (1,317) Cash and equivalents at end of period 24,358 23,536 26,549 27,858 12,776 ■ Non-Financial Data FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 ■ Fiscal Year-End (in million yen) Number of employees (consolidated) 1,498 1,493 1,505 1,540 1,600 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of workplace accidents 36 26 18 36 42 Total assets 112,160 120,919 117,260 130,006 120,728 Frequency rate of workplace accidents1 0.461 0.173 0.190 0.168 0.160 Net assets 53,462 54,583 58,004 64,417 66,390 Severity rate of workplace accidents2 0.021 0.017 0.004 0.024 0.008 Equity capital ratio (%) 47.5 45.0 49.3 49.4 54.8 CO2 emissions from offices (tonnes) 1,745 1,618 1,732 1,749 1,645 3 1 Number of workplace accidents per million work hours 2 Number of workdays lost per thousand work hours 3 Beginning in fiscal 2018, the target was changed to reflect the new CO2 equivalent. 07 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 08 Dai-Dan’s Businesses Our Services Recently Completed Noteworthy Projects Electrical systems supply electricity throughout a building to run equipment and support services. Electrical installations install the step-down transformers that receive power from the Projects completed in FY2018 grid and the panels that distribute power to lighting, outlets, pumps, fans and other loads, and wire all of the connections. Electrical Dai-Dan’s Businesses Electrical systems are instrumental in reducing the building’s power consumption and carbon footprint, and effectively using renewable energy. They are composed of a variety of installations equipment, such as high-efficiency transformers, solar power systems for generating electrical power, LED lighting fixtures that help to lower power consumption, storage batteries for optimizing power usage and IoT-driven control systems. Dai-Dan assembles the various pieces of equipment into electrical systems that serve the intended purpose whether to build or retrofit buildings with ZEB technologies, ready buildings for disasters as part of business continuity planning, or other need. Our Services / Recently Completed Noteworthy Projects Air conditioning systems are important towards “comfort” and “human productivity” because they control the temperature, humidity, airflows and cleanliness of the indoor environments of buildings that envelope people. They vary widely in size and performance from typical AC Air systems for office buildings to precision models required by semiconductor manufacturing plants. msb Tamachi Station Tower S / Pullman Tokyo Tamachi Namba SkyO (electrical, air conditioning and plumbing installations) conditioning (air conditioning installation) Dai-Dan has advanced technologies and vast experience with planning, designing and installing air conditioning systems. In fact, the large data centers that underscore today’s installations internet society adopt many of our technologies — for example — to introduce cold outdoor air in order to reduce air conditioning load and to effectively direct cooled air towards IT equipment. Moreover, we can tap renewable geothermal energy as a heat source in order to efficiently manage a building’s energy balance. We can provide customers with whatever support they need. Water is a precious resource. So much so, the SDGs adopted by the UN include access to safe Shibuya Solasta R&D Bldg. and Factory No. 5, Fukushima Plant Obihiro Kosei Hospital (air conditioning and plumbing installations) Hitachi Automotive Systems (plumbing installation) drinking water and toilets. Plumbing systems serve to supply clean safe-to-drink water and (air conditioning and plumbing installations) properly drain wastewater. Plumbing At Dai-Dan, we believe plumbing systems can fulfill other purposes than just supplying and draining water, such as to use rainwater and recycle wastewater, therefore we have our hands installations on a lot of equipment that is designed to conserve water resources. Moreover, with piping technology you can rely on, we can design and install utility piping systems for delivering Projects completed in FY2017 materials critical to production, like chemical solutions or compressed air or gas that is needed to operate factory equipment, to wherever they are needed. The renovation of building systems enhances their functioning in addition to improving performance and upgrading the interior environment. In addition, renovations enhance the value of the customer’s asset while extending its service life and improving the building’s energy efficiency. Renovations We formulate a renovation plan to meet the various needs of the customer by leveraging our own equipment diagnostic technology developed through the construction expertise we have Agricultural Research Building, Ito Campus, GINZA SIX Building D, Toyama Murata Manufacturing Kyushu University (electrical installation) (air conditioning and plumbing installations) gained from dealing with building systems through our comprehensive building services business. (air conditioning installation) We provide installations that accommodate existing needs as well as follow-up service to address any issues that might arise. Overseas In Singapore and Thailand, Dai-Dan has provided equipment for large projects in addition to using our engineering expertise to design and install factory systems, etc. Moreover, besides being operations directly involved in projects, we have also lent constructive support from Japan by imparting technical training to local staff, in order to provide high-quality equipment in both countries. Kurashiki Municipal Hospital, Kojima Wakayama Regional Joint Government Building (air conditioning and plumbing installations) (air conditioning and plumbing installations) 09 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 10 Dai-Dan’s Corporate Social Steering Our Way to Sustainable Responsibility Feature Growth Important Issues and Progress of Corresponding Efforts Day after day, Dai-Dan aspires to create value through the work we do. At Dai-Dan, we keep it mind to assess the impact of our business activities, products and services on society, therefore we have defined important issues (materiality) related to building a sustainable society from ESG perspectives. The The ties we share with each of our stakeholders underscore the business activities we conduct. For us, it is initiatives, activities and projects we promote for these important issues are meant to maximize the value we provide to our stakeholders. In this special feature, we introduce three of the efforts we are making in relation to what we treat as our social responsibility as a corporation (CSR) to emphasize ESG (Environment/Society/Governance) and important issues. continuously provide value to our stakeholders and grow our business day-in and day-out. Feature Important Issues (Materiality) at Dai-Dan Stakeholder Relations Creating people-friendly Helping to build Maintaining solid corporate Steering Our Way to Sustainable Growth environments a sustainable society foundations Customers, shareholders, employees, subcontractors and local communities— Proposing, designing and building Promoting energy Customers Feature Fair and impartial procurement and environments that meet customer efficiency by popularizing collectively, our stakeholders—are always 2 the next generation in ZEB coprosperity with subcontractors needs the focus of any action we take when conducting our corporate activities. We Pursuing the maximum comfort Extending equipment service-life Promoting workstyle reform and believe that it is imperative that we accurately technology can offer using IoT and AI health management identify the expectations and requirements of Shareholders Employees our stakeholders through communication and Realizing comfortable environments Effective use of resources for Promoting diversity respond to these needs, in order for us to at low cost via i-Construction business activities grow as a company. DAI-DAN CO., LTD. We therefore hold semiannual briefings on Providing high-quality Contributions via Feature Feature Stronger governance and risk earnings for analysts in addition to environments for promoting Environment-friendly 1 regenerative medicine at low cost 3 Technologies management communicating with stakeholders by offering tours of our facilities, issuing press releases, Promoting local community and disseminating information through our Environment Local contribution activities corporate website. Subcontractors community Feature Feature Feature P. 13-14 P. 15-16 P. 17 Value that Dai-Dan Provides to Its Stakeholders 1 2 3 Dai-Dan is continuously providing value to its stakeholders by “creating people-friendly environments,” “doing Taking on the Challenges Our Take on ZEB as a Contributions via what it can to build a sustainable society” and “maintaining its corporate foundations solid.” Each of these in the Regenerative Building Services Engineering Environment-friendly directions is closely correlated with the UN’s SDGs. Medicine Business and Installation Provider Technologies How Dai-Dan provides value to its stakeholders Related SDGs Creating people-friendly environments We create healthy and comfortable environments where people are active. Helping to build a sustainable society We promote energy conservation and resource recycling via building systems. Maintaining solid corporate foundations We remain fair and impartial in all of our business activities. 11 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 12 Feature Taking on the Challenges in the On the stump to diffuse new technologies 1 Regenerative Medicine Business To contribute to the industrialization of regenerative medicine, we share new technologies on building clean environments acquired at Cellab Tonomachi and things we learn proposing CPF to users at conferences and tradeshows. We also participate in the Forum for Innovative Regenerative Medicine (FIRM) and network with the industrial world as a whole With hopes and expectations growing over regenerative medicine, Dai-Dan is helping to make this promising field through the activities of the Supporting Industries Committee. of treatment readily available to all by industrializing the core processes. The market is steadfast expanding to global scale, but if Japan is to be the first to industrialize the science before the rest of the world, it is going to take technological innovation and practical application from supporting industries. Therefore, Dai-Dan is engaged in new areas of technological development and launching new services Giving a tangible shape to needs: Development of the All-in-one CP Unit via the coordinated operations of our Kobe Office (Kobe City, Hyogo Pref.), Technical Research Laboratory (Miyoshi Town, Saitama Pref.) and Cellab Tonomachi open innovation lab that we created within our Life At Cellab Tonomachi, we received diverse requests from physicians and researchers regarding clean environments for culturing Innovation Center (LIC) in Tonomachi, Kawasaki City, Saitama Pref. specifically to head up development in the and processing cells. But, one that kept popping up was for a CPF that could be easily installed within the limited space of a field of regenerative medicine. Feature 1 hospital or clinic. Our All-in-one CP Unit meets those needs. It packages everything required of a CPF from a changing room to a cell preparation room into a single space-efficient unit that can be installed in a short amount of time and at low cost, effectively bringing a cell processing ●Information-sharing environment and, by virtue thereof, Taking on the Challenges in the Regenerative Medicine Business Kawasaki City, Kanagawa Prefecture amongst 3 operating bases Open regenerative medical care to patients. Cellab Tonomachi Cellab ●Development of new 4F Life Innovation Center (LIC) innovation A name derived from “cell processing facility & open lab” The unit has already been introduced technologies Verification Life Innovation Center by the Kobe Eye Center of the Kobe City at CPF ●Devising of new services This facility was established by Kanagawa Prefecture as Hospital Organization, where it is being a base for deriving clinical applications and pursuing commercialization. jointly used for research by the RIKEN National Research and Development Kobe City, Agency, the Kobe Eye Center Hospital Miyoshi Town, Hyogo Prefecture Saitama Prefecture and Dai-Dan. Kobe Office Technical Research 6F Kobe International Business Center (KIBC) Laboratory Collection Element of information Address: R407 Life Innovation experiment on needs Center, 3-25-22 Tonomachi, Information …Offices Kawasaki-ku, Technological dissemination Kawasaki City, Kanagawa development 210-0821 JAPAN Phone: 044-276-5010 Fax: 044-280-0036 Getting medical care to the patient: Open innovation activities at Cellab Tonomachi Building a support system by providing customized clean environments The whole point of operating our open innovation lab is to build an environment suited for regenerative medicine. So, we The clean environment required for ■How Dai-Dan’s products fit into the regenerative medicine flow have installed a Cell Processing Facility (CPF) and an Air Barrier Booth1 we developed and are giving tours and doing regenerative medicine varies in size performance tests. Moreover, with the cooperation of related companies, we are holding seminars for users to try out our and capabilities depending on the Shipped products are prepared in the products and proactively networking with different industries by participating in and showing at LIC events. These open purpose. By adding the All-in-one hospital prior to transplant surgery. innovation activities at Cellab Tonomachi were introduced on the “Dejima” webpage operated by the Japan Productivity CP Unit to our lineup of the Air Specialized transplant institute Center. Barrier Booth and the Smart CP (Organ, nerve, skin, bone, etc.) Unit, we can propose a wide range ●Tours ●Performance testing of clean environments of guaranteed We give about 100 tours a year. The tours Performance tests are run on are open to academia, users and the CPF and developed quality and safety, and tailored to the Cell production cooperating companies, so we are products of ours installed at purpose of use. Further yet, we are and shipping exchanging a wide range of information. Cellab Tonomachi. With the Materials and developing an Air Barrier CPF (large supplies center We are also using the facility for employee cooperation of users, we training by offering opportunities to learn evaluate system performance, booth CPF) under new concepts. about our products in the field of operation and management regenerative medicine. using environmental data Dai-Dan is promoting the acquired during actual use. industrialization of regenerative ●Hands-on seminars medicine and helping users to build Reagents and These seminars are co-organized and culture media Large production conducted as a cooperative efforts of 4 their value chains, by developing site companies (Kaneka Corp., Terumo BCT, cell processing environments that Inc., Ikeda Scientific Co., Ltd and ●Exhibitions Dai-Dan) using Smart CP Units 2. are safer and better tuned to user We collaborated in and exhibited at the RINK Festival 2019 organized by the Regenerative Medicine & Cell Therapy Industrialization Network of needs. Cell bank Kanagawa (RINK), held at the LIC. Hospital/Clinic Air Barrier CPF 1 A booth that provides an enclosed space of a very high clean factor (Large booth CPF) 2 A space-saving cell processing environment that can be built by combining our Air Barrier Booth with the automatic cell processing units made by Kaneka and Terumo BCT 13 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 14 Feature Our Take on ZEB as a Building Services Performance of enefice Kyushu (Kyushu Branch) 2 Engineering and Installation Provider Enefice Kyushu, which was completed in 2016, is drawing attention from all over since it has acquired CASBEE, Set standard primary energy BELS and LEED 3 certifications and various awards from consumption The amount of energy consumed by buildings is increasing all across Japan. Net-Zero Energy Buildings or ZEB are academic societies. It was also introduced on the trying to reverse that and realize a low-carbon society. In fact, ever since the national government set targets on “Innovation for SDGs” website operated by Keidanren. Standard As designed Actual 100% ZEB realization and spread, there has been a rise in ZEB concepts for public structures. ZEB trends are also seen Enefice Kyushu acquired ZEB Ready certification in the amongst privately owned buildings, as businesses are growing more and more conscious of the importance of the design phase as energy consumption was projected to be -52% -62% < Energy consumed > environment in corporate management. Moreover, revisions to ZEB standards have made it easier for large 68% of the standard level. In the three years since the reduction in reduction in 75% consumption consumption buildings to win ZEB certification. This backdrop has set the stage for Dai-Dan to use proprietary technologies it building was completed, operating method has been has cultivated in-house to promote the diffusion of ZEB. improved and systems continuously tuned via a PDCA 50% 100% cycle just for energy efficiency. Feature 2 As a result, energy consumption in the operating phase has 25% 48% 38% reached 77% of the standard Our Take on ZEB as a Building Services Engineering and Installation Provider level, which equates to a Nearly Platinum LEED ranking 0% < Energy generated > ZEB performance. Completed enefice Shikoku (Shikoku Branch) -16% -15% Solar power -25% ZEB Ready Nearly ZEB certified in design phase performance attained in operation ■BELS 1 5☆ ZEB -50% * Data from actual operation was corrected in order to compare data under standardized conditions. Exhibited at ENEX 2019 and EcoPro 2018 ■CASBEE 2 rank S We showed and gave presentations of our ZEB technologies at the ENEX 2019 and EcoPro 2018 energy and environmental technology tradeshows. In both cases, we welcomed numerous visitors to our booth. At ENEX 2019, we introduced enefice Kyushu and enefice Shikoku via panels and had actual Clima chairs on site for visitors to try and Completed on May 18, 2019, enefice experience the IoT control technology, all of Shikoku was built as an office building Photovoltaic panels which met with great reviews. where human activity could coexist with Smart building control system the planet under the concepts of “greater use of ZEB technologies,” “increased Storage Task air conditioning and Photovoltaic panels comfort through the use of IoT” and battery facility ambient air conditioning “improved economic efficiency by using general-purpose equipment.” Structural In terms of building systems, Ceiling thermal storage Task lighting and Ceiling Free PAC ■ZEB Leading Owner ■ZEB Planner ambient lighting (integrated equipment unit) Free package air conditioners that bundle Dai-Dan has been registered as a ZEB Having been registered as a ZEB everything into neat units were introduced Leading Owner, an advanced building Planner, we offer potential customers owner that has constructed a net-zero consulting services such as proposal and Clima chairs (air-conditioned chairs) building. We contribute to the adoption and planning for ZEB conversions as EV charging stand Biophilia were brought in to enhance individual of ZEB by disseminating information well as design, installation, and comfort. Then, to improve comfort and through tours and by encouraging operation services. customers to experience the benefits economic efficiency, indoor conditions are of net-zero construction. Earth tubes analyzed and the temperature setting of the Planning record package air conditioners is adjusted by the Geothermal pile for collecting heat Construction record ZEB 2 units cloud-based REMOVIS automatic control Number of ZEB assets 2 units Others 15 units system. Other equipment and amenities include earth tubes that exchange heat between the outdoor air that is drawn in and the ground, structural thermal storage that collects and stores underground heat, storage batteries as a backup power supply under BCP, 1 Building-Housing Energy-efficiency Labeling System 2 Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency and biophilia (indoor greenery) that is effective towards relieving mental and physiological stress. 3 Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, a green building certification system 15 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 16 Feature Contributions via Environment-friendly 3 Technologies Creating the Environments that Meet Customer Requirements with Dai-Dan Innovation Air filter regeneration technology utilizing supercritical CO2* Dai-Dan’s air filter regeneration business is helping to realize a sustainable, recycle-oriented society by effectively using resources and reducing waste. Before we started doing it, used air filters that had adsorbed volatile organic compounds (VOC) and adsorbent were being discarded in large quantities. So, we developed and applied To meet the increasingly diverse needs of our customers and contribute to the emergence of regeneration technology to reduce the associated environmental load. We now do business by cleaning and a sustainable society, we employ light, air and water more organically and with greater functionality. regenerating the air filters with supercritical CO2 and returning them to customers for reuse. With our technological capabilities, we create the environments our customers require. Dai-Dan Innovation Pharmaceutical, Office Buildings Food and Research Facilities, TOPIC Start of Service for New Smart Buildings P. 19 Data Centers Customer ●Ceiling Free P. 20 ●Barrier Smart Series P. 21 ●Clima chair P. 20 ● iRack System P. 21 ●Research into lighting P. 20 ● ARAPAC P. 21 Supercritical ●Research into biophilic design P. 20 ● Technology for data centers P. 21 CO2 technology Regenerated Used filter filter (Performance (Performance degraded) recovered) Supercritical CO2 cleaning plant Dai-Dan Innovation DAI-DAN CO., LTD. • Fluid analysis • Air quality control • Water quality control • Precision analysis • Environmental • Energy efficiency measurement • Supercritical CO2 processing 100 cleaning orders attained! Similar technology reported elsewhere! • Temperature and humidity control • Noise and vibration countermeasures Supercritical CO2 is a pro-environmental way to clean air Mie Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited included in its Innovation Center filters because no organic solvent is used whatsoever and environmental report an article about a new process they ● Technical Research Laboratory Ｐ. 23 it effectively reduces waste since the filters can be used built to regenerate VOC adsorbent used to clean exhaust over and over. We have also been applauded for using this gas. approach by businesses who contribute to SDGs and invest in ESG, and we have been fortunate to have many Mie Fujitsu Semiconductor repeat customers. Business is going well and, in fact, since successfully prolonged the we launched the service in 2014, we have delivered on 100 service-life of the highperformance activated orders. This is good for the environment, too, since 100 charcoal used to remove orders equates to about 1,000 filters, which we organic exhaust gases, by regenerating the activated Electronics and Precision Medical Care and calculate to be about a charcoal with supercritical Instruments Factories Welfare Service Facilities 20-tonne reduction in CO2. They estimate a 75% ●Cleanroom system with ●Karatto-Ope P. 22 waste. reduction in the amount of activated charcoal they virtual ducts P. 22 ●Cushion Dakki P. 22 previously discarded, which ●ion-Drop P. 22 obviously helps them to reduce their environmental load. Supercritical CO2 cleaning plant * CO2 at a temperature (31.1°C) and pressure (7.4 MPa) above the critical points that behaves as a fluid exhibiting both the diffusibility of a gas and solubility of a liquid. 17 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 18 Office Buildings TOPIC Start of Service for New Smart Buildings Ceiling Free Clima chair Ceiling Free is an integrated systems package for office The Clima chair is an air-conditioned chair that allows the user buildings that neatly bundles lighting, air conditioning and fire to adjust how hot or cold it is. The preferred level of comfort is prevention features into an easy-to-install ceiling unit. The obtained from the drafts blow from both sides of the chair and New building concepts like ZEB and the Wellness Office have been hatched for good reasons. So, to keep pace lighting design and air conditioning system balances comfort the heater in the seat. It incorporates data communication with the “smart” building trend, we developed a cloud-based automatic control system that is perfect for and energy efficiency by taking into account the perceived capabilities and can send data on usage to the cloud. This data controlling and managing “smart” building systems. brightness1 and by providing an active chilled beam 2. can then be used to optimize the air conditioning such as – for example – to lower the temperature setting if the air conditioner Dai-Dan Innovation is used a lot. ■ Illustrated view of Ceiling Free installation ■ Clima chair Cloud-based In July 2019, Dai-Dan began providing commercial service automatic control system Cooling mode of its “REMOVIS” platform, a cloud-based application for automatically controlling building systems. Start of Service for New Smart Buildings / Office Buildings Heating mode Highly compatible with IoT and cloud applications Cloud control Logic data Information and communication 1 The level of brightness perceived by the occupant from the amount of light technologies (ICT) continue to evolve in entering the eye not only from the desk surface, but also from the entire room leaps and bounds. Now, in this day and 2 An air conditioner that incorporates cool and warm water coils. It works by age, home appliances can connect to the Engineer blowing air supplied by the outdoor unit from nozzles at high speed, which Working from draws the indoor air into the unit where it is cooled and heated by the internet and be operated from remote coils. Monitoring center smartphones and AI speakers. And, the time is coming as well when systems and ON/OFF output setting units installed in buildings will individually connect to the internet (IoT). Our Research into lighting Research into biophilic design cloud-based automatic control system recreates the controller hardware as a It was an issue with task ambient lighting* that indoor Biophilic design plays off the concept of biophilia* and is said software application that is designed for environments seemed a little dark. So, we researched this type to have a positive effect on people’s happiness and health. At locating in the cloud, therefore it can Customer’s branch Customer’s Out on business office/store headquarters bldg. of lighting in relation to how indoor brightness is perceived by Dai-Dan, we see biophilic design as a beneficial component of easily work with all sorts of IoT-ready increasing the brightness at close, medium and far distances in office environments and health management. So, thinking that devices and cloud services. Illustrated view of cloud-based automatic control system the human field of view. We came up with an inexpensive, it could help to create a comfortable office environment, we are energy-efficient system that effectively augments the conducting research to identify the psychological effects that perception of indoor office vegetable gardens and indoor/outdoor greenery have on ■ Room that seems brighter Reduces the maintenance and brightness, by using task than it is people. lighting for short distances, Energy management costs of building systems light guides with light■ Office vegetable garden efficiency emitting panels facing With building systems, it is necessary to check that vertically downward for Maintenance Comfort the indoor environment they create is comfortable medium distances and to users and that the equipment is running wall lighting for long ■ Office with indoor greenery properly. If there is a problem, action must be taken distances. to fix it. REMOVIS enables an expert to support ¥ this kind of maintenance and management from a ■ Illustrated view of task ambient lighting system remote location, which reduces the maintenance and management costs of sophisticated building Far away (Wall lighting) We can solve systems. As an example, simulations have shown this together! Mid-range (Light guide) that, with a midsize building that has about 20,000 m2 in gross floor area, costs associated Close (Task lighting) with maintaining and managing building systems Monitoring can be reduced by about 10% over the lifecycle center Customer (about 60 years) of the building. * A highly energy-efficient lighting system that minimizes the output of * A concept that holds mankind to be instinctively connected to the natural ceiling (ambient) lighting that luminates the whole room and makes up for environment and to feel healthy and happy when in contact with the lower brightness by using local (task) lighting that luminates only areas natural environment. that require lighting such as desks. 19 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 20 Pharmaceutical, Food and Research Facilities, Data Centers Electronics and Precision Instruments Factories Barrier Smart Series iRack System Cleanroom system with virtual ducts ion-Drop Biological clean rooms such as those found in pharmaceutical Animal experiments are a necessity in the development of Clean rooms used to manufacture electronic devices Dust and other particulate matter that clings to surfaces manufacturing facilities require room air pressure (and air pharmaceuticals and medical technologies. The rooms in customarily require a number of air-conditioning ducts and because of static electricity can degrade manufacturing pressure in each individual room) to be closely controlled in which laboratory animals are kept can harbor foul odors and HEPA filters* to maintain a high clean factor and the environments, which can in turn impact product quality and order to prevent dust from getting mixed in with the allergens*, in addition to carrying the risk of microbial precision-controlled temperature and humidity. However, we cause any number of other problems. Focusing on the electrical pharmaceuticals, as well as to prevent hazardous materials contamination. Controlling animal room environments has long developed a cleanroom system with virtual ducts that, without force of ions, we developed technology that prevents particles from leaking out of the room. The Barrier Smart Series is our been a challenge. ducts, delivers good temperature, humidity and clean factor from adhering by removing the electrostatic charge from proprietary pressure control technology that makes it possible Over many years, Dai-Dan has developed a number of uniformity. surfaces. By blowing ionized air* into target areas, our ion-Drop Dai-Dan Innovation to inhibit the effect of various external disturbances* which different animal housing options in an effort to improve animal technology is helping to enhance both the clean factor of could disrupt room air pressure. housing environments, reduce energy consumption, and ■ Example of system ■ Illustrated view of blow manufacturing rooms and the quality of products made there. accommodate animal welfare standards. introduction airflows ■ Illustrated view of Barrier Smart Series The iRack System improves operability and prevents the air ■ The principle of ion-Drop Barrier Smart EQ Barrier Smart AD in cages from leaking outside via unidirectional ventilation that Ion generator Duct Filter Fan Suppresses air pressure changes caused by sudden winds Maintains air pressure when changing modes makes use of our air conditioning technology. iRack also limits Pharmaceutical, Food and Research Facilities, Data Centers / Electronics and Precision Instruments Factories / Medical Care and Welfare Service Facilities External air inlet ventilation only to cages, reducing the required airflow to a minimum and realizing energy savings. The iRack System Fan Damper Airflow regulator Airflow regulator improves ventilation and ease of use, creating a more desirable Non-manufacturing environment for both laboratory animals and handlers. Manufacturing area area The airblow outlets were designed Barrier Smart MT Set pressure Set pressure Set pressure to extend the reach of the airflows. Ions Suppresses air pressure changes caused by local Decontamination ■ iRack System ■ Diagram of animal cage ventilation device Chamber pressure Chamber * Acronym for High Efficiency Particulate Air filter control damper pressure control damper Barrier Smart HB * Through ionization, a high voltage is applied to the air to create positive Prevents cross-contamination and negative ions, which can eliminate static electricity. Fan Damper when opening and closing doors The number of “+” indicates Outdoor atmosphere Barrier Smart CM the level of pressure in the pressure detecting Stabilizes standard pressure open end chamber. * The main causes of changes in chamber pressure are the opening and * Substances that cause allergies closing of doors, fluctuations in the outside air pressure, and changes and mode switching of air intake and exhausts. Medical Care and Welfare Service Facilities Karatto-Ope Cushion Dakki ARAPAC Technology for data centers Hospitals that do not reheat outside air before it is blown into This product serves to absorb the volumetric expansion in Food processing plants that make flour, bread or confectioneries The wall ventilation systems that have been increasingly used operating rooms see troubles like high humidity and piping of centralized hot water systems* caused by heating and, therefore, handle large quantities of flour were running into to keep data centers cool in recent years have had to balance condensation on medical equipment during the rainy seasons. makeup water, and reduce corrosion in supply line piping. It problems with their air conditioning not putting out and units competing requirements in that blown air must be slowed Karatto-Ope is an air conditioning system that recovers waste does this by spraying the fed water supply inside a tank that dying because flour was sticking to the heat exchanger coils and before hitting the server racks yet has to reach across the heat from refrigerant during cooling to dehumidify the air. connects to the supply pipe. Because it increases the surface clogging filters. So, we developed the ARAPAC package air entire room. At Dai-Dan, we have many a time explored ways Compared to conventional electric heater systems, it is far more area of the supplied water and subsequently contact with the conditioner with self-cleaning heat exchanger coils that prevent to improve air flows through simulations and full-scale energy-efficient and creates a more comfortable environment. air, spraying quickly releases the heat that causes expansion, performance loss due to buildup and effectively prolong the mockups. Moreover, data centers are known for having trouble and more efficiently separates and removes the residual service-life of the unit. with controlling humidity. So, to keep our customers’ server ■ Illustrated view of Karatto-Ope chlorine, dissolved oxygen and free carbon dioxide that cause rooms at the best temperature and humidity, we developed a corrosion. Mixes air to keep temperature ■ ARAPAC vs. Conventional air conditioners vaporizing humidifier with motorized louvers that is both and humidity comfortable. energy-efficient and highly controllable. Special mixing unit ■ Illustrated view of Cushion Dakki ■ Hot water before Conventional and after degassing ARAPAC Cushion Dakki air conditioner ■ Simulation of airflows ■ Vaporizing humidifier Exhaust pipe from wall ventilation with motorized louvers HEPA filter Dissolved gas Before After Production line Boiler and hot water tank Air supply Overflow Ｐ pipe pipe Hot water Decreased air We’ve developed an air supply pipe conditioning capacity conditioner with an Ｐ Hot water return pipe • Flour adheres to coils. automatic coil washing • Filter quickly becomes clogged. system. Single coil Double coils * Hot water systems equipped with a return pipe and supply circulating pump Produces air cooler Dehumidifies air. than room temperature. 21 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 22 Technical Research Laboratory Exceeding customer expectations At Dai-Dan, research and development activities are organized and managed on with knowledge, experience and action Dai-Dan’s the following three pillar concepts in order that the “controlled environments we offer are friendly to people, things and the planet.” 1 Practical Competence Basic research to ensure quality In our basic research operations, we obviously develop technologies for making buildings comfortable Dai-Dan’s Practical Competence and energy efficient, but we also research measures against noise, vibrations and pipe corrosion, conduct preinstallation studies using thermal fluid dynamics, and perform duct and piping tests using mockups. Every building system we deal with is unique and different, which requires us 2 Technological development that offers customers new value to employ flexibility and creativity when challenged to accommodate a variety of building structures, usage patterns and customer needs. Our development work is promoted to offer growth areas such as the pharmaceutical and medical care As a building services engineering and installation provider, we are committed to exceeding field, electronic devices industry and green products and services market technologies for reducing the expectations of our customers by applying the knowledge and experience we have gained environmental load, efficiently controlling indoor spaces and more in a timely manner. throughout our history. Moreover, since our establishment, we have exhibited the ability 3 Innovation that reaches beyond the building systems industry to provide design solutions and installation expertise with inherent skill. This is Dai-Dan’s practical competence in the field. We collaborate with universities and businesses from other industries to develop and apply new technologies. A good example of a cooperative project that has been loudly applauded both in Japan and abroad is the air filter cleaning business that we created through joint research with academia and Introducing Our Installations government into regeneration technology using supercritical CO2. Installation example ① Installation example ② Installation example ③ Takamatsu Municipal netXDC Teral Inc. Hospital Sanda Center No. 2 New ZEB Office Aerial view of our Technical Research Laboratory in Miyoshimachi, Iruma-gun, Saitama Prefecture TOPIC What Dai-Dan Is Doing to Improve Productivity in the Field Enhancing Our Installation Expertise and Ability to Provide Design Solutions Outside view of the new wing Entrance to the new wing Continuously Improving Health and Safety Initiatives with the Goal of Eradicating Industrial Accidents Application of the Meister Program and Establishment of Partnerships Zero Cubic model office Supercritical CO2 cleaning plant with Our Subcontractors across Japan 23 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 24 Installation example ① Installation example ② Takamatsu Municipal netXDC Hospital Sanda Center No. 2 Takamatsu Municipal Hospital opened on September SCSK Corporation completed construction on its 10th Dai-Dan’s Practical Competence 1, 2018 following the merger between its predecessor data center in Japan. Dai-Dan was tasked with Takamatsu Municipal Hospital and the Kagawa installing the air conditioning and plumbing systems. Medical Office. An overview of the building and featured systems is It is a general hospital that aspires to improve given below. medical care in Takamatsu City as a leading hospital with a mission of “supporting the will to live.” Dai-Dan installed the air conditioning and plumbing systems. ■ Building outline ■ Equipment ■ Building outline Introducing Our Installations 4) Measure how long it takes the temperature detected by the reference sensor to rise 35˚C if all air conditioners shut The hospital is designated for handling type II infectious Heat sources Gas-fired absorption-type cold/hot water supplier Location Sanda City, Hyogo Prefecture down. diseases by the governor and reserves 6 of the 305 beds for 1,055 kW × 2 units 5) Verify that heat sources and air conditioning continue cases involving those diseases. Air-cooled heat pump chiller 1,043 kW × 2 units Use Data center running on backup power from generators in the event of an Moreover, 6 of the 45 beds in the West Wing Infectious Once-through steam boiler 219 kW × 2 units outage. Gross floor area: About 13,200 m2 Disease Ward on the 4th floor are located in rooms that can Non-pressure hot water heater 465 kW × 2 units 5-stories aboveground, 1-story belowground, switch between equal pressure and negative pressure. And, in Scale preparation for explosive outbreaks (pandemics) of new Air conditioning FCU × 805 units, individual PAC 1-story rooftop facility Ventilation Outdoor AC unit ＋ Mechanical ventilation (Equipment installed in 4 of 6 server rooms) strains of flu, a ventilation system that can isolate the entire 4th Operating room: Clean fan unit with direct floor under negative pressure is provided. expansion coil 5.6 kW × 24 units Construction Steel with base isolated structure Server room Floor area per room: About 560 m2 About 250 racks/room planned Customer review Location Takamatsu City, Kagawa Prefecture Server: Max. ave. 8 kVA/rack We had the cooperation of designers and installers not Use General hospital just for “safety and security” but also to meet the Completed December 2018 diversifying needs of customers. For the first time ever, we Gross floor area: About 28,800 m2 ran performance tests under mock loads assuming Scale 6-stories aboveground, 1-story rooftop facility overheating in the servers. It was repeated trial and error, Beds 305 (General care: 299, Infectious diseases: 6) ■ Equipment but we got the bugs out beforehand and smoothly started providing services. Construction RC + Partial SRC with base isolated structure Heat sources High-efficiency inverter-driven, turbo chiller · 1,000 USRT × 5 units (2 of which are for backup) Hirokazu Ishida Data Center IT Architecture Dept., Data Center Business Div. Completed May 2018 · Cooling tower water supply tank capacity for neX Data Center Business Div. 72 hr continuous running IT Management Group Gas-fired absorption-type cold/hot water supplier · Water-cooled primary, pumped secondary SCSK Corporation · Water-cooled heat storage tank (effective 900 m2 capacity) (About 15 min cooling water supply available for power outages) E Air conditioning Floor-blown air conditioning for server room × IC 80 units Customer review Straight from the frontline Electrical/UPS room air conditioning × 18 units O V E IC Package outdoor air conditioning × 2 units Straight from the frontline O V Takamatsu Municipal Hospital is helping residents of For this project, we crafted the plans for switching the Redundant cooling water lines Takamatsu City to live safe, secure lives by newly adding pressure in rooms in the infectious disease ward and Sanitary · Water receiving tank + Pressurized water supply Data center projects often conduct test-runs and dental and oral care to emergency care, oncology, installed the equipment to do that, in line with the owner’s pump unit adjustments under no load, but we ran performance tests perinatal care and pediatrics, infectious disease request to provide “full care for disaster scenarios and · Indoor fire hydrants, standpipes, fire in this case assuming server treatment, psychiatrics, health management and disease infectious diseases.” The project extinguishers, inert gas fire extinguishing system overheating. Since there were prevention, remote care and more. The hospital’s air was completed without a hitch no prior examples to work from, conditioning and plumbing systems are critically and the owner got the hospital they wanted because of the planning out the tests was a important to patient lives and must operate stably. Much In this project, we conducted various performance tests on cooperation provided by all of challenge, but it was a learning of the equipment is out of sight, but I have to give credit equipment using mock loads equivalent to the 1,734-kW the parties involved, beginning experience. to Dai-Dan for coming through on all of the equipment server load in the server rooms. Testing was done to: with the owner. requirements despite the tight time frame. 1) Verify that air conditioners could cool server rooms. Koichi Kento 2) Verify operation in the event of an air conditioner failure. Hiroshi Nishimoto Kunishi Yamada Deputy Manager of Engineering Section 2 3) Verify that the specified number of air conditioners stop Project Master of Engineering Section 3 Director, Takamatsu Municipal Hospital Engineering Department,Shikoku Branch Engineering Department 2, Osaka Head Office running if the temperature rise detected by the reference sensor is over 10˚C. 25 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 26 Installation example ③ TOPIC What Dai-Dan Is Doing to Improve Teral Inc. Productivity in the Field New ZEB Office The new headquarters that Teral Inc. built for its 100th 1 Remote support teams armed with ICT and staffed with women Dai-Dan’s Practical Competence anniversary was the first office building in Hiroshima Prefecture to acquire Nearly ZEB status. Planned as a Workstyle reform requires that employees do less overtime work and actually take holidays, but a field model case in next-generation office building, it realizes support system and greater productivity are pressing issues in the business Dai-Dan is in. So, we killed two both energy efficiency and comfort as a workplace birds with one stone by mobilizing women on our workforce into “Remote Support Teams” and equipping environment. Dai-Dan installed the air conditioning and them with ICT tools. plumbing systems in coordination with the builder, Obayashi Corporation. Who is on our remote support teams Each site has a remote support team consisting of full-time CAD operators and clerical staff that interact with the assigned site every few days depending on how busy things are. To make it easier for women to handle the job, consideration is ■ Building outline Introducing Our Installations / What Dai-Dan Is Doing to Improve Productivity in the Field being shown – for example – to women who are raising children by allowing them to work shorter hours. Energy consumption was reduced by 77% by effectively using a combination of “passive” architectural features to note eaves, external fins and use of outdoor air, and “active” What kind of support is given architectural features like the use of well water heat, solar power, wind power and micro-hydroelectric power. Document preparation support by RTR* * Remote Team Review The remote support team coordinates the work and scheduling that go into Location Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture preparing the plethora of drawings (studies, sleeves, integrated drawings, etc.) needed to begin work. They also prepare documents that require more time Use Office building and the backoffice work associated therewith, such as final drawings, instruction manuals, inspection records, text labels, etc. Gross floor area: 2,986 m2 Document preparation support (Dai-Dan) Scale 2-stories aboveground Indoor space with ceiling cooling panels Document review Construction Steel construction Document reviews serve the dual purpose Completed November 2018 of assuring work quality and improving the technical skills of young employees. Now Customer review that web conferencing is available and CAD data can be projected in 3D views, it is a lot A comfortable office environment that has helped to easier to spot and share errors. Document review (Dai-Dan) Document review (Jobsite) improve the mental productivity of employees was ■ Main air conditioning equipment for produced via ceiling cooling panels that utilize well water and floor heating. ZEB ・Panel cooling with well water heat source Toshiki Katayama Director of General Affairs 2 Using ICT to enhance installation efficiency ・Floor heating Teral Inc. ・Heat pump air conditioning using well water heat source To enhance the efficiency of our site management responsibilities, we are using cloud services and tablets ・Micro-hydroelectric generator for quality control operations (viewing drawings, recording site patrols, recording inspection results, etc.). We ・Solar collectors + Heat storage tank for air conditioning are also employing the following tools in site evaluations. E ・Multi-mode rotary air conditioner (Desiccant air conditioner) IC Straight from the frontline • Beacons* for managing scaffolding ■ Illustrated view of ICT used for site management operations O V • 3D recording We opted to use well water in order to meet ZEB requirements, Cloud storage Office • New marking systems service but we were not sure there would be enough water until we (Tablet-linked laser pointers) Site actually dug the well. Fortunately, there was. Moreover, thanks management Internet • Drones for site surveillance and app to the cooperation we got from progress management ICT environment everyone in introducing the various • Helmet-mounted cameras in jobsite office advanced systems, we were able to deliver as the customer wanted, • Transport robots ICT used at jobsite so I am grateful for all of that. (Electric automated transport carts) Tablet * Bluetooth device that emits location identifying signals Yuki Murakami Chief of Engineering Section 1 Engineering Department, Chugoku Branch Desiccant air conditioner 27 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 28 Enhancing Our Installation Expertise and Ability to Provide Design Solutions 3 Use of BIM* Sharing and utilizing the enhanced value generated by our on-site expertise At Dai-Dan, we use Building Information Modeling (BIM) in our design and installation studies of building systems to ensure quality and enhance Case study presentations for sharing expertise Publication of the DAI-DAN Technical Current News and integrity throughout Dai-Dan work efficiency. In fact, we used it from the With the objective of publicizing the planning and design stage of the rebuilding project We held our “11th Case Study Presentations” in November technology we develop and our research Dai-Dan’s Practical Competence for our own Shikoku Branch (enefice Shikoku). It 2018. This event gives our employees an opportunity to initiatives, we publish the DAI-DAN allowed us to verify piping connections, routing, present the achievements they have made through Technical Current News every September. maintenance space and other important expertise and integrity in the course of their day-to-day The publication gives comprehensive specifications in 3D during the design process and work. Awards are also presented. A video conferencing explanations of experiments, assessment to create a walk-through movie for confirming and system is used so that employees across the country can methods and analysis results using charts Model of enefice Shikoku by BIM sharing not only outer appearances but also participate. We also use a web conferencing system to and images. completed images of interiors and how installed broadcast the presentation live to employees. The 113th edition was published in September 2019. equipment is supposed to look. Moreover, thanks By taking lessons and ideas presented through the case Copies of these publications are donated to the National to BIM, we were able to efficiently realize a studies at the presentations and bringing these remarkable Diet Library. high-quality building by running simulations of the achievements into our offices and jobsites to share and What Dai-Dan Is Doing to Improve Productivity in the Field / Enhancing Our Installation Expertise and Ability to Provide Design Solutions indoor environments in respect of factors like utilize them in in-house education, we are contributing to Technical Reports winds and changes in sunlight and shadows, and the further enhancement of Dai-Dan’s technical capabilities, safety, and quality. Our engineering prowess has been optimizing lighting and ventilation equipment. Routing study underscored by the various efforts, We also used BIM in another project to confirm hardships, failures and successes in our safety of rooftop transport by doing simulations of Walk-through movie design rooms and jobsites. So that these those operations under diverse scenarios. personal experiences translate into corporate assets and technologies, we report them within the company as essays in our “Technical Reports.” In our most recent edition, we included award-winning case studies from our Case Study Presentations and select essays from across Japan, and introduced advanced Wind simulation Shadow simulation activities such as i-Construction, which is being used to Award recipients improve productivity. Step Up Training IC E Step Up Training is a component of our workshops for Indoor environment simulation Indoor lighting simulation V O Comment from the winner employees engaged in a technical capacity, though it is open to all in the workforce. It teaches participants (Brightness perception) of the Chairman’s Award fundamental knowledge in the fields of “hospitals,” * Building Information Modeling A computer system not only for designing and making structural calculations for a building but also for managing the entire building It is truly an honor to have been chosen for the “pharmaceutical plants,” “electronic device plants,” “ZEB project including material selection, installation planning, costs, etc. Because all of the building’s information is centrally managed, it enhances communications between architects, builders and owners and, by virtue thereof, the efficiency of construction work. Chairman’s Award at the 11th Case Study Presentations and energy-efficiency” and “ZEB and electricity” where from amongst the many design and installation proposals Dai-Dan’s core technologies play significant roles. For and improvement examples that were sent in from across employees who cannot attend workshops because of the country. My presentation on the “Establishment, work constraints, videos are recorded and made available 4 Use of AI and VR and research into platform integration with BIM Operation and Results of the Field Support System” for self-study through the cloud. reported on efforts begun by Engineering Department 3 of the Tokyo Head Office in May 2017. In that initiative, we We are using AI-driven image recognition to identify installed equipment and enhance the efficiency of work used ICT tools and deployed women from the workforce operations for verifying installation status. Moreover, we are conducting research into superimposing BIM data to provide field support activities. We saw for ourselves Training content over the past year over 3D images of machine rooms and other places we have photos of, in order to monitor work progress the improvement in productivity that resulted from properly managed installation and less working hours Hospitals Electronic device plants from a remote location. Virtual • Hospital equipment guidelines • Basic knowledge of air required of engineers. Going Reality (VR) will allow us to share Jobsite Remote locations forward, we will get more for test lab departments conditioning and utility systems for electronic device plants information from remote locations behind this activity in order to • Hospital equipment guidelines for radiology departments like our head office where veteran develop it further. Thank you. ZEB and energy-efficiency engineers can check and instruct Pharmaceutical plants • Basics of cogeneration systems work. Applications in BIM like • Basic knowledge of pharmaceutical plants • Basics of inverter control these are also making work more • Basic knowledge of interesting at Dai-Dan and pharmaceutical plants, ZEB and electricity Camera images are used Installation drawings created by BIM are superimposed over VR images Hiroko Taguchi validations and equipment • Basics of grid connections promoting workstyle reform that to create a virtual reality of the jobsite to verify progress and quality. Chief of Engineering Section 3 installation • Basics of solar power everyone seeks. of the jobsite. Engineering Department 3 generating systems Tokyo Head Office 29 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 30 Continuously Improving Health and Safety Initiatives with the Goal of Application of the Meister Program and Establishment of Partnerships Eradicating Industrial Accidents with Our Subcontractors across Japan Our Policies for Health and Safety Maintaining quality assurance through strong partnerships with our subcontractors Health and Safety Philosophy Dai-Dan Meister Program IC E “Ensuring Health and Safety” is our obligation to all the employees of our companies, their families and the society. Comment from a Meister O Dai-Dan’s Practical Competence We have been offering our Dai-Dan Meister Program since V Dai-Dan considers the health and safety of everyone working for the company as a top priority, regardless of age, gender, 2011 in order to improve job safety, efficiency and quality, country of origin or level of ability. All employees from top management down are expected to cooperate in improving I earned the title of Dai-Dan Meister this past December and secure skilled foremen from our subcontractors. productivity, building a motivating workplace environment, and earning and maintaining the trust of society. and, though I’m happy on the one hand, I recognize that Within the program, financial aid for high-level the honor carries a lot of responsibility on the other. For Action Statements certifications is given to test candidates to offset the instance, at our morning heads-up meeting every day, I ❶ We shall utilize “Health and Safety Management Systems” to eradicate all industrial accidents. We shall endeavor to eliminate risk and associated costs and financial incentives are paid to check each and every worker is physically and mentally fit. hazards in all work activities, and continuously improve and enhance the health and safety of our workplace. Meisters and Excellent Foremen for the work they do at job Obviously, I have to make sure that, as a team, jobsite ❷ In compliance with workplace safety and health-related laws including our company’s internal health and safety management systems sites of ours, as a way of developing more Excellent rules and quality controls are being observed, but I regulations, we shall enhance health and safety standard of our employees and executives, preserve and improve their health, and create Foremen and High-Level Foremen, in addition to Meisters. personally believe that everyone’s physical and mental comfortable rewarding workplaces. In July 2019, awards were presented to 44 certified wellbeing come first. There are also things I stress as a ❸ By continuing to reform our work style and improve work-life balance, we aim to become a desirable employer and an appealing company foremen from 30 companies and cash rewards were part of workflows. One is that anyone in the work area Continuously Improving Health and Safety Initiatives with the Goal of Eradicating Industrial Accidents that places people at the center. presented to 139 Meisters and Excellent Foremen. must implement the practice of “pointing a finger at the ❹ We shall regularly communicate with subcontractors and encourage them to launch and promote self-directed health and safety activities potential dangers and calling them out in a loud voice” to with clear role assignments. make themselves aware of the risks and go about work ❺ We shall educate all people working for Dai-Dan in our policies for health and safety and also disclose them to the public. safely. Another thing is to constructively communicate with ■ Meister Award Ceremony others so that the jobsite is always organized and work proceeds as planned. The 8th Meister Award Ceremony was held in December Going forward, I will keep reminding myself that I am a Safety performance 2018. 760 foremen serving at Dai-Dan sites were designated Dai-Dan Meister because, as such, I want to be on the High-level Foremen, 17 of whom were named Excellent same page as the site supervisor and do my part to keep 0.500 0.461 Foremen. Furthermore, the four best foremen were certified the jobsite organized and the project on schedule, and, as Target Result Frequency rate as Meisters. a Registered Essential Technician, concern myself with 0.400 (frequency of workplace accidents) A total of 34 Meisters have been certified to date, with passing down skills and boosting 0.350 The number of accident-related deaths 0.300 0.300 0.300 and injuries (four or more days off work) 10 electrical workers, 14 plumbers, five duct installers, two work efficiency. I intend to devote 0.300 × 1,000,000 0.230 Total work hours refrigerant pipers, and three insulation workers by trade. myself to the job day-in day-out 0.200 0.173 0.190 0.168 with a forward-looking attitude and 0.160 openly proud to be a Dai-Dan 0.100 0.021 0.020 0.020 0.024 0.020 Severity rate (severity of accidents) Meister. Application of the Meister Program and Establishment of Partnerships with Our Subcontractors across Japan 0.020 0.017 0.020 0.008 0.004 Workdays lost 0.000 × 1,000 Frequency rate Severity rate Frequency rate Severity rate Frequency rate Severity rate Frequency rate Severity rate Frequency rate Severity rate Total work hours Tadashi Kitazume FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Sankyo-Giken Co., Ltd. Initiatives for fiscal 2018 high places, taking all safety measures required by law and Targets attentively managing daily operations. Moreover, each Dai-Dan’s network of subcontractors individual will be held accountable for observing standard • Elimination of accidents involving falls practices, Dai-Dan’s code of conduct and established In the building installation services industry, the availability • Reduction of long working hours rules, as no compromises will be made when it comes of human resources varies greatly from region to region, to work safety. the degree that labor pools can be considered unstable. Priority items Moreover, many of the available workers are getting older Because of our inability to secure sufficient human and retiring, which is making the labor shortage even • Observing rules and the code of conduct Meister Award Ceremony worse. resources for our own ranks, we have to increasingly rely when working on temporary labor, recruits from other fields of industry In order to maintain flexibility in our installation schedules • Keeping track of work hours and and the inexperienced. Therefore, for this new labor force, under these circumstances, we built a nationwide network encouraging employees to take holidays we will be imparting periodic training beginning first and of subcontractors that extends beyond the purview of foremost with education in safety and health management individual offices. Through this network, we can send when contracted or hired. workers from around the country to offices where labor In fiscal 2018, there were 42 work related accidents at shortages are anticipated. We are effectively using this jobsites, which was 6 more than the previous year. This In fiscal 2019, we are raising the following themes across network to ensure every job site has the workers it needs included 7 accidents due to falls from ceilings, stepladders the company to improve our safety performance. and, by promoting interaction between subcontractors, we and platforms despite the fact that we raised “eliminating ① Safety management premised on prevention are creating in the process more opportunities for accidents involving falls” as a target. Nevertheless, we will ② Keeping track of work hours and encouraging subcontractors to improve their skills. Moreover, the doggedly pursue this same target by doing preliminary employees to take holidays network helps us to safely provide customers with high studies as part of job planning and procedures for work in quality building systems. 31 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 32 FY2018 CSR/ESG Performance and FY2019 Targets In order to enable continuous improvement of our CSR activities, we set targets for each fiscal year and complete the PDCA cycle accordingly. In this report, the FY2018 performance and the FY2019 targets are summarized according to the seven core themes of ISO 26000*. The information is organized into ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) categories. Self evaluation Target achieved Target not achieved Core subjects of ISO 26000 Community Organizational Fair operating Human rights The Self Theme Items Target/Task FY2018 performance evaluation FY2019 targets Labor Consumer Page involvement and governance environment practices practices issues development • Management conducted reasonably and efficiently based Build and maintain a system 35 on Dai-Dan’s Corporate Governance Guidelines Strengthen corporate governance to meet changes in social Corporate governance to ensure ethical execution of Corporate law internal control system functioned appropriately operations • trends Proactively disclosed information at the appropriate time Governance (G) • Our CSR Activities Fair and Strengthen the compliance system • Group training sessions, briefings, and seminars were held (compliance with the Antimonopoly to familiarize attendees with the importance of compliance Perform ongoing awareness-raising activities regarding Transparent Business Compliance Act and other relevant laws and regulations) and promote sound • with laws and regulations Published issue No. 20, 21 and 22 of Compliance News to compliance and ensure our business activities comply with the Antimonopoly Act and other relevant laws and regulations 37 corporate management raise awareness Practices Emergency drills of the safety check system were • Improve and strengthen the risk management system to maintain 38 Periodically review and revise conducted at each office under a hypothetical disaster the integrity of business activities Risk management business continuity plans (BCP) • Conduct emergency drills scenario, to deepen everyone’s understanding of how the • Review and restructure business continuity plans (BCP) as FY2018 CSR/ESG Performance and FY2019 Targets system works. business continuity management (BCM) Solution Number of solutions that leverage Dai-Dan proposal technology adopted Environmental (E) Planning CO2 emission reduction through design solutions Designing CO2 emission reduction through adopted solutions Environmental Achieve environmental management 39 Environmental system plan targets Promoted sustainable procurement Achieve environmental management system plan targets conservation Contribution * Refer to page 39 for FY2018 Installation Promoted sorting and recycling of industrial waste * Refer to page 39 for FY2019 environmental targets. initiatives environmental targets and results. Removed thermal insulation of drainpipes Office Reduced the energy consumption initiatives Reduced the use of photocopy paper Introduced hybrid vehicles 41 Quality improvement Achieve quality management system • Reduced customer satisfaction Achieve quality management system plan targets Meeting initiatives plan targets • Reduced quality issues Customer Initiatives with Expectations 42 Continue the activities of the Implemented the activities of the sectional committee Continue the activities of the previous fiscal year subcontractors sectional committee ― Check and review the effectiveness Monitored individual circumstances through additional Continue the activities of the previous fiscal year of the Dai-Dan Mentor System interviews with each mentor. Strengthen technical expertise Improved technical expertise through major reviews of training session plans Continue to strengthen technical expertise Valuing Our Work-life balance and Continue initiatives to raise Raised awareness through new employee training session Continue initiatives to raise awareness of human rights awareness of human rights Employees the work environment • Conducted mental health seminars Continue the activities of the previous fiscal year 43 • Conducted stress checks for all employees Work style reformation initiatives Social (S) • Percentage of persons working long hours who saw a physician (92.7%) Correct issues that cause long working hours • Percentage of persons working long hours (1.58%) Dissemination of • Delivered 3 lectures at the nationwide meeting of 45 Contribution to the construction Partnering technical information industry the Institute of Electrical Installation Engineers of Japan Continue the activities of the previous fiscal year • Delivered 3 lectures at meetings of the Society of Heating, with Hosting to external parties Air-Conditioning and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Communities Social contribution 46 Targeted number of activities: Dai-Dan’s offices across Japan voluntarily conducted Continue the activities of the previous fiscal year activities more than 450 454 activities Held the Case Study Presentations Continue the activities of the previous fiscal year Sharing of technical 30 Share information obtained at information workshops Presented activity outcomes via teleconference Continue the activities of the previous fiscal year Dai-Dan’s Practical Workplace health and Work-related accidents increased relative to the previous 31 • Achieve workplace health and safety Achieve workplace health and safety management system plan safety management management system plan targets fiscal year targets Competence system • Safety results (frequency and severity rates) Partnerships with subcontractors Ensure the Dai-Dan Meister System is implemented Held the 8th annual Dai-Dan Meister Award Ceremony Improve and entrench the Dai-Dan Meister System 32 * A guide on how businesses can operate in a socially responsible way 33 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 34 Fair and Transparent Executive Committee General Managers’ Meeting Business Practices Executive Committee meetings are held when necessary. The General Managers’ Meetings are, in principle, held once a committee comprises regular members (directors, auditors month to ensure that tasks are being executed in an integrated and corporate officers) who are appointed by the Board of manner. Management policies and measures are explained, In order to ensure the sustainable creation of corporate value, Directors and temporary members selected according to the and the state of business operation of each office and their we seek to improve and strengthen our corporate governance subject of the agenda. The committee develops management respective issues are discussed, and prompt solutions sought. system in a sustainable manner. policies and other policies for Dai-Dan and its group subsidiaries, and extensively examine the progress of goal achievement. In addition, the committee members discuss Board of Independent Officers important matters concerning management strategy and management of the company itself. The committee then Composed of three outside directors and two outside auditors, makes recommendations to the Board of Directors as needed. the Board of Independent Officers meets periodically or as Corporate Governance needed to share information and exchange opinions (including exchanges with the representative directors). More importantly, Corporate Officers’ Committee they analyze the performance of the Board of Directors via a self-evaluation survey, extract issues and report those results to Our CSR Activities The Corporate Officers’ Committee, in principle, meets once a the Board of Directors, and propose improvements on how the month. The committee members meet to discuss management Board of Directors and Executive Committee operate. They also Our approach to corporate governance policies, important operational policies and decisions made by provide advice on rules governing the selection of representative the Board of Directors. The committee members also report on directors, remuneration for directors and corporate officers, and As a building services engineering and installation provider, we Our basic policy on corporate governance is as follows. work carried out by corporate officers. the payment of performance-based bonuses. are committed to the management principles of always taking • Ensure the rights and equality of shareholders on the challenge of creating value for our customers while • To ensure transparency, fairness, speed, and decisive Fair and Transparent Business Practices contributing to the development of a better environment and decision making, the Board of Directors will carry out its stronger communities. In justifying the trust placed in us by all functions appropriately and efficiently ■ Corporate governance system (as of September 2019) stakeholders including shareholders, customers, business • Endeavor to disclose information appropriately and hold partners, employees, and local communities, we remain constructive dialogues with shareholders Shareholders’ Meeting focused on continuously enhancing our corporate governance • Work appropriately with stakeholders other than Appoint/dismiss Audit report Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss in order to maintain effective management practices. shareholders Board of Board of Auditors Accounting Audit Appoint Independent Officers 4 auditors auditors 3 external directors (including 2 external auditors) Board of Directors Consult on 2 external auditors Report 10 directors important matters (including 3 external directors) Advise Appoint/ Report Audit report Executive Committee dismiss/ (Discussion of important matters) Report Risk Management supervise Coordinate Plan/draft Committee Legal Compliance Dai-Dan’s Corporate Governance Guidelines Approve policies/ plans Supervise Compliance Office Support Consult/report Audit Report Committee We have established the Dai-Dan Corporate Governance Guidelines, a policy that systematically expresses our views concerning such Chairman Approve policies/ Compliance Committee matters as the protection of shareholders’ rights, running the Board of Directors, dialogue with shareholders, and issues relating to Coordinate Internal Audit plans social and environmental problems and other sustainability issues. We will continue taking measures to strengthen and improve President Whistleblow/consult Office Report corporate governance to make it more effective. Instruct/supervise Report Audit report Appoint/dismiss/supervise Corporate Raise awareness/ officers confirm Accounting audit Internal audit Instruct/supervise Report Notify/answer Report Headquarters/Branches/Offices Instruct (Coordinate) Internal audit Advise/direct/support Report on items concerning management Accounting audit Our corporate governance system Affiliate companies The objective of Dai-Dan’s corporate governance system is to ensure appropriate and efficient management by maintaining discrete decision-making, oversight, and administrative functions, thereby enabling swift and appropriate deliberation and implementation of decisions. We adopted a corporate auditor system and effectively utilizes the following managerial structure. Board of Directors Board of Auditors The Board of Directors comprises 10 directors, three of which The Board of Auditors comprises four auditors (two of whom Internal control system Internal control system for financial reporting are external directors. It convenes monthly and holds special are external auditors). In principle, they meet prior to Board of meetings as necessary. In addition to overseeing business Directors meetings. They thoroughly examine the issues We have developed an internal control system that focuses on In April 2008, we implemented an internal control system for operations, the board deliberates on important matters related discussed at Board of Directors meetings, attend the meetings the improvement of internal rules. This is intended to ensure financial reporting under the Financial Instruments and to corporate management, including subjects discussed in in person, and contribute their views as necessary. compliance across our entire company and subsidiaries and Exchange Act. The Internal Audit Office under the president Executive Committee meetings. The articles of incorporation of According to the audit policy and audit plan established by includes the execution of tasks by directors in compliance with examines and assesses the effectiveness of the system. Dai-Dan provide that the Board of Directors should consist of the Board of Auditors, the auditors monitor the directors’ laws and the articles of incorporation as well as appropriate The fiscal 2018 assessment concluded that, as of the end 12 people or less. fulfillment of their duties by conducting audits of offices in performance of all tasks. In addition, we confirm the of fiscal 2018, our internal control system for financial reporting cooperation with accounting auditors. Their responsibilities operational status of the company’s internal control system is effective. An independent auditor also provided a similar include attendance at Board of Directors meetings and other each fiscal year and report our findings to our Board of opinion. important gatherings as well as reading of important Directors while continuing to revise and improve this system in documents requiring approval. order to improve efficiency and legal compliance. 35 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 36 Compliance (Legal Compliance and Corporate Ethics) Risk Management Risk management policy and system Corporate Code of Ethics In order to continue providing value for years to come, we have ■ Risk management system built a risk management system to prevent risks from We have developed five Action Principles and 14 Action Standards to guide our officers’ and employees’ compliance with laws and Board of Representative unexpectedly emerging and minimize the risks that do emerge. Directors directors regulations and support their demonstration of good social conscience. The Action Principles summarize the concepts to be kept top We have established a Risk Management Policy to guide us in of mind during the performance of day-to-day tasks. Secretariat the best direction for managing all of the risks we face. Supervision (General Administration Division) ■ Excerpt from our Corporate Code of Ethics Our Action Standards serve as practical guidelines to the Action Principles on which they are based. In line with our Risk Management Rules, we have a Risk Corporate Management Committee. Their job is to discuss risk Risk Management Committee Planning Office Action Principles Action Standards management decisions, look for new risks and reexamine (Committee members) · Head of General Internal Audit Office 1. Observe laws and social norms and conduct business 1. Maintain positive relationships with 8. Improve working conditions and work countermeasures, all of which they report to the Board of Administration Division · Head of Sales Division activities in a sensible manner. customers and users environments · Head of Technical Compliance Directors. Reporting Construction Division Coordination Office 2. Participate in the building of a society that can sustain its 2. Ensure safety and quality 9. Respect human rights and individuality · Head of Engineering Moreover, if there is a natural disaster, leak of confidential Our CSR Activities development. 3. Ensure fair and open competition 10. Address environmental issues Division International · Head of Innovation 3. Respect the fundamental human rights of all. 4. Engage in ethical business transactions 11. Practice proper accounting and tax payment information or some other event that damages the company, a Division Affairs Office 4. Maintain a fair and transparent relationship with 5. Fairly disclose corporate information 12. Maintain sound relationships with politicians and stakeholders. 6. Ethically manage critical information the government crisis management headquarters is set up as per the Risk Divisions 5. Recognize our place in society and strive to contribute to 7. Protect and respect intellectual property 13. Eliminate any dealings with antisocial forces Management Rules. So, at Dai-Dan, a risk management Reporting Instruction Risk the emergence of a better society. rights 14. Avoid engaging in self-serving actions system that enables us to act quickly and keep losses to a Risk Risk minimum is in place. Business unit/office Risk Risk Risk The whistleblowing system and consultation system Fair and Transparent Business Practices Risk Officers and employees Risk Dai-Dan has established a whistleblowing system and consultation ■ Internal whistleblowing and consultation flowchart system with the purpose of swiftly identifying issues in the workplace, Whistleblower ■ Primary risks and countermeasures which are otherwise difficult to identify (behavior or actions that Reporting contravene laws, internal regulations or social ethics). We have Reporting Risk Description Countermeasures External point Notification implemented this by establishing a reporting route independent from the of contact of results Unauthorized use or external leak of information, shutdown or Publish a “Security Handbook,” etc. Impart training in information security. (Corporate solicitors) Internal point of contact Information leak malfunction of information systems, etc. operational chain of command. Reports can be made internally through Reporting Human resource Reporting Unattained hiring plans, loss of human resources, drop in morale, etc. Promote workstyle reform. Conduct stress tests. these systems, but they can also be made externally via our corporate Compliance Committee Secretariat related solicitors. Legal Legal compliance, contractual inadequacies, responding to changes Impart compliance training. Use the whistleblowing system. in social systems, etc. Any individuals that file a report are guaranteed by the Corporate Compliance Committee Natural disasters Typhoons, river flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters Craft a BCP. Introduce a safety check system. Code of Ethics that they will not be subjected to any unfair treatment. Investigation Reports can also be submitted anonymously to ensure the privacy of the Work related Safety, degraded quality of installed systems, etc. Craft a safety and health management plan. Conduct jobsite patrols. whistleblower. Violation of laws and internal regulations Credit recipient in financial difficulty, non-performance on contract Take action to manage credit as appropriate. Seek an objective assessment Trust obligations, etc. from an outside institution. The Compliance Committee Secretariat acts as an internal point of contact. Compliance Committee Initiatives to strengthen information security The Compliance Committee was established to ensure compliance with laws and internal regulations, and to strengthen fair and ethical company operations with strong compliance. The committee is chaired by the president, and is responsible for boosting The Information System User’s Guidelines are available to officers and employees Implementation Date officers’ and employees’ compliance awareness, receiving and investigating reports of violations, and developing preventive on the corporate intranet, providing cautions regarding the use of electronic e-learning January 2019 measures. During fiscal 2018, the committee met on five occasions. equipment in everyday work. Drill on how to handle targeted Information security training is conducted via e-learning, and drills are conducted August 2019 e-mail attacks on how to handle targeted e-mail attacks to increase information security awareness and prevent the occurrence of accidents such as information leaks. Moreover, for the purpose of strengthening information security at jobsites, we established “Network Building Guidelines for A system to ensure thorough, fair and appropriate business operations Jobsites” and “Information Security Guidelines for Jobsites,” and make sure that countermeasures are implemented in line therewith. We also offer training in information security to jobsite personnel. Dai-Dan has strengthened its compliance promotion system with the recognition that “managing the company in conformity with the spirit of compliance” is part of our management foundation. We continue to improve awareness of compliance while ensuring thorough business operations in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. Business continuity planning (BCP) At Dai-Dan, we formulated a business continuity Compliance Office Legal Compliance Support Committee plan (BCP) to prevent chaos, minimize damage, The Compliance Office is under the direct control of the The Legal Compliance Support Committee is a professional ensure the safety of our officers, employees and chairman while ensuring it remains independent from the organization supporting the Compliance Office. The their families, quickly provide customers with headquarters and offices. This office collaborates with the Committee is composed of external experts and provides support and maintain the trust society places in Compliance Committee in planning, drafting, and expert advice applicable to the initiatives carried out by the us, in the event of a major disaster. We tested it in implementation to help ensure that our business activities Compliance Office. It also holds seminars on legal September 2019 by conducting evacuation drills comply with the Antimonopoly Act and other relevant laws compliance and conducts awareness-raising activities for all at all offices in Japan. We will continue to review and regulations. our offices. and tune our BCP so that it works bet for us and In cooperation with the Internal Audit Office, this office our stakeholders should we ever have to use it. continues to monitor the compliance activities in our offices. First aid lesson Fire extinguishing drill 37 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 38 Initiatives to promote sustainable procurement Environmental Contribution Dai-Dan promotes sustainable procurement ■ Sustainable procurement rate Materials and Sustainable Sustainable to our customers, and has designated items (millions of yen) equipment purchased procurement procurement rate （%） that are applicable to sustainable 50,000 48,760 50 We believe it is our mission to contribute procurement in the following five areas: 43.4% 42,682 46.0% to the emergence of a society committed 44.8% introduction of energy saving, high efficiency 40,648 40,550 to global environmental sustainability. 40,000 36,881 40 equipment; use of environmentally friendly 38.9% 39.2% material; introduction of highly durable equipment; introduction of low emission 30,000 30 devices; and introduction of water saving 22,424 equipment. Sustainable procurement rate 19,107 Environmental Conservation Initiatives during fiscal 2018 was 46.0%. 20,000 15,819 15,913 16,012 20 10,000 10 0 0 Our environmental stance FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Our CSR Activities To help realize a sustainable global environment, Dai-Dan has been providing building systems that reduce environmental loads and Initiatives to sort industrial waste effectively use resources. Going forward, we will continue to seek ways to lower the environmental load of our business activities, enhance environmental awareness amongst our workforce, suppliers and subcontractors, and further address the challenges of sustainable economic growth and finding solutions to troublesome social issues. At Dai-Dan, we promote the sorting of ■ Industrial waste sorting rate waste at all our installation sites. Throughout Moreover, we will make sure the building systems we install and the facilities we manage comply with environmental laws and (tonnes) Total waste Sorted waste Sorting rate （%） fiscal 2018, we produced 6,871 tonnes of 15,000 100 regulations. This includes preventing leaks of hazardous substances like global warming-causing fluorocarbons, and properly Environmental Contribution industrial waste, of which 88.4% was 89.2% 88.4% managing waste. 82.9% 84.2% 82.5% sorted. Furthermore, we promote awareness 12,000 80 of reducing industrial waste at our offices 10,916 and encourage sorting. In fiscal 2018, our 9,734 offices produced 113 tonnes of general 9,000 8,465 60 7,598 ■ Our Environmental Management System: FY2018 environmental targets and results/FY2019 environmental targets waste, of which 62% was sorted. 6,301 7,131 6,631 6,871 6,074 ○: Target achieved △: In progress 6,000 5,471 40 Activities and Main target or FY2018 target FY2018 result Assessment FY2019 target responsible departments item to be monitored 3,000 20 Number of solutions that leverage Sales Dai-Dan technology adopted More than 90 99 ○ More than 100 0 0 department FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Proposal, CO2 emission reduction through More than More than planning, design solutions 35,000 tonnes 43,314 tonnes ○ 45,000 tonnes designing Design department CO2 emission reduction through More than More than 24,669 tonnes ○ adopted solutions 15,000 tonnes 25,000 tonnes Quality and Environmental Management System Energy consumption converted to CO2 emissions ― 1,303 tonnes ― ― Our environmental management system was integrated with our quality management system for more effective implementation. Promotion of sustainable procurement More than 45% 46.0% ○ More than 50% Installation department ■ Quality and Environmental Management System Promotion of sorting of industrial waste More than More than Our Policies Regarding Quality and Installation Quantity sorted in the field 3.8/workplace 4.0/workplace ○ 4.0/workplace Procurement Environmental Protection department President Promotion of recycling More than More than “As a building services engineering and installation provider, we Recycling sales proceeds 60 million yen 43.259 million yen △ 60 million yen continually take on the challenge of creating value for our clients while contributing to the development of a better environment and stronger Reduction of thermal insulation used communities”; in keeping with these management principles, we Head Administrator of Audit of Quality and for drainpipes More than 90,000 m 97,652 m ○ More than 100,000 m ensure our business practices contribute to quality and environmental Quality and Environmental Environmental preservation. Moreover, with the goal of improving customer Management Management Energy consumption converted to Less than Less than satisfaction, we are contributing to the emergence of a society CO2 emissions 1,600 tonnes 1,645 tonnes △ 1,600 tonnes committed to a sustainable environment. 1. We strive to contribute to social development and environmental preservation by Water consumption ― 13,854 m³ ― ― complying with laws and norms of society regarding quality and environmental standards as well as regulations established by our company. Headquarters/ Quality and 2. While working to strengthen our field capabilities and improve productivity, Business Offices Environmental Office All Management Committee activities employees Copy paper usage Less than 58 tonnes 58.0 tonnes ○ Less than 56 tonnes we strive to improve the skills of our employees and strengthen our partnerships with subcontractors to provide assured quality. Increasing adoption of hybrid vehicles 3. We are dedicated to developing, proposing, and applying technologies that Administrator of Quality and other next-generation vehicles 80% 82% ○ More than 85% help to reduce environmental impact and promote the effective use of and Environmental resources and energy. Management Improvement of sorting rate of general 4. Through our corporate initiatives, we will contribute to the mitigation of waste ― 62.3% ― ― climate change and the conservation of water resources while conserving biodiversity and protecting ecosystems. 5. We, as a good corporate citizen, carry out environmental and social contribution activities as well as positive information disclosure, to enhance communications with society. Office Sales Design Development Installation Procurement 6. We publicize our quality and environmental targets internally and continue to activities activities activities activities activities activities strengthen them in order to improve the results of our initiatives. 39 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 40 Meeting Customer Expectations Initiatives with Subcontractors We continue to work towards ever-higher levels of quality in order to further improve customer satisfaction. Activities with subcontractors Comment from E IC O a subcontractor V To safely deliver high-quality building systems to customers by Quality Improvement Initiatives a date they desire, it is imperative that we, as the party The Nagoya Branch has 174 subcontractors in its Safety, responsible for planning and managing projects, and the many Health & Technology Association. The association views subcontractors that handle the installation work operate as one “safety” and “health” as topics of the highest priority and, in a cooperative effort underscored by both technical expertise therefore, continuously holds discussions, workshops and and skills. other learning opportunities that delve into those subjects. It Every one of our offices has a network of subcontractors is working to raise the bar on safety and health by making Our vision of quality Customer evaluations the dangers of work-related accidents widely known, whom we have known and trusted for years. So much so that we work together with them via sectional committees in reducing hazards and promoting health management. Our CSR Activities We aim to provide building systems and services of reliable We conduct written customer satisfaction surveys after various fields of specialty where they are highly qualified. The Through the sectional committees, members are looking for quality that assures safe use. Toward that end we are working completing installations to obtain detailed evaluations and activities of these sectional committees address a wide range solutions to the current labor shortage and depleting to improve our preliminary examination of installations, which feedback from customers, which we use internally to improve of themes, recently being how to increase efficiency and numbers of skilled technicians due to aging by exploring includes risk assessments, and working to build the future installations and proposals. A completed project reduce labor in the wake of the ongoing manpower shortage ways to make installation methods more efficient, the competency of employees and subcontractors. We also aim evaluation meeting is held to analyze the survey responses, introduction of new materials and other initiatives. Efforts to stemming from an aging workforce of skilled technicians and to further improve after-sales service through our Customer organize the feedback, confirm technical problems, and enhance productivity are being promoted by sharing and smaller numbers of young recruits. Consultation Office and in-house information system. determine how to make improvements. Additionally, we take honing “technical expertise” and “practical competence.” At Dai-Dan, we are aiming to further improve our “technical Meeting Customer Expectations the data from the time of installation and enter it into a With regard to natural disasters, the association has a expertise” in terms of safety, quality and costs, and will “Building Chart System” for managing records of our quick-response emergency support system in place that continue to meet customer hopes and expectations through proposals and to facilitate follow-up service. includes putting BCPs that have been prepared for major “manufacturing” in cohort with our subcontractors. disasters through periodic reviews and tuning. The Customer Going forward, the association Works Review Meetings Sectional committee activities will increase its cooperation with Dai-Dan in order to better meet Design & installation to satisfy needs (Details of initiatives) customer expectations. Throughout our long history we have provided building Customer evaluations High added value proposals systems and services to customers in various industries with Points made, details shared Achieving pleasant and safe spaces ■ FY2018 initiatives of the sectional committees of Yutaka Wakuda diverse building applications. In order to capitalize on our long the Nagoya Safety, Health & Technology Association Chairman of Nagoya Dai-Gen Kai track record of installations and our knowledge of customer Chairman of Nagoya Safety, Health & Sectional committee Topics and principal activities Technology Association systems, we hold Works Review Meetings for each project with DAI-DAN CO., LTD. Chairman of Daidenkouji Co., Ltd. the attendance of the sales, engineering and other specialized • Creation of a collection of Project evaluation meetings, sharing of points to improve on, Electricity Sectional manufacturer warnings departments concerned. We strive to provide high-quality improving technical levels, technological development Committee • Holding classes for acquiring systems that best serve our customers from the perspectives electrician qualifications of functionality, quality, cost and energy efficiency. • Creation of a comparison table of ■ Customer satisfaction survey results stainless steel couplings for hot 4-point scale Piping Sectional water supply (4: Satisfied 3: Generally satisfied 2: Somewhat dissatisfied 1: Dissatisfied) Committee • Review of piping installation rules Sectional Committee Activity Report 1 2 3 4 • Holding hands-on training classes for acquiring Class 1 piping 2018 3.53 technician qualifications This report summarizes the Overall activities conducted by Dai-Dan evaluation 2017 3.56 • Comparative study of indoor unit Building Chart System 2016 3.53 Refrigerant Sectional drain hoses and subcontractors over the Committee • Comparative study of indoor unit course of the year. It serves as a 2018 3.50 vibration damping brackets platform for sharing the activities We have been using a Building Chart System, an internal Installer information system, in order to make the most of our 2017 3.54 Duct Sectional • Preparation of reference drawings for of each regional area with other capacity Committee external wall penetration processing areas of Japan. installation experiences. The Building Chart System is used to 2016 3.50 Instrumentation • Work related accident prevention record the details of the installation and recommendations, as 2018 3.46 Sectional Committee activities, quality trouble prevention well as customer requirements for each building. We enhance Installation activities customer satisfaction by recommending detailed renovation management 2017 3.51 • Adoption of new materials, 2016 3.49 investigations into new building options that contribute to comfortable use of a building. Insulation & Painting Sectional Committee methods Creativity 2018 3.46 • Creation of a list of “Don’ts” for and solution 2017 3.48 painting works Sectional Committee Activity Report proposals 2016 3.46 • Creation of a calendar with mottos Work Sectional for safety, quality, the environment Committee 2018 3.44 and cost Backup capacity 2017 3.47 • Cost reduction proposals from all Delivery Sectional members 2016 3.43 Committee • Holding meetings to explain new Number of surveys completed: FY2016; 736/FY2017; 613/FY2018; 650 products 41 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 42 “Eruboshi” company certification Supporting the balance between work Valuing Our Employees and home On June 1, 2018, Dai-Dan received a Class 2 “Eruboshi” certification By creating an environment in which all employees can work Respect for everyone, Support for from the Minister of Health, Labour with ease and employees can balance work with childcare, we work-life balance. and Welfare in recognition of its are working towards our next goal by devising an action plan in efforts to promote the active line with the “Act on Advancement of Measures to Support involvement of female employees Raising Next-Generation Children” so that all employees can based on standards set in the Act on exercise their abilities to the full. Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. “Eruboshi” certification is designed for companies that have Action Plan Work-Life Balance and the Work Environment formulated and submitted an action plan based on the act (April 1, 2015–March 31, 2020) mentioned above. Those that are making excellent progress in their efforts are able to receive the certification from the MHLW. To improve the workplace environment to ensure Target 1 that childcare leave is easy to take and the staff In a social environment growing increasingly diverse, we easy to return Initiatives to reform work styles want to enable our employees to take full advantage of their To have at least one or more male employees talents and abilities, regardless of gender, age, or other factors. Target 2 take childcare leave while the action plan is in Dai-Dan addressed work style reform by creating a committee after completing a project and during Golden Week, summer operation for spearheading the effort in September 2017. The committee break and other regular holidays was put in place across the To introduce a system of reduced working hours then created a roadmap of actions that corresponded to the organization. Target 3 that exceeds the provisions of the Child Care and Our CSR Activities 19 measures of the government’s Action Plan for the ICT is also being used to enhance work efficiency. Family Care Leave Act Realization of Work Style Reform, before pushing ahead with With regards to recruiting people out of retirement, we are the various changes to the plethora of corporate systems and exploring changes to our corporate systems that would extend practices needed to realize work style reform. This included both the retirement age and post-retirement working age, with changes instituted in fiscal 2019 to improve how non-regular the intention of: Initiatives to address mental health employees were treated. Based on the same-job same-pay • Keeping the elderly motivated by hiring them for their justification, improvements were made to the pay scale and talents and potential; Follow-up issues Valuing Our Employees training benefits of contracted workers and persons who came out of • Complying with amendments to the Law concerning the retirement to work. Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons, and; At Dai-Dan, we educate our workforce about mental health so To correct the entrenched practice of working long hours, a • Supplementing pension payments with income (in periods that they remain mentally fit and feel comfortable in their structured holiday system was introduced in fiscal 2019 and a that pensions are not paid). workplace environment. We also conduct annual stress tests new practice of encouraging employees to take long holidays Leave system as required under amendments to the Industrial Safety and Health Act and recommend to anyone with a high stress level A variety of leave options are available to employees so that to see a physician. Moreover, follow-up interviews are done they can use their off time to refresh themselves. We also after the stress tests, as part of providing a good a workplace Health Management introduced a structured holiday system and set 3 paid holidays environment. in summer and 2 over the New Year’s break in compliance with the 5 paid holidays mandated in amendments to the Labor At Dai-Dan, we are promoting Standards Act. Within that same system, we require better health and wellbeing for our “Dai-Dan’s Aims in Health Management” employees to schedule their annual 7-day holiday at the Employee training people. So much so that top beginning of the fiscal year so that holidays are taken management’s message in May As a company, Dai-Dan firmly believes that it is critical towards corporate growth and the contributions we try to make to develop society for the better that each and every man and systematically. As an added benefit for extended service, the Employee training at Dai-Dan begins with our program for new 2019 spoke to the “Dai-Dan’s Aims woman on our workforce leads a happy life and operates as one to achieve the company gives travel coupons scaled to the years of service to recruits and continues with specialized level-based training as in Health Management.” We have aforementioned goals. Guided by this train of thought, we will be seeking ways to improve the persons who have been with the company for a long time. employees develop their careers. Our training program for new also created a Central Health “Quality of Life” of our people and make it possible for all of them to lead healthy, happy lives, as a platform for corporate growth and contributing to a sustainable society. recruits gives incoming employees a general understanding of Promotion Committee and similar ■ Major leave systems ■ “Refresh leave” equipment and systems via studies in introductory and basic committees for offices to explore 1. Raising everyone’s awareness of health (excluding statutory paid annual leave) take-up rate engineering, lets them see the hardware up-close through improvements to workplace As a company, we will constructively support efforts to maintain and improve health in Type of holiday Details Fiscal year Rate facility tours, and educates them in the fundamentals of our environments, health improvement order to raise health awareness and improve the health literacy of each and every employee. work flows. The rest of our training system features activities for officers and employees, Summer 3 consecutive days in FY2016 86.6％ * Health literacy: The ability of an individual to obtain, understand and effectively use health holiday summer (July – Sep) multifaceted content that is geared to the level of experience dietary guidance, and lifestyle information FY2017 89.9％ and skill of the individual. At Dai-Dan, we view human resource guidance for single persons and Within 7 consecutive 2. Creating healthy, motivating workplace environments (for corporate growth) Refresh leave days (annual) FY2018 96.8％ development as a business priority because training passes on those living away from their families We can expect to grow as a company by creating healthy, motivating workplace knowledge and skill that are instrumental to personal growth. because of business. Our idea is to environments where work style reforms allow each and every one to balance work and life, 10 years: 3 days develop the company and and exhibit the best of their abilities. Long service 20 years: 5 days leave 30 years: 7 days contribute to the realization of a 3. Extending one’s healthy years (as a contribution to local communities and society 40 years: 5 days sustainable society by helping our as a whole) As a company, we can and will contribute to the local communities who host our business Congratulatory Predetermined number workforce lead heathy, happy lives. operations and society as a whole, by supporting and training our employees and our or condolence of days for occasions subcontractors’ employees so that they can be healthy and active longer. leave such as weddings We will promote health management activities in cooperation with group companies and subcontractors. Facility tour Hands-on training about ducts 43 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 44 Social contribution activities (initiatives at offices across Japan) Partnering with Hosting Communities Dai-Dan promotes social contribution activities. Our major activities are clean-up of the local community, which we encourage all employees to participate in. All the activities we run are published on the intranet notice board to raise awareness of social contribution activities. We undertake a variety of initiatives to make contributions to the industry and community in Forest maintenance, tree planting, and flower planting Company-wide activities our position as a responsible corporate citizen. Sites Names of the projects Activity Details or details In fiscal 2018 we collected 558,000 caps, Planting flowers amid shrubbery along used as a source for reprocessed plastic that Dissemination of technical information to external parties Hokkaido Branch the sidewalk in front of the branch is converted to money and donated to causes office Eco-cap Project that provide medical support, vaccines, assistance for people with disabilities, and In order to contribute to the ■ External organization memberships ■ Organizations to which Dai-Dan Chiba Branch Town Open Garden Operation children’s environmental education. development of Japan’s and positions (as of September 2019) employees are dispatched as lecturers Tree planting volunteer activity in Organization Position Organization Position Chugoku Branch In January 2019, we collected 2,057 calendars building services industry, Peace Park Charity Calendar and datebooks for use in support activities in Dai-Dan supports the running The Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Vice Chairman Kanto Gakuin University Part-time lecturer Technical Construction · Miyoshi Green Support Squad Market areas of West Japan stricken by heavy rains of academic conferences and Institute of Electrical Installation Division · Mixed-tree forest rejuvenation project and elsewhere across the country. dispatches lecturers to external Engineers of Japan General Director Kogakuin University Part-time lecturer Engineering Division · Project to promote a healthy sawtooth organizations. In particular, Air-conditioning & Plumbing The Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning Innovation Division We donated the used stamps collected by Contractors Associations of Japan Vice Chairman and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Lecturer oak forest the offices to the following groups: Dai-Dan’s engineers are Japan Electrical Construction Advisory committee Japan Construction Training Center Lecturer · Japan Overseas Christian Medical Our CSR Activities dispatched to external training Association member Cooperative Service centers and educational Association of Japan Administration Kanto Plumbing Contractors Helps to improve the state of medical care Instrumentation Industry council member Cooperative Association Lecturer institutions across Japan as covered by health insurance in Asia and Africa. Japanese Association of Building Donation of lecturers to provide classes on General Director Osaka Piping Higher Training School Lecturer used stamps · Tanzania Pole Pole Club Mechanical and Electrical Engineers Assists in afforestation activities at Mount building service technologies. Association of Building Engineering General Director Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, East Africa. and Equipment Japan Architecture Facilities · Japan Animal Welfare Society Inspection Association General Director Concerned with animal welfare (funding for Partnering with Hosting Communities Japan Electrical Engineer animal rescue, financial assistance for General Director Association Miyoshi Green Support Squad spaying/neutering, etc.). This festival is spreading and drawing Donation of attention to soccer for people with hearing Other activities T-shirts for disabilities and other physical challenges, and Signing of the Disaster Prevention Agreement Assistance through the Dai-Dan Society volunteers at the promoting better understanding between 5th JDFA (cooperation with local communities) Activity Fund Activity Details Festival 2019 healthy and handicapped persons. Dai-Dan donated T-shirts for the volunteer staff We posted traffic safety guards at the North through event-cosponsor Resonet GIA. Traffic Safety Dai-Dan has, through its industrial associations, signed a In April 1993, as part of our social contribution activities for our intersection of Toyota-shi Tsuchihashi Station. Guard Activity (Toyota Branch) Disaster Prevention Agreement with local governments 90th anniversary, the Dai-Dan Society Activity Fund was concerning post-disaster emergency activities. We have also established in the Osaka Community Foundation. From returns Donation of Drinks are sold at the regular price to funds from consumers, with three to ten yen per drink entered into agreements directly with some municipalities and on fund assets, we support social welfare enhancement charity vending donated to charity. The donations go to street industry organizations, and have established a system that activities especially for persons with physical disabilities, children and their families for education and machines allows for the swift provision of post-disaster emergency including human rights education. living costs. (Okayama Branch) assistance. We participated in Nichiban Core Eco Project We aim to assist with the swift recovery of the local Nichiban Core involving “Collection of discarded tape cores to community and local businesses by proactively participating in Donations Eco Project protect the green earth.” The funds are used to plant mangrove trees. (Kyushu Branch) reconstruction efforts of the affected region. When it was time to restock emergency Dai-Dan contributes financial support for various causes to reserves, food that was no longer needed but Donation of help create and build a better community. emergency still safe to eat was donated to a food bank that Exhibited at Riko-challe 2019 Our contributions include donations to organizations that reserves distributed it to welfare facilities and groups, and the needy. (Nagoya Branch, Toyota Branch protect the global environment, donations to university and Hokuriku Branch) Spearheaded by the Cabinet Office, Riko-challe is an event scholarship funds and art-related activities, and the sponsoring A blood drive bus from the Japanese Red Cross intended to guide students interested in STEM fields to the right of community events in areas across the country where our Society is parked in front of the branch office 5th JDFA Festival 2019 career choices. Over 30 construction companies and groups sites are based. We continued to donate to the areas affected and we call upon employees and subcontractors participated under the by the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake—Miyagi, Iwate, and Blood Drive to give blood. (Hokkaido Branch, Tohoku Fukushima Prefectures—to support children orphaned by the Branch, Niigata Branch and Nagoya Branch) theme of “Designing My Many employees throughout Japan have given City” and drew a crowd of disaster. We also gave donations to Hiroshima, Okayama, and blood through these drives. Volunteers wearing T-shirts donated by some 350 visitors. At the Ehime Prefectures, which experienced flooding due to Dai-Dan Dai-Dan booth, visitors got torrential rains in July 2018. to experience the Clima In addition, we are a corporate chair (air-conditioned supporting member of NEXT chair) and ion-Drop (static VISION, a public service corporation remover). that runs the “isee! movement,” which supports participation in society for people with visual impairments. Traffic safety patrol activities 45 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 46 Third Party Opinion Global Network This opinion statement is based on the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Guideline published Headquarters Organizations by the Japan Federation of Bar Associations. It was prepared with the cooperation of attorneys Name Zip Code Address Telephone Name Zip Code Address Telephone who are members of the Kinki Branch of the Association (Hideshi Okura, Koji Busujima and Satoko Number Number Ochi) and presents opinions based on interviews with department managers who were sent Corporate Planning Office 102-8175 2-15-10 Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-3261-8231 Engineering 163-0515 15F Shinjuku Nomura Bldg., 1-26-2 Nishi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 03-5326-7133 Division 39 questions in advance and on reviews of relevant materials. Osaka Expo & IR Innovation 354-0044 390 Kita-Nagai, Miyoshimachi, Iruma-gun, 049-258-1511 102-8175 2-15-10 Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-3261-8231 To make the integrated corporate report easier to read, the number of pages were reduced and Hiroshi Tanaka Promotions Office Division Saitama Prefecture the scope was limited to the main points, opting to provide more detailed information on the Attorney Compliance Office 102-8175 2-15-10 Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-3261-8231 Technical Research 390 Kita-Nagai, Miyoshimachi, Iruma-gun, Former Deputy Chairman, Laboratory 354-0044 049-258-5725 company website last fiscal year. This new approach worked as stakeholders reviewed it favorably. Osaka Bar Association Innovation Division Saitama Prefecture Internal Audit I also commend how, in keeping with the times, the report reorganized CSR topics in an ESG Deputy Branch Manager, Office 550-8520 1-9-25 Edobori, Nishi-ku, Osaka City 06-6447-8065 Regenerative Kinki Branch of the Japan CSR Medicine Promotion R407 Life Innovation Center, 3-25-22 context. Promotion Association General Department 210-0821 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki City, 044-276-5010 Administration 550-8520 1-9-25 Edobori, Nishi-ku, Osaka City 06-6447-8000 Innovation Division Kanagawa Prefecture Division (Cellab Tonomachi) Sales Division 102-8175 2-15-10 Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-3261-8231 Regenerative Initiatives related to corporate Initiatives related to respect for human Medicine Promotion Department 650-0047 Rm 654 Kobe International Business Center, 5-5-2 Minatojima-Minamimachi, Chuo-ku, 078-302-9060 governance and legal compliance rights of employees, work-life balance Technical Construction 100-0005 #542 5F Shin-Kokusai Bldg., 3-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-5223-0075 Innovation Division (Kobe Office) Kobe City Division and improving the work environment With regards to corporate governance (CG), we confirmed that Branch/Office Organizations Dai-Dan revised its Corporate Governance Policy in December In regards to work style reform, Dai-Dan can be highly commended 2018 and upgraded its practices in line with changes in the CG for already acting on several bullet-points laid out in a detailed East Japan Division West Japan Division Code. This included documenting the proactive proposals on roadmap crafted by the committee they formed to promote the Hokkaido Branch 060-0807 5F Data Bldg., 5-8-5 Kita 7jo Nishi, Kita-ku, 011-716-9116 Osaka Head 550-8520 1-9-25 Edobori, Nishi-ku, Osaka City 06-6441-8231 Sapporo City Office improving corporate governance from the Board of government’s Action Plan for the Realization of Work Style Reform. 4F Aobatokachi Bldg., 12-20 Odoriminami 4-228 Toyoda-cho, Tenri City, Independent Officers and their contributions to the process The reforms they introduced are realistic, e.g., greatly raising the Obihiro Office 080-0010 Obihiro City, Hokkaido 0155-25-3559 Tenri Branch 632-0012 Nara Prefecture 0743-63-1231 that determines how performance-based bonuses are paid. wage standard of people who come out of retirement to work, and 7F Nihon Seimei Sannomiya Ekimae Bldg., Hakodate Office 041-0851 4-17-40 Hondori, Hakodate City, Hokkaido 0138-55-7086 Kobe Branch 651-0088 078-221-7777 These new practices allow outside officers to flexibly share granting contracted workers the same holiday benefits as regular 7-1-1 Onoe-dori, Chuo-ku, Kobe City information and make proposals. Moreover, since the employees. On the issue of long working hours, only a small Tohoku Branch 980-0811 1-15-17 Ichiban-cho, Aoba-ku, 022-225-7901 Kyoto Branch 604-8186 2F Urbanex Oike Bldg. East Wing, 361-1 Umeya-cho, 075-251-6411 Sendai City Kurumayaoike-sagaru, Nakagyo-ku, Kyoto City meetings we witnessed were candid and substantial in nature, percentage of the workforce is working overtime and many of them 4F Tanuma Bldg., 2-4-10 Hon-cho, Wakayama 4F-408 Nankai Wakayamashi Station Bldg., we expect openhearted debate and a positive atmosphere to have seen a doctor. Though there are those who have not, Aomori Office 030-0802 Aomori City 017-773-1582 Office 640-8203 3-17 Higashikuramae-cho, Wakayama City 073-433-9431 characterize Dai-Dan’s corporate culture going forward. steadfast progress is being made on other fronts such as the 6F Sanno Piares Bldg., 2-2-17 Sanno, #11 Janty 21, 6-55 Yokaichi Higashihonmachi, As for compliance, the content and frequency of group introduction of a minimum number of hours of downtime between Akita Office 010-0951 Akita City 018-824-6491 Shiga Office 527-0025 Higashi-omi City, Shiga Prefecture 0748-25-5400 training, workshops and other learning opportunities are workdays and a higher percentage of employees taking long Hiramatsu Bldg., 2-16 Yugaose-cho, Morioka Office 020-0032 019-654-3023 Okayama Branch 700-0984 6-10 Kuwada-cho, Kita-ku, Okayama City 086-223-3106 sufficient and the content of their compliance news is holidays. As for unimplemented themes, Dai-Dan is studying Morioka City ambitious, so their education and awareness activities are matters and planning measures, which gives us something to look Fukushima 960-8031 4F Fukushima Sakaemachi Bldg., 10-21 024-521-4213 Chugoku Branch 730-0812 2-22 Kakomachi, Naka-ku, Hiroshima City 082-241-4171 Office Sakaemachi, Fukushima City solid. We also confirmed that their Compliance Committee and forward to. Yamagata 1F Honcho Bldg., 2-4-3 Hon-cho, Yamaguchi 4F Sanyo Bldg. Ogori, 4-9 Ogorimiyukimachi, other organizations are each fulfilling the roles expected of With regards to health management, Dai-Dan can be credited Office 990-0043 Yamagata City 023-634-2620 Office 754-0011 Yamaguchi City 083-976-0121 them and are functioning organically. Furthermore, based on for taking the first step towards gaining certification from the METI #103 Heights Shalom, 2-29-13 Agenogi, Niigata Branch 950-0088 2-4-3 Bandai, Chuo-ku, Niigata City 025-247-0201 San-in Office 690-0015 0852-27-5890 the operating records of the whistleblowing point of contact, as a “Health and Productivity Management Organization” by having Matsue City we can surmise that employees know of its existence and trust announced its position both internally and externally. The company Tokyo 102-8175 2-15-10 Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-3261-8231 Shikoku Branch 760-0032 6-17 Honmachi, Takamatsu City 087-811-2301 Head Office that it works. is currently exploring policy, therefore we expect them to come up 3F GINZA YAMATO 3 Bldg., 1-10-2 Matsuyama with something effective. Kanto Branch 330-0854 Sakuragi-cho, Omiya-ku, Saitama City 048-644-8468 Office 790-0942 2-22-13 Furukawa-Kita, Matsuyama City 089-957-5021 On the issue of promoting women’s participation and 7F Daidoseimei Maebashi Bldg., 3-9-5 Gunma Office 371-0805 027-226-7720 Kochi Office 780-0088 10-16 Kitakubo, Kochi City 088-884-8231 Initiatives related to environmental advancement in the workplace, Dai-Dan earned Class 2 “Eruboshi” Minami-cho, Maebashi City certification last June, but further credit is due this year for new preservation Tochigi Office 321-0953 6F Yamaguchi Bldg., 4-1-20 Higashishukugo, Utsunomiya City 028-637-3380 Tokushima Office 770-0872 4-1-10 Kitaokinosu, Tokushima City 088-664-8121 efforts such as the consultation services the company set up and 7F Regal Tsuchiura Bldg., 1-16-12 Sakuramachi, the “gender employment ratio” it newly attained. As for corporate Ibaraki Office 300-0037 Tsuchiura City, Ibaraki Prefecture 029-825-6656 Kyushu Branch 810-0023 3-1-24 Kego, Chuo-ku, Fukuoka City 092-771-4361 With regards to environmental protection, we highly commend support for balancing work and family, a very high percentage of 25F m BAY POINT Makuhari, 1-6 Nakase, Kumamoto Chiba Branch 261-0023 043-211-8881 862-0941 1-7-6 Izumi, Chuo-ku, Kumamoto City 096-364-7134 how Dai-Dan has gotten onboard with Japan’s Strategic the women on Dai-Dan’s workforce take advantage of the childcare Mihama-ku, Chiba City Branch Energy Plan by linking environmental protection to its business leave and shorter working hours offered for parenting, though men Yokohama 231-0062 24F Nisseki Yokohama Bldg., 1-1-8 045-683-1050 Miyata Office 823-0016 680-1 Shiromaru, Miyawaka City, 0949-33-2602 Branch Sakuragi-cho, Naka-ku, Yokohama City Fukuoka Prefecture plans, e.g., continuing to pursue ZEB realization by setting remain an issue because these programs are used little. #101 Sungarden Yarita, 436-1 Yaritamachi, concrete targets on ZEB constructions and working to achieve As for work-related accidents, the number of accidents has Central Japan Division Saga Office 841-0031 Tosu City, Saga Prefecture 0942-84-2350 those targets. The importance of the environment has evidently risen largely due to the increase in inexperienced technicians, for 16F Urbannet Nagoya Bldg., 1-1-10 Nagasaki #202 Grand Mansion, 31-3 Okeya-machi, Nagoya Branch 461-0005 052-973-4750 850-0027 095-828-0772 permeated throughout the company as seen by top which Dai-Dan is already imparting guidance during site patrols Higashisakura, Higashi-ku, Nagoya City Office Nagasaki City management’s message to the employees and other and reteaching safety rules, but the situation calls for more effective Toyota Branch 471-0835 1-20 Akebono-cho, Toyota City, 0565-28-1841 Oita Office 870-0033 #402 Matsumoto Bldg., 1-3-22 Chiyomachi, 097-532-4350 Aichi Prefecture Oita City stakeholders, and Dai-Dan’s willingness to put its quality and and practical measures. #201 Inoue Bldg., 2189-2 Kusabazaki, environmental policies to reviews whenever needed and its Mikawa Office 448-0011 5-6-4 Tsuiji-cho, Kariya City, Aichi Prefecture 0566-27-0324 Miyazaki Office 880-0933 Otsubo-cho, Miyazaki City 0985-54-6382 knack for discovering and truthfully addressing new issues. 5F Choeidaiichi Bldg., 1282-11 Kagoshima 1F San Laqua Bldg., 2-25-12 Nishida, Reflecting on 380-0824 026-228-3820 890-0046 099-256-3662 E Nagano Office With its environmental targets, Dai-Dan breaks up the targets O IC Minamiishido-cho, Nagano City Office Kagoshima City set forth in corporate plans to manage and address them more the third party opinions Matsumoto 2F Orii Bldg., 1-1-2 Chuo, Matsumoto City, 4F Arute Bldg. Naha, 3-15-9 Kumoji, V 390-0811 0263-33-7016 Okinawa Office 900-0015 098-868-1700 Office Nagano Prefecture Naha City attentively. Moreover, Dai-Dan should be commended for a 17F-1704 South Pot Shizuoka, 18-1 PDCA cycle that works and the company uses with I sincerely thank Mr. Hiroshi Tanaka for offering his invaluable Shizuoka Office 422-8067 Minami-cho, Suruga-ku, Shizuoka City 054-281-3501 International Affairs Offices unachieved targets to voluntarily analyze the cause and explore third-party viewpoint on the 2019 Dai-Dan Report in 2F-B Kasama Bldg., 3-261 Sakaemachi, International cooperation with Messrs. Okura, Busujima and Ochi. Mie Office 514-0004 059-225-3840 102-8175 2-15-10 Fujimi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 03-3261-8231 remedial measures. Tsu City Affairs Office Dai-Dan’s offices also continue to conduct cleanup Regarding the various issues pointed out by Mr. Tanaka, we 2F Daini-nagazumi Bldg., 1-9 Nagazumi-cho, 315 Outram Road #15-09, Tan Boon intend to establish specific policies to resolve those issues and Gifu Office 500-8175 058-265-8224 Singapore Branch ー +65-62218488 Gifu City Liat Building, Singapore, 169074 activities, plant trees and promote other initiatives as a part of effect improvements. their contribution to society. Here, the company deserves We will promote corporate activities aimed at creating a better Hokuriku Branch 920-0902 1-6-15 Owari-cho, Kanazawa City 076-261-6147 The blue shading indicates regional headquarters. credit for how its efforts not only to protect but also to environment and stronger communities as concerted efforts of 930-0019 076-441-3371 “regenerate” and “restore” the environment have taken root, as the entire company, as outlined in our management principles. Toyama Office 1-10-20 Yayoi-cho, Toyama City we can expect more in the future. Yasuo Kamei 4F Fukui Hosokaikan, 3-4-1 Ote, Fukui Office 910-0005 0776-23-2166 Fukui City Director, Corporate Officer, Head of General Administration Division 47 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 D A I D A N R E P O R T 2 019 48 DAI-DAN CO., LTD. https://www.daidan.co.jp/ For any feedback or inquiries relating to this report, please contact DAI-DAN CO., LTD. DAI-DAN REPORT 2019 PROJECT 1-9-25 Edobori, Nishi-ku, Osaka City 550-8520 Japan TEL. 06-6447-8000 E-mail: reportinfo@daidan.co.jp Published in October 2019
