24 June 2019 H.E. Antionio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Saana Consulting supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects, which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Saana Consulting will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. In terms of actions, Saana Consulting has put in place relevant policies on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. These will be reviewed annually against measurable indicators to ensure that the policies remain relevant and continue to achieve the anticipated outcomes. Specifically, we anticipate that Saana Consulting is able to contribute towards the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): • SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages • SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls • SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all • SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns • SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts • SDG 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development Saana Consulting is, in its own small way, contributing toward the achievement of each of the SDGs using the policies it has put in place. However, given that the Saana Consulting is an international trade and development advisory firm, SDG 17 forms the core of what we do. Respectively, SDG 17 is a key priority for Saana Consulting. Sincerely yours, Mr. Tom Pengelly Managing Director | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com |
