2019 2020 corporate social responsibility THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 table of contents statement of commitment by the numbers business profile our business the green way 34 fundamentals of service licenses & affiliations green trees charitables our people CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 green commitment This document serves as the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report and a Communication on Progress (COP) for Green Worldwide Shippingâ under the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative covering a twelvemonth period starting July 27, 2018. This CSR is an annual part of management’s review and covers the statutory reporting on corporate social responsibility and support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our 2018-2019 COP, we will describe Green’s efforts to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Green is committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication in an effort to encourage our business partners to join us in supporting the U.N. Global Compact Initiative. Sincerely, THOMAS JORGENSEN PRESIDENT/CEO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 Green is a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, in an effort to answer the call for companies to align strategies, innovation and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor environment and anticorruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. • ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY • HUMAN RIGHTS • WORKING CONDITIONS • RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS & FINANCIAL PRACTICES • COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT • TRANSPARENCY & CREDIBILITY • ANTI-CORRUPTION & BRIBERY Green’s industry reputation for good business and respect for both people and the environment creates a framework of quality international freight services that promote and strategically align with the UN’s focus on human rights, labor, anti-corruption and the world’s ecosystem. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 100% 125+ 3.2% by the numbers privately owned freight expert professionals turnover CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 our business “ Green Worldwide Shipping® is dedicated to continued, stable growth while proactively working towards reducing our carbon impact on the environment. We saw a need in the market for a company based on relationships, ethics, Uniquely positioned amongst freight providers, our 100% privately-owned, flat management structure allows us to old school freight forwarding with a adjust our corporate goals as we see fit in order to action sustainable programs, purchasing, and operations that modern twist, and a passion for taking benefit our community of supply chain experts. care of the customer. We protect this independence fiercely because it allows us the flexibility to conduct operations in the Green Way These are the principles “ – not someone else’s. Green is more than just a logistics provider, we are an innovative freight forward-looking upon which Green was built. agency that invests in technology automations that empower our employees and benefit our customers and THOMAS JORGENSEN international partners, alike. PRESIDENT & CEO Green is focused on bringing value to the local communities we serve to enable responsible growth, employment, and encourage industrial development while incorporating programs that align with UN Global Compact Sustainability Goals. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 FLAT CORPORATE STRUCTURE THOMAS JORGENSEN FRESH, UNIQUE TAKE ON LOGISTICS PRESIDENT & CEO NIMBLE, FLEXIBLE FORWARDING PETER AARO-HANSEN CCO NO STAGNANT PROPRIETARY SYSTEMS REX SHERMAN, LCHB VICE PRESIDENT (COMPLIANCE) TECHNOLOGY FORWARD ED CHAMBERS, LCHB VICE PRESIDENT (IT) BRANCH MANAGERS OPERATIONS MANAGERS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 OUR SOLUTIONS Green Worldwide Shipping understands the impact international transportation has on the world’s environment. As a leading contributor of carbon emissions, the transportation industry has been actively focusing on initiative to curb and improve transport-related greenhouse emissions. That’s why in 2019, Green has implemented operational and technological strategies to curb and reduce our our environmental impact. From carbon emission calculation to the launch of consolidation services that combine loads for maximum efficiency, we are focused on working with our international network to provide lean, flexible routings that don’t degrade our planet. OUR PEOPLE Our vision statement says it all… OUR GOALS In this second communication on progress, Green reiterates our “To be an ever-evolving, innovative logistics company dedication to the UN’s Twelve that enables customers to achieve their mission Sustainable Development Goals. through our team of trusted, empowered, and Green’s industry reputation for good respected individuals.” business and respect for both people and the environment creates a framework of quality international freight services that promote and strategically align with the With trust, empowerment, and respect at the core of our corporate culture, UN’s focus on human rights, labor, antiGreen is proud to ensure our freight experts continue their career corruption and the world’s ecosystem. development and thrive. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 VISION GLOBAL COMPACT To be an ever-evolving, innovative logistics company that enables GOALS customers to achieve their mission through our team of trusted, empowered, and respected individuals. Environmental Responsibility MISSION Human Rights Listen and understand our clients and their industries. Offer best-in-class transportation solutions. Use technology to gain efficiency and visibility. Working Create a positive and healthy work environment. Build long-term Conditions relationships. Continued growth for the entire organization. Responsible Business & Financial VALUES Practices Every shipping experience should be a pleasure. Respect for our Community clients, our vendors, our employees, and our world. We encourage Development the personal and professional growth of our employees. We hold Transparency & our team to the highest standard of ethics and integrity. Credibility It is our people who make the difference. Anti-Corruption & Bribery CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 ABOUT ACG ATLANTA Each year, the Atlanta Chapter of the Association for Corporate Growth (ACG) ACG is a global professional recognizes the top 40 fastest-growing middle-market companies in Georgia. organization with the mission of Driving Middle-Market Growth that Applicants were required to submit three years of revenue and employment growth comprises more than 14,500 records which were thoroughly validated by a leading national accountants (Cherry members from corporations, private Bekaert LLP) and corporate leaders were vetted in a series of in-person interviews. equity, finance, and professional All companies on the list are for profit and headquartered in Georgia with year-end service firms representing Fortune revenues ranging from $15 million to $500 million. 500, Fortune1000, FTSE 100, and middle-market companies in 59 chapters in North America and Europe. Founded in 1974, ACG Atlanta provides executives and professionals a unique forum for exchanging ideas and experiences concerning organic and acquisitive growth. Programs include Atlanta ACG Capital Connection, The Georgia Fast 40 Honoree Awards and Gala, an annual Wine Tasting Reception, an annual Deal of the Year event, as well as an active Women’s Forum and Young Professionals group. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 W E L C O M E charlotte Green is proud to announce the opening of its newest office located in Charlotte, North Carolina. As the Company’s 10th location in 11 years, Charlotte represents Green’s focus on sustainable, responsible growth by expanding into areas of secure commercial interest. DEVIN STAFFORD Taking the management lead is Devin Stafford, Branch Manager and Licensed Customshouse Broker with over a decade of industry experience. Stafford is a graduate of the University of California-Davis and thrives DEVIN STAFFORD, LCHB on dynamic team development. Known for building strong relationships both BRANCH MANAGER within and outside of his organization, Stafford has proven experience of running successful teams in a fast-paced supply chain environment, ensuring superb GREEN WORLDWIDE SHIPPING operational performance, customer service, and delivering exceptional results. DST@GREENWORLDWIDE.COM Relocating from San Francisco, CA to Charlotte, Stafford P: +1 704 899 4488 is joined by his wife, Sarah, and their two young sons, who are excited at the opportunity to explore their new hometown and all Charlotte has to offer. ® CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 OUR BUSINESS growth timeline Financial July 2008 ATLANTA (HQ) Stability September 2008 LOS ANGELES Consistent growth CHICAGO January 2010 Service NEW YORK Focused November 2011 Culture June 2012 HOUSTON Transparency & Credibility May 2013 SEATTLE Environmental May 2013 MIAMI Responsibility July 2016 DENVER Community Development November 2017 DALLAS 10 OFFICES IN 11 YEARS! September 2019 CHARLOTTE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 human rights ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Green Worldwide is built on a firm foundation of respect – for all stakeholders, including vendors, customers, and employees – especially, for the environment. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Green supports the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Company commitment provides a written policy in our employee handbook as well as partner/vendor Green Worldwide is committed qualification and selection. Green is committed to working with partners that align with to promoting the human rights our corporate mission, vision, and values. and wellness of its employees IMPLEMENTATION and supporting partners that share our values. The following metrics reflect Green’s efforts Green Worldwide takes the following measures to prevent human rights violations towards workplace equality. in our organization: ü Provides employees with written policy explaining rights and responsibilities in Green Worldwide has not received any claims of human accordance with U.S. Department of Labor regulations. rights abuses related to our ü Adheres to strict non-discriminatory hiring practices. business or operations. ü Provides employees with safe and healthy working conditions, competitive salaries, and access to health/life insurance. ü Conducts inspections of the premises to evaluate and determine any vulnerability to workplace violence or hazards. Corrective actions are taken to reduce risks. ü Maintains a written policy and annual training for proper storage, handling, and use of Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT). ü Provides a communication mechanism to report unfair treatment to Human Resources. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Green Worldwide is committed to promoting the human rights and wellness of its employees and supporting partners that share our values. The following metrics reflect Green’s efforts towards workplace equality. Green Worldwide has not received any claims of human rights abuses related to our business or operations. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 what is the green way? CUSTOMS BROKERAGE THE GREEN WAY IS THE DEFINITION OF OUR SERVICE STANDARDS FREIGHT AND THE BACKBONE OF OUR OPERATIONS. FORWARDING From freight forwarding to order management, Green clearly details activity for each step of every consignment. We do this to educate Green employees in consistent a-to-z shipment handling best practices for our freight expert to develop a well-rounded education in international shipping. PROJECT CARGO This commitment to transparency and employee development into a-to-z experts proves our respect for evolving our industry and for the individuals in our network. TIME CRITICAL Centralized support Defined standards Easy-to-use 100% privately-owned from a single of performance technologies that means quick solutions with DOMESTIC point-of-contact. for every mode. resolve instead no bureaucratic red tape. of confuse. WAREHOUSING ORDER MANAGEMENT a-to-z supply chain experts! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 the TECHNOLOGY SAFEGUARDS green way Green Worldwide Shipping® isn’t burdened by legacy systems, and we have a deep passion for innovative technologies. Our goal is to invest in programs that create automation benefits BOOKING RECEIVED for our operators while also providing transparency and control international shippers need. BOOKED That’s why Greenscope, our centralized access portal for freight tracking ISF FILED and visibility, was built on the foundation of BOOKING ROLLED THE GREEN WAY (IF APPLICABLE) Our systems are integrated with: DEPARTED ORIGIN template routing plans, ARRIVED AT PORT customizable milestone triggers, and OF DISCHARGE exception management programming CARGO ON HAND in order to free Green supply chain experts from cumbersome data entry, so they can focus on (LCL, IF APPLICABLE) growing logistics skills needed for a-to-z shipment file handling across all modes of transport. ARRIVED DESTINATION As international supply chains face greater political and environmental pressures, U.S. TERMINAL businesses need their freight partners to be more knowledgeable, compliant, and informed CUSTOMS EXAM than ever before. That’s why Green systems are built to automate redundant data entry, create milestones customized for each type of routing, and catch exception activities using (IF APPLICABLE) upper and lower tolerance points before they fail. DISPATCHED FOR DELIVERY TRANSPARENCY FOR DOWNSTREAM PLANNING DELIVERED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 the green way 4 | INVEST IN 34 FUNDAMENTALS OF SERVICE RELATIONSHIPS The Green Way doesn’t just stop at defining employee service activity – it reinforces proper service expectations with 34 fundamentals in a year-long initiative that drives 5 | FOLLOW THE PROCESS Green’s unique company culture. These 34 Fundamentals of Service encourage the development of personal and professional skills that our employees can use to succeed in any situation. 6 | MAKE A DIFFERENCE 1 | DELIVER EXCEPTIONAL SERVICE It’s all about the experience – for every customer, every shipment, every time. Make 7 | CREATE A GREAT every interaction stand out for its helpfulness. Create the “WOW” factor that turns IMPRESSION clients into raving fans. This includes both internal and external customers. 2 | BE PASSIONATE ABOUT QUALITY 8 | BE A FANATIC ABOUT Demonstrate a passion for excellence and take pride in the quality of everything you RESPONSE TIME touch and everything you do. Have a healthy disdain for mediocrity. Good is not good enough. Always ask yourself, “Is this my best work?” 3 | WHEN IN DOUBT, COMMUNICATE PERSONALLY 9 | PAY ATTENTION TO THE DETAILS When delivering difficult or complex messages, or in emotionally charged situations, speak “live” instead of hiding behind e-mail or voicemail. Where appropriate, follow-up in writing to confirm everyone’s expectations and understanding. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 the green way 10 | FIX THE PROBLEM. NOT THE BLAME 34 FUNDAMENTALS OF SERVICE 16 | FIND A WAY 11 | DO THE RIGHT Take personal responsibility for making things happen. Respond to every THING, ALWAYS situation by looking for how we can do it, rather than explaining why it can’t be done. Be resourceful, take ownership and show initiative. Don’t make excuses or wait for others to solve the problem. See issues through to their completion. 12 | HONOR COMMITMENTS 17 | GO THE EXTRA MILE Be willing to do whatever it takes to accomplish the job… plus a little bit more. 13 | LISTEN GENEROUSLY Whether it’s starting early, staying late, or doing something that’s not in your job description, it’s the extra mile that separates the ordinary from the extraordinary. 18 | MAKE HEALTHY CHOICES 14 | SPEAK STRAIGHT Take care of yourself at home and at the office. Eat well, exercise, and get adequate sleep. Support each other in making healthy choices. The healthier you are, the more you’ll thrive personally and professionally. 15 | EMBRACE CHANGE 19 | WORK ON YOURSELF & GROWTH Be a lifelong learner. Seek out and take advantage of every opportunity to gain more knowledge, to increase your skills, and to become an expert. Be resourceful about learning and sharing best practices. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 the green way 24 | TREASURE, PROTECT, 34 FUNDAMENTALS OF SERVICE AND PROMOTE OUR BRAND 20 | FIND A BETTER WAY 25 | “BRING IT” EVERYDAY Regularly reevaluate every aspect of your work to find ways to improve. Don’t be satisfied with the status quo. Guard against complacency. Find ways to get things done better, faster, and more efficiently. 21 | THINK TEAM FIRST 26 | WALK IN YOUR CLIENTS SHOES It’s not about you. Don’t let your own ego or personal agenda get in the way of doing what’s best for the team. Be there for each other and be willing to step into another role or help a co-worker when that’s what’s required for success. Help each other succeed. 27 | FINISH STRONG 22 | COMMUNICATE TO BE UNDERSTOOD 28 | TAKE PRIDE IN Know your audience. Write and speak in a way that they can understand. Avoid using OUR APPEARANCE internal lingo, acronyms, and industry jargon. Use the simplest possible explanations. 23 | BE CURIOUS 29 | ADD VALUE In the search for the best solutions, challenge and question what you don’t understand. Don’t accept anything at “face value” if it doesn’t make sense to you. Be curious, ask thoughtful questions, and listen intently to the answers. Dig deeper to go beyond the expected. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 the green way 34 FUNDAMENTALS OF SERVICE 30 | COLLABORATE Share information and work together. Learn to ask yourself, “Who else needs to know this?” Collaborate internally and with our clients and partners to find better solutions. Collaboration generates better ideas than working alone. 31 | SHOW MEANINGFUL APPRECIATION Recognizing people doing things right is more effective than pointing out when they do things wrong. Regularly extend meaningful acknowledgement and appreciation — in all directions throughout our organization. 32 | KEEP THINGS FUN 34 | FIND THAT $50! While our passion for excellence is real, remember that the world has bigger problems than the daily challenges that make up our work. Stuff happens. Keep perspective. Maintain a tenacious hunger for our Don’t take things too personally or take yourself too seriously. Laugh every day. bottom line. Always seek to bring value to Green and our clients by 33 | ACT WITH A SENSE OF URGENCY questioning charges, seeking reductions, and offering additional Being action-driven is a state of mind! It’s about getting the job done quickly without sacrificing services. We all grow together. quality. It’s important to remember that when our colleagues, customers, vendors and partners are waiting for an email, an update, or a set of instructions from us, it’s so that they can complete their own operational tasks. Freight shouldn’t wait, and neither should those who rely on us. Learn to identify and prioritize the important things that need to be completed now and stay focused until the job is done – for every customer, every shipment, every time. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 atlanta Atlanta was Green Worldwide Shipping’s first established branch, opening its doors in July 2008 and is the largest office in the Company and houses both operations and Corporate headquarters. Representing 8 nationalities from over 4 continents, this unique team brings together its diverse cultures and extensive supply chain knowledge to enhance the service experience for every customer, every shipment, every time. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Atlanta has an estimated population of over 498,000 and ranks as the 10th largest city in the U.S. with a gross domestic product of $385 billion. Atlanta's economy is assorted with dominant sectors that include aerospace, transportation, logistics, professional and business services such as media operations, medical services, and information technology. Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport is the world's busiest airport, measured by passenger and aircraft traffic. 150+ U.S. destinations 75+ international locations access to 50 countries 2,500+ arrivals & departures daily. The Port of Savannah is home to the largest single-terminal container facility of its kind in North America and is comprised of two modern, deep-water terminals Garden City Terminal and Ocean Terminal. Garden City Terminal 4th busiest container handling facility in the U.S. millions of container annually 1,200+ acres GREEN HEADQUARTERS Ocean Terminal 619 E College Ave, Suite F Dedicated breakbulk Decatur, GA 30030 roll-on / roll-off facility Tel +1 404 974 2910 1.4 million+ SQ. FT covered storage Fax +1 404 974 2915 200.4+ acres CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 labor ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Green’s employee handbook covers policies regarding employee rights, compensation, responsibilities, and collective bargaining. Our Company standards do not permit forced labor, child labor, or discrimination practices. Green follows all regulations issued by the Department of Labor, including but not limited to, Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Act. We will continue to refine our employee manual as needed to support Global Compact policy. IMPLEMENTATION Green takes the following measures to implement a positive labor policy, reduce labor risk, and respond to labor violations: ü Tuition reimbursement program to promote career development. ü Semi-annual reviews with staff for evaluation and professional growth. ü Paid holiday, vacation, sick/personal and bereavement leave. ü Robust health insurance policy, paying 100% of out-of-pocket expenses. ü Employee 401K program. ü Travel and expense reimbursement. ü Paid volunteering initiative ü Rewards portal providing additional health and wellness benefits. ü Maintains state worker’s compensation insurance for its employees. ü Subscribes to all the federally mandated policies about leaves of absence in the case of involuntary calls to active military duty. ü Provides a written policy and communication mechanism to report unfair treatment to Human Resources. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Green has not received any discrimination or labor-related claims. GENDER BY DEPARTMENT Green Worldwide participated in an external, independent audit for Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) to ensure compliance. Warehouse Worker’s Compensation Cases: 0 Projects Turnover: 3.2% Marketing & Sales Employee 401K Participation: 30% Management IT AGE BREAKDOWN 40 Human Resources 35 Global Trade Services 30 25 Import/Export 20 Import 15 Export 10 5 Compliance 0 [18, 26] (26, 34] (34, 42] (42, 50] (50, 58] (58, 66] (66, 74] Accounting 0 5 10 15 20 25 Male Female CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 los angeles The Los Angeles office opened in 2008 and covers the states of California, Nevada and Arizona. Throughout the years the office has grown to be a point of reference for customers all over the world – our services include air & ocean import and export shipments, U.S. Customs clearance & regulatory compliance, warehousing, distribution, e-commerce, project cargo, consolidations and more! Green’s Los Angeles freight team works daily creates an experience that continues to bring customers back to Green over and over again. We are passionate about what we do and strive to offer a service that is second to none. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is the world’s 4th and the United States’ 2nd busiest airport, following Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. Covering 3,500 acres and featuring four parallel runways, in 2018, the megacomplex serviced 87+ million passengers serving as a gateway for East-bound travelers. LAX is among the top five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo traffic. Locally, ocean cargoes are serviced by two ports – the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach. The Port of Los Angeles is one of the world’s busiest seaports and the leading gateway for international trade from Asia. It has ranked as the number one container port in the U.S. since the year 2000, and in 2018, the port moved a record 9.5 million Twenty-Foot Equivalent Units (TEUs) — the highest container volume ever moved annually by a Western Hemisphere seaport. Nearby, the Port of Long Beach is the second busiest container seaport in the United States, serving 140 shipping lines with connections to 217 seaports around the world. The Port LOS ANGELES, CA encompasses 3,200 acres with 31 miles of waterfront, 10 piers, 62 berths and 68 post-Panamax gantry cranes. In 2018, the Port 5777 West Century Blvd, Suite 1285 handled more than 8 million container units, achieving the Los Angeles, CA 90045 busiest year in its history. Tel +1 310 988 1550 Fax +1 310 988 1551 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 chicago In Chicago, Green’s team of everyday heroes quietly go about the business of ensuring products make it to and from the U.S. Midwest. By infusing our freight operations with smart technologies, we eliminate the burden of supply chain for our employees and customers, alike. Handling everything from soap dispensers to 4,000-horsepower diesel engines, it’s not the product, it is the delivery that matters – and Green Worldwide Shipping® delivers for every customer, every shipment, every time. Carl Sandburg described it best in his poem “Chicago” over 100 years ago when he called this “stormy, husky, brawling, city of the big shoulders” a “player with railroads and the nation’s freight handler.” Green’s Chicago freight experts have the knowledge, experience and passion for international logistics allowing them to bring constant value to our network of clients and global partners. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Chicago is an international hub for finance, culture, commerce, industry, education, technology, telecommunications, and transportation. It is the site of the creation of the first standardized futures contracts, issued by the Chicago Board of Trade, which today is the largest and most diverse derivatives market in the world, generating 20% of all volume in commodities and financial futures alone. O’Hare International Airport is not only among the busiest airports for passenger traffic and flight operations, but it is also one of the busiest air cargo gateways in the world. Approximately 1.8 million metric tons of cargo worth an estimated $200 billion are processed per year — ranking O'Hare 20th globally and 6th U.S. cargo airport by tonnage. O’Hare cargo volume continues to grow, with air imports and exports reaching record levels in recent years. A new cargo campus at O’Hare was recently completed, and it will be able to handle 50 percent more cargo traffic and freighter aircraft in the coming decades. With this new development, O’Hare has approximately two million square feet of airside cargo CHICAGO, IL facilities with space for 40 jumbo freighters (including the B747-8F) on four separate ramps, with another two million One Pierce Place, Suite 275C square feet of cargo facilities landside Itasca, IL 60143 Tel +1 847 250 4370 Fax +1 847 250 4371 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 licenses & affiliations LICENSES • Air Freight Forwarder by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) • Indirect Air Carrier by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) • Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC) • Customs Broker by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) AFFILIATIONS • National Customs Brokers and Freight Forwarders Association of America (NCBFAA) • Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) • FIATA/IATA/BIFA/TIA • Local US Customs Brokers and Freight Forwarders Association of America • Various Chambers of Commerce and Boards of Trade (US and Canada) • Trees for the Future | Trees.org • ExportGA | USBDC • Aviation Logistics Network (ALN) • Global Project Logistics Network (GPLN) • UN Global Compact CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 c-tpat MEET REX SHERMAN VP OF COMPLIANCE, LCHB Green Worldwide is an active member of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), a voluntary public-private sector partnership program which Rex Sherman graduated from California State implementing supply chain security standards through close cooperation with the University in Long Beach in 1990, starting his principle stakeholders of the international supply chain such as importers, carriers, professional career in the garment industry working in consolidators, licensed Customs brokers, and manufacturers. production, logistics, quality control, and trade representation. No longer able to refrain from his true ü BUSINESS PARTNER REQUIREMENTS passion, Sherman entered freight forwarding with a Supplier Security Assessment, Supplier Selection/Evaluation Criteria special interest in regulatory compliance. Earning his Customs license the same year he began, Sherman has ü CONTAINER SECURITY over amassed almost thirty years of experience in free Seals, Container Inspections trade zone programs and regulatory compliance. ü PHYSICAL ACCESS Today, Sherman is a founding partner Employees, Visitors, Deliveries of Green Worldwide Shipping and the resident Head of Compliance. ü PERSONNEL SECURITY Background Investigations, Drug Testing, Codes of Conduct Without question, regulatory ü PROCEDURAL SECURITY compliance is a core competency Cargo Inspection, Shipping Documents, Receiving Reports, for Green Worldwide Shippingâ Document Retention and is an integral step in the supply chain process. And while ü PHYSICAL SECURITY Green was founded in 2008, our Fences, Alarms, Cameras, Locks, Lighting, Security Guards leadership team, who maintain an active role in daily operations, ü SECURITY TRAINING & AWARENESS have a collective 250+ years Report Suspicious Activities, Policy Manuals, Evacuation Drills of experience. ü INFORMATION SECURITY Passwords, Firewalls, Virus Protection, Internet Monitoring new york Green’s New York offices opened in January of 2012. Servicing one of the world’s largest metropolitan cities isn’t easy, but this team’s wealth of experience in handling ocean and airfreight cargo of all sizes from any industry means smooth sailing for international importers and exporters into Northeast U.S. markets. Our Green team are tri-state locals and have lived in the New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania area for most of their lives, bringing a sense of pride and experience in coordinating the international routings for some of the world’s largest brands. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? The New York area is the largest metropolitan city in the world by landmass, measuring 4,495 square miles. Serving as the midpoint for a diverse list of industries, New York is the East Coast gateway for finance, international trade, news and traditional media, real estate, education, fashion, entertainment, tourism, biotechnology, law, and manufacturing. John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) is the primary international airport serving New York City. Located in the borough of Queens, it is the busiest international air passenger gateway into North America. JFK is one of the world's leading international air cargo centers. The airport offers nearly 4 million square feet of modern, state-of-the-art cargo warehouse and office space, and the entire air cargo area is designated to serve as a Foreign-Trade-Zone. JFK is the world's key air cargo markets with a strong mix of long-haul, direct and nonstop all-cargo aircraft and wide-body passenger aircraft flights. The Port of New York and New Jersey approximately encompasses a 25-mile radius from the Statue of Liberty National Monument. Considered one of the largest natural harbors in the world, the port is, by tonnage, the third largest in the United NEW YORK | NEW JERSEY States and the busiest on the East Coast. Included within the port area are two foreign-trade zones (FTZ). 51 Cragwood Rd, Suite 303 South Plainfield, NJ 07080 Tel +1 908 912 0304 Fax +1 908 912 0305 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 environment ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Green is deeply committed to reducing the environmental impact of business to both local and international communities. As an important player in international logistics, the Green team is dedicated to seeking out and implementing innovative and eco-friendly transportation solutions. Green follows rules and regulations administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regarding hazardous materials. IMPLEMENTATION Green Worldwide has taken the following actions to encourage environmental consciousness in our office and industry: ü In 2019, Green launched the Green Trees Initiative, automatically donating planted tree for each and every shipment handled. ü Green offers a client-facing carbon footprint calculator to encourage the reduction of carbon emissions amongst international shippers. ü Green headquarters is housed in a resource-conscious consumption location that utilizes solar panels, sustainable water barrel irrigation system, conscientious site planning. ü Green supports environmental awareness by mandating recycling in the workplace. ü Employees are required to conserve energy by shutting down computers, monitors and printers at night and by turning off lights when not in use. ü Green offices are transitioning into a paperless environment (tentative completion 2018). ü Maintains a written policy and annual training for proper storage, handling, and use of Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT). ü Maintains written procedure in case of environmental disasters/terrorism. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Green Worldwide Shipping is committed to growing and expanding our footprint in bringing sustainable services to the international freight forwarding industry. By automatically integrating sustainability efforts into each and every shipment Green handles, our clients, partners and employees can be proud to serve a greater greener mission – supporting our earth! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 a tree planted GROW WITH GREEN for every customer, every shipment, every time! In 2019, Green launched a radical initiative… We partnered with Trees for the Future and committed to automatically planting a tree for each and every single employee and shipment that Green handles. WHY TREES? Trees are habitat for biodiversity and create much of the planet’s oxygen. They help combat climate change and play a large role in agroforestry and in helping farming families improve their land quality and productivity. Through a Forest Garden Approach, Trees for the Future trains farmers to plant and manage Forest Gardens that Trees for the Future is an international development 501(c)(3) sustainably feed families, raise incomes by 400 percent, non-profit organization that meets a triple bottom line and end deforestation. standard by planting trees for poverty alleviation, hunger eradication, and healing the environment. Since 1989, TREES has planted over 155 million trees, restored over 7,800 acres, and sequestered over 190,000 tons of carbon. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 411 METRIC TONS OF CARBON REMOVED 3,090 20,206 TREES PLANTED! METRIC TONS During the first half of 2019 and with the help of our customers, international partners and network, Green OF OXYGEN was able to donate 20,206 trees, sequestering over 411 metric tons of carbon and adding over 3,090 metric ADDED tons of oxygen back into the environment. Green chooses to support an agroforestry system, also known as forest gardens, because the multi-layered, multi-purpose distribution of vegetables, bushes, and trees is designed to optimize land productivity and 260 grow community knowledge while preserving long-term resource biodiversity. FOREST GARDENS… OXYGEN ü Revitalizes soil and enhances biodiversity; ADDED BY ü Removes harmful carbon while adding oxygen; A SINGLE ü Not chemically-dependent agriculture; ü Increases dietary diversity; FOREST ü Generate $1,000 – $2,000 in income per acre; GARDEN TREE ü Produce harvest & trade crops for 12 months of the year; ü Promoted female empowerment, unlike male-dominated cash crops; ü Year-round community food security. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 houston Green opened it’s Houston branch in July of 2012 to service a growing demand for area’s oil, well and gas, fuel, aerospace, and medical care industries. Understanding the importance of hiring operators rooted with local experience, this team exemplifies the Green Way’s Fundamental 19 | WORK ON YOURSELF to be a lifelong learner and continuing to seek out every opportunity to gain more knowledge. Houston’s Import Manager, Curtis Williams, for example, began his career with Green as an import agent, but with a veracious appetite for growth took additional supply chain courses , while pursuing his Master’s degree passed the rigorous certification to become Licensed Customhouse Broker. ® CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Houston is the U.S. energy headquarters and a world center for virtually every segment of the oil and gas industry from exploration and production to marketing and technology. Houston is also home to one of the most important industrial bases in the world, ranks No. 2 in manufacturing GDP in the U.S. and houses the largest medical complex in the world. The Texas Medical Center provides clinical health care, research and education at its 61 institutions. From energy and life sciences to manufacturing and aerospace, the Houston region offers a dynamic infrastructure to support these thriving, core industries. George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) is located approximately 23 miles north of the downtown area and is part of a three-airport system. Together, Houston Airports form one of North America's largest public airport systems and position Houston as the international passenger and cargo gateway to the south central United States and a primary gateway to Latin America. As the premier long-haul international airport facility, IAH operates flights 185 nonstop destinations for 27 passenger airlines. The Port of Houston is one of the world's largest ports and serves the metropolitan area of Houston, Texas. The port is a 25-mile-long complex of diversified public and private facilities located a few hours' sailing time from HOUSTON, TX the Gulf of Mexico. Located in the fourth-largest city in the United States, it is the busiest port in the U.S. in terms of foreign tonnage, second-busiest in the 450 Gears Rd, Suite 212 U.S. in terms of overall tonnage, and sixteenth-busiest in the world. Though Houston, TX 77067 originally the port's terminals were primarily within the Houston city limits, the Tel +1 832 554 1204 port has expanded to such a degree that today it has facilities in multiple Fax +1 832 554 1205 communities in the surrounding area. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 charitables On a national level, Green proudly supports charitable organizations that are meaningful to our Company’s values and resonate with customers who share the same views. It’s a powerful way to connect for the greater good, because good relationships are more than just business. For employees, Green offers a full day of paid time off annually for employees who choose to champion and volunteer with local organizations. TREES FOR THE FUTURE | TREES.ORG NATIONAL PARKS | NATIONALPARKS.ORG AMERICAN RED CROSS | REDCROSS.ORG ST. JUDE’S CHILDREN’S RESEARCH HOSPITAL | STJUDE.ORG CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 E M P L O Y E E S P O T L I G H T megan barlow Megan began her journey with Green Worldwide Shipping as a Business Development intern in 2017. Initially, her responsibilities included researching market parameters and prospects for sales executives. Nine months later, Megan graduated from Georgia State University with a BBA in Computer Information Systems and evolved her interests from system analysis to marketing and design. Finding a passion for communication and the Adobe Creative Suite, today, Megan is Green’s resident marketing specialist. Enjoying the role’s creative freedom, Megan is responsible for managing Green’s social media presence, producing daily content and developing projects to promote and strengthen the Company’s brand. Her newfound interest in marketing has allowed Megan to grow creatively while staying close to her analytical routes. Megan appreciates the opportunity to flourish independently and has found home at Green Worldwide Shipping. HER FAVORITE GREEN WAY FUNDAMENTAL? 18 | MAKE HEALTHY CHOICES! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 seattle Green’s Tacoma office began servicing the greater Seattle area in May of 2013. The location’s proximity to Asia has helped Green maintain consistent, long-term relationships with importers and exporters of the Pacific Northwest from Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana up to Alaska. Green Tacoma has grown in regional reputation to specialize in two of the area’s most dominant industries with dedicated marine logistics services and 24/7/365 aerospace execution. From board games and countertops, tugboat propellers to aircraft engines, Green Tacoma is a one-stop shop for every customer, every shipment, every time. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Logging was Seattle's first major industry. Then, in the 1980’s, the area developed into a technology center and with a fresh influx of software and biotechnology companies, the population boomed with an economic revival. In 2018, Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (Sea-Tac) was the 29th-busiest airport in the world, surpassing Las Vegas, the eighth-busiest in the United States by passenger traffic, and is considered one of the fastest growing in the United States. The entire airport covers 2,500 acres, and is surprisingly much smaller than other U.S. airports with similar annual passenger numbers. Thirty-four airlines serve 91 non-stop domestic and 28 international destinations. In 2014, The Port of Seattle and Port of Tacoma officially merged all marine cargo operations to become The Northwest Seaport Alliance. This port partnership offers shorter U.S.-toAsia transits, as well as a deep connection to Alaska. Some the area’s top international trading partners include China, Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan, Vietnam, Thailand, and many more ports across the world. This key domestic gateway handles 80% of all SEATTLE, WA trade between Alaska and the continental United States, and is the main facilitator of trade from Hawaii. With over $73 1944 Pacific Ave, Suite 206 billion in international trade flowing through the Northwest Tacoma, WA 98402 Seaport Alliance, there is a strong impact on the local Tel +1 253 327 1600 economy as wellover 48,000 jobs are supported and Fax +1 253 327 1590 $4.3 billion in revenue. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 E M P L O Y E E S P O T L I G H T beth barbiers When she’s not working on her (many) cars, chasing chickens or training to be an elite athlete, Beth Barbiers is going the extra mile to deliver exceptional service as a Green freight expert. From export declarations to rate negotiation, Beth shines as one of Green’s local Export Specialists in our Atlanta Branch. CURRENTLY ON HER DESK Beth is handling a project shipment from Savannah, Georgia to Switzerland and has her hands full. The loading shipper was tasked to break down the mechanical equipment in order to fit in a 20′ container for export to Switzerland; however, the machine arrived at the port warehouse fully assembled. “I nearly drove down to Savannah to take it apart myself. Fortunately, after negotiating with the warehouse workers, I was able to convince them to carefully disassemble the machine.” HER FAVORITE GREEN WAY FUNDAMENTAL? 32 | KEEP THINGS FUN Luckily for Green, Beth Barbiers isn’t just an inspiration to co-workers – read about Beth’s journey as a deaf athlete on the road to the Deaf World Cup and Deaflympics 2021! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 miami Miami was opened in May 2013 and originally started with distribution and fulfillment services. The office began with its own warehouse operation and has quickly expanded into FCL loading/unloading, crating, automobile loading, e-commerce, and even bonded and central freight station services. The domestic desk at MIA operates its own transportation management system while the import and export teams handle international inbound and outbound shipments from all over the world. A key gateway into Central and South American markets, Green’s Miami location is perfect for competitive transit times and service options. ® CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Miami is a major center and leader in finance, commerce, culture, media, entertainment, the arts, and international trade. The Miami metropolitan area is home to 6.1 million people and is one of the largest ports in the United States. Miami International Airport (MIA), located on 3,230 acres of land near downtown Miami, is operated by the Miami-Dade Aviation Department and is the property of Miami-Dade County government. Founded in 1928, MIA now offers more flights to Latin America and the Caribbean than any other U.S. airport. Miami International Airport (MIA), located on 3,230 acres of land near downtown Miami, is operated by the Miami-Dade Aviation Department and is the property of Miami-Dade County government. Founded in 1928, MIA now offers more flights to Latin America and the Caribbean than any other U.S. airport. The Port of Miami is often called the Cruise Capital of the MIAMI, FL World and the Cargo Gateway of the Americas” servicing a dominant tourist segment. The port sits on 518 acres and 11421 NW 107th St, Unit 18 maintains seven passenger terminals with China serving as Miami, FL 33178 the port’s primary trading partner. Tel +1 786 400 2390 Fax +1 786 400 2391 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 denver When Denver opened its doors in July of 2016, the goal was to become a valued partner in the community and a leader in the industry. Since that time, Green Denver has grown into a staple logistics provider to the Rocky Mountain region, servicing clients in Wyoming, Utah, Nebraska and Arizona. The Denver team continues expand and knows that with the mutual support from the community and Green’s talented employees, the sky is truly the limit. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Denver is one of the fastest-growing major cities in the United States and, on average, has over 300 days of sunshine. By far, Denver brews more beer than any other U.S. city – on any typical day, more than 200 different beers are brewed and can be enjoyed in over 150 breweries, brew pubs and tap rooms. Denver International Airport (DIA) is an international airport primarily serving metropolitan Denver, Colorado area as well as the greater Front Range Urban Corridor. At 33,531 acres it is the largest airport in North America. With over 35,000 employees, the airport is also the largest employer in Colorado. Opened in 1995, DIA offers non-stop service to 215 destinations amongst 23 different airlines throughout North America, Latin America, Europe, and Asia; it is the fourth airport in the U.S. to exceed 200 destinations. DENVER, CO 3131 South Vaughn Way, Suite 134 Aurora, CO 80014 Tel +1 720 961 1836 Fax +1 720 961 1835 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 anti-corruption ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Green Worldwide is committed to implementing a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. Green is also committed to working with our international partners to improve supply chain security. Green Worldwide is an active member of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), a voluntary public-private sector partnership program which implementing supply chain security standards through close cooperation with the principle stakeholders of the international supply chain such as importers, carriers, consolidators, licensed customs brokers, and manufacturers. IMPLEMENTATION Green Worldwide requires mandatory employee training and review of its C-TPAT procedure which encompasses eight areas of focus: • Business Partner Requirements – Supplier Security Assessment, Supplier Selection/Evaluation Criteria • Container Security – Seals, Container Inspections • Physical Access Control – Employees, Visitors, Deliveries • Personnel Security – Background Investigations, Drug Testing, Codes of Conduct • Procedural Security – Cargo Inspection, Shipping Documents, Receiving Reports, Document Retention • Physical Security – Fences, Alarms, Cameras, Locks, Lighting, Security Guards • Security Training and Awareness – Report Suspicious Activities, Policy Manuals, Evacuation Drills • Information Security – Passwords, Firewalls, Virus Protection, Internet Monitoring CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 anti-corruption IMPLEMENTATION (CONTINUED) ü A written security policy provides due diligence guidance for staff in identifying supply chain risk as outlined by C-TPAT program requirements. ü Promotes awareness of ethics, values, integrity, and appropriate conduct by publishing articles, pamphlets, and posters, and by posting information on the website. ü Maintains an Ethics Committee that meets regularly to create, implement, maintain, and discuss issues concerning employee ethics and misconduct. Committee members are comprised of representatives from Legal, Finance, Supply Chain Management, Internal Audit, Human Resources, Quality, and Security. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Green Worldwide Shipping has not experienced or participated in any instances of corruption, bribery and extortion. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 dallas As one of Green’s newest locations, Dallas opened in December of 2017 and hit the ground running covering Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas and Arkansas. This steadily growing Green team provides a full end-to-end supply chain services to southern Midwest shippers and is certified to move dangerous goods via domestic trucking, air and ocean. Located directly at the airport, Green Dallas places a large focus in airfreight, providing dedicated services to the area’s top industries, such as technology, financial services & defense, oil & gas, manufacturing, aviation and aerospace. ® CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? The Dallas-Ft. Worth International Airport is the fourth busiest airport in the world by aircraft movements and the fifteenth busiest airport in the world by passenger traffic. It is the ninth busiest international gateway in the United States and the busiest in Texas. At 17,207 acres the DFW airport is larger than the island of Manhattan. The Dallas area is a large intermodal hub maintaining 3 major rail stations and with just a 2-3 day transit by truck from most markets on either coast, it’s no wonder Dallas is a strategic geographical advantage for product warehousing and distribution. DALLAS, TX 2222 South Service Rd, Suite 240 Dallas, TX 75261 Tel +1 817 697 4470 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 charlotte Green’s Charlotte offices opened in September 2019. The Charlotte branch brings seasoned industry experience combined with the exuberance to quickly shine in the Queen City, North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia by demonstrating the power of the Green Way. As Green’s tenth and newest branch, this team is has already hit the ground running and is eager to contribute to the Company’s growing success. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 did you know? Charlotte is the 5th fastest-growing city by population in the United States and is expected to grow by an estimated 47% between 2010 and 2030. Already famous for its research triangle, North Carolina is known as furniture country and is home to some of the largest international furniture brands. Charlotte Douglas International Airport (CLT) ranks sixth nationwide based on operations and is the 10th busiest airport in the United States based on passenger totals with over 46.4 million passengers traveling through Charlotte in 2018 alone. Charlotte is the 32nd busiest airport worldwide based on passenger totals and seventh globally for total operations. CLT is a major driver of the Charlotte region’s economy, generating more than $16.2 billion in economic impact for the area’s economy and $23 billion in economic activity throughout the state of North Carolina. Port of Wilmington is strategically located on the East Coast of the United States within 700 miles of more than 70% of the U.S. industrial base. CSX Transportation provides intermodal rail service with best-in-class transit times, as well as daily service for boxcar, tanker and general cargo services. With readily available berths and storage areas for containers and cargo, the Port of Wilmington also offers terminal facilities serving container, bulk, breakbulk, and ro-ro operations. The facility features a deep 42-foot CHARLOTTE, NC navigational channel, nine berths with 6,768 feet of wharf frontage, four post-Panamax container cranes, two new neo-Panamax container cranes, 2221 Edge Lake Drive, Suite 110 and one new neo-Panamax container crane on the way. Modern transit Charlotte, NC 28217 and warehouse facilities and the latest in cargo management technology Tel +1 704 899 4488 provide a broad platform for supporting international trade to the fast-growing Southeast U.S. market. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 I N F O R M A T I V E P U B L I C A T I O N S As active members if the National (and local) Customs Brokers and Freight Forwarders Association of America (NCBFAA), Green Worldwide Shippingâ regularly reviews regulatory updates from government sources such as the Federal Register, White House notices, ADD/CVD announcements, Customs System Messaging Service (CSMS), Sandler Travis Legal Resources and International Trade Today publications in order to provide guidance to our international shippers. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 2020 BOTTOM LINE, we speak freight ISN’T IT TIME TO MOVE FREIGHT FORWARD?
