United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 © DAI Global, LLC The opinions expressed are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of any government or donor agency associated with the content of this paper. All photography courtesy DAI staff, unless otherwise noted. Design: Jennifer Geib CONTENTS CEO STATEMENT OF SUPPORT 4 COMPANY OVERVIEW 6 CONTRIBUTION TOWARD THE SDGS 7 PROGRESS TOWARD UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 26 2018 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT BY CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS I am pleased to present DAI’s 2018 Communication on Progress. DAI is committed to the United Nations share brief profiles of a dozen or so projects, Global Compact and its 10 principles. As spanning at least five of the SDGs, where we an independent, employee-owned global believe our technical assistance is helping our development company, our mission is to make a clients to make a lasting difference in people’s lasting difference in the world by helping people lives—from improving health outcomes and improve their lives. We envision a world in engaging women in the workforce to helping which communities and societies become more governments be more accountable and prosperous, fairer and better governed, safer, providing safe water and sanitation. healthier, and environmentally more sustainable. Integral to that mission is a commitment to As we look forward to 2019 and to our uphold human rights and labor standards, fiftieth year of operations in 2020, we are promote environmental responsibility, and challenging ourselves to deliver greater and combat corruption in all its forms. greater value to our partners around the world, and we find ourselves working in exciting DAI strives to be a supportive partner for new ways: running innovation centers and nations participating in the UN’s global efforts entrepreneurship hubs, encouraging private to reduce extreme poverty and achieve the capital toward emerging markets through Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To do “blended finance,” accelerating the adoption this, we work side-by-side with communities, of transformational technology, facilitating the private sector, and international and regional and international trade, and working national government partners, with a focus on directly for multinational firms on assignments delivering sustainable solutions and building that support their investments, underpin local capacity. their social license to operate, upgrade local James Boomgard suppliers, and generate local jobs. Working and learning across multiple clients, President and Chief geographies, sectors, and disciplines enables In all of these endeavors, we remain committed Executive Officer DAI to bridge the divisions and break down to shaping a more livable world in the spirit of the the silos that too often impede development UN Global Compact and its underlying principles. objectives. In the pages that follow, we 4 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 DAI remains committed to shaping a more livable world in the spirit of the UN Global Compact and its underlying principles. DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 5 COMPANY OVERVIEW DAI: A GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT COMPANY DAI is an employee-owned international development company, DAI works across the gamut of development disciplines: one of the world’s larger companies dedicated solely to international development. Global in reach and outlook—fielding • Digital Acceleration—Designing and deploying innovative, 3,500 staff, 80 percent of them local nationals—we are delivering user-centered digital tools that drive change across development results on almost 200 projects in more than 100 emerging markets. countries, from stable societies and high-growth economies to • Economic Growth—Driving trade, technology, agriculture, challenging environments racked by political or military conflict, business, and financial services to create jobs, reduce such as Afghanistan and Iraq, Somalia and Libya. poverty, and enhance food security. Our tagline (“shaping a more livable world”) speaks to a mission • Environment—Improving the management of natural that is unchanged since our founding in 1970: helping people resources and ecosystem services in a way that supports improve their lives. We work for international development economic growth and strengthens resilience to climate agencies, private corporations, and philanthropies to tackle change. fundamental social and economic development problems. • Fragile States—Supporting political transition, ensuring DAI is perennially one of the leading partners for the world’s short-term stability operations, preventing and countering leading bilateral and multilateral aid donors. Current clients violent extremism, and laying the foundation for include the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), development in fragile environments. the U.K. Department for International Development (DFID), the Danish International Development Agency, the European Bank • Global Health—Delivering holistic, tech-enabled solutions for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European to save lives and improve wellbeing worldwide. Commission, the U.K. Foreign and Commonwealth Office, • Governance—Strengthening accountability and improving the Millennium Challenge Corporation, the Swiss Agency for government performance by providing technical advice, Development and Cooperation, the French Development strategic guidance, and support to public institutions, Agency, UNICEF, and the World Bank. We have been named elected bodies, and citizens. U.S. Government Contractor of the Year on two occasions and recognized as one of the world’s top development innovators. • Sustainable Business—Helping companies to be smarter corporate citizens in their local business operations and assisting public authorities to grow sustainable industries. 6 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 OUR WORK AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS DAI’s 49 years on the frontlines SDG 1: Ending of global development confirm poverty in all its forms everywhere; the interconnectedness of development challenges. SDG 3: Ensuring healthy Our specialists reach across lives and promoting welltechnical disciplines to shape being for all; the integrated development solutions that promise SDG 5: Achieving gender transformational development equality and empowering results, while the scale and all women and girls; diversity of our operations enables DAI to contribute to SDG 6: Ensuring access the achievement of all 17 SDGs. to water and sanitation Here, however, we present brief for all; and profiles of 13 sample projects that reflect our work in five SDG 16: Promoting just, select SDGs: peaceful, and inclusive societies. DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 7 8 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 KENYA REDUCING HUNGER AND HSNP provides regular, CLIMATE VULNERABILITY unconditional cash transfers to Kenya’s Hunger Safety Net Programme (HSNP) reduces extreme hunger and vulnerability 101,000 households through regular, unconditional cash transfers to 101,000 households. Supported by DFID and the Government of Kenya, HSNP ensures targeted and financially secure safety net transfers across the impoverished arid counties of Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana, and Wajir. The HSNP Dashboard provides real-time cash transfer data and associated functions to improve service, including complaint-resolution updates, geo-referenced household 61% registration, and online communication between central and field staff. Sixty-one percent of regular HSNP beneficiaries are women, with at least 61,600 poor women accessing financial services for the first time via electronic cash transfers women directly into bank accounts opened in their names. Payments of KES 5,400, or about £41, are made to each registered household using fully functional bank accounts. During with at least droughts or floods, when households are most vulnerable, HSNP rapidly scales up payments and has reached an additional 206,000 households in such periods of crisis. 61,000 According to an independent evaluation, 87 percent of HSNP households cited “reduced hunger” as the most fundamental impact that HSNP has on their wellbeing. Recipients also reported having more and/or larger meals, with HSNP households less likely to fall into the poorest decile nationally. 87% of households cited reduced hunger as the fundamental impact HSNP has had on their lives VIP VISITOR Kenya Deputy President William Ruto DFID/HSNP greets HSNP staff DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 9 HAITI IMPROVING FARMERS’ PRODUCTIVITY Since 2013 AVANSE has DAI works in Haiti’s Northern Corridor to increase farmers’ productivity and, increased client farmers’ ultimately, incomes across the agricultural market system. Funded by USAID, the crop yields by AVANSE program—Appui à la Valorisation du Potentiel Agricole du Nord, pour la Sécurité Economique et Environnementale—has since 2013 increased the yields of client farmers anywhere from 65 percent (for producers of bananas and plantains) to 65% for bananas 200 percent (rice). AVANSE is sustainably improving the agriculture economy in three areas: production of rice, bananas and plantains, and cacao; irrigation and water management; and related and plantains private sector entities. More than 30,000 producers farming 20,000-plus hectares have benefited from AVANSE assistance. For example, rice farmers applied techniques 200% that increase their yields from 1,500 kilograms to more than 6,000 kilograms per hectare, while using 70 percent less water. More than 23,000 cacao farmers tending 12,400 hectares have applied new training in pruning and shade management—plus new seedlings and drying and pruning equipment—to increase their yields by up to 50 for rice percent. Farmers of bananas and plantains are using improved farming practices on 5,000 hectares, thereby increasing yields and, in places, providing “nurse crops” that shade cacao growth and conserve soil and water. To support Northern Corridor farmers, AVANSE has worked to improve upstream catchments, soil conservation and fertility, and irrigation on more than 3,000 hectares. To develop the local agricultural market system, AVANSE provides technical assistance or facilitates financing in areas such as the importation and distribution of fertilizer and seeds; farm credit and equipment; and farm services such as plowing, threshing, spraying, and pruning. AVANSE is also expanding processing facilities and assisting farmers in achieving organic certification and exploring export markets. BEARING FRUIT USAID/AVANSE Haitian President Jovenel Moïse, right, visits AVANSE farmers 10 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 AFGHANISTAN INCREASING WOMEN’S INCLUSION IN THE ECONOMY The Women in the Economy (WIE) program is assisting Afghan women to enter and advance in Afghanistan’s mainstream economy. Part of USAID’s Promote program, WIE has helped nearly 300 women-led and women-friendly businesses across Afghanistan get technical assistance in business skills, qualify for business loans, and improve their sales performance. Two years after WIE assistance, half of those businesses report at least a 40 percent increase in revenue, and 22 percent reported growing from a small to a USAID/WIE medium-sized enterprise (more than 50 employees). WIE has also delivered incubation services to 54 women-owned or -managed startups, enabling them to launch their businesses, and has enabled more ENTERING THE WORKFORCE than 300 women to participate in microfinance and Skills assessment testing in Herat commercial banking training, bolstering Afghanistan’s ability to be more inclusive in business lending. To date, 66,400 women from all corners of the country have registered for WIE services. WIE has placed more than 7,000 women in internships and apprenticeships, especially in fields such as teaching and healthcare; and more than 2,000 women have been awarded scholarships to train in areas such as finance and banking, information technology, and In just two years, half the 300 women-owned or women-friendly 40% and 22% grew from small businesses supported increase in to medium-sized retail sales. More than 6,600 participants in the WIE by WIE reported a revenue enterprises program have already been hired full time. DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 11 12 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 NIGERIA ENABLING WOMEN TO TRAIN AS HEALTH WORKERS Nigeria suffers the highest number of maternal deaths in Sub-Saharan Africa and high rates of under-5 child mortality. These indicators are even worse in northern Nigeria, where up to 90 percent of pregnant women deliver Since 2012, graduation duation their babies without a skilled birth attendant. Female health workers are rates at W4H supported pp particularly important in the north because social norms in rural communities institutions have risen en from can prohibit women from receiving care from male health attendants. The Women for Health (W4H) project is helping young women overcome 58% 80% cultural barriers to join the frontlines of health care in six northern states. Since the start of the program, more than 6,200 young women have to enrolled in training as health workers—as midwives, community health workers, and nurses—at W4H-assisted learning institutions. Nearly 1,100 midwives are newly working in targeted rural areas, a 62 percent increase compared to the start of W4H in 2012. Young women require a supportive environment to take the training. Funded by DFID, W4H has helped 14 health training institutions earn full accreditation and 11 more earn provisional accreditation—10 now have female principals and 13 have established nurseries and childcare services for both lecturers and students. W4H-assisted institutes undertook more than 250 construction and rehabilitation projects, such as renovating student dormitories and making them more female-friendly. Graduation rates at these institutes have risen from 58 to 80 percent. State governments also sponsored Foundation Year Programmes for young rural women—many of whom had not attended school for years—to take concentrated learning that prepares them to qualify academically to enter health training institutes. MIDWIFERY STUDENTS DFID/W4H E-learning helps fill demand in Nigeria DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 13 JORDAN, PALESTINE & EGYPT SUPPORTING WOMEN’S ENTERPRISES The Middle East suffers one of the lowest rates of female labor permissible. In Palestine, AWEF trained female sheep herders force participation in the world. Funded by DFID, the Arab as para-veterinarians so they can provide basic but important Women’s Enterprise Fund (AWEF) addresses gaps in economic treatment and testing of animals for other female herders. empowerment with a goal to increase economic opportunity AWEF also works with the private sector, specifically the readyand wellbeing for 150,000 poor women. made garment sector in Egypt, to calculate and demonstrate the return on investment and cost-benefit analysis for AWEF finds opportunities within a culture of constraints. In businesses by their enhancing women’s access and agency in Jordan, AWEF trains women who run dairy-processors to meet the workplace. regulatory standards for certification of their dried yogurt, helping these small businesses improve product quality and In addressing both the barriers and opportunities for poor increase sales in male-dominated markets. In Egypt, AWEF women, AWEF is enabling women to secure employment, start teaches large businesses in the garment and citrus sectors to and grow enterprises, and increase their voice and choices in recruit women for positions—including senior and management local economies. roles—where the work and interactions would be culturally DFID/ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK/AWEF DFID/ISLAMIC NEW OPPORTUNITIES Creating good-fit employment for Arab women DEVELOPMENT BANK/AWEF 14 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 15 MULTI-COUNTRY HELPING GOVERNMENTS ADDRESS PANDEMIC AND EMERGING DISEASE Nearly 50,000 men, women, and children die every day from infectious diseases. The USAID-funded Preparedness & Response (P&R) program helps vulnerable countries improve their capacity to prevent diseases or control them at source, rather than react after their spread. P&R has worked with 16 national governments to Supporting establish or expand country “One Health” platforms—institutionalizing multisectoral national “One coordination between experts in veterinary health, human health, and the environment, as well as emergency management, security, and funding—and to develop their preparedness Health” platforms and response planning. helps countries The P&R program launched One Health platforms in 9 countries; relaunched platforms in another 3 countries; reviewed, updated, or developed One Health Strategic Plans institutionalize in 12 countries; and facilitated 15 disease-event simulations and 7 zoonotic disease prioritization exercises, led by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. P&R multisectoral has also provided direct technical support to nine countries in response to avian influenza, anthrax, and other disease outbreaks. coordination and increase national preparedness and response USAID PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE PROJECT planning. HEALTH COLLABORATION Cross-organizational workshop in Vietnam to address infectious disease 16 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 HAITI BUILDING AN EFFECTIVE HEALTH INFORMATION SYSTEM The Haitian government needs health information and managed data to effectively plan, budget for, and deliver health services to its citizens. The Haiti Strategic Health Information System (HIS) Program team is integrating Haiti’s disconnected health information assets under the country’s consolidated national health database—the System d’Information Sanitaire Nationale Unique—so that the Haitian Ministère de la Santé Publique et de la Population can better assess its public health system and make better informed decisions. Launched in 2017 and funded by USAID, the HIS program in 2018 launched its first national electronic platform—for reporting and tracking tuberculosis. As of January 2019, the platform has enrolled HEALTH DATA INPUTS 21,168 patients. In addition to tracking patients’ immunization and Training public health staff in northeast Haiti treatments, the platform is helping the Haitian government make decisions such as where to invest in clinics and staff. Launching the TB data platform marked an important step in the “By applying health informatics with country’s goal to be prepared to respond to both health crises and the daily needs of its 11 million people. “Haiti and other developing discipline, countries such as Haiti will countries can benefit greatly now and well into the future simply by getting their health information systems in good order,” said be far better prepared to reap good Bobby Jefferson, Chief Technology Officer for DAI Global Health. value from investments in health care “By applying health informatics with discipline, countries such as Haiti will be far better prepared to reap good value from planning and delivery.” investments in health care planning and delivery.” –Bobby Jefferson, Chief Technology Officer for DAI Global Health DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 17 SDG 6 (Ensure Clean Water and Sanitation) 18 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 KENYA DELIVERING CLEAN WATER TO 1 MILLION KENYANS The Kenya Integrated Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (KIWASH) program began in 2015 with an ambitious goal: ensure more than 1 million Kenyans gain access to new or improved water, sanitation, and hygiene services by 2020. Working across nine Kenyan counties, the KIWASH team has brought together county governments and water service providers, water resources managers, dozens of private sector companies, finance institutions, and hundreds of communities. Together, they are helping deliver on the KIWASH promise. Funded by USAID, KIWASH has extended basic drinking water services to 432,249 people. Another 57,020 gained access to basic sanitation services, with 669 villages verified open defecation free. This success helped leverage $27.4 million in additional assistance WATER FOR SCHOOLS from the Government of Kenya and the private sector to accelerate Students in Kenya enjoy their new connection WASH service delivery. Also, in Kisumu—one of the KIWASH focus counties—65,100 people stand to benefit from the expansion of water infrastructure once the county secures bond financing from local capital markets. KIWASH success delivering basic water and sanitation services These results do more than enable people to wash themselves or helped leverage an additional use a bathroom. Access to clean water and sanitation—and the work $27.4 million behind it—helps communities become healthy, vital, and prosperous. County WASH service providers now implement good governance practices and workplace equality, with three counties developing women-friendly employment policies. KIWASH-assisted water service providers can now pursue financing; strategically plan for, maintain, assistance from the private sector and the and finance gender-sensitive WASH infrastructure; and monitor their Government of Kenya service delivery. DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 19 INDONESIA MOBILIZING WATER AND SANITATION FINANCING AND DELIVERY Building on the Indonesia Urban Water, Sanitation and Hygiene program (IUWASH, 2011–2016)—under which 2.5 million people gained access to safe water and 300,000 to improved sanitation—USAID launched the IUWASH Penyehatan Lingkungan untuk Semua, CREDIT: USAID/IUWASH or Environmental Health for All program (IUWASH PLUS). This successor program works with 32 local governments across Indonesia to sustain IUWASH achievements and accelerate progress. IUWASH addressed a critical gap by providing assistance to mobilize financing. Of the 18 projects receiving support from IUWASH, 10 secured necessary funding and continued to the construction phase (with funding for the remaining 8 still in process), resulting in HEALTHY HANDWASHING new water delivery to 700,000 beneficiaries, while another $38 million in assistance was Changing behaviors toward cleaner habits leveraged from the Government of Indonesia, local governments, the private sector, and other sources. IUWASH and IUWASH PLUS have IUWASH PLUS is strengthening urban WASH ecosystems at all levels—from basic brought access to safe water to over infrastructure to public policy. Civil society groups and local governments are mobilizing 2.5 million demand for improved WASH services as the project builds the capacity of private businesses, utilities, and national-level programs to meet demand equitably and people sustainably. Under IUWASH PLUS, more than 236,000 people receive clean water through new piped water connections provided by project-assisted utilities; 57,000 people gained access to safely managed sanitation services; 24 water and sanitation policies have been produced and improved sanitation to and adopted by local government partners; and 20 institutions have secured financing for 300,000 people water and sanitation service delivery improvements. IUWASH PLUS also helped develop the Grand Strategy of Water Supply and Domestic Wastewater for DKI Jakarta. since 2011 20 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 LEBANON SUPPORTING WATER UTILITIES For 17 years, under three USAID programs, DAI helped secure improved water service quality for 3.4 million people, or 56 percent of Lebanon’s population. The Lebanon Water Project and its predecessors built the managerial, administrative, technical, financial, and operational capacity of Lebanon’s five regional public water utilities. By improving the quality and reach of water services, and strengthening related capital investment planning and asset management, FIRMAN/USAID IUWASH PLUS these projects have built trust between the Lebanese government and its citizens. Lebanon will continue to experience water shortages due to its climate, growing water consumption, and underinvestment in the water, sanitation, and hygiene sector, exacerbated by Since 2001, the Lebanon decades of civil unrest. LWP aims to develop the institutions and capital investments required water project has for Lebanese utilities to provide sustainable water services in the long term. For example, in the improved water service Bekaa Valley and South Lebanon, utilities upgraded their water analysis laboratories so they quality for 3.4 can meet national testing standards, and trained pump operators to improve health and safety. LWP is also working with farmers to provide incentives to transition from flood to drip irrigation, improving their yields while conserving water. million people CREDIT: USAID/LWP BETTER SERVICES Improving water systems efficiency in Lebanon DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 21 SDG 6 (Ensure Clean Water and Sanitation) 22 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 PAKISTAN BUILDING CAPACITY TO VOICE PRIORITIES AND HOLD GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABLE Pakistan’s elite class is vastly outnumbered by citizens who processes are more open, accountable, and inclusive, focusing are poor, unheard, and oppressed. As a result, government on women’s and minority rights, their political participation, and services too often do not reach where they are most needed. identity-based discrimination and violence. For example, more than 20 million of Pakistan’s school-aged children do not attend school. AAWAZ was implemented directly in 4,500 villages across 45 districts in Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provinces. DFID’s AAWAZ Voice and Accountability Initiative (2012–2018) More than 8 million citizens benefited directly from voice mobilized many of Pakistan’s civil society and development and accountability interventions and training led by AAWAZ organizations under one network to better amplify the concerns partners, with many more citizens benefiting indirectly. AAWAZ and demands of marginalized communities. Working locally, was instrumental in passing six national and provincial laws to members of the AAWAZ network helped resolve local conflicts support women, girls, and religious minorities, and contributed to and teach citizens how to voice concerns about public services a decline in violence against women in its beneficiary villages. such as schools, sanitation, and security. AAWAZ ensured AAWAZ worked with more than 8 million people to help amplify the concerns DFID/AAWAZ DFID/AAWAZ and demands of marginalized Pakistanis. GETTING HEARD Empowering marginalized people in Pakistan DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 23 THE PHILIPPINES STRENGTHENING LOCAL GOVERNANCE TO IMPROVE PEACE AND STABILITY In conflict-affected areas of the southern Philippines, USAID’s Enhancing Governance, Accountability, and Engagement Activity (ENGAGE) brings together local government units—in Cotabato City, Zamboanga City, Isabela City, Southern Basilan, and Jolo—and civil society organizations to improve peace and stability. Working in a region prone to insurgency, ENGAGE facilitates interactions and cooperation that improve local governments’ ability to counter the narratives of extremist and insurgent groups. By addressing residents’ perceptions of discrimination and marginalization, government officials and USAID/ENGAGE civil society representatives promote constructive interaction with their communities. ENGAGE specifically addresses the vulnerability of youth to violent extremism. The project conducted 41 events in the past year with local government, civil society organizations, and schools and universities, attracting nearly 5,000 participants to discuss violent extremism and stimulate positive community-wide engagement. It also led 21 community scorecard exercises across 19 locations to grade interactions between local governments and their communities, covering themes such as public safety, disaster risk management, and solid waste management. USAID/ENGAGE COMMUNITY CONVERSATIONS Strengthening local governments for stability 24 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 HONDURAS PREVENTING SCHOOL VIOLENCE Students in Honduras face complex challenges, one of the most acute being violence in and around schools. In addition to stunting students’ academic performance, this chronic violence has led to life-long negative behavior patterns that harm Honduran society. USAID/ASEGURANDO LA EDUCACIÓN Known locally as Asegurando la Educación (Ensuring Education)— USAID’s five-year project addresses school-based violence that impedes education and improves education and school processes to reduce violence in target communities. DAI works with schools directly to create safe environments that favor teaching and learning, while simultaneously building platforms for sustainable community participation. Nationally, the project assists the Honduran Secretariat of Education to institutionalize successful violence prevention models, including the National Strategy for Prevention and School Safety. Locally, the project is empowering educators, students, and parents to confront and reduce violence through Community School Committees. At the project’s targeted 116 schools, staff work with committee members to identify school-specific types of violence and develop tailored activities to confront those challenges. By Year 2, the project had USAID/ASEGURANDO LA EDUCACIÓN trained more than 1,000 teachers and administrators on violence prevention strategies. PROMOTING SAFE SCHOOLS Improving security for Honduran children DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT HOW THE 10 PRINCIPLES INFORM DAI’S WORK A VISIT FROM THE PRIME MINISTER In late 2017, British Prime Minister Theresa May visited the Arab Women’s Enterprise Fund in Amman, Jordan, a U.K. Department for International Development initiative implemented by DAI. Active in Egypt, Jordan, and the Palestinian Territories, the project seeks to improve gender awareness and sensitivity, increase the employment and retention of women in the workforce, and promote certification of products made by women working at home. 26 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Description of Actions Businesses should DAI treats all human beings with dignity, fairness, and respect, and upholds support and respect the these fundamental human rights both in the workplace and through its Measuring Outcomes protection of internawork in the international development sector. Our commitments to ethical DAI has engaged in no human tionally proclaimed integrity in all phases of our business are laid out in the DAI Code of rights abuses and has no human rights; and Business Conduct and Ethics, available on dai.com. outstanding allegations. DAI is committed to providing an inclusive workplace that embraces and PRINCIPLE 2 promotes diversity and equal opportunity. For instance, we have in place a Make sure that they are Governing Policy on Child Safeguarding Standards that honors the inherent not complicit in human dignity of children and enforces the core principles set forth in USAID’s rights abuses. Child Safeguarding Standards and the International Standards for Child Protection. In addition, DAI is conscious about the choice of our partners globally and engages only with vendors, suppliers, consultants, subcontractors, grantees, and clients who operate in compliance with human rights laws and in accord with DAI’s Code. DAI fully supports the prevention and prohibition of human trafficking and forced labor, and complies with U.S. and U.K. government laws and regulations as well as cooperating country laws and regulations around * the world to prevent modern slavery, human trafficking, and forced or child labor. This compliance and commitment are also a pre-requisite of any subcontract or partnership into which DAI may enter. Furthermore, our OF NOTE: DAI Board Member employees and consultants are duty-bound to report any instances of child Maria Otero and her husband labor we may encounter in our work across the globe. Joe Eldridge were honored by the Washington Office on Among various project-level initiatives on human rights, DAI provided Latin America for their vital technical leadership in the drafting and launching of the Regional Review contributions to human rights on the Laws, Policies, and Practices within the Association of South East advocacy in September 2018. Asian Nations relating to the Identification, Management, and Treatment of Victims of Trafficking, especially Women and Children. DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 27 LABOR PRINCIPLE 3 Description of Actions Businesses should uphold the DAI is wholly owned by its global freedom of association and corporate employees. In 2016, the the effective recognition of the Global Equity Organization presented right to collective bargaining; DAI with its award for Best Use of a Share Plan in a Private Company, PRINCIPLE 4 praising DAI for having “raised the bar in achieving its corporate objectives and The elimination of all forms of inclusively engaging its workforce as forced and compulsory labor; owners.” DAI is opposed to all forms of forced PRINCIPLE 5 and child labor. Among the activities * The effective abolition of child DAI implemented in 2018, the Market Development in the Niger Delta project OF NOTE: DAI employee Harris labor; and Khalique in March 2018 received is connecting vulnerable populations Pakistan’s Presidential Pride susceptible to human trafficking in PRINCIPLE 6 of Performance award for his Edo State with desirable jobs at home, contribution as a writer and The elimination of discrimination and working to reduce the number of campaigner in social movements for in respect of employment and Nigerian migrants who get trapped in labor, women, and minority rights. occupation. modern slavery. Khalique led the highly successful AAWAZ Voice and Accountability Programme, which promoted civic engagement by marginalized groups. 28 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 Description of Actions (continued) Measuring Outcomes DAI is an equal opportunity/affirmative Every year DAI builds an affirmative action plan that includes the following action employer with a processes: commitment to diversity. • Outreach: DAI representatives attend career fairs and establish relationships All qualified applicants with universities and community-based organizations to attract qualified receive consideration for female, minority, veteran, and disabled candidates. employment without regard to race, color, religion, • Workforce Analysis: DAI compares its workforce composition by race and sex, sexual orientation, gender to census data to determine if women and/or minorities are undergender identity, or national represented and develops programs to improve representation of qualified origin. DAI seeks to recruit women and minorities. a diverse workforce • Personnel Action Analysis: DAI analyzes its hires, promotions, and and we are committed terminations to determine whether one or more groups are adversely to maintaining a work affected by existing processes. Where potential adverse actions are environment where all identified, HR investigates and recommends corrective action. employees feel respected, valued, and free of • Compensation Analysis: DAI conducts a statistical analysis of employee harassment. The safety and compensation by race and gender, and HR recommends corrective action security of our employees where necessary. and affiliates are our top In the United States, DAI’s affirmative action plan was most recently audited by priorities. the Department of Labor in 2014, with no violations found. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Description of Actions Businesses should DAI is committed to ensuring environmental sustainability and support a precautionary integrating the principles of sustainable development in all Measuring Outcomes approach to environits projects. DAI works to support equitable management of mental challenges; Since 2016, in its U.S. biodiversity and ecosystems, improve access to safe water and Government project work sanitation, and build climate change resilience and mitigation. DAI alone, DAI has supported PRINCIPLE 8 is committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws, the improvement of more rules, and regulations. than 265,000 hectares of Undertake initiatives Among its project-level activities focused on the environment, DAI land through better natural to promote greater environmental responis assisting the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development resource management sibility; and to develop loan products for small and mid-size businesses in and through biodiversity Morocco and Poland, which are using these funds to invest in and wildlife conservation. efficient and renewable energy equipment and services that Our work has reduced PRINCIPLE 9 decrease their carbon footprints. greenhouse gas emissions by Encourage the develmore than 35,000 metric tons For more than two decades, DAI has provided monitoring and of CO2 in the past two years, opment and diffusion of evaluation services for the European Union’s LIFE project, the EU’s in addition to mobilizing a environmentally friendly instrument for supporting environmental, nature conservation, quarter of a million dollars in technologies. and climate action projects across member states. This contract private investment toward was renewed in 2018. Also this year, the EU engaged DAI to assist GHG reduction or reversal. communities vulnerable to climate change in Ethiopia, while the French Development Agency awarded DAI a contract to provide studies and technical assistance in the field of climate change. 30 DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 DAI has an uncompromising commitment to ethical behavior. DAI’s policies, procedures, and professional management Measuring Outcomes Businesses should work of staff are designed to minimize vulnerability to fraud in against corruption in financial transactions, reporting results, grant awards, and DAI’s Global Ethics and all its forms, including Compliance Database the procurement of goods and services. DAI holds itself extortion and bribery. consistently shows timely accountable to stringent standards enshrined in the U.K. Bribery Act (UKBA) across all projects and activities. notification to clients of credible evidence of All DAI staff must complete mandatory annual training on ethics corruption, bribery, and and provide a written certification that they have reviewed, conflicts of interest, as understood, and agree to comply with DAI’s Code. DAI has an well as timely closure of ethics hotline where staff can anonymously report suspected investigations. DAI has no violations and a strict non-retaliation policy against anyone who reports of possible violations makes a good-faith report of ethics or compliance concerns. of UKBA in 2018. Additionally, DAI publishes a regular newsletter on ethics quoting encountered and adapted case studies from our collective DAI annual ethics and experiences to enhance our learning across the globe. compliance training continues to reach DAI’s Ethics and Compliance Officers monitor ethical issues practically all employees and their timely resolution. An analysis of this information is around the world. Employee provided to the Global Ethics and Compliance Committee, surveys indicate sustained which responds to changing vulnerabilities and trends through high levels of willingness updates to training, communications, policies, and practices. to report allegations and Among DAI’s various field activities in this area, the concerns. Accountable, Responsive, and Capable Government project specifically works to fight corruption in Nigeria. DAI UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 31 www.dai.com
