Jyske Bank 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 2 of 47 Contents About this report .................................................................................................. 3 Responsible advisory services ............................................................................. 5 Employee conditions ............................................................................................ 9 Climate and the environment ............................................................................ 19 Investment .......................................................................................................... 27 Human rights ....................................................................................................... 36 Social initiatives .................................................................................................. 38 Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 3 of 47 has 3,724 full-time employees and a nationwide network of 97 branches, About this report making it the second-largest financial undertaking in Denmark. In this report, you will find our policies, priorities and objectives relating to CSR. The Jyske Bank Group’s shareholders, clients and employees are the bank’s Also, we explain our due diligence processes and risk assessments, the KPIs applied and the results achieved. most important stakeholders, and mutual balance must be struck whereby: The report forms part of the statutory management’s review for 2018. In • shareholders receive an attractive, risk-adjusted long-term return; addition, we are also publishing a series of separate accounts relating to the • clients receive advice, products, services and prices that are among the annual report which concern corporate governance. best on the market; and • employees have an attractive workplace with opportunities for The Jyske Bank Group acceded to the United Nations Global Compact in development. December 2016, and the report forms the basis of our COP (Communication on Progress) reporting to the UN Global Compact. CEO Anders Dam The Group’s values are the most immutable part of our business. They help reconfirms the membership of Global Compact 2019. ensure that we respect people and the environment and that we exhibit responsible conduct in our daily work. A number of guiding principles bind us The report also comprises the Jyske Bank Group’s reporting on its Principles together and guide our actions. We aim to ensure that our stakeholders for Responsible Investment (PRI) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. perceive our values in practice when they encounter us in different contexts. We are always pleased to receive feedback on our CSR initiatives. Please send The Group’s values: any questions or comments to: csr@jyskebank.dk • Holistic approach and common sense: We act on the basis of a holistic view Our business model and foundation for responsibility • Open and honest: We are open and honest in word and action • Different and unpretentious: We think and act differently and are generally unpretentious The Group’s business area comprises the provision of financial products as • Equal respect and commitment: We are understanding and empathetic and well as other related products and services. The Group supports the need of demonstrate commitment private individuals, companies and institutions – and consequently also society • Efficient and persevering: We strive to make progress and we complete – for financial services that are simple, foresighted and responsible. Jyske Bank what we resolve to do. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 4 of 47 CSR Governance CSR is an integral part of the core business, and therefore it is necessary to exercise strong control over our work on corporate social responsibility in all areas of the company The Supervisory Board is our supreme authority, which keeps an eye on our work, while it is the responsibility of the Group Executive Board together with Group CSR that Jyske Bank acts in accordance with the legislation in the area. Four times a year, meetings are held with a CSR Steering Committee, on which a wide selection of managers and employees are represented. The purpose is to discuss new proposals for policies and initiatives for the Group’s CSR work, which can be presented to the Executive Board. CSR reporting principles We observe the following reporting principles: • Statutory requirements (2016) of the Danish Business Authority: Environment, climate, social relationships and staff conditions, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery • Ten principles of the UN Global Compact • Selected UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Signed the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 5 of 47 and our employees can also make use of corruption. This is why the Group has Responsible advisory services adopted an anti-corruption policy which comprises our employees, our clients and our investments. The anti-corruption policy meets our obligations in The Jyske Bank Group wishes to operate responsible banking activities relation to the UN Global Compact and means that Jyske Bank will according to high ethical standards. Our basic values are founded on continuously seek to counteract all types of corruption in all of the Group’s transparency and integrity, and the Group’s business integrity builds on business matters. national and international regulations and guidelines. Our business integrity also extends beyond ourselves in cooperating with our suppliers and other stakeholders. We are continuously updating our policies for anti-corruption, anti-bribery, tax, money laundering and whistleblowing as well as updating the Group’s IT security policy as described below. To comply with the legislation to which Jyske Bank is subject, all Group employees must complete a series of mandatory training programmes on an e-learning platform, such as a course in money laundering provided by Finanssektorens Uddannelsescenter. Anti-corruption policy Denmark is one of the least corrupt countries in the world according to Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. Although no universal definition of ‘corruption’ exists, Transparency International defines it as ‘the abuse of entrusted power for private gain’. This definition is in keeping with how corruption as a concept is defined in the Danish Criminal Code and in the international anti-corruption conventions. Corruption includes bribery, fraud, embezzlement and extortion. But corruption does not necessarily involve the transaction of money. Corruption can also comprise the performance of services to gain benefits, such as preferential treatment and shorter processing times. Similarly, as applies to the rest of the financial sector, there is a risk that the Jyske Bank Group can be exposed to corruption Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 6 of 47 Tax policy Money-laundering policy The objective of the Jyske Bank Group’s tax policy is to live up to its corporate The Jyske Bank Group is aware of its corporate social responsibility and social responsibility and meet legitimate expectations for proper, honest actively shoulders responsibility to ensure an effective safeguard against business conduct which reflects the Group’s values. money laundering and financing of terrorism. Accordingly, efforts to combat money laundering and financing of terrorism are high on the agenda of the The Jyske Bank Group complies with the tax legislation in the countries in Jyske Bank Group. It is important for Jyske Bank to definitively state that it which the bank operates. In Denmark, this means, among other things, that we must not be possible in any way to misuse the bank for money laundering or to comply with the rules on reporting of clients’ affairs to the Danish Tax Agency, finance terrorism, which is why we are continuously working to mitigate the the rules in the Executive Order on Best Practice for Financial Institutions for, risks of this. for example, tax advisory services, the Ministry of Taxation’s recommendations for cross-border tax advisory services and the notification Due to the size and scope of business of the Jyske Bank Group, there is by requirements in the Danish Act on Measures to Prevent Money Laundering definition a high inherent risk of being misused for money laundering or to (Hvidvaskloven) in case of suspected tax evasion. Outside Denmark, we comply finance terrorism. On this basis, we analyse the risks throughout the moneywith the respective tax laws, and to ensure tax transparency, Jyske Bank only laundering area on an ongoing basis. Based on improved data quality, the bank collaborates with clients where the bank either receives documentation of the is focused on mitigating risks by improving the quality of client data – both in client’s tax reporting or the bank handles the tax reporting. the form of ongoing updates of existing clients and during the registration of new clients. The tasks relating to the registration of new clients have been The Jyske Bank Group conducts a values-based tax policy, which ensures that centralised, thereby ensuring uniform data validation. Correct data is a crucial we provide adequate client-related tax advice related to our products and prerequisite for being able to carry out reliable monitoring of our clients and services, which we are under an obligation to provide pursuant to current their transactions. In 2018, the monitoring of our clients and their transactions legislation. We also provide more extensive tax advice in areas such as triggered 39,405 alarms, which were processed by the bank’s staff. Out of all succession and the Danish business tax scheme, but this is of a general nature these alarms, the Money Laundering Secretariat was notified in 2,976 without specific recommendations. If our clients want tax advice of a more instances. The total number of notifications from banks is unknown at present, specific nature, we refer to external consultants. Our values-based tax policy but it can be stated that we made more notifications for 2017 than our market also means that we do not provide aggressive tax advice, but solely advice share would suggest. which is in harmony with legislators’ intentions in tax legislation. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 7 of 47 To counteract the high inherent risk of the bank being misused for criminal instances of the bank being misused for money laundering were discovered. purposes, the bank has taken a new initiative to fight money laundering by Based on the report, a number of activities have been initiated, so that we stopping the disbursement of DKK 1,000 notes and stopping the expect to have met all improvement orders by the end of Q3 2019. disbursement of EUR 500 and EUR 200 notes. Other initiatives include that the bank requires new business clients to use an authorised accountant. If the Whistleblower policy client is unable to state which accountant the client partners with, it will usually not be able to establish a relationship with this client. As part of the bank’s whistleblower scheme, the Jyske Bank Group has set up an online whistleblower portal where employees can anonymously report Furthermore, it is exceedingly important that the bank’s employees are aware instances of ethical, commercial or statutory violations. This means that it is of the risks of money laundering relating to all interactions with clients. To possible to report the following circumstances or suspicions of this (not ensure that the bank’s employees are qualified to identify and act on exhaustive): potentially suspicious transactions as well as suspicious client behaviour, training courses for employees are held at suitable intervals, and new • Financial crime, including bribery, fraud, forgery, corruption or the like employees promptly go through an e-learning programme in the area of • Irregularities in the areas of accounting, internal accounting control and auditing money laundering. The training programmes are tailored to the individual • Serious circumstances involving an employee, such as threats or violence. employee’s function, so that the contents are adapted to the risks relating to the work area of the employee concerned. This ensures that all bank In 2018, the whistleblower scheme did not lead to any report, which should be employees are familiar with the specific procedures that must be followed seen in light of the fact that Jyske Bank has ‘JB United’ as part of the bank’s whenever suspicious transactions are observed. intranet. Employees can express themselves on this and that on this platform, and as the culture of this medium is characterised by openness and In November 2018, the bank received the Danish Financial Supervisory enthusiasm, this information channel provides a valuable supplement to the Authority’s (FSA) report on its money-laundering inspection of the bank. The formal whistleblower scheme. FSA notes that the bank has implemented significant initiatives in the area, and that the bank has given higher priority to combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism. IT security policy The report contains six improvement orders focused on strengthening the The Jyske Bank Group complies with the legislative requirements dealing with processes in and the management of the money-laundering area. No specific IT risk management in the financial sector. We are keenly focused on dealing Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 8 of 47 with the risk of crimes punctually and sufficiently due to the vast Credit policy consequences relating to crimes in the financial sector. This means that we have efficient types of corporate management, including reassuring control Financial enterprises constitute an important part of the Danish economy. and security measures in the field of IT, and IT security is also given high Accordingly, the Group takes on responsibility when granting credit. We are in priority in relation to proportionality and the use of this, and IT security risks are the money lending business, but we also need to have the money repaid. In managed. We establish guidelines and requirements for how our suppliers other words, our interests converge with our clients’ interests. Before making meet the requirements for the activity areas we outsource, and we monitor products available to our clients, we go in and identify the clients’ needs so whether they sufficiently meet and observe these. Legislation in this area they get the products and solutions that apply to them. If this involves a loan, establishes that we cannot abdicate responsibility for activities just because we conduct a credit rating of the client’s financial situation to ensure that the we have outsourced them to a different undertaking, which means that client can repay the loan. We base our assessments on our credit policy, which regardless of which activity we outsource, we are responsible for complying specifies principles for how to ensure that credit decisions are adequately with relevant legislation and for ensuring that the activity is carried out to a based on the soundness of the client’s future earnings and liquidity. This sufficient extent. We ensure this through cooperating with, reporting on and means that we do not simply wish to sell the largest possible loan. It must be managing our suppliers. granted within a realistic framework, whereby the clients can repay the loan, but also have a disposable amount which is enough to live on. The above We also comply with the legislation on the protection of natural persons principle is not just good business ethics, but also responsible credit granting. relating to the processing of personal data, and we securely process and This imposes demands on our advisors and on our credit granting – both must protect client data in terms of confidentiality, integrity and accessibility. Thus, go hand in hand. It can therefore be good and responsible advising to decline we comply with the legislative requirements in the area of IT security, and we to grant a credit request. The decision to decline can be based on a correct are aware of and informed of legislative amendments and upcoming new laws. societal attitude. At the same time, this means that we are adaptable in terms of implementing them into the framework for IT security control, which describes how the foundation underpins the group strategy, our mission and ambition. By following the framework, we achieve our ambitions to take ‘IT security to the next level’ which is implemented in a target of being represented by a security level which is among some of the best banks in the Nordic countries. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 9 of 47 Employee conditions In the Jyske Bank Group, we want to be a workplace that creates lasting relationships in a productive, trusting and informal work environment characterised by well-being and positive energy. It is an important principle for us to show corporate social responsibility within the limits set by the market economy under which we operate. In a cooperation between management and employees, we continuously develop new initiatives to ensure a rewarding, healthy workplace. We want to give our employees the opportunity to develop professionally, personally and in terms of leadership, making them attractive and valuable in the job market. We are aware that our corporate social responsibility is largely about providing access to jobs and training, including for young people. We believe that diversity in the workforce creates results and development. To a great extent, we reflect the surrounding society and our employees represent a multitude of educational backgrounds, ages, genders, personalities, cultures and experience. We cooperate with and involve the employees’ collective representatives in important employee matters, both ad hoc and via the formal cooperation bodies, and we fully respect employees’ right to organise. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 10 of 47 Diversity policy Gender and management For the management levels below the Group Executive Management and The lines in the diagram show the long-term development over the past 20 Supervisory Board, the aim of the diversity policy is to ensure that the Group years, and the trend is headed towards a higher percentage of women has the best possible managers and employees, with good personal qualities managers. Last year, there was an additional increase in the percentage of and professional skill-sets. The policy focuses on giving all employees access women branch managers (red line), so that now one quarter of all branch to development and career opportunities, which includes seeking to increase managers are women. The percentage of women branch managers has been the proportion of women managers. on the rise since 2013, so the percentage in 2018 is at 26.6% (compared to 19.4% in 2013). Diversity is incorporated into the policy as a visible theme in all relevant activities, including: Otherwise, women’s representativeness declined in 2018. The purple line shows the total number of women managers at all levels and it remains at • The Group seeks to be a source of inspiration for enhanced diversity in around 30%, where it has been since 2009. There are still very few women internal communications and outwardly to prospective employees. (6.9%, compared to 8.3% in 2017) at executive management levels (green • Managers, HR partners and others with developmental responsibility urge line). Despite a slight decline to 40%, the percentage at management level anyone with leadership talent to apply for management training and (blue line) is close to parity and within the 40-60% range which equates to manager positions. equal representation, according to the guideline of the Danish Business • Diversity is an area of focus in strategic development, financial ratio dialogues and other development activities. Authority. • When filling positions, applicants are ambitiously assessed in terms of diversity, and alternative candidates are considered if the field of applicants is overly homogenous. • Before starting a management-development process, participants are ambitiously assessed in terms of diversity, and alternative participants are considered if the group of participants is overly homogenous. As part of other specific initiatives, there are plans to relaunch the Group’s mentoring scheme in 2019, which is open to all new managers, and the scheme is expected to help enhance diversity. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 11 of 47 For 2018, an agreement was made with employee representatives in Jyske Bank Kreds (Network) to replace these surveys with an analysis of the differences in men’s and women’s career paths. The purpose of the analysis is to gain a deeper insight into the mechanisms underlying the different career pathways of men and women. Once the results are available in 2019, the initiatives arising from these results will be decided upon. Developments in this area and in terms of pay levels will be followed closely, both in order to boost the number of women managers and to ensure compliance with the principle of equal pay for work of equal value. For the largest job categories – bank advisors and client assistants – it was verified in For 2019 onwards, one of the purposes of the specified diversity policy is to 2018 that only small deviations exist between women’s and men’s pay levels. create better conditions for greater diversity among the Group management, where new initiatives are expected to increase the proportion of women in management positions. This expectation is supported by the fact that there is Age and management a constant stream of women taking part in the Group’s management training programmes. Over the past few years, the proportion of women in training The average manager is a little older (48.6 years) than the general average for programmes has been relatively stable at just under 50%. all employees (46.1 years). The managers’ average seniority, at 17.8 years, is also higher than the average across all employees (14.3 years). The Group’s salary conditions have been reviewed each year since 2008, in accordance with the Danish Equal Pay Act (Ligelønsloven), to investigate the New managers, and managers in new higher-level positions, had an average differences in women’s and men’s remuneration. Every year, investigation of age of 44.5 years in 2018, slightly below the employee average. The average the differences in salary in both men’s and women’s favour has found sound seniority among new managers was 11.4 years. The youngest new managers reasons for these, not determined by gender. The difference between the were a woman and a man, both aged 32, and the oldest was a man aged 57. overall average salary for men and women is primarily due to differences in the gender distribution in various jobs, including management positions. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 12 of 47 Results Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Employee Survey In 2018, we carried out our second group-wide The response rate (95%) was higher than Employee Survey. This time, we made a targeted effort previous surveys and very pleasing. Despite the to integrate the statutory workplace assessment high level of staff dedication in previous years, (WPA) into the survey to maximise the synergies this has increased even further. The results of 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and between job dedication and working environment. the new employee survey, which is integrated equal opportunities for into the statutory workplace assessments leadership at all levels of (WPA), showed progress compared to our first decision-making in political, employee survey from 2016 and its follow-up in economic and public life. 2017. We have given specific form to the Group’s equal opportunity policy which is now called the ‘Diversity Policy’ and, as previously, the policy applies to the under-represented gender, and our percentage of women managers has stabilised at around 30%. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 13 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Working environment To ensure a good working environment, the Group has had a dedicated OHS organisation with professional OHS consultants and representatives, who work fulltime on OHS issues, since 2012. They are centrally 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure positioned in the organisation and are also part of the working environments for all support of the Employee Survey, when the individual workers, including migrant departments have to process the results dealing with workers, in particular women OHS. They provide assistance and advice to local OHS migrants, and those in groups. precarious employment. Staff turnover Our staff turnover is somewhat lower than the rest of 2016 2017 2018 the financial sector. No. of 4,097 4,087 3,835 employees, year end Revenue 9.4 9.5 10.3 Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 14 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Sickness-related absence The tools and workflows included in the Group’s Total sickness-related absence in 2018 was at prevention and handling of particularly long-term the same low level as the previous year, sickness-related absence were consolidated in 2018. comprising 2.1% of total fixed working hours. Flexi-jobs programme The Group strives, as far as possible, to retain The Jyske Bank Group has 19 employees hired employees following illness or accident. It is realistic to under the flexi-jobs programme, equivalent to maintain the number of flexi-jobs at the current level. 8.8 full-time employees. This group is primarily made up of our own staff who have experienced an impairment of their working capacity. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 15 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Training programmes and A key part of social responsibility for a company is to To stimulate interest in skills development and internships help provide access to jobs and training for young ensure cohesion between public and private people. We also want to give employees opportunities study programmes, the Group has been for training and development that make them attractive awarding ECTS credits for in-house training and valuable in the labour market. At the same time, courses since 2010. there must also be a positive outlook for future, permanent employment. The appointment of newly In addition to this, the bank makes internships qualified employees still accounts for a significant part available to students enrolled in bachelor of the Group’s recruitment, although we have seen a programmes in finance where internships are decrease in line with the generally lower employment in part of the study programme (unpaid, 15 in the financial sector. 2018 and 12 in 2019). To supplement this, the Legal department, Capital Markets and Finance 2018 2019 & Risk Management, etc., can continue to hire (PRELIMINARY new graduates as required, who take part in FIGURES) more individualised employment processes. Financial 26 15 economists and bachelor-level graduates Graduates 17 Total 26 32 Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 16 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Voluntary work The Jyske Bank Group looks very positively on In this context, the staff policy has made it employees’ social and voluntary commitment in their possible for employees to use the bank’s local communities. resources to a reasonable extent to support voluntary activities, e.g. printing, email, Jyske Bank supports the work on voluntary debt telephones, conference rooms, etc. counselling instigated by the Danish Ministry for Immigration and Integration and a number of organisations, by offering advisors time off with pay covering 50% of the time they spend on this voluntary work. In 2019, new advisors will be recruited under the scheme to lay the groundwork to take part at all times with a suitable number of advisors. The aim is for a number of advisors from Jyske Bank, corresponding to the bank’s market share, to take part in the programme. When special requirements arise, Jyske Bank’s General Foundation can provide support to existing and previous employees in the Group. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 17 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Health The Jyske Bank Group has a general focus on employee Initiatives include healthy food in the canteens health in the workplace. and a fruit scheme, and all employees have access to short exercise programmes via the intranet that may help reduce and prevent 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality physical strain and pain. Ideas have also been from non-communicable launched for how employees can be more diseases through prevention physically active at work, such as by conducting and treatment and promote meetings standing up. mental health and well-being. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 18 of 47 Goal Theme KPIs, 2019 Sickness-related We will continue our efforts to develop and implement relevant initiatives, absence including by intensifying focus on job satisfaction and well-being (psychological working environment), which are intended to ensure systematic, close dialogue between the sick employee and the supervisor with a view to clarification, return to work and job retention. Diversity We will intensify our activities relating to diversity with a view to keener focus on themes such as gender and age. Specifically, as a minimum requirement, we wish to retain a percentage of women managers which is equivalent to the rest of the financial sector. Health We will launch an offer to employees of group-paid advice on how to stop smoking. We will develop and implement new initiatives focused on job satisfaction and well-being. Flexi-jobs We will uphold the number of flexi-jobs in the Group. programme We have given priority to hiring a large number of employees in a formalised development programme for graduates of university-level Training programmes and study programmes. For a basic financial training programme, financial internships economists and bachelor-level graduates will be hired in both the branch network and special departments. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 19 of 47 Climate and the environment In the Jyske Bank Group, we know that our business and activities impact the decisions, including when we find profitable investments that also support climate and the environment, and that, to a great extent, we can actively sustainable initiatives. In other words, we will continue our keen focus on ESG decide whether our environmental footprint is positive or negative. Therefore, factors. we aim to actively seek to heighten our awareness of the climate and the environment in all our procedures – both internally and externally. But we focus on the climate and the environment not only via our investments and business. We will contribute to the overarching climate and environmental One of the most obvious areas of our climate and environmental impact is the agenda by stimulating our employees and business partners to increase their way in which we invest on behalf of our clients. As a co-signatory of the UN PRI, awareness of these issues and help reduce carbon emissions. we will continue to incorporate ESG issues into our investment deliberations and Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 20 of 47 Results Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Printing and paper We have purchased new printers and We have decided on HP as the supplier of printers for the entire reduced our use of printing. Group, due to their strengths in many parameters, including environmental ones. In addition, the decision has been made to standardise our A4 paper to 90 grams (from 80 grams in Lyngby and 12.2 Sustainable management and use of 100 grams in the rest of the Group). We have reduced our natural resources printing/use of paper by 29%, from 22.8 million sheets (2017) to 16.1 million sheets (2018). This is almost triple our target of a 10% reduction. Most of our paper comes from sources certified to FSC, Nordic Swan, EU Ecolabel and/or TCF. Food waste We have enlarged our food waste scheme so This means that food waste sent to be processed into biofuel has that it now encompasses all the large risen from 56 tonnes (22 tonnes of CO2) in 2017 to 77.5 tonnes in canteen kitchens in Silkeborg and 2018. 77.5 tonnes equates to a reduction of 30 tonnes of carbon Copenhagen. emissions. 12.2 Sustainable management and use of natural resources 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation Recycling of IT We take a circular approach when we need to In 2018, we delivered 8.5 tonnes of IT equipment (computers, equipment and discard our IT equipment and furniture. We monitors, printers, telephones, etc.). Out of this, 1.5 tonnes of furnishings. prepare and re-sell as much IT equipment as defective units were properly destroyed, and approximately 7 possible. In addition, we donate used tonnes (81%) were recycled. 25 laptops and 21 desktop computers 12.2 Sustainable management and use of computers and furniture to non-profit were donated to other organisations. This is less than the expected natural resources purposes. 150 computers, due to a decline in demand. 75 m3 of furniture were donated to other organisations. 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 21 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Furnishings We have switched to using carpets made of a The carpets in our Hjemstedet and Nykøbing Mors branches were product of which 90% is recycled. At the replaced in 2018. From now on, we will only be using this sustainable same time, we clean our carpets using an carpet-tile product. The cleaning method benefits the environment eco-friendly carbonic-acid cleaning method. and indoor climate by using high temperatures and natural 12.2 Sustainable management and use of ingredients rather than detergents and hazardous chemicals. natural resources Consumption of heat We have installed energy-monitoring Energy-monitoring equipment has been set up in all 103 branches of and electricity equipment which, from 2019, will make it the Jyske Bank Group. possible to document and modernise the consumption of heat and electricity for the 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive purpose of minimising consumption. capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Lighting We continue to focus on transitioning to LED The bulbs in 600 lamps have been changed to LED. This equates to a lighting, including all outdoor lamps, at reduction of 27,000 kWh and 10.5 tonnes of carbon emissions. Hjemstedet. 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 22 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Electrical charging We have made it possible to charge plug-in We have set up four electrical charging stations. hybrids and electric cars at our Lyngby office. 11.6 Reduce the environmental impact of cities 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Transport We have made an overall specification of the The Group has 101 vehicles at its disposal. Altogether, they drove modes of transport and consumption which 2,727,000 km in 2018, equating to the emission of 368 tonnes of will subsequently serve as a baseline. The use CO2.1 of taxis is not included, however. 12.6 Encourage companies to adopt Jyske Bank’s employees have driven a total of 5,335,381 worksustainable practices and sustainability related kilometres in their own vehicles. This equates to 720 tonnes reporting of CO2. Employees have travelled by train for the total sum of DKK 2,154,824 in 2018. This equates to 1,197,124 kilometres and 48 tonnes of CO2. In 2018, air travel amounted to 2,848,074 kilometres, equating to 375 tonnes of CO2. In addition, the Group owns three electric bicycles which employees may use as a healthy, green alternative. 1 The figures are based on an estimated 27,000 km per vehicle and the emission of 135 g of CO2 per kilometre driven. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 23 of 47 Risk Potential for positive impact • We can help ensure a more sustainable world through our own operations • Physical: The risk that technical structural solutions such as drains can cope and purchases, etc. with higher volumes of water relating to climate change. Precipitation which cannot be categorised as a torrential rain storm is not covered by buildings • We can retain and attract employees by actively participating in a green insurance. conversion process. • Indoor climate: When outdoor temperatures are higher in summer, this • We can take a positive approach to our reputation if we communicate substantially increases our consumption of electricity. This is true about our journey and our aims – and if we achieve them. regardless of whether existing technical installations are retained or • By being proactive, we can ensure that we comply with current legislation rebuilt/modernised to enable the systems to cool the outdoor air to an and stay abreast of upcoming legislation in the field. acceptable indoor temperature. • We can achieve long-term, educational and sustainable partnerships. • A potential variable price, according to Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and heat, independent of demand and by the extent to which the price of energy in the future will reflect the actual price, including environmental costs. • Reputation: Clients and other stakeholders will take their business elsewhere if we do not live up to their expectations on how one operates as a company in terms of green conversion, in terms of both our own buildings and for the purchase of products and services from external suppliers. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 24 of 47 Goal Theme Activities planned for 2019 KPIs, 2019 Sustainable Development Goals Printing and paper We wish to further reduce our consumption of Consumption must be reduced further by 10% from 16.1 million paper. sheets to 14,490,000 sheets. 12.2 Sustainable management and use of natural resources Recycling of waste Recycling processes at Lyngby, Kastaniehøjvej, Paper, cardboard, plastic, metal, glass, wood, batteries, bioVesterbrogade and Hjemstedet must be waste/food waste, including coffee grounds, will be sorted, and we will standardised, and the persons responsible for document the recycling ratio. Similarly, we will continue to specify the waste management must be trained. recycling ratio of our IT equipment. 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation In 2019, the food-waste scheme in all the big canteens in Silkeborg and Copenhagen will be enlarged to also include the food wasted by canteen patrons. Once we know the baseline for the total food waste, we will set reduction targets for 2020. Procurement We want to become even better at striking a in 2018, we established a procurement group comprising directors of balance between price, quality and sustainability the relevant areas which focus on sustainability etc. In addition, an in our purchases. employee in ‘Properties’ will begin a training programme to become a ‘Certified advisor in sustainability’. This knowledge will primarily be 12.2 Sustainable management and use of used in future choices, designs and use of sustainable furnishings and natural resources building materials. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 25 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Renewable energy We will solely purchase energy for electricity RECS certificates will be purchased for the 14 million kWh which and cooling from renewable sources of energy. constitute the annual consumption for the whole group. 7.2 Increase global percentage of renewable energy 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Energy Based on installed energy-monitoring Documentation and, on the basis of this, ongoing optimisation of measurement and equipment, we can measure the consumption lighting, cooling and heating throughout the Group. We continue to optimisation of electricity and heat in 2019, which will convert outdated light fittings to energy-efficient light fittings. This become the baseline for any improvements. activity is ongoing throughout the branch network. 11.6 Reduce the environmental impact of cities 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Staff involvement We will commence efforts to highlight the use Employees will be involved at the branches where a joint effort can in energy of electricity and heat to employees. make a difference. optimisation 13.3 Build knowledge and capacity to meet climate change Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 26 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Electrical charging We will establish electric charging in If the results from the electrical charging stations in Lyngby are Hjemstedet in Silkeborg. positive, we will also set up electrical charging stations at Hjemstedet during 2019. 11.6 Reduce the environmental impact of cities 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Transport In 2019, we will focus on staff travelling We will start by specifying our employees use of taxis. Based on the activities. overall specification of travel for 2018, we will examine if there are any areas where it would be expedient to try to reduce our use and to possibly optimise travel by using less carbon-heavy modes of 11.2 Affordable and sustainable transport transport. systems New climate and We will update our climate and environmental Our activities and targets in the area of climate and the environment environmental policy have surpassed our policy, which must therefore reflect our higher policy ambitions going forward. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 27 of 47 organisations and industry associations have different perceptions. For this reason, Jyske Bank wants to make its own assessment of which companies Investment and industries are socially responsible investment objects. Responsible investments comprise the environment, social conditions and corporate governance. All three of these factors are considered in Jyske Bank’s investment decisions. We cooperate with a number of partners in this field, and we are engaged in ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. Our approach is dialogue and commitment. This means that if some of the companies in which we invest do not comply with international conventions and standards relating to the environment, human rights and ethical business practices, we will seek to exert our influence on them to change their practices. We only resort to excluding companies if they fail to improve their circumstances. Since 2010, these efforts have revolved around PRIs, OECD guidelines and the UN Global Compact. Politics At Jyske Bank, we take responsibility for our investments. This entails that considerations in relation to the environment, social issues and corporate governance (ESG) are included in the investment decisions. Selecting investments based on a principle of responsibility is a complicated matter. There is little agreement on how to define responsible investments. Investors, authorities, media, politicians as well as special interest Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 28 of 47 Results Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Active ownership Via our active ownership with other investors in During 2018, Jyske Bank participated with the GES Engagement Forum, we have influenced other investors in the GES Engagement companies to change their behaviour and to live Forum in 156 involvement cases with up to international conventions and standards. companies concerning violations of GES screens the companies – which includes the international conventions and standards. entire Jyske Bank portfolio – based on their compliance with OECD guidelines and the UN 68 of these involvement cases concern Potentially, we can bring all the SDGs into Global Compact. companies in Jyske Bank’s portfolios. 43 play through our investments, which of these cases concern human rights and comprise most sectors all over the world. labour rights, 14 concern environmental issues and 11 concern corruption. During 2018, 18 cases in Jyske Bank’s portfolios were resolved and, hence, closed. In the remaining ongoing cases, very positive results can be ascertained in the involvement as a progression of the specific cases and a willingness to enter into a dialogue by the companies responsible in 17 of the cases. Somewhat positive results have been achieved in 27 of the involvement cases, while there have been poor or no results in 6. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 29 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Socially Responsible We offer our clients a series of investment The total assets of these three SRI Investment foundations solutions specifically focused on responsibility. departments amounted to DKK 1,689m at Jyske Bank is a consultant for three specific the end of 2018. foundations (Socially Responsible Investments (SRI) foundations) particularly focused on social responsibility and ethical screening. These foundations invest in shares and corporate bonds, Potentially, we can bring all the SDGs into respectively, but not in companies where it can be play through our investments, which documented that they conduct their business in a comprise most sectors all over the world. manner that violates recognised international conventions and standards, which also applies to the rest of our portfolio. In this context, the difference between ordinary investment foundations and the three SRI foundations is that we seek to influence companies’ conduct in the ordinary foundations, whereas, in the SRI foundations, we sell the investments if they do not meet the above conditions. In addition, the SRI foundations do not invest in shares in companies which manufacture or distribute weapons, alcohol, tobacco, games or adult entertainment. In 2016, the ethical screening was widened to also filter out companies which extract, develop or refine fossil fuels (coal, oil and gas). Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 30 of 47 Risk Potential for positive impact • Through our investments, we can make a positive impact on the fulfilment • Business: Clients can choose not to use us if we are not responsible in our of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. investments and do not provide solutions in line with client preferences and needs. • We expect the focus to intensify on actual impact investments in the years ahead. • Reputation: We risk negative reporting and criticism from various stakeholders and society in general if we do not take a responsible • In continuation of this, we expect that existing and prospective investors approach to our investment efforts. will find our initiatives attractive. • Poor returns: We risk poor and negative returns if we invest in companies whose value declines due to a lack of responsibility or failure to adapt to new societal requirements. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 31 of 47 Goal Theme Activities planned for 2019 KPIs, 2019 Sustainable Development Goals Implementation of the In March 2018, the European Efforts involving the EU action plan for EU's Action Plan on Commission published an Action Plan on sustainability are integrated into our advisory Financing Sustainable Financing sustainable growth to lay the tools. Growth framework for the financial sector in its efforts to achieve the targets of the Paris climate agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The Potentially, we can bring all the SDGs into first action area comprises the ‘E’ in ESG. play through our investments, which The implementation of the action plan is comprise most sectors all over the world. on the agenda at Jyske Bank. We consider the joint efforts at EU level as an opportunity to secure coordination and achieve the necessary results. We expect heightened interest among investors in responsible and sustainable solutions and investments. We will intensify our focus on responsibility and sustainability in the advice we provide to our clients. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 32 of 47 Results Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Further integration of We will increase the integration of ESG Agreements will be entered into with external ESG factors factors into investment processes and partners concerning the provision of ESG data products. which is to be structurally incorporated into our investment products. Potentially, we can bring all the SDGs into play through our investments, which comprise most sectors all over the world. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 33 of 47 Responsible initiatives/principles 2. Investors must, wherever possible, directly investigate the conditions in countries in which there may be a significant risk of human rights PRI infringements. Jyske Bank has acceded to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). PRI is a global initiative aimed at promoting responsible investments, • Jyske Bank observes this principle, and we demand that our suppliers established by a number of the world’s largest investors in cooperation with report on their approach to this principle. the UN. PRI is based on a joint declaration about taking social responsibility in connection with investments and complying with six key principles for Danish Social Investment Forum (DANSIF) responsible investments: These six principles concerning active ownership and Jyske Bank is a member of Danish Social Investment Forum (DANSIF), transparency about this in internal decisions and in cooperation with the which is a networking forum for professional investors, consulting firms and companies in which we invest and with the investment sector in general other parties involved with socially responsible investments. DANSIF acts as a constitute the basis for our KPIs. forum in which to share experiences relating to ESG investments, and we Jyske Bank conducts an annual ‘Reporting and Assessment Process’ in participate in its annual survey in this field. accordance with the PRI guidelines. Parts of the report are published on the PRI website. Report on active ownership in 2018 Jyske Bank has decided to comment on the recommendations for active Responsible investment in government bonds ownership (Stewardship Code) issued by the Committee on Corporate In December 2013, CSRGov, the Danish Council for Corporate Social Governance in 2016. The recommendations are aimed at institutional Responsibility (Rådet for Samfundsansvar), issued ‘Guidelines on Responsible investors in Denmark with equity investments in companies listed in Denmark. Investments in Government Bonds’. The guidelines urge compliance with two The recommendations for active ownership build on a principle of voluntary principles: participation and the ‘comply or explain’ principle. The recommendations for active ownership deal with policies, monitoring of and dialogue with 1. International sanctions and prohibitions from the UN and the EU must be companies, cooperation with other investors, voting policy, conflicts of interest, reporting, etc. observed at all times. This is Jyske Bank’s report on active ownership in 2018 in relation to the seven • The Group complies with this principle. recommendations from the Committee on Corporate Governance. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 34 of 47 1. It is recommended that institutional investors should publicly disclose an 4. It is recommended that institutional investors as part of the engagement engagement policy with respect to investments in shares in companies policy should describe how they will act collectively with other investors in that are publicly listed in Denmark. order to achieve greater effect and impact. • Position: Jyske Bank complies with the recommendation • Position: Jyske Bank complies with the recommendation • Comments: The policy of active ownership is included in the overarching • Comments: The cooperation takes place, in part, through membership of ‘Responsible Investment’ policy. PRI and DANSIF, and via involvement activities with other investors through an external service provider. 2. It is recommended that institutional investors monitor and engage in a dialogue with the companies in which they invest, taking due account of 5. It is recommended that institutional investors as part of their engagement the investment strategy and the principle of proportionality. policy adopt a voting policy and are willing to publicly disclose whether and how they have voted. • Position: Jyske Bank complies with the recommendation • Comments: Based on an assessment of the given investment, monitoring • Position: Jyske Bank partially complies with the recommendation. and dialogue can take place alone or in cooperation with other investors. • Comments: The adopted voting policy is part of the combined Responsible The approach is adapted to the investment strategy and the principle of Investment Policy and is adapted to the principle of proportionality. proportionality. Whether and how voting is reported depends on the specific investment. Information about whether and how the vote was cast will generally not be disclosed, as any publication could have an impact on our active ownership. 3. It is recommended that institutional investors as part of the engagement policy determine how they may escalate their stewardship activities 6. It is recommended that the engagement policy contains a description of beyond regular monitoring and dialogue. how conflicts of interest in relation to stewardship are identified and • Position: Jyske Bank complies with the recommendation managed. • Comments: Opportunities for escalation depend on developments with the given investment – and ultimately encompass the possibility of selling and • Position: Jyske Bank complies with the recommendation the exclusion of specific investments. The approach is adapted to various • Comments: Identifying and handling conflicts of interest is part of the policy investment strategies in the various investment solutions. on ‘Exercising of voting rights’. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 35 of 47 7. It is recommended that institutional investors at least annually report on entertainment and fossil fuels: their stewardship activities, including voting activity. 1. Through the investment fund Jyske Invest, Jyske Bank is a consultant for a global share department • Position: Jyske Bank partially complies with the recommendation. 2. Jyske Invest is also a consultant for a global bond department focused on • Comments: The report is included in this annual report as part of the high-yield corporate bonds (bonds with low credit quality) reporting on corporate social responsibility. Whether and how voting is 3. Through the Jyske SICAV investment fund (registered in Luxembourg), reported depends on the specific investment. Information about whether Jyske Bank is a consultant for a department focused on investment grade and how the vote was cast will generally not be disclosed, as any publication corporate bonds (bonds with higher credit quality). could have an impact on our active ownership. Responsible initiatives, screening of and engaging in dialogue with companies promote responsibility. Global Engagement Service (GES) Jyske Bank has entered into an agreement with an external advisor, Global Engagement Service (GES), which regularly reports on trends concerning companies which commit serious violations of international standards or conventions. If these are violated, the Group engages with other investors (via GES) in dialogue with the companies aimed at resolving the problems. If this is not possible, the companies are excluded. We provide our clients with investment solutions focused on Socially Responsible Investments (SRI) Jyske Bank is currently an advisor for three investment funds that screen investments in companies related to weapons, tobacco, alcohol, games, adult Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 36 of 47 Human rights International human rights – which are firmly established in Denmark’s labourwhere the values of equal rights, inclusion, labour rights, safety and health are market model and laid down in international conventions, standards and values embedded in our policy. – constitute a natural foundation for the Group’s activities and endeavours. Externally, we observe human rights via our screening of investments for our clients, based on ESG principles, and through our supplier management, in In specific terms, this means that we observe human rights internally in the which compliance with human rights is a key marker. We thus assume coGroup, because they form the basis on which a safe, just and fair society rests, responsibility for strengthening human rights worldwide, as we believe that market forces can help stimulate a positive trend. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 37 of 47 The collective agreement covers employees’ basic sustainable communities and local environments in ‘Neighbourhood’ (NaboRum); providing meals to the socially vulnerable through our rights partnership with ‘FoodBank’ (FødevareBanken); combating loneliness in Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (the People’s Movement Against 92% of the employees of Jyske Bank in Denmark are covered by the collective Loneliness) and Danmark Spiser Sammen (Denmark Eats Together); and inclusion in ‘Mind Your Own Business’. agreement which describes employees’ basic rights and deals with issues such as working hours, salary compensation, holiday leave, illness, etc. The last 8% are practical staff or indirectly covered by the collective agreement through a reference to it in the employees’ individual contracts. The collective agreement is found here. Human rights are closely interwoven with the Group’s employee conditions and social initiatives. • The section on ‘Employee conditions’ in the CSR annual report describes the Group’s ongoing efforts to provide supplementary training to employees, inclusion, working environment, health and illness. • The section on ‘Diversity’ describes efforts and targets concerning equal rights and diversity. • Our description of efforts concerning ‘Responsible advisory services’ specifies how we process personal data relating to the implementation of the GDPR. • Social initiatives are also an important area relating to human rights. Through them, we collaborate with other private-sector and public-sector players on projects for the benefit of the individual and the local community. This includes getting young people enrolled in vocational training programmes under ‘Skilled Hands’ (Kloge Hænder); ensuring apprenticeships under ‘Mural’ (MurMal); giving young people a basic economic understanding in ‘Money Week’ (Pengeugen); ensuring Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 38 of 47 Social initiatives We select areas to focus our efforts based on the following principles: ‘The home and the built environment’ (HUSET og det bebyggede område) is the focal point of our social initiatives. In practice, we want to help establish better • We contribute the resources available in our company, and we enter into urban spaces and local environments and thus hopefully create improvements processes that can help create improvements for individuals, local for individual residents as well. This is the best way we can help give these communities and society in general. areas a boost, in partnership with residents and other players. Overall, our • Our commitment must make a significant difference to the projects we social initiatives have three dimensions: A social dimension, a partnership decide to get involved in. dimension and an urban renewal dimension. • We cooperate with our clients and stakeholders in areas where we already operate professionally. • We enter into unconventional partnerships with other companies, the public sector and players from civil society. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 39 of 47 Results Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Mural ‘The Twins’ (Tvillingerne) is the 8th mural Jyske • 57 students from 14 lines of study from Bank is initiating and the biggest in Europe. The TECHCOLLEGE in Aalborg took part in motif is new, but the concept is old and the project. This means that we achieved thoroughly tested – and it is an excellent the goal of involving 50 students, in spite 4.3 Equal access to affordable technical, vocational and higher education. example of the potential of interdisciplinary of the fact that the Greenland project partnerships at their best. In cooperation with was cancelled. 11.3 Inclusive and sustainable urbanisation Plus Bolig (social housing association), Flügger, • 19 TECHCOLLEGE students from TECHCOLLEGE and Stjerne Stilladser, we Aalborg received an apprenticeship. This succeeded in achieving an important social is fewer than the goal of 20 dimension, to get apprenticeships set up for the apprenticeships, but included both the town’s future builders and combine this with Aalborg and Greenland Mural projects. urban renewal of the former fibre-concrete site • Engaging local process in Aalborg. • Beautifying a facility using art referring to both past and future is a way to enhance We were unfortunately compelled to withdraw an area. from the Mural Project in Greenland due to • Using 1,600 litres of paint donated by disagreements with the project management. Flügger. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 40 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Project Neighbourhood The focal point of Project Neighbourhood is to • Horslunde Energy Village is working full create a sense of community through user steam ahead to plant fruit trees to make involvement. The concept started in Aarhus in it possible to create a communal effort 2016, and moved on to the island of Lolland in around fruit presses and a healthy way of 11.3 Inclusive and sustainable urbanisation 2018. This is where three local projects won life. 11.7 Provide access to safe and inclusive green Jyske Bank’s competition on creating Project • Frederiksdal Enchanting Woods is in the and public spaces Neighbourhood, which makes a difference for process of getting a roof over its head so the environment and the community, thereby the woods and sensory trail can be helping to support positive developments on enjoyed by everyone, from children, to the island. the elderly and the disabled. • Spring flowers are being planted and nesting boxes made by local children are being set up along the Railway Path (Jernbanestien) between Maribo and Rødbyhavn. The aim is to establish a 15km cycling and hiking path that is a total sensory experience. The projects were not completed in 2018, but will be in 2019. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 41 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Skilles hands Primary and lower secondary school pupils must • Twenty-two students in year 8. C at the 4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys be given more opportunities to convert theory complete free, equitable and high-quality Havdrup Skole school have completed primary and lower secondary education leading into practical work and create something with the first of four pilot projects. This has to relevant and effective learning outcomes. their hands. This way, we can ensure that more required development resources from young people choose vocational upper across the school, the local carpentary secondary education for their own benefit in firm Egon Olsen & Søn, the Danish terms of getting an education and a long and Construction Association (Dansk Byggeri), rewarding working life as well as for the benefit Youth Guidance Denmark (UU Danmark) of society, which is already seeing a lack of and the EUC Sjælland vocational training “skilled hands”. centre. And this has confirmed the assumption that a practical project makes excellent sense for all parties involved, not least the pupils. The remaining three projects have been commenced. FoodBank Jyske Bank has been partnering with the • Development of ‘partnership packages’. FoodBank since 2013. The climate-related • Internal campaign at the five biggest purpose is to combat food waste and to also canteens in the bank with food-waste bring focus to bear on this internally in Jyske 2.1 Universal access to safe and nutritious food competitions and lunch visits for the Bank. Socially, the purpose is to reduce dietary employees of the FoodBank. 2.4 Sustainable food production and resilient poverty by delivering surplus foods to social • Visits to Jyske Bank branches in Hellerup agricultural practices drop-in centres. and Silkeborg by volunteers in their cars from the FoodBank and on their routes 12.3 Halve global per capita food waste We actively participate in a sustainability agenda from a warehouse to social drop-in which is important for our clients at the same 17.17 Encourage effective partnerships centres. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 42 of 47 time that we help raise awareness of the • Sponsored new work clothes for the FoodBank. FoodBank’s volunteers. • FoodBank lecture for retired employees in Lyngby • The FoodBank’s 247 volunteers have distributed 1,080 tonnes of food that would otherwise have been discarded. This equates to 2,700,000 meals and a CO2 reduction of 1,452 tonnes. Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Recycling of computers Once computers and furniture reach the end of • In 2018, 25 laptops and 21 desktop and furniture their service life for us in Jyske Bank, we donate computers were given a new lease on life used computers and furniture to social in social organisations that need them. organisations. 12.2 Sustainable management and use of This includes both sports clubs and dropnatural resources in centres. • 75 m3 of furniture have been donated to 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation social purposes. Danmark Spiser In week 17, Danes will be dining together at the • Jyske Bank’s branch in Esbjerg, the local Sammen (Denmark Eats urging of Folkebevægelsen mod Ensomhed (the Tobakken music venue and Hotel Together) People’s Movement Against Loneliness), which Britannia invited 40 socially Jyske Bank helped establish in 2014. The disadvantaged young people from five 3.4 Reduce mortality from non-communicable diseases and promote mental health Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 43 of 47 purpose is to counteract loneliness through different social organisations to spend a communities. festive evening with a three-course meal, entertainment and live music. • The Nykøbing Mors branch invited 30 local residents to a communal dining event and get-together with the employees in the canteen. Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals Mind Your Own The organisation gives boys aged 13-19 from • From 2018, Mind Your Own Business has Business disadvantaged housing areas the opportunity to been added as a project in Jyske Bank’s engage in a focused start-up process with a ‘CSR toolbox’ which the branches can mentoring business. The project focuses on choose to use. opportunities rather than limitations and enhances the participants’ technical skill sets, 4.3 Equal access to affordable technical, social relations and their association with the vocational and higher education. educational system, the labour market and 4.4 Increase the number of people with Danish society. relevant skills for financial success 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 44 of 47 indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations. 8.6 Promote youth employment, education and training 10.1 By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than the national average. 11.3 Inclusive and sustainable urbanisation Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 45 of 47 Risk Potential for positive impact • Documented, thoroughly tested partnerships for action (i.e. the 17 • A lack of internal and external understanding of the project objectives due Sustainable Development Goals) which help make a real difference and to the long-term perspective. thus pave the way for further development. For the individual and society in • Lengthy implementation horizon caused by having to coordinate efforts general. among many partners. • Vulnerability arising from the partnership model deriving from ‘no chain is stronger than its weakest link’. • Underfunding by our partners. • The risk for the various project participants or target groups of failing to implement a project is that the various challenges which the projects help resolve are not sufficiently addressed. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 46 of 47 Goal Theme Activities planned for 2019 KPIs, 2019 Sustainable Development Goals Project The projects in Lolland must be followed Based on lessons learned and the evaluation of the Lolland Neighbourhood through to completion and put into project, we will consider carrying on the concept in another operation in cooperation with local region of Denmark. activists and the local community. 11.3 Inclusive and sustainable urbanisation 12.7 Provide access to safe and inclusive green and public spaces Skilled Hands The pilot segment of the Skilled Hands Three upcoming pilot projects: project is expected to be completed • ‘Monas House’ (Monas Hus), a future cultural centre in during 2019 and 2020 and will then be Nykøbing Mors. Jyske Bank is a part of this in phased out and implemented as a partnership with Morsø Municipality and the 4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality permanent project in Denmark’s architectural firm Boris Brormann A/S and Mads Bjørn primary and secondary education leading municipal primary and lower secondary Hansen from Praksisarkitekterne. to relevant and effective learning school. • Refurbishment of two selected public schools in outcomes. Copenhagen in collaboration with the social contractor Enemærke & Petersen, as well as with the Danish Construction Association (Dansk Byggeri) and the City of Copenhagen. Jyske Bank / Corporate Social Responsibility Report / 26 February 2019 / page 47 of 47 Theme Activities in 2018 Results in 2018 Sustainable Development Goals FoodBank The partnership is carried on and • In 2019, focus will be brought to bear on internal and developed on an ongoing basis. external communication of the partnership, as well as the involvement of the network. The purpose is to enhance value creation for both parties – and thus 2.1 Universal access to safe and nutritious food minimise food waste and provide more meals to socially disadvantaged persons. 2.4 Sustainable food production and resilient agricultural practices 12.3 Halve global per capita food waste 17.17 Encourage effective partnerships Recycling of Generally speaking, the demand for used • We donate refurbished computers and used furniture to computers and equipment has been declining. any organisations in need of this, which is why we try to furniture satisfy all relevant enquiries. 12.2 Sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources 12.5 Substantially reduce waste generation
