2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT A STRONG PORTFOLIO OF #1 & #2 12 ofAnnual CONSECUTIVE YEARS +$100M in Cost Share Brands Savings TOP Shareholder Returns ON INVESTMENT THE CLOROX COMPANY |B| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Our success has always been and will continue to be based on imagining new ways to earn consumers’ loyalty and deliver the required performance to earn shareholders’ continuing trust. BENNO DORER CHAIR & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER THE CLOROX COMPANY |1| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT DEAR STAKEHOLDER: ur collective imagination has always inspired us to find new ways to meet the needs of our consumers. From turning industrial bleach into a household product — as Annie Murray, one of the original entrepreneurial forces behind our Clorox® brand, did to save the company not long after it was founded in 1913 — to re-envisioning ourselves as a health and wellness company today, we’ve dreamed big from the start. Our imagination hasn’t been limited to business performance, either. Our socially relevant products provide essential benefits, such as killing germs, making drinking water healthier and hydrating your skin. And we donate those products when disasters strike and people need them most. Throughout our history, we’ve never forgotten that our company is only as strong as the communities around us. That idea has manifested itself in countless ways, whether imagining new ways to make our products and operations more sustainable or helping the places where we live and work prosper. At Clorox, our biggest dreams are best interpreted through a focus on Good Growth™ — our philosophy that profitable, sustainable and responsible growth are not mutually exclusive but in fact requirements for success in today’s marketplace. DRIVING VALUE THROUGH IMAGINATION At Clorox, we’re combining data and analytics with the power of human insights and imagination to drive value for our consumers and other stakeholders. It’s an approach we’ve taken throughout the period of our 2020 Strategy, our company’s strategic growth plan that began in fiscal year 2014 and concludes in 2020. While our results for FY 2019 were mixed, with net sales and diluted EPS both up 1%, I’m encouraged by the progress we made toward profitable growth. We were able to expand gross margin by 20 basis points and generate strong cash flow, enabling us to increase our investments in innovation, technology transformation and other strategic initiatives. Our commitment to this work has not subsided since we launched the 2020 Strategy in FY 2014. Starting with bold ideas grounded in consumer needs, we invested in innovation platforms that quickly resonated with consumers, such as our Fresh Step Clean Paws® low-tracking cat litter, Clorox Scentiva® cleaners with experiential fragrances, and in Burt’s Bees® lip care and face care. Initiatives in these and in other areas of our business helped us deliver incremental sales of about 3% annually from innovation over the course of the strategy period. We also kept up our industry-leading commitment to digital marketing, which grew from 24% in FY 2014 to about 55% of our overall media spending in FY 2019. This shift has helped us increase return on investments by building direct, more sustainable connections between our brands and consumers that aren’t possible through traditional advertising. THE CLOROX COMPANY |2| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Over the six-year 2020 Strategy period, we tapped technology to expand our business in other ways, too. In addition to using data for personalization of ads and products, we bet big on e-commerce, and it paid off. Sales in this channel grew from less than 2% to 8% of overall net customer sales. While ensuring a healthy core portfolio, we continued to imagine how new acquisitions could allow us to grow and meet new consumer needs. Two acquisitions made during the strategy period — RenewLife® digestive health products in 2016 and Nutranext dietary supplements in 2018 — created a new, long-term growth platform and expanded our business even further into the health and wellness space. USING OUR COLLECTIVE Consistent with our focus on eliminating waste where possible, we identified nearly $700 million in cost savings IMAGINATION, WE’VE ALWAYS over the course of the strategy period, including BEEN INSPIRED TO FIND NEW $122 million in FY 2019, extending our track record to WAYS TO MEET THE NEEDS OF 12 consecutive years of at least $100 million in annual OUR CONSUMERS. cost savings. Through this work and more, we’re imagining — and realizing — a healthy, long-term future for our brands. IMAGINING STRONGER COMMUNITIES, PEOPLE AND PLANET In keeping with our Good Growth philosophy, we have big dreams for the well-being of our people, our communities and our planet — all part of our long-term commitment to corporate responsibility. We couldn’t dream big without the imagination of our employees, all 8,800 strong. We’re committed to supporting them so they can develop as leaders and advance in their careers. We’re also dedicated to creating a nurturing, safe environment, with inclusion and diversity central to that approach. Through these initiatives, our aim is to promote a dynamic culture that enables personal and professional growth along with Good Growth for Clorox. Our success is reflected in our 2019 employee engagement rate of 87% , which outperforms peer companies and even top-performing global companies based on industry benchmarks. This is a metric we’ve been proud to maintain at the highest levels throughout the 2020 Strategy period. Our focus on supporting people extends beyond our own facilities to the places where we live and work. We continued our long tradition of community support in FY 2019 by providing approximately $12 million in combined U.S. product donations, foundation and corporate community cash grants, and cash for U.S. cause marketing initiatives, with about $83 million given over the strategy period. Our employees volunteered in their communities as well, giving approximately 106,000 hours of their own time in calendar year 2018 — the financial equivalent of $2.7 million — and about 675,000 hours from 2013 to 2018 — equal to more than $16 million. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY |3| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT As part of our dedication to leadership in to meet our 20% energy reduction goal by 2020. environmental, social and governance, or ESG, Additionally, we achieved 92% traceability to performance, we’re committed to reducing our the mill with priority domestic suppliers of carbon footprint, which includes minimizing palm derivative ingredients and ensured that our operational footprint and enhancing the more than 99% of the paper-based packaging sustainability of our products. Since 2011, our we purchase is made from recycled or certified baseline year, we’ve reduced greenhouse gas virgin fiber. From our 2011 baseline year to the emissions 33% , water consumption 21% end of the 2019 fiscal year, we made sustainability and solid-waste-to-landfill 21% per case of improvements to nearly 60% of our product product sold. Each surpassed our 20% reduction portfolio, exceeding our 50% goal two years early. goals two or more years early. We’re on track As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to its Ten Principles by driving a corporate responsibility 2020 Strategy strategy that imagines a brighter future for our people and the world around us. Performance (FY14-FY19) +2.4% SUSTAINED IMAGINATION DRIVES STAKEHOLDER VALUE Always imagining new ways to meet consumer needs, help our planet and communities, and net sales CAGR1 do more with less translates into value for our stakeholders. $688M Through a relentless focus on driving shareholder value, we returned $490 million in cash dividends cost savings to shareholders in the 2019 fiscal year, including +7.6% a 10% dividend increase announced in the fourth quarter on top of a 14% increase in the previous year. For the 2020 Strategy period as a whole, we maintained total shareholder returns in the EPS CAGR1 top third of our peer set. $5.9B Through an equally relentless focus on the consumer, we strengthened the position of our brands in the marketplace, increasing earnings from continuing their perceived value over the course of the operations before income taxes strategy period: • Percentage of the portfolio’s net customer $3.1B sales with superior or equal consumer value increased from 63% to 74%. economic profit (non-GAAP)2 • Percentage of the portfolio’s net customer Top third sales with superior consumer value increased from 38% to 54%. among our peers in total Additionally, since FY 2015 we’ve maintained shareholder returns a high household penetration on our Clorox Company brands, which are now found in 90% of U.S. households. 1 CAGR, or compound annual growth rate, measures growth over a period of time. 2 Economic profit (non-GAAP measure) represents earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, excluding noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment charges, and interest expense; less income taxes, and less a capital charge. See page 59 for reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY |4| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT For many of our stakeholders, we know our environmental, social and governance performance is important. To provide guidance, including comparability with our peers, we’ve expanded our third-party reporting to include FY 2019 disclosures aligned with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board framework. We’ve already been reporting Performance + 1% in accordance with frameworks of the Global Reporting Initiative, International Integrated Reporting Council and the United Nations Global Compact, and continue to lend additional credibility to our priority ESG data through voluntary assurance with a third party. net sales growth Acknowledgment from others who (TOTAL COMPANY VS. FY18) recognize the value in our work is always an added bonus. In FY 2019, we were gratified to be named No. 7 on Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable $122M U.S. Companies list and No. 19 on cost savings +3% The Wall Street Journal-Drucker Institute 2018 Management Top 250 list. We were also pleased to be named No. 11 on the 2019 50 Out Front Top Companies for Diversity by Diversity MBA and earn our 13th incremental sales consecutive 100% score on the Human FROM INNOVATION Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, among other recognitions. IMAGINING AN EVEN BRIGHTER FUTURE 43.9% Our competitive landscape is continuing to gross margin change rapidly, driven by an explosion of data and technology, growing empowerment and (+20 BASIS POINTS VS. FY18) expectations of consumers, and retail disruption. Against this backdrop, we’re excited to be introducing IGNITE, our new corporate strategy. $6.32 Through this strategy, we’ll fuel growth, create new diluted EPS innovation experiences, reimagine how we work and evolve our portfolio. For a snapshot of our plans, refer (+1% ON TOP OF +17% IN FY18) to pages 95-97. With the launch of IGNITE, we’re looking forward to seeing where our imagination will take us next and $992M turning those dreams into value for our stakeholders. net cash provided by continuing operations Benno O. Dorer 13% Chair and Chief Executive Officer free cash flow (non-GAAP)1 AS A PERCENTAGE OF SALES 1 F  ree cash flow (non-GAAP measure) represents net cash provided by continuing operations less capital expenditure. See page 59 for reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. THE CLOROX COMPANY |5| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT We’re Using Our Imagination to…. INFUSE OUR BRANDS WITH BOLD IDEAS A giant inflatable salad dressing bottle in your front yard? A fountain flowing with ranch dressing at your next dinner party? Decked out head to toe in attire adorned with a pattern of Hidden Valley® Ranch bottles? These might sound a little crazy unless you’re one of many Hidden Valley Ranch consumers who love — or really love — to show their loyalty to their favorite brand. Building these strong relationships with consumers is at the heart of what Clorox people do. And the starting line is defined by their bold thinking. The more imaginative our people are, the better to drive the kind of powerful innovation required to ensure our leading brands stay ahead. THE CLOROX COMPANY |7| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT We’re Using Our Imagination to…. DREAM UP THE NEXT BIG THING Business as usual is often not the key to success. When we began imagining cleaners differentiated by scent, we knew a different R&D approach was required. That led us to those who know scent best: the world’s top fragrance houses. These experts helped us identify trends across the personal care, fine fragrance and air care categories and then translate them into cleaners with a premium fragrance palette — think Tuscan Lavender & Jasmine, Pacific Breeze & Coconut and Fresh Brazilian Blossom. The result? A wildly different approach that has led to a wildly successful new product platform. THE CLOROX COMPANY |9| 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT We’re Using Our Imagination to…. FORGE A BRIGHTER FUTURE FOR PEOPLE AND OUR PLANET Less equals more. That’s the big thought behind Glad brand’s® revolutionary technology that is making stronger kitchen trash bags with less plastic. To do so, we’ve had to reimagine both product construction, such as using a higher-quality resin, and the manufacturing process. The upshot is the same great-performing trash bag for our consumers with a reduced environmental impact for our planet — saving about 20 million pounds of plastic annually, the equivalent of over 920 million single-use plastic water bottles. Imagine a better world? We do it every day. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 11 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2020 STRATEGY Since its start in the 2014 fiscal MISSION year, the 2020 Strategy has We make everyday life better, continued to serve as a valuable every day. guidepost for the company. Using our collective imagination, we’ve developed new ideas to shape our workforce, drive consumer value, expand our business, support OBJECTIVE our communities, become more Be the best at building big-share productive and use our resources brands in economically attractive, more efficiently. In addition, midsized categories. we’ve maintained very high employee engagement. These factors have been driving forces behind our goal of Good Growth COMMITMENT — profitable, sustainable and Leverage environmental, social and governance performance to help drive responsible growth. long-term, sustainable value creation. Strategies BUSINESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 1 Engage our people as business Promote diversity, opportunity and owners. respectful treatment for all people who touch our business. 2 Drive superior consumer value behind strong brand investment, innovation Make responsible products responsibly. and technology transformation. 3 Accelerate portfolio momentum in and around the core. Safeguard families through initiatives that promote health, education and safety. 4 Fund growth by reducing waste in our work, products and supply chain. Shrink our environmental footprint while we grow. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 12 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FOUNDATION Our Values Our Resources • Do the right thing • Talented and engaged employees • Stretch for results • Leading brands • Take personal • Superior brand-building ownership capabilities and innovation • Work together • Sustained brand investments to win • Strong product portfolio • Financial discipline • Strong cash flow FACTORS DRIVING OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS To achieve our business goals, we need to leverage the unique foundational attributes of our company, manage external factors EXTERNAL that can influence our Operating INFLUENCES success and optimize our relationships with important Model • Laws and regulations • Global economy partners such as our • Natural resources employees, retail customers • Competition and communities. • Raw materials and other input costs OUR RELATIONSHIPS • Consumers • Communities • Employees • Investors • Retail and non-retail customers • Civil Society/NGOs • Suppliers and other business partners 2020 Strategy Annual Long-Term Aspirations GROW EXPAND DELIVER Net Sales by EBIT Margin Free Cash Flow as +3-5% +25-50 a % of Net Sales BASIS POINTS 11-13% 1 1 Updated in 2018 from 10%-12% to 11%-13% due to the benefits of U.S. tax reform. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 13 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 1 IMAGINE A WORKPLACE STRATEGY WHERE EVERYONE CAN THRIVE. Business Highlights ENGAGE OUR PEOPLE AS BUSINESS OWNERS. FISCAL YEAR 19 • More than 15% of our workforce, including 45 teams around the world, participated in BOLD Week, a two-day immersive experience focused on encouraging bold thinking and ideas to drive sustainable growth. Over 300 employees are now “Bold Champions”and “Bold Coaches” who are actively reinforcing a faster and more innovative culture. • We invested in a cross-functional training program for general managers and high-potential employees who are on track to assume leadership roles, building skills and business acumen across these critical talent pools. • We launched a global development program for people managers, connecting 150 global managers in a virtual learning community focused on developing critical leadership skills. • Our global employee onboarding process was redesigned to empower new employees with an on-demand orientation, new hire connection forums, discussions with senior leaders and new onboarding processes available online. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 14 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 1 // Business Highlights At Clorox, we’re committed to being a company that offers a welcoming and safe environment for all our employees. It’s a place where we encourage bold ideas and where our people feel empowered, accountable and engaged, benefiting both them and the business. 2020 STRATEGY RECAP • We maintained employee engagement at levels higher than comparable companies in the consumer Clorox Employee Engagement packaged goods industry and consistent with or slightly above some of the most highly regarded FY14 86% companies in the world. FY15 86% • Since launching in FY 2018, our Global Mentoring FY16 87% Program has established 640 mentoring relationships FY17 88% across 16 countries and 53 locations, providing employees with one-on-one relationships and FY18 88% resources to develop leadership skills, build strong FY19 87% connections and address growth opportunities.  eviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer R to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. • As part of our strategy to drive our growth culture, we rolled out a companywide initiative, “Be BOLD,” to transform how we develop and advance new ideas, pursue product innovation, and generate value for consumers and shareholders. 640 mentoring relationships across 16 countries and 53 locations THE CLOROX COMPANY | 15 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 1 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 1 Corporate Responsibility Highlights STRATEGY PROMOTE DIVERSITY, OPPORTUNITY AND RESPECTFUL TREATMENT FOR ALL PEOPLE WHO TOUCH OUR BUSINESS. FISCAL YEAR 19 • Building on our previous commitment to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, we hosted a Day of Understanding at five of our locations as well as virtually. Hundreds of our employees of different races, ethnicities, genders, gender identities/expressions, ages and religions, from the C-suite to recent college graduates, joined the conversation to engage in open dialogue about inclusion and diversity. We also hosted the CEO Action “Check Your Blind Spots” tour bus at our Pleasanton, California, campus where employees were invited to experience diverse perspectives through virtual reality. A Clorox Peru employee shares his reason for • Reinforcing the importance of safety at staying safe at work — his family — as part of the #MyReason campaign. work and home, hundreds of office and plant employees globally participated in the #MyReason campaign, sharing videos and pictures online and on large bulletin boards explaining their personal reasons for staying safe. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 16 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 1 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights • As part of continuous improvement efforts, employees in our Kingsford plants completed a multiyear initiative to improve plant safety through more advanced training and process enhancements. • To further enhance safety measures across our enterprise, we began including distribution centers in Mexico City, Puerto Rico and Peru in our broader safety audit process and expanded electrical safety training across all Latin American plants. • The company spent nearly $138 million with diverse suppliers during the fiscal year. We continue to meet our procurement goal regarding national diverse suppliers, which include minority-, women-, service-disabledand veteranowned business enterprises as well as LGBT business owners in the U.S. NEARLY $138M spent with diverse suppliers during FY19 Employees verify steps as they measure ingredients for dietary supplements. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 17 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 1 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 1 2020 STRATEGY RECAP STRATEGY • We launched a new inclusion and diversity strategy intended to promote an inclusive work environment that supports our continued growth. As a public commitment that reflects this strategy, we signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge in FY 2017 and expanded experiential initiatives such as a Day of Understanding in FY 2019 and unconscious bias education and tools in FY 2018. The latter aims to lessen the influence of unconscious bias in order to consider diverse perspectives and make better peopleand business-related decisions. • To better reflect the demographics of our workforce, we expanded our employee resource groups and business resource groups, adding ERGs for veterans, those with disabilities (or who support a disabled family member), and Middle Eastern and North African employees — representing protected classes of individuals — as well as business resource groups that support remote workers and millennials. In 2016 we also marked the 10-year anniversary of the founding of our first ERGs, a key pillar of our inclusion and diversity strategy that has grown to include more than 2,000 members globally. OBSERVED 10-year anniversary of At our offices in Sunrise, Florida, employees walk in the founding of front of a mural depicting the business’s workplace our first ERGs culture and journey. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 18 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 1 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 100 learning team sessions to enhance safety in daily operations An employee adjusts equipment used to manufacture gummy vitamins and other dietary supplements. • Throughout the goal period — and for 13 consecutive years — we received perfect scores on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ workplace equality. • We were included in the first sector-neutral, global Bloomberg Gender Equality Index in 2018 and again in 2019, along with other companies committed to transparency in gender reporting and advancing women’s equality in the workplace. • We completed the initial Human and Organization Performance training program — which began in 2015 — for 250 plant managers, key staff and production employees in U.S. and Canada plants. This philosophy promotes working with cross-functional teams to better understand processes and identify operational challenges in order to improve safety in the workplace. Employees across these sites have participated in more than 100 learning team sessions to enhance safety in our daily operations. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 19 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 1 STRATEGY Progress Report: Diversity, Gender Equality and Safety With inclusion and diversity as strategic priorities, we continue to make progress in our goal of having more diverse representation on our board and among executive leadership as well as within our overall workforce. Minority and female representation on our board has consistently exceeded average representation of Fortune 500 companies. Women continue to assume senior leadership roles, now making up one-third of our Executive Committee , compared with 21% five years ago. During the same time frame, representation of U.S. minority nonproduction employees has risen from 30% to 33%, while representation of U.S. minority nonproduction managers has also risen from 24% to 28%. Teamwork and coffee are two of the ingredients at our Safety remains an integral part of our daily business International headquarters in Miami, Florida. operations. As part of continuous improvement efforts, our focus now is on how the work gets done, leveraging the knowledge and skills of our employees. One key industry performance metric that allows us to measure progress against our goals is the recordable incident case rate. For more than a decade, Clorox’s recordable incident rate has been consistently less than 1.0, a benchmark we consider to be world-class, and well below the industry average of 3.5. We closed out our 2019 fiscal year with a 0.86 rate , and averaged 0.68 during the entire 2020 Strategy period. For us, employee well-being starts with physical and psychological safety – promoting a sense of belonging, ensuring different perspectives are represented and maintaining a safe work environment. These are the cornerstones of an engaged workforce that’s focused on growing our business profitably, sustainably and responsibly. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 20 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Clorox U.S. Minority Clorox U.S. Minority Nonproduction Managers Nonproduction Employees FY14 24% FY14 30% FY15 25% FY15 30% FY16 25% FY16 31% FY17 26% FY17 31% FY18 28% FY18 32% FY19 28% FY19 33% Clorox Women Nonproduction Clorox Women Nonproduction Managers (Global) Employees (Global) FY14 40% FY14 49% FY15 41% FY15 48% FY16 41% FY16 49% FY17 41% FY17 50% FY18 43% FY18 51% FY19 43% FY19 51% Female Clorox Executive Female Committee Members Board Members FY14 21% FY14 30% FY15 31% FY15 30% FY16 31% FY16 30% FY17 36% FY17 33% FY18 33% FY18 33% FY19 33% FY19 33% World-Class Workplace Safety Minority Board Members2 FY14 0.69 FY14 50% FY15 0.52 FY15 50% FY16 0.61 FY16 50% FY17 0.60 FY17 33% FY18 0.82 FY18 33% FY19 0.861 FY19 33% Note: As of June 30, 2019 (close of FY19). 1 Recordable incident rate 2  o facilitate comparisons to benchmarking data, we changed the metric from “Independent Minority Board Members” T to “Minority Board Members” in FY17. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 21 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2 IMAGINE PRODUCTS STRATEGY THAT MEET CONSUMERS’ EVERY WANT AND NEED. Business Highlights DRIVE SUPERIOR CONSUMER VALUE BEHIND STRONG BRAND INVESTMENT, INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFORMATION. FISCAL YEAR 19 • Our Hidden Valley® Ranch brand launched a new marketing campaign, You Either Love It or You Really Love It™, to appeal to the passion of its fans through national TV spots, the Ranchology Rewards consumer loyalty program and the creation of a 24-foot bottle of ranch dressing for National Ranch Day. • The NeoCell® brand refreshed its brand positioning to focus on beauty, which included a full packaging redesign and streamlined product offerings to make it easier for consumers to shop the brand. •T  o reinvigorate and drive overall growth of the charcoal category, the Kingsford business made holistic portfolio upgrades, including updates to packaging with the addition of new on-pack claims, modernization of graphics and simplification of sizes, improving the overall shopping experience for consumers. •O  ur Fresh Step® brand partnered with spcaLA and influencers to open Cats on Glass, an interactive pop-up exhibit that showcased the benefits of Clean Paws low-tracking litter while furthering the brand’s mission to help every shelter cat find a forever home. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 22 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Business Highlights We’re imagining products that deliver what you want, when you want it. Whether it’s the sensorial experience of Clorox Scentiva cleaners, the sustainability of Burt’s Bees® lip care, face care and cosmetics, or the effectiveness of Glad® trash bags, our goal is to always focus on the next big thing, using the next big technology to reach you. • Our Canadian business simplified sizes, assortment and packaging across the entire Glad trash portfolio and introduced 12 innovations to better address consumer needs on waste diversion and premium features. • For the launch of Clorox Ultra Clean disinfecting wipes, the Clorox® brand created a series of video ads featuring a range of unique product names, such as Slimy Handprints and Bolognese Boil Over, inspired by real-life messes. The campaign used purchase and search data to target consumers with personalized video messages showcasing all the jobs this wipe can tackle. • Our Liquid-Plumr® brand partnered with popular YouTube influencers Vat19 on an integrated campaign showcasing how Liquid-Plumr can defeat the most extreme clogs, including the world’s largest gummy worm, massive bacon grease and even the ultimate bathroom clog. “Will It Clog?”™ has earned six industry awards to date, including Best Use of YouTube Formats from Google. • Our Clorox brand collaborated with Disney and Pixar to promote the launch of Toy Story 4 through a national TV spot, in-store promotion, a sweepstakes and more. • Our Burt’s Bees brand refreshed its sensitive skincare line to bring additional credibility with consumers and dermatologists through new graphics, packaging and the addition of the National Eczema Association seal of acceptance. Clinical studies also showed the products promoted healthy skin better than the leading BURT’S BEES SENSITIVE SKINCARE LINE dermatologist-recommended brand. This line was the focus of Burt’s Bees’ first-ever TV advertising in the Face Care category. • The Clorox brand began introducing a new logo across all its products worldwide. It’s been almost two decades since we last updated the logo in the U.S., and it’s the first time we’ll have a global packaging architecture. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 23 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Business Highlights 2 FISCAL YEAR 19 Clorox delivered approximately 3% of incremental sales behind product innovation — the STRATEGY ninth consecutive year of this achievement. 1  urt’s Bees B Premium Lip Care — Overnight Lip Treatment and Conditioning Scrub; Cucumber Mint Lip Balm 2 3 Burt’s Bees Masks Burt’s Bees Baby® Sensitive Line — Foaming Shampoo and Wash; Ultra-Gentle Lotion Burt's Bees Cosmetics — All Aglow Lip & Cheek Sticks; Bronzer & Highlighter Sticks; 6 Concealers 5 4 Fresh Step Mediterranean Lavender Scented Litter Brita® Premium with the Power of Febreze Filtering Water Bottle Glad Dual-Layer Trash Bags Including Gain Scents 7 9 8 Clorox Healthcare® Versasure® Cleaner K  ingsford 100% Natural Disinfectant Wipes Hardwood Briquets THE CLOROX COMPANY | 24 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Business Highlights Clorox Disinfecting Bio Stain and Odor Remover 10 11 C  lorox Scentiva Disinfecting Wet Mopping Cloths 12 13 Clorox Ultra Clean Ever Clean® Total Disinfecting Wipes Cover® Clumping Cat Litter (Europe) Kitchen Clog Destroyer Gel, Lemon Scent; All-Purpose Clog Destroyer 14 Gel, Lemon Scent; Kitchen Industrial Strength Gel, Lemon Scent 15 16 NeoCell Super Collagen Renewlife Basic Care Probiotics and Berry Lemon and NeoCell Organic Prebiotics: Healthy Weight Collagen Peptides and Optimal Energy; RenewLife Digestmore Enzyme Formula: Dairy, Fats + Proteins, Plant-Based Foods 18 19 17 Hidden Valley Ranch Ready-To-Eat  lorox C Ranch Dips – Classic, Bacon and Clorox Stain Remover Supreme White Buffalo; Blasted Ranch Dipping Supreme Whitener (Latin America) Sauces – Bold Buffalo, Ranch(Middle East) Dipped Pizza & Zestier Ranch THE CLOROX COMPANY | 25 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Business Highlights 2 2020 STRATEGY RECAP STRATEGY • Recognizing the shift in consumer behavior, we’ve led the consumer packaged goods industry in the ABOUT 55% percentage of media spending focused on digital, increasing from 24% in FY 2014 to about 55% in FY 2019. of media spending • Clorox Company products continue to be found in focused on digital about nine of 10 U.S. households, a household in FY19 penetration rate that has remained strong throughout the strategy period. • The Glad brand rolled out dual-layer technology across its kitchen trash bag portfolio, offering consumers enhanced leak, rip and odor protection. This breakthrough dual-layer technology platform will fuel ongoing innovation into the future. • We invested in innovation within our supply chain, opening a new, state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Georgia. Atlanta West is a 258,000-square-foot plant that is using one-of-a-kind technology to capitalize on the momentum behind our Home Care business and support long-term growth. • To win with the online shopper, our brands used dynamic advertising incorporating real-time data to create personalized experiences for consumers, as well as artificial intelligence to help educate consumers about everyday tasks such as grilling and cleaning, to help them find the products best suited to their needs. They also formed innovative partnerships with digital streaming services and social media influencers. A new Home Care manufacturing facility opened near Atlanta, Georgia, in FY18. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 26 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Business Highlights Throughout the 2020 Strategy period, we created superior product experiences that delighted consumers and supported our brands. Here is some of the leading innovation from FY 2014 to FY 2019: Fresh Step Clean 3 Burt's Bees Lipsticks, Paws Litter; Fresh Step Lightweight Litter; Beauty Line, Burt's Bees Lip Balm Flavors 5 Fresh Step Litter with — Coconut & Pear, the Power of Febreze Cucumber Mint, Vanilla, Wild Cherry 1 4 Hidden Valley Ranch — Southwest Chipotle, Bacon, Kingsford Professional, Avocado; Hidden Valley Brita LongLast® 2 Kingsford Flavored Briquets — Hickory, Ranch Simply Ranch® — Classic, Cucumber Basil, Filters Mesquite, Applewood, Chili Lime; Hidden Valley Cherrywood, Pecan Ranch Greek Yogurt Dressing — Classic, Spinach & Feta, Cucumber Dill 7 9 Clorox Scentiva Clorox Total 360® 6 Disinfecting Wipes & Sprays System 8  lad ForceFlex Plus G Advanced Protection Gain Original Clorox Rainbow Light® Healthcare Fuzion Cleaner Disinfectant Prenatal Precious Gems Vitamins 10 Glad to Be Green Plant eocell Gummy N 12 Based Bags (Australia) Clorox Ultra Stain Remover; Clorox Stain Glow Dietary Remover Color Booster Supplements (Middle East) 14 15 Ever Clean Fast 13 Acting Clumping 11 Cat Litter (Europe) Clorox Ultra Stain Remover (Latin America) THE CLOROX COMPANY | 27 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Business Highlights 2 Brands With Purpose STRATEGY $250,000 in micro grants CLOROX WHAT COMES NEXT PROJECT through the Clorox Clean matters — whether it’s a spotless What Comes Next space to work in, a germ-free table Project to feed your family, fresh sheets to sleep on or safe water to drink. It’s about more than getting rid of dirt and germs. Where there’s a clean environment, people can do their best work and live their best lives. With this in mind, our Clorox brand has been embracing its purpose: to champion a cleaner world where people thrive. The brand committed to transforming lives with projects both big and small in communities across the U.S. To date, it’s provided over $250,000 in microgrants to individuals, adult and youth leaders, and organizations that are making a positive difference in their communities through the Clorox What Comes Next Project. More information about each of the projects can be found at www.whatcomesnextproject.com. || 28 || THE CLOROX COMPANY THE CLOROX COMPANY 28 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Business Highlights BRITA AND NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC Our Brita brand’s mission is to make water better for people and the planet by inspiring people to stop using wasteful single-use plastic water 30,000 pledges to reduce bottles and choose reusable options instead. In the United States alone, we use 2,000 single-use bottled water use plastic bottles every second. 70% of these bottles through the never get recycled and end up in landfills or the initiative world’s rivers and oceans. Brita’s water filtration systems — including pitchers, dispensers and reusable bottles — are the perfect solution for great-tasting water without the waste. In 2018, Brita filtered the equivalent of 10.6 billion single-use plastic bottles1. To raise awareness, Brita partnered with National Geographic on its Planet or Plastic? initiative. Together, they launched three documentary-style videos detailing the effects of single-use plastic on our environment. The partnership kicked off with a New Year’s pledge to reduce single-use plastics, which resulted in nearly 30,000 pledges to reduce bottled water use. At Clorox, Brita sent toolkits of educational resources and signage to 43 locations across North America and Latin America encouraging employees to go bottled-water-free. Brita partnered with National Geographic on a campaign to encourage people to sign a pledge to reduce single-use plastic bottles. 1 Based on 2018 shipment volume of all Brita systems and filters. Compared to 16.9-ounce bottles. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 29 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT » Strategy 2 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 2 Corporate Responsibility Highlights STRATEGY MAKE RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS RESPONSIBLY FISCAL YEAR 19 To explore new product designs and commerce models based on a circular economy, a Clorox disinfecting wipes product and Hidden Valley topping and dressing product joined TerraCycle’s Loop pilot program, which launched in the U.S. Mid-Atlantic region in May. First announced at the 2019 World Economic Forum, Loop is a sustainable online shopping platform enabling consumers to purchase commonly used products from leading consumer brands in customized, durable packaging that are delivered to their homes in a reusable shipping tote. Once products are used, the packaging is collected, cleaned, refilled and reused. Our Loop participation builds on engagement with other TerraCycle programs for our Burt’s Bees and Brita brands that reduce waste and strive for innovative sustainable product solutions. • Leaders from our Burt’s Bees and Glad businesses joined academics, NGOs, scientific experts and other stakeholders to participate in the inaugural Ocean Plastics Leadership Summit. The summit was a forum to develop innovative solutions to the causes of plastic waste, which is posing a threat to oceanic ecosystems. Our Burt’s Bees and Glad businesses participated in the inaugural Ocean Plastics Leadership Summit. Photo: Bryan Liscinsky THE CLOROX COMPANY | 30 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights • The Burt’s Bees brand redesigned its lip balm • By optimizing its packaging and streamlining tubes to be made with 50% post-consumer sizes, the Kingsford brand was able to recycled plastic, which helped the business exceed maximize the number of charcoal briquets its 2020 goal to increase the recycled content of in its bags while reducing packaging by an primary container packaging by 40%. The brand is average of 7% per pound of charcoal on also leading the industry by introducing posttwo-thirds of its packaging where these consumer recycled plastic into the flip-top closures improvements were made. for its 4-ounce and larger flexible tubes for lotions, creams, facial cleansers and soothers. >40% INCREASE in recycled content in Burt’s Bees container packaging NEARLY 20M POUNDS less resin used annually in Glad kitchen trash bags • Across its kitchen trash bag portfolio, the Glad brand combined its new duallayer technology with superior quality resin to create stronger bags using nearly 20 million fewer pounds of resin annually while offering consumers the benefits of reinforced strength and extra leak protection. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 31 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 2 2020 STRATEGY RECAP STRATEGY • We continued to build on our progress as the first major consumer packaged goods company to voluntarily disclose ingredients in household and commercial cleaning, disinfecting and laundry products. Early in our goal period, we expanded the Ingredients Inside program to include fragrance components identified as potential allergens by the Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety, an advisory board to the European Union. Recently, we also committed to publish our list of ingredients on the labels of all 350 of our household registered disinfecting products sold through U.S. retail channels in addition to the 300 nonregistered household and professional products covered under California’s Cleaning Product Right to Know law, taking effect in 2020. • As a member of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, we helped to bring standardized recycling labeling instructions to packaging by being an early adopter of the How2Recycle label. Across our portfolio, about 92% of our primary packaging by global retail sales volume is recyclable, and more than 85% of our domestic retail sales volume carries the How2Recycle label. >85% domestic retail sales volume carries How2Recycle label THE CLOROX COMPANY | 32 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights • The Burt’s Bees brand collaborated with 18 diverse beauty and personal care companies, retail customers and nonprofit organizations to develop a common tool to evaluate product sustainability. The new rating system is intended to help retailers make more sustainable personal care products available and promote those attributes to consumers while also providing an incentive for manufacturers to produce more sustainable products. • We reduced the amount of packaging used to ship empty Kingsford bags to our plants. By working with our bag supplier and rethinking the packaging, the team eliminated about 50% of the shipping materials, which has reduced the amount of wood and corrugate used annually by more than 650,000 pounds as well as lowering shipping costs. Product Sustainability Goal Surpassed 2 Years Early Since our 2011 baseline, the percentage of our product portfolio with Product Portfolio With sustainability improvements increased steadily, from 7% in the first Sustainability Improvements calendar year to 58% in FY 2019 , after we had exceeded our 2020 goal in CY 2018. CY12 7% CY13 15% How did we accomplish that? By establishing objective, transparent and CY14 20% verifiable pathways to make products and packaging more sustainable and CY15 31% then allowing our brands to consider the best approach for their products that also allowed them to continue delivering superior consumer value. They CY16 34% could reduce materials, use more sustainable materials, reduce the amount CY17 49% of water or energy required by consumers, or source their materials more FY19 58% sustainably – taking one or a combination of these approaches. GOAL CY20 50% The end result? Many of our product sustainability improvements were achieved by reducing the amount of material used in the product or package, or both. This helped minimize the footprint associated with the materials saved and reduced the transportation footprint because we can FY19> 58% load more product onto fewer trucks for distribution. All the data were product portfolio reviewed through a third-party assurance process, providing an additional with sustainability layer of credibility to our results. improvements (vs. 50% goal by 2020) Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 33 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 2 Product Sustainability Improvements by Year STRATEGY 2012 Our transition to concentrated Clorox bleach saves resources across the life cycle of the product, from raw materials through manufacturing and shipping, 2014 to even when the consumer recycles Fresh Step extreme lightweight litter is introduced the bottle. The savings add up to to the U.S. market, offering an option that’s 30% 225,000 megawatt hours of electricity, lighter than traditional litter along 196 million gallons of water, 16 million with sustainability benefits derived pounds of paper and 10 million pounds from less material used and a of plastic annually. smaller transportation footprint. 2015 A new Kingsford charcoal briquet is introduced that is optimized for air flow, reducing materials by 7%. With a lighterweight product, we can load more charcoal onto trucks, saving 2013 over 1 million transportation Brita packaging is redesigned to better miles while providing our showcase the pitcher, improve our presence consumers with a fasteron shelf and use fewer resources. Instead of a lighting briquet. fully enclosed cardboard box, the new packaging features an open cardboard base that reduces the environmental footprint of the package by 50% and saves about $100,000 annually. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 34 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 2 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 2016 • For its facial towelettes, the Burt’s Bees brand replaces the hard plastic opening with an adhesive closure, eliminating approximately 108,000 pounds of hard plastic from production annually and keeping it out of waste streams. A redesigned cardboard display tray for the towelettes also uses 90,000 pounds less paperboard per year. • In support of our goal to eliminate all PVC packaging, 2018 which we are on track to achieve globally by 2020, A Hidden Valley Ranch brand packaging excluding acquisitions made during the goal period, redesign reduces the amount of plastic needed we changed the material used for our Kingsford for bottles by a projected 1.5 million pounds charcoal lighter fluid packaging to more environmentally annually while also replacing the screw-on friendly PET. cap with a flip-cap lid that is easier to open and close. 2017 • By investing in our manufacturing process and equipment, we were able to reduce resin by 20 million pounds annually in Glad kitchen trash bags in 2017 and 2018, creating a new, patent-protected product that offers greater value to consumers. • The Brita brand’s line of Stream pitchers – featuring Filter-As-You-Pour® technology, which allows users to fill the pitcher quickly and pour immediately – no longer requires a water reservoir, enabling us to use 30% less resin than our standard model with equal capacity. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 35 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 3 IMAGINE TOUCHING STRATEGY EVEN MORE LIVES. Business Highlights ACCELERATE PORTFOLIO MOMENTUM IN AND AROUND THE CORE. FISCAL YEAR 19 • We expanded the Clorox Scentiva experiential scent platform to a new area of the home — consumers’ floors — with the launch of Clorox Scentiva disinfecting wet mopping cloths, the first branded mopping cloth that also disinfects. • We strengthened our commitment to public health by launching a new, unified brand, CloroxPro™, to encompass all our industry-leading healthcare and commercial-cleaning products. CloroxPro’s mission is to empower people to confidently come together to work, learn, play, travel, socialize and heal, eliminating the fear of germs in shared spaces and enabling communities to realize their potential. • CloroxPro partnered with AutoNation, the largest automotive retailer in the U.S., to introduce PrecisionCare powered by Clorox Total 360, a sanitizing system designed to enable cleaner, healthier and safer cars. The system will be available at 240 AutoNation locations and auto dealers, repair shops, rental car companies, professional fleets and livery services through AutoNation’s Wholesale Parts Network. • Burt’s Bees Lip Care grew double digits by expanding into new channels, limited-edition flavors and white-space AUTONATION: retailers, and continuing digital and product personalization. PRECISIONCARE POWERED BY Armed with lessons from a 2018 holiday test-and-learn project, CLOROX TOTAL 360 we began offering personalized Burt’s Bees lip balm year-round, either as four-packs or in bulk. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 36 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 3 // Business Highlights We’re imagining ways we can meet a multitude of consumer needs while also serving those in need. From entering new categories in health and wellness to giving during times of crisis, we want to touch even more people through our products. 2020 STRATEGY RECAP • As part of our ongoing effort to accelerate growth through acquisitions of leading brands in fast-growing categories, we expanded our health-andwellness portfolio with the acquisitions of Nutranext dietary supplements and RenewLife digestive health products. • As an early adopter of e-commerce in the consumer packaged goods industry, we grew sales in this channel by 483%, from about 2% of sales in fiscal year 2014 to about 8% of sales in fiscal year 2019. • The Hidden Valley Ranch brand offered consumers even more ways to enjoy the taste of ranch, expanding into new categories with the introduction of ready-to-eat dips and the relaunch of seasonings, while offering a new line of Simply Ranch dressings without artificial preservatives, colors or flavors. • Building on its strong foundation in Natural Personal Care, our Burt’s Bees brand expanded into the Color Cosmetics category with the introduction of Burt’s Bees Beauty. The cosmetics line — foundation, concealer, powder, blush, eyeshadow, eyeliner and mascara — provides consumers with access to high-quality beauty products made with natural ingredients. • We continued to shift investments in our International segment to more profitable businesses while implementing cost savings plans to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange headwinds. • The Kingsford brand established a multiyear partnership with Major League Baseball that paired two of America’s favorite pastimes, baseball and barbecuing, around common purposes of connecting with family and friends, enjoying food and fun, and tradition. • Through the Natural Launchpad, an annual grant program that supports innovation in natural products, our Burt’s Bees brand empowered women entrepreneurs who are passionate about improving the health and well-being of our planet. In total, the brand gave $300,000 to 30 entrepreneurs across a variety of categories including natural pest prevention, compostable picnicware and natural remedies. Additionally, the entrepreneurs received executive advice and networking opportunities to grow their small business and influence. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 37 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 3 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 3 Corporate Responsibility Highlights STRATEGY SAFEGUARD FAMILIES THROUGH INITIATIVES THAT PROMOTE HEALTH, EDUCATION AND SAFETY. FISCAL YEAR 19 • In response to disasters such as hurricanes Florence and Michael and Midwest U.S. flooding, we donated more than 10,000 cases each of Clorox liquid bleach and Glad trash bags, over 3,500 cases of Clorox disinfecting wipes, three truckloads of Kingsford charcoal and 1,000 Burt’s Bees lip balms, working primarily with our partner, the American Red Cross. The Clorox Company Foundation donated an additional $200,000 to the American Red Cross, and employees donated nearly $50,000 through our workplace giving program, which included matching funds from the foundation. • Our brands continued to engage in cause-marketing programs that are both consistent with their purpose and meaningful to consumers: » The RenewLife brand joined the Whole » As part of a bold new goal to eradicate Foods 2019 Supplier Alliance for newborn mortality from vitaminMicrocredit and pledged $50,000 to The deficiency diseases by 2030, the Whole Planet Foundation to provide Rainbow Light brand kicked off the small loans to the world’s poorest Rainbow Light Shine Your Light™ people — mostly women — to create or campaign to make nonprofit Vitamin expand businesses to pull themselves Angels’ first-ever U.S. vitamin drops, and their families out of poverty. delivering vitamins to 25 women’s shelters coast to coast to celebrate their 25-year partnership. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 38 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 3 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights Supplied charcoal for » Showing faith in the power of barbecue, the 80,000 Kingsford brand sponsored Operation BBQ MEALS IN 8 CITIES Relief’s Breaking Bread Tour, supplying charcoal for events in eight cities where 80,000 meals were served to raise awareness of the needs within the military and among first responders » The Scoop Away® brand partnered and others in need. with cat celebrity Lil BUB on her mission to spread positivity and acceptance for animal welfare and pets with special needs by creating a limited-edition box featuring Lil BUB on millions of their packages and donating to Lil BUB’s BIG Fund for the ASPCA (The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals). 6,000 BEE SPECIES mapped worldwide » With a commitment to protecting pollinators, biodiversity and the environment, the Burt’s Bees brand partnered with the E.O. Wilson Biodiversity Foundation to fund the mapping of 6,000 bee species worldwide. The brand also donated to the National Parks Foundation while encouraging others to give to the U.S. national park system through a social media campaign, Let’s Stand United for Nature, reaching over 6.5 million people. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 39 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 3 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 3 2020 STRATEGY RECAP STRATEGY • During the period, we donated close to $50 million worth of products including Clorox liquid bleach, Glad trash bags, Clorox disinfecting wipes, Burt’s Bees lip balms and Kingsford charcoal. Working primarily with our partner, the American Red Cross, some of our donations in the U.S. went toward helping victims of natural disasters, including seven major hurricanes, floods in multiple states and wildfires in California. Outside the U.S., we provided assistance following a typhoon in the Philippines; an earthquake in Ecuador; floods in Canada and Peru; and global disease outbreaks such as Ebola in West Africa and Zika, for which we offered support in the Dominican Republic. Through The Clorox Company Foundation Employee Emergency Assistance Fund, we also helped 48 employees directly impacted by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. Red Cross workers in a Fayetteville, North Carolina, warehouse help load products onto $50M trucks to help those affected by floods following Hurricane Florence. Photo by Daniel Cima/American Red Cross. in product donations • We refined The Clorox Company Foundation focus areas and introduced an urban farming program that expanded our commitment to health and wellness through a pledge of $1 million in grants over four years. These farms are helping to strengthen disadvantaged communities by addressing food scarcity through nutrition education and by removing barriers to eating nutritious food. • The Burt’s Bees brand began an initiative to strengthen 10 global supplier communities’ capabilities in areas such as access to clean water, women’s and children’s empowerment, health and safety, and biodiversity by 2020. To date, the initiative has benefited over 6,000 people globally in countries including Tanzania, Vietnam and Burkina Faso. • Our Clorox brand donated nearly $800,000 in products and funds to organizations DonorsChoose.org, Visiting Nurses Association, Families Fighting Flu and Alliance for a Healthier Generation to help families fight the flu and keep classrooms clean, particularly in January when classrooms are low on supplies, as well as the more traditional fall back-to-school period when cold and flu season begins in earnest. • The Burt’s Bees brand launched the Bring Back the Bees program in 2016, in partnership with Rural Advancement Foundation International and public conservation and farm service agencies, planting 15 billion seeds alongside approximately 145,000 acres of farmland to provide pollinators with nourishing forage. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 40 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 3 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights • Through our Clorox and Brita brands, we provided access to safe drinking water globally during disasters and to regions lacking the infrastructure for clean water — a problem that affects roughly 1 billion people globally. » The Clorox brand expanded the Safe Water Project — which it launched in 2012 with nonprofit PRISMA — to provide 25,000 people in rural Peru with access to safe water through bleach dispensers. Through a partnership with Evidence Action, it expanded to Africa in FY 2018, providing bleach to support safe water for 1 million people in Kenya. Bleach from a dispenser is added to water to make it safe to drink, part of the Clorox Safe Water Project in Peru. » In FY 2017, the Brita brand partnered with the » Brita Canada’s Filter for Good™ program Alliance for a Healthier Generation and basketball provided cleaner drinking water to 120,000 superstar Stephen Curry to launch Filter for the people in Kenya by supporting the creation Future, a grant program that provides schools with of two boreholes, a type of well, through a access to clean, safe and sustainable drinking partnership with the global nonprofit WE. water. Through the purchase of specially marked The brand’s initiative also impacts education, products, consumers helped support the initiative since many young girls who had been to equip approximately 100 schools with Brita responsible for retrieving water for their hydration stations that enabled kids to fill up their families will now be able to attend school. reusable bottles with filtered water instead of relying on single-use plastic water bottles. » When the water supply in Flint, Michigan, was contaminated with lead, we worked with government officials to supply Brita faucet systems, identifying ways to ramp up production to meet the urgent public health needs of the community. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 41 | 2018 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 3 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 3 STRATEGY Supporting Communities Where We Live and Do Business Throughout the six years of our strategy, we continued to live our core value of doing the right thing by maximizing our impact in our global communities and supporting a culture of giving, volunteering and aid in times of disaster. From FY 2014 to 2019, we have given nearly $27 million in foundation and corporate cash grants to support community initiatives, with a particular focus on nonprofit organizations in the areas of K-12 literacy and STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education, youth development, cultural arts organizations, health initiatives and, more recently, urban farming. The Burt’s Bees Foundation supports organizations that protect Clorox employees conduct science experiments with students at a school in the Metro Atlanta, Georgia, area. biodiversity and reconnect people to nature. We volunteer in a number of communities where we operate to help inspire enthusiasm among young people for STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and During the same time frame, the company made math) and build proficiency in these areas. nearly $50 million in product donations, while our brands invested more than $6 million in cause-marketing campaigns to make a difference in safe drinking water, education and youth leadership, pet adoption and flu prevention, to name a few projects aligned with their purposes. From the 2013 to 2018 calendar years, our employees volunteered nearly 675,000 hours of their time to improve their local communities, effort that is valued at over $16 million. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 42 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 3 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights $16.1M total value of employee volunteer hours Value of Employee Product Donations Volunteer Hours ($ Millions) ($ Millions) FY14 $8.8 CY13 $2.4 FY15 $7.1 CY14 $2.8 FY16 $8.1 CY15 $2.9 FY17 $5.4 CY16 $2.8 FY18 $14.4 CY17 $2.5 FY19 $6.1 CY18 $2.7 Cause Marketing Grants ($ Millions) ($ Millions) FY14 $0.8 FY14 $4.3 FY15 $1.1 FY15 $4.3 FY16 $1.3 FY16 $4.6 FY17 $1.1 FY17 $4.6 FY18 $0.7 FY18 $4.6 FY19 $1.3 FY19 $4.5 Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 43 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 4 IMAGINE DOING MORE STRATEGY WITH LESS. Business Highlights FUND GROWTH BY REDUCING WASTE IN OUR WORK, PRODUCTS AND SUPPLY CHAIN. FISCAL YEAR 19 • In our manufacturing operations, we expanded use of digital technology such as tablets and smart glasses to improve effectiveness and efficiency. When working with equipment, employees can scan QR codes on a machine to find relevant manuals and information at their fingertips. Additionally, six plants are piloting smart glasses that allow experts located elsewhere to see exactly what our employees see and communicate with them in real time while also reducing travel time and costs. • Enterprise and strategic initiatives, including investment in a new manufacturing facility for Home Care products, continued investment in a new manufacturing process for our Glad trash bags and a number of other administrative improvements, contributed to $122 million in cost savings. • We enhanced a number of our cash management and payment processes across 11 countries in Latin America, resulting in reduced complexity and cost as well as strengthened internal controls. 6 PLANTS piloting smart glasses to communicate in real time THE CLOROX COMPANY | 44 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Business Highlights We’re imagining ways we can be more efficient — because when we reduce waste, we can invest more in our business, our people and our products. 2020 STRATEGY RECAP • We drove significant productivity gains generating nearly $700 million in total cost savings and providing the fuel needed to grow our brands: $688M in total cost savings Cost Savings ($ Millions) FY14 $117 FY15 $116 FY16 $109 FY17 $112 FY18 $112 » Investments in a new manufacturing process FY19 $122 for our Glad trash bags that addresses an unmet consumer need of leak, rip and odor protection using less resin. » Changes to both the formula » Improvements to our namesake and manufacturing process bleach with polyelectrolyte for Kingsford charcoal. complexes, or PECs, technology, making it easier to clean hard surfaces and improve the » Redesign of our larger-size whitening performance cat litter cartons to eliminate in laundry. excess packaging that consumers do not value while making it easier to handle. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 45 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Business Highlights 4 2020 STRATEGY RECAP STRATEGY • We executed dozens of significant, cross-functional agile programs and hundreds of smaller initiatives within business units and functions, led by the efforts of more than 130 experts trained in agile business processes. Nearly every project has reduced lead time, increased efficiency and improved the employee experience. »We simplified financial forecasting to eliminate approximately 80,000 hours of work annually, streamlining the process and increasing productivity. 74% of new products » In sales, by focusing on what resonated launched in 14 most with consumers, we eliminated 80% of the time spent developing months or less messaging and materials. » We continue to reduce the amount » We decreased production and of time required to bring innovation streamlined activities in our business to market, launching approximately planning process, resulting in a 74% of new products in 14 months 40% reduction in time spent. or less, compared to 22 months in fiscal year 2014. » We reduced the time required to set up new products and packages » We achieved millions of dollars in cost in our systems by over 50%, allowing savings by streamlining processes us to respond faster to changing across our brands and functions. For market conditions. example, we simplified planning for rail car deliveries at our Spring Hill, Kansas, litter plant, resulting in improved rail carrier service, protection against disruptions and $2 million in cost savings. 80,000 hours of work eliminated annually THE CLOROX COMPANY | 46 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights Corporate Responsibility Highlights SHRINK OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT WHILE WE GROW. FISCAL YEAR 19 • All Glad facilities worldwide achieved zero-waste-to-landfill status, including R&D and distribution facilities in the U.S. and plants in the U.S., Canada and China. • To engage employees in taking personal ownership of sustainability in their workplace, we relaunched our voluntary employee Eco Warriors group with an innovation contest in January and a site-focused Earth Month challenge. The Eco Warriors also partnered with our Brita brand to engage 43 of our facilities in the U.S. and Latin America in eliminating single-use plastic bottles. • We moved part of our supply chain for the Clorox ToiletWand® system from Mexico to the U.S. to partner with a supplier that could design and invest in automation that increases our capacity while reducing overall lead times and inventory. This improves our ability to respond more quickly to changing customer demands. The move also created 120 jobs in the U.S., reduced transportation costs and lowered our transportation carbon footprint by over 735,000 miles annually. •W e implemented a cloud-based supplier onboarding tool that includes a component ALL requiring review and acceptance of our Business Partner Code of Conduct before doing business with Clorox. The scope currently covers all U.S. suppliers, with Glad facilities worldwide the potential to expand globally. achieved zero-wasteto-landfill status •T o help drive continuous improvement across our value chain, we created a formal risk assessment and auditing program to be formally implemented in fiscal year 2020. The program, which involves annual risk assessments of most direct material suppliers in the U.S., Latin America and Asia, Middle East and Africa regions, is intended to verify and in some cases improve conditions across our global supply chain. As a member of Sedex, we ask certain suppliers identified in our assessment to conduct the group’s SMETA audit (or the equivalent), which provides a globally recognized way to assess activities in areas such as labor rights, health and safety, the environment and business ethics. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 47 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 4 2020 STRATEGY RECAP STRATEGY • In an effort to improve the sustainability of our upstream supply chain, in 2014 we introduced an annual scorecard survey for our top 100 suppliers, representing approximately two-thirds of our spending. The scorecard enables us to track our suppliers’ progress against measuring and setting goals for reductions in water use, energy use, GHG emissions and solid-waste-to-landfill. To more clearly communicate our expectations for what constitutes strong performance, offer feedback on progress and provide incentives for further improvements, in 2017 we implemented a supplier scoring system. Since its introduction, there has been consistent improvement from our suppliers across all metrics and a 100% response rate for the past two years. 13 SITES achieved zero-waste-to-landfill status, exceeding our 2020 goal of 10 sites Fairfield, California (plant) Orangeville, Ontario, Canada (plant) Rogers, Arkansas (plant) Tlalnepantla (Mexico City), Mexico (plant) Amherst, Virginia (plant) Conghua, China (plant) Quilicura, Chile (plant) San José, Costa Rica (plant) Cartago, Costa Rica (plant) Tultitlan, Mexico (distribution center) Rogers, Arkansas (distribution center) Willowbrook, Illinois (R&D facility) Brampton, Ontario, Canada (administrative office) THE CLOROX COMPANY | 48 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights • In 2015, we updated our Palm Oil Responsible Sourcing Commitment to ensure palm oil-derived ingredients are sourced in a manner that does not contribute to deforestation, protects peatlands and respects human rights. As part of our commitment, we joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil and worked with our implementation partner, Earthworm Foundation (formerly The Forest Trust), to engage our complex palm derivative ingredient supply chain. We’ve made progress toward our goals, achieving 99% traceability to the origin refiner and 92% traceability to the mill as of 2018 for our priority suppliers, which 99% represented 92% of our domestic business palm ingredient purchases. We also began supporting Priority Areas for Transformation, a program focused on of paper-based packaging land-use planning in Indonesia that helps we purchase is from participating stakeholders work together to bring recycled or certified sustainable economic growth while protecting a critical ecosystem. Through our work, we’re helping sustainable virgin fiber drive progress in derivative supply chains, bringing more awareness, transparency and commitment to addressing this complex part of the palm industry. • More than 99% of paper-based packaging we purchase is now made from recycled or certified sustainable virgin fiber, based on a supplier survey with a 100% response rate. This was one of our 2020 goals for product and packaging sustainability, aimed at reducing the pressure on natural forests and related impacts on climate change. • Our Burt’s Bees brand began offsetting its greenhouse gas emissions by purchasing carbon offsets and became a Natural Capital Partners CarbonNeutral-certified company in 2015. GHG emissions from Burt’s Bees operations are now approximately 0.5% of Clorox’s total annual GHG emissions. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 49 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 4 STRATEGY Two years prior to the end of our 2020 goal period, we've already exceeded our 2020 goals to reduce solid-waste-to-landfill, water use and greenhouse gas emissions, and we're on track to meet our energy reduction goal by 2020. The following section documents our progress, including successes and challenges we’ve faced, in reducing our overall operational footprint. Closing In on Our Energy Reduction Goal For more detailed information on energy use, visit TheCloroxCompany.com, Energy Use* CY12  10% CY13  10% 18% REDUCTION CY14  6% in energy use, on CY15  14% track to meet CY16  15% 2020 goal CY17  17% CY18  18% CY20 GOAL  20% We continued to make progress to reduce our energy use during this goal period. Based on our current data, we cut *annual progress per case of product energy use by 18% , just 2 points short of our 20% reduction sold versus 2011 baseline goal by 2020. Because our facilities are not energy-intensive, making progress has been challenging after initial rounds of energy reductions in the 2013 and early 2020 goal periods, so the fact that we're close to the goal is significant. Some of the recent reductions in energy use per case of product sold are due to an increase in product volume and the resulting efficiencies of scale. Early in our goal period, we identified and implemented potential efficiencies in some of our most energyintensive processes. In more recent years, we focused on site-specific efficiency improvements – such as installing LED lighting – identified through our Energy Audit Action Plan created several years ago. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 50 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights GHG Emissions Reductions Exceed Our 2020 Goal For more detailed information on GHG emissions, visit TheCloroxCompany.com, We’ve now cut our greenhouse gas emissions by 33% , exceeding our 20% goal GHG Emissions* three years ahead of plan. Achieving this goal is the result of steady progress throughout the goal period, with the exception of a slight setback in 2014 because CY12  10% of extreme weather that required additional energy use. It also takes into account a CY13  12% restatement in 2017 to conform with methodology supported by the U.S. EPA. CY14  11% CY15  17% Similar to our energy use, some of the recent reductions in greenhouse gas emissions on a case of product sold basis were due to our increase in product CY16  18% volume and the resulting efficiencies of scale. Greenhouse gas emissions CY17  32% were also reduced through facility-based initiatives to install energy-efficient CY18  33% LED lighting. CY20 GOAL  20% Two years ago we installed solar panels at our Fairfield, California, plant and our *annual progress per case of product regional distribution center in Aberdeen, Maryland. Both solar panel arrays were sold versus 2011 base year built with a third-party provider through power purchase agreements, or PPAs. That means we didn’t spend company money to build these projects, and our facilities buy the power produced from the third party instead of from the utility. While both arrays generate renewable energy, we don’t 33% REDUCTION claim or include the clean energy attributes of the Aberdeen distribution in GHG emissions, center in the calculation of our GHG emissions because the third party exceeding goal early retains the renewable energy credit rights in the PPA. Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 51 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights 4 STRATEGY Waste-to-Landfill Reductions Surpass 2020 Goal For more detailed information on waste-to-landfill, visit TheCloroxCompany.com, We exceeded our 2020 solid-waste-to-landfill goal just two Solid-Waste-to-Landfill* years into our goal period but continued to work to build on our progress over the last five years. In 2017 and 2018, a CY12  1% few locations had one-time disposal events of nonrecyclable CY13  34% materials that increased waste volumes for the company, CY14  30% including a major construction project and several capital CY15  25% equipment projects that resulted in an increase in hard-torecycle construction demolition and debris. Additionally, the CY16  41% loss of once-reliable markets for certain plastics and paper CY17  33% recycling continues to affect the company, forcing many sites CY18  21% to send more material to landfill. Despite these setbacks, CY20 GOAL  20% we remained ahead of our 20% reduction goal throughout the goal period. *annual progress per case of product sold versus 2011 base year As a company, we reused, recycled or composted over 85% of nonsellable materials annually, from 2015 to 2018, up from 65% in 2011, and worked to identify new opportunities to reduce solid-waste-to-landfill, SURPASSED 20% such as the decision by our manufacturing site and goal 7 years early distribution center in Mexico to send certain waste to a co-processing facility. With co-processing, waste is used for energy, and the residual material is used as a raw material for a concrete mix. We also determined that a significant source of waste was the periodic replacement and disposal of bricks used to line furnaces that turn wood chips into char at our Kingsford plants. We resolved this issue by repurposing the brick to build the base of an on-site access road rather than sending it to a landfill and have targeted similar beneficial reuse opportunities for brick in future years. We also exceeded our goal of having 10 zero-waste-to-landfill sites by 2020, ending FY 2019 with 13 sites certified through a rigorous internal audit process. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 52 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Strategy 4 // Corporate Responsibility Highlights Water Reductions Ahead of 2020 Goal For more detailed information on water use, visit TheCloroxCompany.com, With steady progress throughout the goal period, we surpassed our 20% water Water Use* reduction goal in 2016, four years early. Over the past couple of years, we had increased water use for unplanned maintenance events such as equipment CY12  5% cleaning and for emergencies, as our plants strived to reduce water use without CY13  8% compromising quality or safety requirements. CY14  11% CY15  14% Despite these challenges, water reductions remained flat in 2018 overall, as they CY16  21% were partially offset by the benefits of replacing underground piping at one of our older plants. We also continued to benefit from and implement water-reduction CY17  22% best practices identified through a third-party water audit conducted in 2015 CY18  21% and 2016 for our most resource-intensive plants. These initiatives enabled GOAL CY20  20% us to accelerate our progress from a 14% reduction in water use in 2015 to a 21% reduction in 2018 . *annual progress per case of product sold versus 2011 base year 21% REDUCTION in water use in 2018 Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 53 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FY19 $6.2B SCORECARD Sales by Segment & Category 1,2 19% HOMECARE NET SALES (Clorox, Pine-Sol, Tilex, Formula 409, Liquid-Plumr) 34% + 9% LAUNDRY (Clorox, Clorox 2) Cleaning 6% PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS (Clorox Healthcare, CloroxPro) 25 COUNTRY/ TERRITORY 13% BAGS, WRAPS, CONTAINERS (Glad) OPERATIONS 8% CHARCOAL (Kingsford, Match Light) 30% 7% CAT LITTER Household Household (Fresh Step, Scoop Away) 2% DIGESTIVE HEALTH 8,800 (RenewLife) EMPLOYEES 9% FOOD PRODUCTS + (Hidden Valley, Soy Vay, KC Masterpiece) 5% NATURAL PERSONAL CARE (Burt’s Bees) 20% 100 3% WATER FILTRATION MARKETS Lifestyle (Brita) AROUND 3% DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS THE WORLD (Rainbow Light, Natural Vitality, NeoCell) LATIN AMERICA EUROPE/SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA CANADA ASIA AUSTRALIA/ 16% NEW ZEALAND International MIDDLE EAST/ NORTH AFRICA All brands are registered trademarks of The Clorox Company. 1 All percentages represent rounded numbers. 2 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 54 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS PLANTS ADMINISTRATIVE/SALES OFFICES Our Global Footprint JOINT VENTURES R&D FACILITIES NORTH AMERICA United States Canada ASIA Mexico China Dominican Republic South Korea Puerto Rico Hong Kong Panama EUROPE Philippines Costa Rica United Kingdom Malaysia AFRICA MIDDLE EAST Kenya Egypt South Saudi Arabia AUSTRALIA SOUTH AMERICA Africa United Arab Colombia Emirates Ecuador Peru NEW ZEALAND Argentina Chile Uruguay THE CLOROX COMPANY | 55 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Net Sales PERFORMANCE ($ Millions) FY17 $5,973 Achieving financial FY18 $6,124 success while investing FY19 $6,214 for the long term. Earnings From Continuing Earnings From EBIT Margin1 Operations Before Income Taxes Continuing Operations (as a % of Net Sales) (non-GAAP) ($ Millions) ($ Millions) FY17 $1,033 FY17 $703 FY17 18.7% FY18 $1,054 FY18 $823 FY18 18.5% FY19 $1,024 FY19 $820 FY19 18.0% Economic Profit2 Diluted Net Earnings Per Share Net Cash Provided By (non-GAAP) ($ Millions) From Continuing Operations Continuing Operations ($) ($ Millions) FY17 $525 FY17 $5.35 FY17 $868 FY18 $624 FY18 $6.26 FY18 $976 FY19 $610 FY19 $6.32 FY19 $992 Free Cash Flow3 (non-GAAP) ($ Millions) FY17 $637 FY18 $782 FY19 $786 PRODUCT Innovating and making responsible products responsibly. 3% 58% GOAL Incremental Sales From Product Product Portfolio With Sustainability +50% Innovation Improvements 1 By 2020 Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 56 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT PEOPLE Promoting diversity, opportunity and respectful treatment for all people who touch our business. Best-In-Class World-Class Employee Engagement1 Workplace Safety2 Diversity as a Business Strength 87% 0.86 in Corporate Governance Employee Recordable Engagement Incident Rate 33% * (vs. 81% for Consumer Goods (vs. World-Class Level <1.0) Companies, 86% for Global High-Performance Companies) Minority Board Members (vs. 16% Fortune 500 Average)4 Diversity as a Business Strength in the Workforce 33% * Ethnic Minorities (U.S.) 28% 33% Female Board Members Nonproduction Nonproduction (vs. 23% Fortune 500 Average)4 Managers Employees (vs. 30% U.S. Census Bureau)3 (vs. 33% U.S. Census Bureau)3 33% * Women (Global) Female Clorox 43% 51% Executive Committee Nonproduction Nonproduction Members Managers Employees *As of June 30, 2019 Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 57 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT COMMUNITY Safeguarding families through initiatives that promote health, education and safety. $4.5M Foundation and $2.7M Corporate Community 1 Cash Grants or 105,896 Employee Volunteer Hours in CY18 $6.1M $11.9M U.S. Corporate Total Impact Product Donations $1.3M U.S. Cause-Marketing Contributions PLANET Shrinking our environmental footprint while we grow. Energy Water Consumption Consumption Operational Footprint Reduction 21% 18% GOALS 20% Solid-Wasteto-Landfill1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions1 By 2020 (CY18 vs CY11 per case of product sold) 21% 33% Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Please refer to pages 70-71 for the Review Report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 58 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FOOTNOTES See footnotes below for descriptions of these non-generally accepted accounting principles, or non(ii) The tax rate applied is the effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations, which GAAP measures, the reasons management believes they are useful to investors, and reconciliations was 19.8%, 21.8%, 31.9%, 34.1%, 34.2% and 34.6% in fiscal years 2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015 to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. and 2014, respectively. GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for (iii) T  otal capital employed represents total assets less non-interest bearing liabilities. Adjusted the comparable GAAP measures and should be read in connection with the company’s consolidated capital employed represents total capital employed adjusted to add back current year after tax financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP. noncash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment charges. Average capital employed is the average of adjusted capital employed for the current year and total capital 1. EBIT represents earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, interest income and employed for the prior year, based on year-end balances. See below for details of the average interest expense. EBIT margin is the ratio of EBIT to net sales. The company’s management capital employed calculation: believes these measures provide useful additional information to investors about trends in the company’s operations and are useful for period-over-period comparisons. Dollars in millions FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 Reconciliation of EBIT Total assets (v) $ 5,116 $ 5,060 $ 4,573 $ 4,510 $ 4,154 $ 4,251 Dollars in millions FY19 FY18 FY17 Less: Accounts payable and Earnings from continuing operations accrued liabilities (vi) 1,033 1,000 1,002 1,032 976 912 before income taxes $ 1,024 $ 1,054 $ 1,033 Income taxes payable 9 — — — 31 8 Interest income (3) (6) (4) Other liabilities (vi) 774 778 770 784 745 768 Interest expense 97 85 88 Deferred income taxes 50 72 61 82 95 103 EBIT — non-GAAP $ 1,118 $ 1,133 $ 1,117 Non-interest bearing EBIT margin — non-GAAP 18.0% 18.5% 18.7% liabilities 1,866 1,850 1,833 1,898 1,847 1,791 Net sales $ 6,214 $ 6,124 $ 5,973 Total capital employed 3,250 3,210 2,740 2,612 2,307 2,460 After tax non-cash U.S. 2. Reconciliation of Economic Profit (i) GAAP restructuring and intangible asset Dollars in millions and impairment charges 1 1 2 6 1 2 all calculations based on rounded numbers FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 Adjusted capital employed $ 3,251 $ 3,211 $ 2,742 $ 2,618 $ 2,308 $ 2,462 Average capital employed $ 3,231 $ 2,977 $ 2,680 $ 2,463 $ 2,385 $ 2,486 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes $ 1,024 $ 1,054 $ 1,033 $ 983 $ 921 $ 884 (iv) Capital charge represents average capital employed multiplied by a cost of capital, which Add back: was 9% for all fiscal years presented. The calculation of capital charge includes the impact Non-cash U.S. GAAP of rounding numbers. restructuring and intangible asset (v) Amounts for fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014 have been retrospectively adjusted to conform impairment costs 2 2 4 9 1 3 to the current year presentation of debt issuance costs required by Accounting Standards Interest expense 97 85 88 88 100 103 Update No. 2015-03, “Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs.” Earnings from continuing (vi) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities were combined into one financial statement line operations before income as of June 30, 2016. The change has been retrospectively applied to fiscal years 2015 and taxes, non-cash U.S. 2014. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and Other liabilities are adjusted to exclude GAAP restructuring and interest-bearing liabilities. intangible asset impairment charges, 3. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by continuing operations less capital and interest expense $ 1,123 $ 1,141 $ 1,125 $ 1,080 $ 1,022 $ 990 expenditures. Less: Income taxes on Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow earnings from continuing operations before income Dollars in millions FY19 FY18* FY17* taxes, non-cash U.S. GAAP Net cash provided by continuing operations (GAAP) $ 992 $ 976 $ 868 restructuring and intangible Less: capital expenditures (206) (194) (231) asset impairment charges and interest expense (ii) 222 249 359 368 350 342 Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ 786 $ 782 $ 637 Adjusted after-tax profit $ 901 $ 892 $ 766 $ 712 $ 672 $ 648 Free cash flow as a percentage of net Average capital employed (iii) $ 3,231 $ 2,977 $ 2,680 $ 2,463 $ 2,385 $ 2,486 sales (non-GAAP) 12.6% 12.8% 10.7% Capital charge (iv) $ 291 $ 268 $ 241 $ 222 $ 214 $ 224 Net sales $6,214 $6,124 $5,973 Economic profit (i) (adjusted *Net cash provided by continuing operations and free cash flow for fiscal years 2018 and 2017 after-tax profit have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective adoption of Accounting Standards Update less capital charge) $ 610 $ 624 $ 525 $ 490 $ 458 $ 424 No. 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash,” effective July 1, 2018. (i) E  conomic profit (EP) is defined by the Company as earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, excluding non-cash U.S. GAAP restructuring and intangible asset impairment The company’s management uses free cash flow and free cash flow as a percent of net sales to help assess the cash generation ability of the business and funds available for investing activities, charges, and interest expense; less income taxes (calculated utilizing the Company’s effective such as acquisitions, investing in the business to drive growth, and financing activities, including tax rate), and less a capital charge (calculated as average capital employed multiplied by a cost debt payments, dividend payments and stock repurchases. Free cash flow does not represent of capital rate). EP is a key financial metric that the Company’s management uses to evaluate cash available only for discretionary expenditures, since the Company has mandatory debt business performance and allocate resources, and is a component in determining employee service requirements and other contractual and non-discretionary expenditures. In addition, incentive compensation. The Company’s management believes EP provides additional perspective free cash flow may not be the same as similar measures provided by other companies due to investors about financial returns generated by the business and represents profit generated to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. over and above the cost of capital used by the business to generate that profit. The aggregate EP for FY14 to FY19 is $3.131 billion. PRODUCT FOOTNOTES 1 For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. All sustainability metrics represent cumulative progress basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10% or more of packaging or active ingredients on a against CY 2011 baseline, with percentage based on fiscal year net sales. There are four types of per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10% reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) sustainability improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or partially meeting an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20% or more of active ingredients or packaging on two or more: 1) a 5% or greater reduction in product or packaging materials on a per-consumer-use a per-consumer-use basis. PEOPLE FOOTNOTES 1 T  he FY19 engagement survey was open for three weeks, during which time 81% of eligible Clorox we averaged less than one reportable incident during the past year. According to the latest available employees completed the survey (6,233 of 7,676). Companies that qualify for the Willis Towers data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average RIR for goods-producing manufacturing Watson Global High-Performance Norm meet two criteria: 1) superior financial performance, companies is 3.5. The criteria used to determine RIR follows the U.S. Department of Labor’s defined by a net profit margin and/or return on invested capital that exceeds industry averages; Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines and is applied globally. and 2) superior human resources practices, defined by employee opinion scores near the top 3 U.S. Census Bureau benchmark metrics are based on the U.S. Census Bureau’s Equal Employment among the most financially successful companies surveyed by Willis Towers Watson. The Willis Opportunity (EEO) Tabulation 2006-2010, American Community Survey 5-year dataset. The benchmarks Towers Watson Global Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Norm is comprised of employee survey are modeled using Clorox’s workforce as of June 30, 2018. The calculations utilize weighted averages results from a cross-section of organizations that produce fast-moving consumer goods. by U.S. Census job code and apply approximate workforce location assumptions based on Clorox’s 2 Based on industry benchmarking by Clorox, we consider a recordable incident rate of 1.0 or less historical workforce locations and headcount trends. to be world-class performance. Our FY19 RIR of 0.86 means that for every 100 Clorox employees 4 “Missing Pieces Report: The 2018 Board Diversity Census of Women and Minorities on Fortune globally, not including workers at offices with fewer than 30 employees but including remote workers, 500 Boards,” Deloitte and the Alliance for Board Diversity, 2019. COMMUNITY FOOTNOTES PLANET FOOTNOTES 1 Financial equivalent of 105,896 volunteer hours, calculated at $25.43 per hour, based on the 2018 1 For our greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption, water consumption and solid-wasteU.S. value of volunteer time from IndependentSector.org. Less than 5% of these hours are by to-landfill metrics, we revise our baseline for structural changes on a yearly basis, including employees outside the U.S., but all are calculated using the U.S. average rate. acquisitions and divestitures, in alignment with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol where applicable. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 59 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT RECOGNITIONS COMPANY The company was broadly recognized for its business, people and corporate responsibility achievements in fiscal year 2019. #7 #19 100 Most 2018 Sustainable Management U.S. Companies Top 250 BARRON’S DRUCKER INSTITUTE & THE WALL STREET JOURNAL #11 #8 2019 50 Out Front 50 Best U.S. (Top Companies Manufacturers for Diversity) INDUSTRYWEEK DIVERSITY MBA #47 #72 Best Places to U.S. RepTrak 100 Work in the U.S. (America’s Most Reputable GLASSDOOR Companies 2019) REPUTATION INSTITUTE & FORBES #268 2018 Global 2000: World’s Best Employers FORBES THE CLOROX COMPANY | 60 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Bloomberg 100% SCORE Gender-Equality 2019 Corporate Index Equality Index HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN #25 #27 Top 100 Corporate Philanthropists in the San Francisco Bay Area (America’s Best Corporate Citizens) JUST CAPITAL & FORBES SAN FRANCISCO BUSINESS TIMES #87 #233 100 Best America’s Best Corporate Citizens Employers for CR MAGAZINE Diversity 2019 FORBES 2018 50 Out Front Best in Class – FTSE4Good Recruitment, Succession Planning, Index Series Accountability & Board Diversity DIVERSITY MBA THE CLOROX COMPANY | 61 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT RECOGNITIONS BRAND NUTRANEXT: NeoCell Super NeoCell Super Natural Vitality Collagen+C Collagen+C CALM Gummies The The 8 Best 8 Best Collagen 7 Best Gummy Collagen Supplements Supplements of 2019 of 2019 Supplements VERYWELLHEALTH.COM for Adults SPY.COM SPY.COM Rainbow Light BRITA: Women’s One 7 Best 7 Best Multivitamins “New Year, New Me” forMultivitamins Women’s Health for with Stephen Curry Women’s Health HEALTHLINE.COM and Rudy Mancuso HEALTHLINE.COM “Best Influencer Video” STREAMY STREAMYAWARDS AWARD LIQUID-PLUMR: “Will It Clog?” “Will Best It Clog?” at Leveraging Best at Leveraging YouTube Formats YouTubeAwardFormats Award YOUTUBE WORKS THE CLOROX COMPANY | 62 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT BURT'S BEES: Liquid Lipstick Overnight Lip Treatment Best Lip Product Editor's Pick Liquid Lipstick UK CEW (COSMETICS ASIA ALLURE BURT'S BEES: EXECUTIVE WOMEN) Best Lip Product UK CEW (COSMETICS INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVE WOMEN) Overnight U.S. Sensitive Cleanser Liquid Lip Lipstick Treatment Overnight Lip Treatment “Skin Award” Best Lip Product Editor's Pick Best Lip Product COSMOPOLITAN Editor's Pick UKKOREA CEW ALLURE (COSMETICS EXECUTIVE WOMEN) GLAD: GLAD: “The Toughest “The Toughest Toughest “TheTrash Bag” “The TrashToughest Bag” Trash Bag” Direct Trash Bag” Creativity and Marketing Direct Innovation Creativity and Marketing ONE SHOW MERIT AWARD Innovation REGGIE AWARD — BRONZE ONE SHOW MERIT AWARD REGGIES BRONZE AWARD FRESH STEP: FRESH STEP: Fresh Step Fresh Step “Cats on Glass” Clean Paws Clean Paws 2019 Bronze Bronze 2018 IRI Effie Effie Award Award IRI New New 2019 Product Product Product Pacesetter Product Pacesetter of of the the Year Year Rising Rising Star Star PET PET BUSINESS BUSINESS THE CLOROX COMPANY | 63 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT THE CLOROX COMPANY | 63 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions, except share and per share data 2019 2018 2017 Net sales $ 6,214 $ 6,124 $ 5,973 Cost of products sold 3,486 3,449 3,302 Gross profit 2,728 2,675 2,671 Selling and administrative expenses 856 837 810 Advertising costs 612 570 599 Research and development costs 136 132 135 Interest expense 97 85 88 Other (income) expense, net 3 (3) 6 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 1,024 1,054 1,033 Income taxes on continuing operations 204 231 330 Earnings from continuing operations 820 823 703 Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — — (2) Net earnings $ 820 $ 823 $ 701 Net earnings (losses) per share Basic Continuing operations $ 6.42 $ 6.37 $ 5.45 Discontinued operations — — (0.02) Basic net earnings per share $ 6.42 $ 6.37 $ 5.43 Diluted Continuing operations $ 6.32 $ 6.26 $ 5.35 Discontinued operations — — (0.02) Diluted net earnings per share $ 6.32 $ 6.26 $ 5.33 Weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands) Basic 127,734 129,293 128,953 Diluted 129,792 131,581 131,566 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 64 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions 2019 2018 2017 Earnings from continuing operations $ 820 $ 823 $ 703 Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — — (2) Net earnings 820 823 701 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency adjustments, net of tax (22) (28) (3) Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, net of tax 2 12 7 Pension and postretirement benefit adjustments, net of tax 4 12 23 Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (16) (4) 27 Comprehensive income $ 804 $ 819 $ 728 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 65 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets As of June 30 Dollars in millions, except share and per share data 2019 2018 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 111 $ 131 Receivables, net 631 600 Inventories, net 512 506 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 51 74 Total current assets 1,305 1,311 Property, plant and equipment, net 1,034 996 Goodwill v 1,591 1,602 Trademarks, net 791 795 Other intangible assets, net 121 134 Other assets 274 222 Total assets $ 5,116 XXXX$ 5,060 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities Notes and loans payable $ 396 $ 199 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,035 1,001 Income taxes payable 9 — Total current liabilities 1,440 1,200 Long-term debt 2,287 2,284 Other liabilities 780 778 Deferred income taxes 50 72 Total liabilities 4,557 4,334 Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity Preferred stock: $1.00 par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized; none issued or outstanding — — Common stock: $1.00 par value; 750,000,000 shares authorized; 158,741,461 shares issued as of June 30, 2019 and 2018; and 125,686,325 and 127,982,767 shares outstanding as of June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively 159 159 Additional paid-in capital 1,046 975 Retained earnings 3,150 2,797 Treasury shares, at cost: 33,055,136 and 30,758,694 shares as of June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively (3,194) (2,658) Accumulated other comprehensive net (loss) income (602) (547) Stockholders’ equity 559 726 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 5,116 $ 5,060 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 66 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity Accumulated Other Common Stock Additional Treasury Stock Comprehensive Shares Paid-in Retained Shares Net (Loss) Dollars in millions, except per share data Amount (in thousands) Capital Earnings Amount (in thousands) Income Total Balance as of June 30, 2016 $159 158,741 $868 $2,163 $(2,323) (29,386) $(570) $297 Net earnings 701 701 Other comprehensive income (loss) 27 27 Dividends ($3.24 per share declared) (421) (421) Stock-based compensation 51 51 Other employee stock plan activities 9 (3) 70 1,164 76 Treasury stock purchased (189) (1,505) (189) Balance as of June 30, 2017 159 158,741 928 2,440 (2,442) (29,727) (543) 542 Net earnings 823 823 Other comprehensive income (loss) (4) (4) Dividends ($3.60 per share declared) (467) (467) Stock-based compensation 53 53 Other employee stock plan activities (6) 1 56 1,139 51 Treasury stock purchased (272) (2,171) (272) Balance as of June 30, 2018 159 158,741 975 2,797 (2,658) (30,759) (547) 726 Cumulative effect of accounting changes1 36 (39) (3) Net earnings 820 820 Other comprehensive income (loss) (16) (16) Dividends ($3.94 per share declared) (503) (503) Stock-based compensation 43 43 Other employee stock plan activities 28 — 124 2,178 152 Treasury stock purchased (660) (4,474) (660) Balance as of June 30, 2019 $159 158,741 $1,046 $3,150 $(3,194) (33,055) $(602) $559 1The opening balances of Retained Earnings and Accumulated other comprehensive net (loss) income were adjusted as a result of adopting Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),” on July 1, 2018 and ASU No. 2018-02, “Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income,” on April 1, 2019, respectively. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 67 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended June 30 Dollars in millions 2019 2018 2017 (As Adjusted*) (As Adjusted*) Operating activities: Net earnings $ 820 $ 823 $ 701 Deduct: Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax — — (2) Earnings from continuing operations 820 823 703 Adjustments to reconcile earnings from continuing operations to net cash provided by continuing operations: Depreciation and amortization 180 166 163 Stock-based compensation 43 53 51 Deferred income taxes (20) (23) (35) Other (29) 44 33 Changes in: Receivables, net (32) (24) (1) Inventories, net (7) (21) (19) Prepaid expenses and other current assets (6) 4 (5) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 17 (47) (34) Income taxes payable/receivable, net 26 1 12 Net cash provided by continuing operations 992 976 868 Net cash used for discontinued operations — — (3) Net cash provided by operations 992 976 865 Investing activities: Capital expenditures (206) (194) (231) Businesses acquired, net of cash acquired — (681) — Other 10 16 26 Net cash used for investing activities (196) (859) (205) Financing activities: Notes and loans payable, net 189 (214) (125) Long-term debt borrowings, net of issuance costs — 891 — Long-term debt repayments — (400) — Treasury stock purchased (661) (271) (183) Cash dividends paid (490) (450) (412) Issuance of common stock for employee stock plans and other 147 45 75 Net cash used for financing activities (815) (399) (645) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (2) (3) (1) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (21) (285) 14 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash: Beginning of year 134 419 405 End of year $ 113 $ 134 $ 419 Supplemental cash flow information: Interest paid $ 87 $ 75 $ 78 Income taxes paid, net of refunds 207 245 347 Non-cash financing activities: Cash dividends declared and accrued, but not paid 133 123 108 *Adjusted to reflect the retrospective adoption of ASU No. 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash,” effective July 1, 2018. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 68 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Clorox Company We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of The Clorox Company as of June 30, 2019 and 2018, the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2019, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”) (not presented separately herein) and in our report dated August 13, 2019, we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2019 and 2018 and for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2019 (presented on pages 64 through 68) is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of The Clorox Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2019, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated August 13, 2019 (not presented separately herein) expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. San Francisco, CA August 13, 2019 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 69 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON REVIEW OF NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION The Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Clorox Company We have reviewed selected quantitative performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) included in Exhibit A and as identified by the “ ” symbol presented in The Clorox Company’s (“Clorox” or “the Company”) Annual Report (the “Report”) for the year ended June 30, 2019, or otherwise noted, in accordance with the criteria also set forth in Exhibit A (the “Criteria”). We did not review all information included in the Report. We did not review the narrative sections of the Report, except where they incorporated the Subject Matter. The Clorox Company’s management is responsible for the Subject Matter included in Exhibit A and as also presented in the Report, in accordance with the Criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our review. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the Subject Matter in order for it to be in accordance with the Criteria. A review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter is in accordance with the Criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. A review also does not provide assurance that we became aware of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. In performing our review, we have also complied with the independence and other ethical requirements set forth in the Code of Professional Conduct and applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA. As described in Exhibit A, the Subject Matter is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the selected quantitative performance indicators for the year ended June 30, 2019, or otherwise noted, in order for it to be in accordance with the Criteria. San Francisco, CA October 2, 2019 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 70 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT EXHIBIT A: SCHEDULE OF SELECTED QUANTITATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Indicator Name Scope Unit Value 1 Criteria Scope 1, 2, 3 GHG Global Percentage reduction of tCO2e per stat case sold over 33% The World Resources Institute (“WRI”) / World Business Council for Sustainable emissions2, 3, 4, 5, 6 baseline year (2011)7 Development’s (“WBCSD”) Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance and the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard Energy Global Percentage reduction of MWh per stat case sold over 18% WRI/WBCSD’s GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, the consumption,2, 3, 4, 5 baseline year (2011)7 GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance Water Global Percentage reduction of gallons of water consumed 21% Management’s criteria as follows: Water consumption includes water at all global consumption2, 4 per stat case sold over baseline year (2011)7 manufacturing sites, offices and research development centers used in 1) products sold to customers 2) the manufacturing process 3) irrigation and 4) water consumed by employees during office hours for personal needs (e.g., restrooms, break rooms). Water sources include city/municipal, well, lake, river and stormwater. Sustainability Global Percentage of product portfolio 58% Management’s criteria as follows: There are four types of sustainability improvements to improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or by partially product portfolio meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product or packaging since January 20128 materials on a per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20 percent or more of active ingredients or packaging on a per-consumer-use basis. Workforce See Percentage minority nonproduction employees in U.S.10 33% OSHA Regulation 1920.2(d) defines “Employee” as an individual who is employed in a demographics/ right business of his employer which affects commerce. The Equal Employment Opportunity diversity metrics9 for Percentage minority nonproduction managers in U.S. 10 28% Commission defines “Minority” as any race that is not white (Asian; Black; Latino; Native metric American; Native Hawaiian; or Two or More). scope Percentage female nonproduction employees globally10 51% Management’s criteria as follows: “Manager” is defined as an “employee” at Grade 27 or Percentage female nonproduction managers globally10 43% above for U.S. employees and Grade 26 or above for international employees with regards to Clorox’s Human Resources (HR) compensation structure. “Production Employee” is defined as an employee at Grade 19 or below with regards to Clorox’s HR compensation Percentage female Board of Directors 33% structure (international and U.S.). “Nonproduction Employee” is defined as an employee at Grade 20 or above with regards to Clorox’s HR compensation structure (international and Percentage minority Board of Directors 33% U.S.). In certain circumstances, nonproduction employees may be classified below Grade 20 based on type of work performed. Percentage female Executive Committee members 33% U.S. product U.S. Fair market value of products donated in U.S. dollars $6.1 Management’s criteria as follows: U.S. product donations refer to those donations9,11 only million donations used to aid in disaster relief or to support schools, food banks and other nonprofit organizations. Fair Market Value is derived from current-year average truckload price of the product donated. Truckload prices are based on volume ordered and shipped. Recordable Global Recordable incident rate (RIR) 0.86 Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) Regulation (Standards – incident rate12 29 CFR) Part 1904 “Recording and Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illness.” Employee Global Percentage of employee engagement 87% Management’s criteria as follows: Engagement is defined as the intensity of engagement score13 employees’ connection to Clorox, marked by committed effort to achieve work goals (‘being engaged’) in environments that support productivity (‘being enabled’) and maintain personal well-being (‘feeling energized’). Note 1: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different techniques may also vary. 1 All percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number in the Annual Report. In alignment 6 Scope 3 includes finished goods transportation in the U.S. only and global employee business with the GHG Protocol, Clorox revises its baseline consumption in years of structural changes travel. Employee business travel includes emissions from commercial air flights and rental car to appropriately reflect acquisitions and divestitures. use by Clorox’s employees. Commercial air flights are limited to business travel booked in the United States, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Peru and Canada. Scope 2 For all locations where Clorox maintains operational control and for the calendar year ended 3 emissions for business travel are calculated using ‘per vehicle-mile traveled’ and ‘per passengerDec. 31, 2018. mile traveled’ emissions factors from the EPA’s Center for Corporate Climate Leadership 3 Scope 1 emissions include direct energy used by Clorox in its operations, categorized by guidance, published in 2018. Emissions from finished goods transportation are calculated stationary combustion, mobile combustion, refrigerant use, direct VOC loss and direct wood using ‘per ton-mile’ emission factors, from the same guidance. pyrolysis. The last two sources relate mainly to Clorox’s Kingsford business unit, and wood 7 A stat case is the number of cases sold or produced, multiplied by a stat factor which normalizes pyrolysis is considered to be a mostly carbon neutral process; therefore, CO2 emissions from case value between brands and provides a common denominator of the revenue generated by wood pyrolysis are not included in total tCO2e, but CO2 equivalent emissions from CH4 and N2O cases across various brands. are included. Natural gas emissions, the largest Scope 1 emission source, are calculated using factors from EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting for Stationary Fuel Sources (June 2017) and Global 8 Once a product meets the sustainability improvement criteria, it is reported to the Clorox Eco Warming Potential (GWP) rates from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Team by each business unit, and the sustainability improvement percentage is calculated for that Fourth Assessment Report. product using its fiscal year net customer sales as a percentage of Clorox’s total fiscal year net customer sales. The total sustainability improvements percentage represents the summation of 4 Clorox’s natural gas, electricity and municipal water consumption data for U.S. sites are tracked by all reported sustainability improvement percentages for products that met the criteria between Clorox’s third-party utility management company. Other sources of energy and water consumption Jan. 1, 2012 and June 30, 2019. in the U.S. are tracked manually on a site-by-site basis and reported to Clorox’s corporate team on an annual basis. For international sites, all energy and water consumption data is tracked manually 9 For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. and reported annually to Clorox’s corporate team. 10 Based on headcount data of employees with reported gender and ethnicities. 5 Scope 2 includes indirect emissions resulting from Clorox’s purchased electricity use and is calculated using the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 2016 eGRID emission factors for 11 U.S. product donations include donations made by any U.S. business unit. U.S. locations and the Energy Information Administration’s (EIA) Foreign Electricity Emission 12 Recordable incident rate was determined as of July 29, 2019, for the fiscal year ended June 30, Factors published in 2007 for international locations. Clorox applies GWPs from the IPCC’s 2019. The recordable incident rate includes all reportable incidents that occurred at Clorox Fourth Assessment Report. For the Scope 2 market-based method, Clorox contacted its largest facilities globally. It does not include workers at offices with fewer than 30 employees, but it utility suppliers, however was unable to obtain reliable supplier-specific emission factors. does include remote workers. Clorox’s renewable energy certificates are not retired, and other contractual instruments and residual mix factors are not currently available in the locations in which Clorox operates. Due 13 Clorox adopts Willis Towers Watson’s definition of employee engagement in terms of ‘sustainable’ to the lack of market-based data available, Clorox’s market-based emissions were calculated engagement. Employee engagement is measured by a survey administered April 8, 2019 through following the same process as the location-based-method emissions. April 26, 2019. 6,233 Clorox employees responded to the survey. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 71 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE A commitment to strong corporate governance allows others to maintain trust in our company and brands and enables us to create long-term shareholder value. Some examples of Clorox’s adherence • Amendments to bylaws to provide the to best practices in governance include right to hold special meetings. the following: • Management proposal to remove • Board makeup: All but one independent, supermajority provisions from Clorox's 33% female and 33% ethnically diverse certificate of incorporation. directors.* Our governance framework is overseen • Annual director elections, with a majority by an experienced board of directors. The voting standard for election. directors bring with them expertise in diverse areas that include operations, • An average board tenure of 7.4 years. finance, regulatory, strategy and governance, enabling them to serve as responsible The company also has demonstrated stewards of the company. Through active an openness to stockholder feedback, outreach with stockholders, our lead considering and in some cases adopting independent director also stays informed recent changes to governance guidelines: of the issues that are most important to our investors. • Proxy access for a shareholder or a group of up to 20 shareholders who have owned at least 3% of outstanding capital stock for at least three years to submit director nominees for up to 20% of board seats. *As of June 30, 2019 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 72 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS BOARD OF The 2019 fiscal year brought new membership – with new expertise – to the Clorox board of directors. Pamela Benno Dorer Thomas-Graham Longtime director Jeffrey Noddle, former Chair and Chief Lead Independent executive chairman of SuperValu Inc., retired Executive Officer, Director in accordance with the company’s corporate The Clorox Company governance guidelines. Elected to serve in his place was Matthew Shattock, chairman and then-CEO of Beam Suntory Inc. As head of the world’s third-largest premium spirits company and previous business leader at Cadbury plc and Unilever, Shattock brings extensive consumer packaged goods experience, with a focus on innovation, brand communication and Richard H. Carmona operations, to the board. Amy Banse M.D., M.P.H., F.A.C.S. Managing Director Chief of Health Innovations, and Head of Funds, Canyon Ranch; former Comcast Ventures U.S. Surgeon General Spencer C. Fleischer Esther Lee A.D. David Mackay Robert W. Matschullat Matthew J. Shattock Managing Partner, Executive Vice Retired President Retired Vice Chairman Chairman, FFL Partners President — Global Chief and Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, Beam Suntory Inc. Marketing Officer, MetLife Inc. Kellogg Company The Seagram Company Ltd. Carolyn M. Ticknor Russell J. Weiner Christopher J. Williams Retired President, Chief Operating Chairman and Chief Imaging & Printing Systems, Officer and President of Executive Officer, Hewlett-Packard Company the Americas, Domino’s Inc. The Williams Capital Ms. Ticknor will retire from Group L.P. and Williams the board of directors effective Capital Management LLC November 2019. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 73 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE The company benefited from fresh perspectives brought by new leaders elevated to the Clorox Executive Committee and from existing CEC members asked to fill different roles, all promoted from within thanks to strong leadership development and succession planning. During the 2019 fiscal year, we named new members for: Information Technology, Jay McNulty; for Marketing, Stacey Grier; and for Sales, Troy Datcher. Early in the 2020 fiscal year, Linda Rendle assumed responsibility for the Cleaning and International divisions as well as corporate strategy and the five core global functions of Marketing, Sales, Product Supply, Research & Development and Information Technology. Eric Reynolds assumed responsibility for the Household and Lifestyle divisions and will serve as executive sponsor of environmental sustainability to facilitate integration with our businesses. As a result, there were slight changes in the overall makeup of the senior leadership team. As of June 30, 2019, women made up 33% of the CEC, overseeing our largest segment, overall strategy and core global functions as well as serving in the key roles of general counsel, chief people officer, chief innovation officer and chief 3 of 5 executive marketing officer. Three of the five executive vice presidents, or 60%, are women. vice presidents are women Women make up 33% of the CEC *As of June 30, 2019. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 74 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Standing from left to right: Seated from left to right: Diego Barral Linda Rendle Michael Costello Troy Datcher Senior Vice President and Executive Vice President — Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President General Manager — Cleaning, International, General Manager — and Chief Customer Officer International Division Strategy and Operations Nutranext and RenewLife Kevin Jacobsen Bill Bailey Benno Dorer Eric Reynolds Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President — Chair and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President — Chief Financial Officer Corporate and Business Development Household and Lifestyle Jay McNulty Kirsten Marriner Laura Stein Senior Vice President and Denise Garner Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President — Chief Information Officer Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer General Counsel and Chief Innovation Officer Corporate Affairs Stacey Grier Andy Mowery Senior Vice President Senior Vice President and and Chief Marketing Officer Chief Product Supply Officer Note: In August 2019, one of Clorox's CEC members left the company, which caused an increase in the percentage of females within the Executive Committee from 33% to 36%. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 75 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIALITY AND CORPORATE REVIEW OF NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES We believe voluntary assurance strengthens our The Clorox Company’s integrated annual report reporting process and enhances the credibility of presents the company’s financial and corporate our nonfinancial information. We engage a third responsibility performance for fiscal year 2019 party to review the following nonfinancial key as well as our most significant accomplishments performance indicators: U.S. greenhouse gas for the 2020 Strategy period (FY14-FY19) and the emissions, U.S. energy consumption, global water corresponding environmental strategy period consumption, product sustainability improvements, (CY13-CY18), unless otherwise noted. It highlights workforce demographics, recordable incident rate, fiscal year financial performance in accordance employee engagement and U.S. product donations. with generally accepted accounting principles in Items undergoing assurance are indicated with an the U.S., which include principles for determining “A” throughout the report. materiality related to financial reporting. REPORTING PERIOD AND BOUNDARY Also presented in this report is information about Most data in this report covers wholly and performance related to the company’s corporate majority-owned operations for July 1, 2018, responsibility priorities. For purposes of this through June 30, 2019. In some instances, we reporting, prioritization is based on how much a have included data for a multiyear period to topic influences our business success, including show year-over-year comparisons. Data in this alignment with our corporate strategy and purpose; report for environmental sustainability and potential impact on our operations, consumers volunteer hours is for the period of Jan. 1, 2018, and business partners; potential economic, social through Dec. 31, 2018, and is global, unless and environmental impacts; and the importance otherwise stated. of the work to our stakeholders. Key corporate responsibility priorities may include, but are not limited to, topics that could have a significant financial impact on the organization. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 76 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT THIRD-PARTY ESG FRAMEWORKS This year’s report has been developed in • Incorporated into the GRI Sustainability Reporting accordance with the core requirements of Standards Index is the Communication on the Global Reporting Initiative standards, the Progress, which describes the company’s actions International Integrated Reporting Council’s in implementing the Ten Principles of the United framework and the United Nations Global Nations Global Compact. Compact’s Ten Principles. It has also been informed by the Sustainability Accounting • IIRC’s International <IR> Framework provides Standards Board’s Household and Personal guidance to promote a more cohesive and efficient Products standard. approach to corporate reporting, seeking to give providers of financial capital better-quality • GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Standards information about how an organization creates represent a global best practice for reporting value over time. on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. More information on the GRI • SASB’s industry-specific standards aim to help standards is available at globalreporting.org. businesses around the world identify, manage and Relevant content meeting these standards report on the sustainability topics that matter most is noted on individual pages, and a full list of to their investors. Progress toward reporting in GRI disclosures we address can be found on accordance with SASB’s Household and Personal pages 79-94 of this report and on our corporate Products standards can be found on page 78 of website, TheCloroxCompany.com. this report. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 77 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT SASB REFERENCE TABLE This marks the first time we're providing disclosures we'll work toward greater alignment of key metrics of our environmental, social and governance with SASB’s standards as we continue to support performance in reference to the Sustainability the spirit of SASB’s mission and strive toward Accounting Standards Board’s Household and greater transparency of relevant nonfinancial Personal Products standard, as defined by SASB’s data that helps investors make informed Sustainable Industry Classification System. In the decisions, drives improved sustainability table below, we identify our initial disclosures or outcomes for our company and leads to location where a qualitative discussion can be improved long-term value creation. found for each priority topic. For our new strategy, Household and Personal Products Standard TOPIC SASB ACCOUNTING METRIC LOCATION OR RESPONSE Water Total water withdrawn 3,097 thousand cubic meters in CY 2018 Management CDP Water Description of water management risks and discussion CDP Water of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — Water Product Environmental, Discussion of process to identify and manage emerging Clorox Website: Brands — What We’re Made Of Health and Safety materials and chemicals of concern Performance Packaging Lifecycle Percentage made from recycled and/or 99% of the paper-based packaging we purchase is made Management renewable materials from recycled or certified sustainable fiber Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Products and Packaging Percentage that is recyclable, reusable 92% of the packages that house our products are recyclable and/or compostable Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Products and Packaging Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Products and impact of packaging throughout its lifecycle Packaging Environmental & Amount of palm oil sourced 2,262 metric tons of palm derivative material within Social Impacts of Palm ingredients Clorox purchased for its domestic Oil Supply Chain businesses in CY 2018 RSPO Annual Communication of Progress Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing, Forest Commodities Percentage certified through the Roundtable on 236 metric tons of palm derivative material within Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains as ingredients Clorox purchased for its domestic (a) Identity Preserved, (b) Segregated, businesses in CY 2018 (c) Mass Balance or (d) Book & Claim RSPO Annual Communication of Progress Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing, Forest Commodities Activity Metrics Number of manufacturing facilities 35 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 78 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX General Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization The Clorox Company CEO Letter reinforces Clorox’s commitment to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles. 102-2 Activities, brands, 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-56 products and services 2020 Strategy Overview and Progress IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 FY 2019 Form 10-K: Item 1: Overview of Business, pages 1-4 102-3 Location of headquarters 2019 Scorecard, page 55 102-4 Location of operations 2019 Scorecard, page 55 102-5 Ownership and legal form FY 2019 Form 10-K cover page (The Clorox Company; State or other jurisdiction of incorporation of organization: Delaware) 102-6 Markets served 2019 Scorecard, page 55 FY 2019 Form 10-K, page 3 102-7 Scale of the organization 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-55 102-8 Information on employees Strategy 1, pages 16-21 and other workers 2019 Scorecard, pages 54, 57 [People section] Clorox Website: Our People 102-9 Supply chain Clorox’s supply chain reflects the company as a formulator UNGC Ten Principles — (not a chemical company) with a broad portfolio of products The Clorox Company Business for consumers and professionals. Raw material inputs Partner Code of Conduct includes are varied. our expectations of suppliers on Clorox Website:Corporate Responsibility: Supply Chain business ethics, human rights, labor, and environmental compliance and sustainability. 102-10 Significant changes to Clorox made the the following changes to its organization, the organization and which also impacted its supply chain: Aug. 2017 divestiture its supply chain of the Aplicare business, including manufacturing; April 2018 acquisition of the Nutranext business, which added a manufacturing facility in Sunrise, FL. 102-11 Precautionary Principle Clorox Website: Brands: What We’re Made Of Principle 7 or approach 102-12 External initiatives CDP, GRI, SASB, UNGC — See CEO Letter, pages 2-5 UNGC Ten Principles About This Report, page 76 Third Party ESG Frameworks, page 77 Clorox Website: AIM Progress Industry Collaboration 102-13 Membership of Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement UNGC Principles 7-9 associations (See Responsible Sourcing Information) THE CLOROX COMPANY | 79 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX General Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior CEO Letter, pages 2-5 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks 2020 Strategy Overview and Progress, pages 12-53 and opportunities IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 FY 2019 Form 10-K: Item 1.A. Risk Factors, pages 5-19 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards Clorox Website: Mission and Values Principle 10 and norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct and Clorox Principle 10 concerns about ethics Business Partner Code of Conduct GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance, pages 72-75 102-18 Governance structure Clorox Website: Corporate Governance UNGC Ten Principles Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance, pages 72-75 Principles 7-9 Clorox Website: Corporate Governance Clorox Website: Eco Governance Guidelines 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Corporate Governance, pages 72-75 for economic, environmental and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Corporate Governance, page 72 economic, environmental Clorox Website: Board of Directors and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest Corporate Governance, pages 72-73 governance body and its Clorox Website: Corporate Governance committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Corporate Governance, pages 72-73 governance body Clorox Website: Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the Clorox Website: Corporate Governance Committee Charters highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Clorox Website: Corporate Governance Committee Charters Principle 10 102-26 Role of highest governance Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles body in setting purpose, values and strategy THE CLOROX COMPANY | 80 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX General Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES 102-27 Collective knowledge of Clorox Website: Clorox Board of Directors UNGC Ten Principles highest governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest Clorox Website: Corporate Governance Committee Charters UNGC Ten Principles governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles economic, environmental and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Clorox Website: Governance Guidelines UNGC Ten Principles management processes 102-31 Review of economic, The Clorox board of directors meets at least quarterly to UNGC Ten Principles environmental and review key issues/opportunities impacting the company. social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s Clorox's CEO, CFO and General Counsel approve our role in sustainability reporting integrated report. 102-33 Communicating critical Clorox Website: Communicating with Clorox Board of Direcconcerns tors 102-34 Nature and total number of Clorox Board of Directors regularly review and address critical concerns a variety of key issues/opportunities through quarterly updates, strategy meetings and separate committee meetings. The company does not disclose the total number of concerns. 102-35 Remuneration policies Clorox Website: SEC Filings 2018 Clorox Proxy — See Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 30-57 102-36 Process for determining Clorox Website: SEC Filings 2018 Clorox Proxy — See remuneration Compensation Discussion and Analysis, page 30-57 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement Clorox Website: SEC Filings 2018 Clorox Proxy — See in remuneration Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 30-57 102-38 Annual total Clorox does not disclose, although the company does point compensation ratio to CEO median pay ratio. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual Clorox does not disclose. total compensation ratio THE CLOROX COMPANY | 81 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX General Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Corporate Governance, page 72 2020 Strategy, Our Relationships, page 13 Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining U.S. 1.32%, International: 8.22%, Total Company: 9.55% Principle 3 agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About This Report — Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 76 Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement REPORTING PRACTICE 102-46 Defining report content and About This Report, page 76 topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics About This Report — Corporate Responsibility Priorities, UNGC Principles 1-10 page 76 Clorox Website: Stakeholder Engagement 102-48 Restatements of information FY 2019 Form 10-K: Five-Year Financial Summary, page 66 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report, page 76-77 102-50 Reporting period About This Report, page 76 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report, page 76 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report, page 76 102-53 Contact point for questions corporate.communications@clorox.com regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in About This Report, page 76 accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index About This Report, page 76 102-56 External assurance About This Report, page 76 Report of Independent Registered Accounting Firm, pages 69-71 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 82 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 200: ECONOMIC GRI 201: Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the material CEO Letter, pages 2-5 topic and its Boundary 2020 Strategy, pages 12-13 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 About This Report — Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 76 IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-2 The management approach CEO Letter, pages 2-5 and its components 2020 Strategy, pages 12-13 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 FY 2019 Form 10-K, Part I, Item 1 — Overview of Business, Pages 1-4; Part II, Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, page 23 IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-3 Evaluation of the CEO Letter, pages 2-5 management approach 2020 Strategy, pages 12-13 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 FY 2019 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, page 23 201-1 Direct economic value 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Principles 7-9 generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message other risks and opportunities from the CEO] due to climate change FY 2019 Form 10-K, Risk Factors, pages 5-19 201-3 Defined benefit plan Clorox Website: Working at Clorox — Benefits & Perks obligations and other retirement plans GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Codes of Conduct Principle 10 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Codes of Conduct Principle 10 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Codes of Conduct Principle 10 management approach 205-2 Communication and training 100% of the company’s leaders and employees must go Principle 10 about anti-corruption policies through anti-corruption training. 100% of the company’s and procedures suppliers must adhere to the Business Partner Code of Conduct, which addresses ethical business practices. Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Codes of Conduct THE CLOROX COMPANY | 83 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material 2020 Strategy Overview, pages 12-13 topic and its Boundary Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink Our Environmental Footprint While We Grow, pages 47-53 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 Strategy 2, Drive Superior Consumer Value, CR Highlights Make Responsible Products Responsibly, pages 32-35 103-2 The management approach 2020 Strategy Overview, pages 12-131 and its components Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink Our Environmental Footprint While We Grow, pages 47-53 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 Strategy 2, Drive Superior Consumer Value, CR Highlights Make Responsible Products Responsibly, pages 32-35 103-3 Evaluation of the 2020 Strategy Overview, pages 12-13 management approach Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink Our Environmental Footprint While We Grow, pages 47-53 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO 301-2 Recycled input materials We do not currently report a total percentage of materials Principles 7-9 used used that are recycled input materials. IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink Our topic and its Boundary Environmental Footprint While We Grow, page 50 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-2 The management approach Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink Our and its components Environmental Footprint While We Grow, page 50 Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message management approach From the CEO 302-4 Reduction of energy 2020 Strategy Overview (Good Growth), pages 12-13 Strategy 4, Fund Growth, CR Highlights — Shrink Our Environmental Footprint While We Grow, pages 45-50 Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — Energy THE CLOROX COMPANY | 84 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 303: Water 103-1 Explanation of the material Water, page 53 Principles 7-9 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — Water 103-2 The management approach Water, page 53 Principles 7-9 and its components Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — Water 103-3 Evaluation of the Water, page 53 Principles 7-9 management approach Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — Water GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 51 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — GHG Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-2 The management approach Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 51 and its components Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — GHG Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-3 Evaluation of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 51 management approach Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — GHG Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — GHG emissions Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG Emissions, page 51 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Facilities — GHG IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 THE CLOROX COMPANY | 85 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material Waste, page 52 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Footprint Reduction Summary — Waste IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-2 The management approach Waste, page 52 and its components Clorox Website: Footprint Reduction Summary — Waste Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO IGNITE Strategy Overview, pages 96-97 103-3 Evaluation of the Waste, page 52 management approach Clorox Website: Footprint Reduction Summary — Waste Clorox Website: Commitments and Progress — Message From the CEO 306-2 Waste by type and Waste, page 52 disposal method 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Footprint Reduction Summary — Waste We report solid waste disposal, not hazardous waste disposal. The waste disposal method has been determined based on information provided by the waste disposal contractor. Each site reports its annual reuse, recycling and disposal tonnages using information obtained from its recycling or waste disposal contractor to our corporate office where it is reviewed and compiled. Materials (tons) Reuse 35,952 Recycle 23,679 Compost 2,056 Energy Recovery 690 Incineration — Deep Well — Landfill 9,859 On-Site Storage — Other — THE CLOROX COMPANY | 86 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material FY 2019 Form 10-K, Risk Factors, pages 5-19 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Environmental Sustainability and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Environmental Sustainability management approach 307-1 Non-compliance with Clorox Website: Clorox and Business Partner Codes of Conduct environmental laws and regulations GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing Principles 7-9 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing Principles 7-9 and its components Clorox Website: Clorox Business Partner Codes of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Responsible Sourcing Principles 7-9 management approach Clorox Website: Clorox Business Partner Codes of Conduct 308-1 New suppliers that Clorox does not track percentage of new suppliers screened were screened using using environmental data. The vast majority of new suppliers environmental criteria are informed/expected to adhere to our environmental commitments/practices in our business partner code of conduct. Clorox has a scorecard tracking the environmental practices of our top 100 suppliers (by spend). 308-2 Negative environmental The company assesses the sustainability performance of impacts in the supply chain its top 100 suppliers, which represents the majority of our and actions taken supplier spend. 100% of suppliers, including new suppliers, must adhere to the company's business partner code of conduct, which addresses sustainability expectations. Clorox Website: Supply Chain — Supplier Environmental Footprint Score Card THE CLOROX COMPANY | 87 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 400: SOCIAL GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material Engage Our People, pages 14-21 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Our People Clorox Website: Careers 103-2 The management approach Engage Our People, pages 14-21 and its components Clorox Website: Our People Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the Engage Our People, pages 14-21 management approach Clorox Website: Our People 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Clorox Website: Working at Clorox — Benefits & Perks employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material Engage Our People — Workplace Safety, pages 16-20 topic and its Boundary 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Workplace Safety 103-2 The management approach Engage Our People — Workplace Safety, pages 16-20 and its components 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Workplace Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the Engage Our People — Workplace Safety, pages 16-21 management approach 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Workplace Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 injury, occupational diseases, Clorox Website: Workplace Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related We track the RIR & LTIR (lost time incident rate) for Clorox fatalities employees plus supervised workers. LTIR is reported internally on a monthly basis. We follow OSHA 1904 Rules for defining injuries as reportable and labor hours to track. The rate calculation is that used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) and OSHA for comparison across industries. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 88 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Our People topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Our People and its components Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Our People management approach Clorox Website: Clorox Code of Conduct 404-2 Programs for upgrading CEO Letter, pages 2-5 employee skills and transition Engage Our People, pages 14-15 assistance programs The company’s MyLearning program offers extensive internal and external courses to support professional development and capabilityand leadership-building needs. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material Engage Our People — Diversity, pages 16-21 Principle 6 topic and its Boundary 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity 103-2 The management approach Engage Our People — Diversity, pages 16-21 and its components 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity 103-3 Evaluation of the Engage Our People — Diversity, pages 16-21 management approach 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance 2019 Scorecard, pages 54-58 bodies and employees Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity and its components Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Inclusion & Diversity management approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct 406-1 Incidents of discrimination Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct and corrective actions taken THE CLOROX COMPANY | 89 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 408: Child Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct Principles 1-5 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct Principles 1-6 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct Principles 1-7 management approach 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Suppliers must comply with Clorox’s policy on employment Principles 1-8 significant risk for incidents of young people where the minimum age of employment of child labor shall not be less than the greater of (a) the age of completion of compulsory schooling or (b) 15 years of age (or 14, where the local law of the country permits). Additionally, workers under age 18 should not perform any hazardous work. GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct management approach 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct significant risk for incidents Adherence to our Business Partner Code of Conduct — which of forced or compulsory labor articulates our expectations regarding human rights and labor, health and safety, the environment, and business conduct and ethics — is required of our suppliers, with certification taking place on a regular basis. This code precludes the use of forced, bonded, or indentured labor or prison labor. As an additional safeguard, the company’s Global Strategic Sourcing organization implemented a monitoring program in FY 2017 using web-crawl technology to monitor all global direct material suppliers for any activities or incidents that would pose risk to the Clorox supply chain. Through an alert system, buyers are notified of any significant findings for appropriate action and/or follow-up. GSS also began annual risk assessments of global suppliers in FY 2018 based on location, scale, industry and audit history to determine those suppliers at highest risk for social compliance issues, including forced labor and human trafficking. The risk assessment allows us to determine which suppliers should be selected for third-party audits to verify compliance with all principles and standards of the Clorox Business Partner Code of Conduct. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 90 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Codes of Conduct management approach 412-1 Operations that have None of our operations have been subject to human rights been subject to human reviews/assessments. rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material Strategy 3, pages 38-42 topic and its Boundary 2019 Scorecard, page 58 Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-2 The management approach Strategy 3, pages 38-42 and its components 2019 Scorecard, page 58 About This Report — Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 78 Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-3 Evaluation of the Strategy 3: Safeguard Families Through Initiatives That management approach Promote Health, Education and Safety-Community Support, pages 38-43 2019 Scorecard, page 58 About This Report — Corporate Responsibility Priorities, page 78 Clorox Website: Social Impact 413-1 Operations with local Strategy 3: Safeguard Families Through Initiatives That community engagement, Promote Health, Education and Safety-Community Support, impact assessments and pages 38-42 development programs Clorox Website: Social Impact THE CLOROX COMPANY | 91 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Supply Chain Principles 1-6 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Business Partner Code of Conduct 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Supply Chain Principles 1-6 and its components Clorox Website: Business Partner Code of Conduct 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Sustainability in Our Supply Chain Principles 1-6 management approach Clorox Website: Business Partner Code of Conduct 414-1 New suppliers that were 100% of all suppliers, including new suppliers, must adhere screened using social criteria to our Business Partner Code of Conduct, which addresses labor practices. We do not track percentage of new suppliers screened using labor practices criteria. The vast majority of new suppliers are informed and expected to adhere to our human rights and labor commitments through contract language requiring adherence to our Business Partner Code of Conduct. In the absence of a contract, there are other mechanisms to ensure compliance with labor practices criteria for significant purchases. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 topic and its Boundary Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 and its components Clorox Website: Social Impact 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 management approach Clorox Website: Social Impact 416-1 Assessment of the health and Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of Principles 7-9 safety impacts of product and The company assesses 100% of its products for human and service categories environmental safety. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 92 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 103-1 Explanation of the material Marketing Our Products Responsibly topic and its Boundary We remain committed to providing information about our brands and products in a responsible and truthful manner, adhering to all laws and guidelines of the Federal Trade Commission and other relevant governing bodies. That means communicating the benefits, performance and attributes of our products accurately and directly, with claims that are substantiated. It’s also our policy to create and purchase advertising so we reach our target audiences with maximum efficiency, using advertisements and media that are consistent with the character and values of our company, while upholding relevant local laws and consumer privacy guidelines like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). All company products have the required labeling for safety and usage. Clorox was also the first major CPG company to voluntarily disclose the product ingredients used in our cleaning and disinfecting products in the U.S. and Canada: www.IngredientsInside.com. Clorox Website: All About Innovation 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Marketing our Products Responsibly and its components Clorox Website: Ingredients Inside 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Marketing our Products Responsibly management approach Clorox Website: Ingredients Inside 417-1 Requirements for product 100% of our products adhere to the appropriate regulations and service information and related to safety, caution and usage labeling. labeling Clorox Website: What We’re Made Of 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance We did not have any incidents of noncompliance with concerning marketing regulations or voluntary codes with respect to marketing communications communications. GRI 418: Customer Privacy 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Privacy Policy topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Privacy Policy and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Privacy Policy management approach 418-1 Substantiated complaints The company has not identified any material complaints Principles 7-9 concerning breaches of related to this matter. customer privacy and losses of customer data THE CLOROX COMPANY | 93 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX Topic-Specific Disclosures DISCLOSURE NUMBER DISCLOSURE TITLE GRI RESPONSE UNGC PRINCIPLES GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material Clorox Website: Clorox Codes of Conduct topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Clorox Website: Clorox Codes of Conduct and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the Clorox Website: Clorox Codes of Conduct management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws Clorox has been in material compliance with all social and and regulations in the social economic regulations. and economic area THE CLOROX COMPANY | 94 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT IMAGINE INNOVATING FOR GOOD GROWTH:IGNITE Marketplace trends and disruptions demand a corresponding shift in approach. We’re introducing our IGNITE Strategy to address today’s and tomorrow’s challenges — rising consumer expectations, an evolving retail landscape, shifts in costs and competition, and rapidly advancing technology — and use them to our competitive advantage. IGNITE builds on our previous 2020 Strategy, marked by an unwavering focus on delivering superior experiences to our consumers by innovating in everything we do. The integrated strategic choices we have identified will enable profitable, sustainable and responsible growth — what we call Good Growth. By achieving Good Growth, we’ll further our vision of earning people’s enduring loyalty. IGNITE: Integrated Strategic Choices FUEL GROWTH INNOVATE REIMAGINE EVOLVE We’ll widen the EXPERIENCES WORK PORTFOLIO funnel on how we By turning data into We’ll galvanize We’ll broaden our deliver cost savings, insights, we’ll build our people with playing field in and leveraging technology purpose-driven, a bolder, more around our core and sustainability to personalized brands inclusive workplace business through generate fuel for growth. while enhancing in which we simplify an emphasis consumer shopping our operations, tap on consumer experiences — allowing technology and megatrends, us to better serve people. move more quickly including to drive growth. sustainability. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 96 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT CLOROX VISION: EXCEPTIONAL INNOVATORS WHO EARN PEOPLE’S ENDURING LOYALTY. PERSONALIZED, FRICTION-FREE EXPANDED PURPOSEFUL BRANDS SHOPPING INNOVATION FUEL FOR A BOLDER, FASTER A BETTER WORLD GROWTH CULTURE FOR PEOPLE & OUR PLANET IGNITE ESG Goals We’re imagining a brighter future by committing to goals to support sustainable products and packaging, climate stewardship, and the well-being of our employees and consumers. PLANET PRODUCT PEOPLE GOVERNANCE Plastic and waste: Be a leader in Be a leader in Help our consumers Continue our unwavering establishing the circular economy responsible product and employees commitment to strong through radical material reduction stewardship with a through purpose-led corporate governance in virgin packaging (plastic and fiber). focus on progressive choices that enhance and senior management • 50% reduction in virgin packaging actions to enhance well-being. incentives tied to • 100% recyclable, reusable or the practices of our successful strategy compostable packaging company and the execution. • Double plastic post-consumer consumer packaged recycled content in packaging goods industry overall. • Global zero-waste-to-landfill Climate stewardship: Drive science-based climate action against our value chain. • Science-based targets for greenhouse gas emissions • 100% renewable electricity by 2025 in U.S. and Canada THE CLOROX COMPANY | 97 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION STOCK LISTING AND NUMBER OF FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS RECORD HOLDERS Except for historical information, matters discussed in the annual The Clorox Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock report are forward-looking statements and are based on management’s Exchange, identified by the symbol CLX. As of July 26, 2019, the estimates, assumptions and projections. Actual results could vary number of record holders of Clorox’s common stock was 10,057. materially. Please review the “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” TRANSFER AGENT, REGISTRAR AND sections in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal DIVIDEND DISBURSING AGENT year ended June 30, 2019, and subsequent SEC filings, for factors Inquiries relating to stockholder records, change of ownership, that could affect the company’s performance and cause results to change of address and the dividend reinvestment/direct stock differ materially from management’s expectations. The information purchase plan should be sent to: in this report reflected management’s estimates, assumptions and projections as of Aug. 13, 2019. Clorox has not made updates since COMPUTERSHARE then and makes no representation, express or implied, that the P.O. Box 30170 information is still current or complete. The company is under no College Station, TX 77842-3170 obligation to update any part of this document. Overnight correspondence should be sent to: COMPARATIVE STOCK PERFORMANCE COMPUTERSHARE The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return 211 Quality Circle, Suite 210 of the Common Stock for the last five fiscal years with the cumulative College Station, TX 77845 total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and a composite index composed of the Standard & Poor’s Household Products Index 877-373-6374 or 781-575-2726 and the Standard & Poor’s Housewares & Specialties Index (referred TDD 800-952-9245 or 312-588-4110 for the hearing impaired to below as the Peer Group) for a five-year period ending June 30, 2019. computershare.com/investor The composite index is weighted based on market capitalization as of the end of each quarter during each of the last five years. The graph STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION SERVICE lines merely connect the prices on the dates indicated and do not reflect The latest company news is available at TheCloroxCompany.com. fluctuations between those dates. DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT/DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE PLAN Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return* Clorox has authorized Computershare to offer a dividend reinvestment/ Among The Clorox Company, the S&P 500 Index and Peer Group direct stock purchase plan. Registered stockholders can purchase additional shares. Nonstockholders may join the plan with an initial $250 investment, lump sum or bank debit. Most fees are paid by Clorox. $200 For more information or plan materials, visit TheCloroxCompany.com > Investors > Investor Resources > Online Document Library or $150 contact Computershare (see above). $100 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER $50 FINANCIAL REPORTING $0 Clorox management, under the supervision and with the participation 6/14 6/15 6/16 6/17 6/18 6/19 of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has assessed The Clorox Company S&P 500 Peer Group the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial *$100 invested on 6/30/14 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. reporting as of June 30, 2019, and concluded that it is effective. For Fiscal year ending June 30. more information, see Item 9.A. of the company’s Form 10-K for the Copyright© 2019 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 2019 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 6/14 6/15 6/16 6/17 6/18 6/19 Full financial statements are provided in the company’s 2019 proxy statement and annual report on Form 10-K. Detailed financial The Clorox Company 100.00 117.18 159.92 157.89 164.67 191.31 information is available without charge through the following sources: S&P 500 100.00 107.42 111.71 131.70 150.64 166.33 • The company’s proxy statement is available at TheCloroxCompany.com and through the SEC’s EDGAR database. Peer Group 100.00 103.53 120.68 126.06 112.32 149.79 • The company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com and The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative through the SEC’s EDGAR database. of future stock price performance. THE CLOROX COMPANY | 98 | 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT View the multimedia 2019 Integrated Annual Report: annualreport.thecloroxcompany.com The Clorox Company 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612 thecloroxcompany.com
