2018 Sustainability Initiatives A GRI-Referenced Report Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 2 Table of Contents A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN 3 SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GENERAL DISCLOSURES Environmental Sustainability 26 INDEVCO Overview 4 Solar Energy Capabilities in the Middle East 28 Sourcing Paper Responsibly 32 Operations & Products 6 Circular Economy of Plastics 33 Brands 8 Compounding Fillers from Minerals 37 Supply Chain 9 Innovating Consumer & Foodservice Disposables 39 Beliefs 10 Social Responsibility 42 Standards 12 Enhancing Occupational Health & Safety 44 Significant Changes 15 Fostering Employee Diversity & Inclusion 47 16 Empowering Arab Women 52 Governance Nurturing Childhood Development in the Middle East 55 Sustainability Management Approach 17 Developing & Strengthening Youth in Lebanon 60 GRI Content Index 69 In this GRI-referenced report, the numbers in the side margins represent GRI Standards Appendices 71 disclosure numbers. All data included in this report is as of 31 December 2018. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 3 102-14 A Message from Our Chairman From the time we began communicating our for us to set INDEVCO’s 2025 Sustainability Pledge progress three years ago, sustainability has in the coming year. We remain committed to the UN become a strategic priority for INDEVCO. The Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles and submitted transition to where we are today wasn’t easy, but our first Communication on Progress in 2018. In the challenges we faced propelled us forward. addition, we’re dedicated to partnerships that help We’ve worked to unify our vision, objectives, and achieve UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). initiatives across business units worldwide, and Building on our legacy as a community-oriented we’re automating environmental and social data to company, our responsibility today is more important ensure visibility into the future. than ever. Our INDEVCO family remains front and Our sustainability workshops in 2017 and 2018 center in steering our businesses responsibly. I thank allowed us to develop Global Reporting Initiative each and every one of you for your part in making (GRI)-referenced reports and have paved the way INDEVCO a sustainability pioneer in the region. Neemat G. Frem INDEVCO Chairman & CEO “ INDEVCO 2025 Pledge will quantify our global objectives for the first time. “ Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 4 102-1 2 3 INDEVCO Overview 4 5 6 7 Founded in 1956 by Georges N. Frem, INDEVCO sal has grown from its first 80 m2 paper plant to FOUNDING VALUES 8 a multinational group employing over 10,100 employees in nearly 80 operations and 20 countries 41 worldwide. Guided by our forward-thinking corporate philosophy “What is good for the community, Honesty 45 is good for the company”, sustainability has been embedded in our culture, with seven values serving Modesty as pillars to corporate development and growth. Hard Work Entrepreneurial Drive We have diversified over the years both vertically and horizontally with our major operations currently Servant Leadership divided into 5 divisions and with additional support products and services. Today, our nearly 40 plants Family Spirit in 8 countries export to customers in 95 countries, including manufacturers, distributors, retailers, Precision wholesalers, institutions, government ministries and municipalities, and non-profit organizations. *See Ethics & Integrity on page 11 10,114 Employees 79 Operations FULL-TIME PART-TIME 39 MANUFACTURING 10,019 95 FACILITIES PERMANENT TEMPORARY 40 COMMERCIAL COMPANIES 9,338 776 & SALES OFFICES MALE FEMALE 9,464 648 INDEVCO abides by the local labor laws of all the countries in which it operates, including right to freedom of association and collective bargaining (UN Global Compact Principle 3). The group also ensures no forced or compulsory labor at offices and plants worldwide (UN Global Compact Principle 4). As a privately-owned company, net sales are not publicly provided. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 5 INDEVCO OVERVIEW SECTORS SERVED Agriculture Away-from-Home Beverage Building & Construction Chemical & Petrochemical Consumer Retail Dairy & Ice Cream Food Healthcare Household Care Hygiene Converting 95 Exporting to over Other Manufacturing Personal Care Countries Plastics Converting Renewable Energy International HQ Arabian Gulf Distribution Hubs & Manufacturing Locations Commercial Companies & Sales Offices Retail & Wholesale INDEVCO sal Napco National CJSC Warehousing hubs Egypt Lebanon Algeria Jordan Saudi Arabia Ajaltoun, Lebanon Dammam, Saudi Arabia England Ghana Saudi Arabia Bahrain Kuwait Spain Tissue Converting USA Greece UAE Cyprus Lebanon Tunisia Export Countries North America Iraq USA Egypt Morocco UAE Transportation & Warehousing INDEVCO Plastics, Inc. England Nigeria USA Doswell, Virginia, USA France Oman Iraq Qatar See full list of export countries in Appendix A. See full list of companies included in financial statement in Appendix C. INDEVCO Management Resources, Inc. (IMRI) maintains a 20% share in DS Smith North America Packaging and Paper. INDEVCO Plastics, Inc. is a shareholder in ePac Holdings LLC and has signed an owner-operator agreement for 5 ePac flexible packaging plants to launch in the US starting 2019. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 6 OPERATIONS & PRODUCTS INDEVCO INDEVCO INDEVCO Consumer Products Flexible Packaging Paper Containers 4,100+ Employees 2,900+ Employees 1,360+ Employees 8 Manufacturing Plants 20 Manufacturing Plants 8 Manufacturing Plants 7 Countries 6 Countries 6 Countries INDEVCO Consumer Products Division INDEVCO Flexible Packaging Division INDEVCO Paper Containers Division manufactures consumer disposables for adult, manufactures plastic raw materials, films, and manufactures single, double and triple wall baby, family, feminine, and household care. packaging, as well as paper packaging and corrugated boards and converts them into The division also produces professional and sheets. The division also produces flexographic various packaging and display solutions, paramedical away-from-home (AFH) disposable and rotogravure packaging printing inks, as well including corrugated and solid board cartons, products. as digital printed pouches. corrugated sheets, corrugated containers, point The division’s products include: adult and baby The division has established leading waste of purchase (POP) displays, and shelf-ready diapers, aluminum containers, aluminum foil, collection, segregation, washing and recycling packaging. cleaners, cling film, coasters, combo boxes, services, as we grow a circular economy in The division added recycled linerboard and cotton, detergent, dispensers, facial tissue, our core locations of operations that produce recycling fluting to our portfolio after our feminine napkins, food storage bags, garbage recycled products for secondary and tertiary recent acquisition in Greece and also produces bags, gloves, gowns and aprons, meal boxes, packaging. printing plates for high-quality printing on napkins, oven bags and baking sheets, pack corrugated packaging. carrier, panty liners, paper bags, paper cups, paper sheets, paper towels, plates and cutlery, pocket tissue, pre-cut lids, refills, sandwich boxes, sanitizers, table covers, table napkins, toilet tissue, toiletries, towels, trash bags, under pads, wet wipes. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 7 OPERATIONS & PRODUCTS INDEVCO Paper Making Phoenix Group SUPPORT SERVICES 700 Employees 150+ Employees 800 Employees 2 Manufacturing Plants 3 Manufacturing Plants 10 Companies 2 Countries 2 Countries 1 Country INDEVCO Paper Making Division manufactures Phoenix Group of Companies is a cluster of INDEVCO Group central service departments offer virgin and recycled jumbo tissue rolls for small business units that supply a wide range member companies a diverse range of consultancy converting into facial tissue, paper towels, of products from furniture manufacturing services, including customer experience napkins, and toilet tissue. management and technical prefab installations management, integrated marketing and to hygiene and tissue converting machinery, communications, customer events and exhibition high-precision CNC parts, automation, power management, content strategy and development, management and MEP services, to renewable social and digital media management, and energy solutions. Renewable energy solutions sustainability management. INDEVCO also include LED and solar lighting, biomass and PV provides other specialized Technical & Consultancy solar power, waste management sorting lines Services to companies, including business and plants, composting and waste-to-energy units. These services include audit, business solutions, water hydropanels, solar heaters, development, manufacturing and engineering, and PV pumping systems. process improvement, R&D, and more. Other additional member companies provide trading, real estate, hospitality, and technology services. http://www.indevcogroup.com/services Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 8 BRANDS Consumer Disposable & Away-From-Home Brands Flexible Packaging Brands ® ® Corrugated Packaging Brands Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 9 102-9 Supply Chain Each division at INDEVCO has a dedicated procurement team focused on SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT sourcing raw materials, finished goods, and services from local, regional or international suppliers. The group also has a centralized Procurement INDEVCO identifies that its current Supplier Code of Conduct is preliminary and and Logistics team at headquarters that also facilitates the procurement of will be working to elevate its supplier standards, as well as implement auditing products and services used across division. and follow-up of mechanisms to ensure compliance with our code. This code coincides with the UN Global Compact’s 10th Principle of anti-corruption by Our business units purchase machinery and spare parts, raw materials, requiring ethical business practices across our supply chain. packaging, logistics and transport, warehousing, and travel services from global suppliers. http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO-2017-Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.pdf Seven of INDEVCO’s corrugated and flexible packaging manufacturing companies in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE are monitored by SUPPLIER IMPACT ASSESSMENT Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) audit. In Q4 2018, INDEVCO Sustainability Team launched the process to ~8,800 60 survey suppliers for environmental and social impacts. Working with divisional procurement and centralized procurement teams, the team set up SupplyShift technology platform to trace, evaluate, and engage top suppliers in the supply chain. Suppliers Countries In 2018, INDEVCO’s Sustainability Team set up the platform, designed the See full list of Origin of Supplier countries in Appendix B. supplier surveys, identified top first-tier suppliers of paper and resins to survey, and began the set-up of the survey with the SupplyShift support team to launch in Q1 2019. INDEVCO also evaluated the group’s paper supply chain of custody. See Specific Disclosures, Environment, Sourcing Paper Responsibly on p. 32. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 10 102-16 26 Beliefs ETHICS & INTEGRITY CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY “ What is good for Set forth by our founder, the late Georges N. Frem, INDEVCO’s community-centered the community is “ philosophy and timeless values have served as guiding pillars for the group since our beginning. With a philosophy that focuses predominantly on identifying and resolving community social and economic needs, sustainability by essence is good for the company. embedded in the group’s culture. “What is good for the company, we will strive to do excellently and in a way that enriches the lives of our people. The objective of each member company will be to resolve one or more of the problems, which now hamper the social and economic development of the community. They will demonstrate that private companies with social spirit can, in some areas, contribute more effectively than government institutions. In solving these problems they can also be profitable and finance their own growth.” Georges N. Frem INDEVCO Founder & Former Chairman Neemat G. Frem INDEVCO Chairman & CEO Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 11 CORE VALUES Honesty Modesty Hard Work Entrepreneurial Servant Family Spirit Precision Behaving Demonstrating Delivering quality Drive Leadership Living a culture of Focusing on transparently humility & remaining work on-time Steering innovation Nurturing team growth team building, success accuracy, quality, and and with no focused on the through dedication through pioneering through hands-on sharing, and collective timeliness through hidden agenda company mission and perseverance spirit and out-of-themanagement & openaccountability attention to detail box thinking door policy Decision-making on corporate culture lies with our Board of Directors, Employees are expected to know and live INDEVCO values which are who have delegated to our Human Resources and Organizational embedded in our corporate culture and enforced in our Code of Conduct. Development (HROD) Department the task of upholding and cascading These values serve as critical recruitment criteria, as well as indicators in our INDEVCO philosophy and values to all employees through internal 360 employee performance evaluation and appraisal. campaigns, office and plant décor, and comprehensive onboarding See www.indevcogroup.com/about-us for INDEVCO Philosophy and Values. programs for new employees. See INDEVCO Code of Conduct in Appendix D, including ‘Core Values’ on p. 74. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 12 102-17 CODE OF CONDUCT In line with INDEVCO’s philosophy, values, Our Code of Conduct is available to all physically or emotionally threatening. Employees and culture, INDEVCO Code of Conduct sets employees in English and Arabic on our internal are urged to report or seek advice about breaches clear standards of employee behavior to HR Portal, which shares policies, procedures in the Code, misconduct, and corruption through uphold personal integrity and ethical business and outlines common rules for behavior. the internal audit department or business unit/ practices. The Code of Conduct focuses on Employees are required to act with honesty department management, with the ability to the UN Global Compact’s Principle 10 against and integrity and in accordance with INDEVCO report higher in the organization, if deemed corruption, emphasizing that employees must policies and procedures, as well as professional necessary, through the HROD Department. not engage in conflicts of interest, accept standards, laws and legislations applicable to Employees must fill the Acknowledgment and bribery through gifts and other benefits, and their responsibilities. Furthermore, employees Pledge Form for Conflict of Interest and submit it engage in personal or competitive business will be held accountable for their actions to the Administration/Personnel Department. that may compromise the group. and decisions and must also conform with Coinciding with UN Global Compact Principle INDEVCO’s commitment to sustainability. See INDEVCO Code of Conduct in Appendix D 5 for ‘the effective abolition of child labor’, To uphold ethical business, INDEVCO Audit our Code states that there shall be no use Department evaluates business units, divisions, of child labor at INDEVCO and its affiliates. and departments worldwide through scheduled INDEVCO strictly prohibits employment of and surprise audits. The department ensures persons below the age of 16 and/or younger implementation of required policies and than the legal minimum age. Furthermore, procedures and identification of misconduct emphasizing UN Global Compact Principle 6 and violations of group policies, regulations, and ‘the elimination of discrimination in respect international standards. of employment and occupation’, our Code We have zero-tolerance for breaches of the of Conduct emphasizes fair, respectful, and code, including unacceptable, dishonest and inclusive work environment, where we value deceptive behavior, such as dereliction of duty, diversity and have zero tolerance for unlawful failure to comply with instructions, prejudicial discrimination, violence, bullying, and action to the health or safety of others, harassment in any form. bullying, harassing, intimidating, overbearing or Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 13 102-12 13 STANDARDS External Initiatives & Memberships INDEVCO business units across the Middle UN GLOBAL COMPACT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) East, North Africa, Europe and the USA INDEVCO joined United Nations Global In 2016, INDEVCO identified the Global Reporting apply a wide array of externally-developed Compact (UNGC) as a signatory member Initiative to be the most comprehensive and fitting principles through initiatives, certifications, in September 2017 and submitted its first sustainability reporting standard, used by leading and memberships. By upholding Communication on Progress in 2018. As part companies worldwide. international standards, business units align of our commitment to the UNGC Ten Principles For the third consecutive year, INDEVCO’s with manufacturing best practices, global on human rights, labor, environment and anti2018 Global Sustainability Report covers the sustainability objectives, and reporting corruption, 7 member companies in Lebanon requirements of select Global Reporting Initiative requirements to allow stakeholders to track also joined the local network throughout the year. (GRI) 2016 Standards relative to sustainability progress and performance. topics identified as impactful for the group. GRI https://www.unglobalcompact.org/participation/report/cop/ create-and-submit/active/421482 disclosure numbers are designated in the margins. https://database.globalreporting.org/reports/62533/ In October 2018, INDEVCO Chairman & CEO participated in a panel discussion about Sustainable Development, Reforms, and Public Good during the 2018 Multi-Stakeholder SDG Forum, organized by the UN Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) in the Grand Serai in Beirut, Lebanon. Additionally, executives from UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS across the group took part in SDG Round Table events organized by the UN GCNL to progress Today, 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) specific SDGs in Lebanon. are transforming the world and pioneering the move towards achieving the United Nations’ 2030 http://news.indevcogroup.com/corporate/indevco-chairmanAgenda for Sustainable Development. ceo-speaks-multi-stakeholder-sdg-forum-2018/ Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 14 CERTIFICATIONS, PRINCIPLES & MEMBERSHIPS Food Safety National Quality Workplace Environment Health & Safety Manufacturing Supply Chain Sustainability & Contact Standards Management Organization Certifications Standards of Operational Excellence Principles Memberships Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 15 102-10 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES Acquisition of PAKO Velou SA in Greece Expanding Operations in the USA UNIPAKHELLAS SA, corrugated packaging manufacturer in Greece At the end of 2018, INDEVCO Plastics, Inc. launched the process of formally and member of INDEVCO Group, completed the acquisition of PAKO structuring a North America headquarters in the US to support growth. The SA in Greece in September 2018. A vertically integrated paper new structure will include central service departments to support divisions manufacturing company operating since 1960, PAKO produces recycled and business units. linerboard and fluting, as well as corrugated packaging. http://news.indevcogroup.com/paper/unipak-hellas-sa-member-indevcogroup-completes-acquisition-pako-sa-greece/ Facility Openings Facility / Company Closings INDEVCO opened two new trading companies, Masterpak Trading as a The group finalized the closing of Phoenix Technology FZ LLC and division of Masterpak sal. in Lebanon and Napco Trading a branch of Napco deregistration of LG-Sanita Limited Joint Venture in the United Arab National in Saudi Arabia. Emirates (UAE). Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 16 Governance 102-19 102-18 23 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE 20 30 21 31 31 INDEVCO’s highest governance body, the Although the group has not yet appointed an executive-level position with explicit 32 Board of Directors headed by Chairman responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics nor a Group Sustainability & CEO Neemat Frem, is comprised of six Committee, INDEVCO Chairman & CEO retains responsibility for INDEVCO’s overall internal directors who maintain responsibility sustainability strategy. He has appointed the Global Communications & Sustainability for monitoring risk management processes Management department the responsibility to develop sustainability strategies, objectives, and regularly review the group’s performance and initiatives with departments, divisions and business units and also to manage group-level and strategy. INDEVCO uses a stringent sustainability, data collection, automation, and reporting. enterprise risk management system to The Department facilitates the materiality assesment stakeholder engagement processes, effectively identify and evaluate economic, identifying key stakeholders with divisional leadership, developing and delivering the enviromental, and social risks, upon which the communications for stakeholder engagement, and mapping results on Materiality Matrix. Board of Directors acts. Biennially the Department presents to the Chairman & CEO key sustainability topics identified as material by internal and external stakeholders. Furthermore, the Chairman & CEO reviews and approves the annual Sustainability Report to ensure all material topics are covered. INDEVCO’s 2018 Sustainability Summit held a private session with the Board of Directors and owners about the importance of Sustainability Governance and the role of the Board of Directors in bringing sustainability to the forefront of business. AUDITS & EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 102-56 Currently, INDEVCO does not seek external assurance of its annual sustainability report. However, in 2018 the group submitted the report to the GRI, as well as UN Global Compact as its first Communication on Progress (CoP). We intend to seek external assurance at a later stage when INDEVCO has finalized sustainability data automation across divisions and business units to be able to effectively report on all material topics, further measure performance in environmental disclosures, and develop a document in accordance with the GRI ‘Core’ option. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 17 INDEVCO Sustainability Management Approach Embedding sustainability at the heart of operations, we have shifted to a ‘Do Well by Doing Good’ business model which creates purposeful profit and sustainable growth. At INDEVCO, we emphasize four major social and environmental sustainability pillars. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 18 ENVIRONMENTAL PILLARS ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Solar Sustainable Circular Mineral Fillers Sanita Natura Energy Supply Chain Economy of Plastics Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 19 SOCIAL PILLARS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY Occupational Diversity Arab Childhood Youth Health & Safety & Inclusion Women’s Development Development Empowerment in Middle East in Lebanon Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 20 102-11 PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH Part of INDEVCO’s strategy since its establishment in 1956 is to identify community needs and develop products, services, and other solutions to cater to these needs. INDEVCO Board of Directors, division senior executives, and all levels of management take a precautionary approach to decision making, ensuring to identify potential risks and avert decisions that can in any way harm the public. The Board of Directors and senior divisional executives leverage INDEVCO departments’ expertise to identify traditional and geopolitical risks that affect our operations. The objective is to take a proactive approach to risks associated with product materials, development and innovation, as well as the privacy and rights of our stakeholder groups. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 21 102-40 42 43 How We Report 44 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Internal External Community and employees serve as social pillars for the group. Formal stakeholder engagement is conducted Stakeholder • Board of Directors • Consumers biennially, as part of INDEVCO’s Sustainability Materiality Groups • Employees • Customers Assessment, through surveys and other communication • Government Ministries channels as identified during the materiality workshops. • & Municipalities Our next formal stakeholder engagement is scheduled • Industry Associations for Q1 2020. • Local Communities In 2017/2018, the group’s Materiality Matrix presented skewed results due the larger inflow of internal survey • NGOs responses compared to external stakeholder responses. • Schools Thus in 2019/2020, INDEVCO will emphasize direct • Shareholders alignment and follow-up with external stakeholders to ensure a fair and balanced internal/external stakeholder • Suppliers engagement. Accordingly, the group will be able to plot • Universities in Lebanon a more representative materiality matrix that will be the basis for setting the Group’s 2025 Sustainability Pledge and relevant key performance indicators (KPIs). Methods of • Employee Intranets • Surveys: INDEVCO divisions, departments and business units, Engagement • Internal emails Annual Customer however, regularly engage key stakeholder groups • Surveys Satisfaction (CSAT) surveys as they forge strategic partnerships with customers, • Annual INDEVCO Global Net Promoter Score (NPS) industry associations, environmental and humanitarian Leadership Conference surveys organizations, schools and universities, government Supplier Surveys ministries and municipalities, and others. • Visits, events, & campaigns • Focus groups & panels Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 22 102-46 47 MATERIALITY AT INDEVCO INDEVCO conducts materiality assessment workshops biennially with division leadership to identify key economic, environmental, and social impacts and pinpoint material topics and their representative boundaries. During these workshops, INDEVCO also highlights major internal and external stakeholders to engage. The group conducted its first materiality assessment in 2017 and will hold materiality workshops in Q4 2019. INDEVCO’s 2018 Global Sustainability Report focuses on the same material topics as identified in the previous 2017 Sustainability Report, as well as describes the impacts of major on-going environmental and social initiatives. INDEVCO ensures that its annual Sustainability Report presents substantial context to reflect the relative importance of topics covered and is balanced, transparent, and clear to facilitate stakeholder comprehension. As INDEVCO Global Sustainability Report serves as a Communication on Progress submitted annually to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the group also ensures comparability, accuracy, timeliness, and coverage of the UNGC 10 Principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 23 INDEVCO PILLARS Objective Material Topic Topic Boundary SDGs GRI INDEVCO HQ & Divisions Phoenix Energy Solar Energy Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture of Tripoli & North Lebanon GRI in the Middle Energy 302 East Egyptian New & Renewable Energy Authority (NREA) International Finance Corporation Environment United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) GESPA sal Responsible INDEVCO / Napco Division Purchasing Units GRI Raw Materials Paper Sourcing Paper Brokers 301 Paper Manufacturers INDEVCO / Napco Flexible Packaging Circular Agricultural Growers GRI Economy Waste Beverage Manufacturers 306 of Plastics Gulf Chemical & Petrochemical Association (GPCA) Petrochemical Manufacturers Mineral Fillers Product Development INDEVCO / Napco Flexible Packaging GRI for Plastics Raw Materials Plastics Converters 301 Converting Sustainable INDEVCO HQ Consumer & GRI Raw Materials INDEVCO / Napco Flexible Packaging Food service 301 INDEVCO Consumer Products Disposables Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 24 INDEVCO PILLARS Objective Material Topic Topic Boundary SDGs GRI INDEVCO / Napco Employees INDEVCO / Napco HROD Department GRI Employee Occupational INDEVCO Insurance Department Health & Safety Health & Safety INDEVCO / Napco Division Strategy & Transformation 403 Departments Employee Employee Training / INDEVCO / Napco Employees GRI Training Education INDEVCO / Napco HROD Learning & Development Unit 404 & Development Diversity & Diversity & Equal INDEVCO / Napco Employees GRI Inclusion in the Opportunity INDEVCO / Napco HROD Department 405 Middle East INDEVCO / Napco Consumer Products Divisions Arab Women’s NGOs GRI Local Community Empowerment Schools 413-1 Universities INDEVCO / Napco Consumer Products Divisions Community Childhood Healthcare Institutions GRI Development in Local Community NGOs Schools 413-1 the Middle East Universities INDEVCO HROD Department INDEVCO Polymer Application Technology Center (PACT) Youth Phoenix Group GRI Development Local Community Universities in Lebanon University Placement Offices 413-1 in Lebanon Faculty Members, Interns & Recruits Maronite Foundation Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 25 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-48 Restatements of Information Date of Most Recent Report 102-51 We have restated information pertaining to our Saudi Arabia Our most recent report was for the calendar year 2017. operations restructuring, as well as on-going liquidations that See our previous 2017 Global Sustainability Report at were not complete in 2017. http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/wp-content/uploads/INDEVCO-2017-Sustainability-Report.pdf 102-49 Changes in Reporting GRI Claims & Content Index 102-54 55 As in 2018 we have not yet set 2025 sustainability pledge. This document is a GRI-referenced report. We expanded on last year’s material topics. See GRI Content Index on p. 69 102-50 Reporting Period & Cycle INDEVCO reports annually from January – December. It covers the calendar year 2018. 102-53 CONTACT POINT FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THE REPORT Gacia Apikian Bazhouny Global Communications & Sustainability Manager INDEVCO sal T +961-9-209 108 Ext. 3162 E gacia.apikian@indevcogroup.com Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 26 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 27 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH During the manufacturing process, INDEVCO business units consume With Product Development another critical pillar, renewable and nonrenewable raw materials and energy, while generating we have developed: waste and effluents and emitting greenhouse gases from the use of fossil fuel-based energy, solvents, and inks. Operating a diverse array of • Renewable Alternative Fillers industries, INDEVCO’s divisions have identified specific material topics • Innovative Consumer & Foodservice Disposables relevant to their major impacts. The purpose of our environmental management approach is to reduce our negative impacts and identify key areas where we can have a significant The boundaries of these material topics include direct impacts from our positive impact. We aim to partner across the value chain for a circular operations, as well as the extended impacts from our suppliers, customers, economy, renewable raw materials and energy, responsible sourcing, as and other external partners, including recycling companies, ministries well as by innovating sustainable products. and municipalities, educational and healthcare institutions, NGOs and consumers. Under the environment pillar, we actively engage in the following initiatives: We are working on automating sustainability data across the group worldwide to make reporting seamless and improve visibility of key group • Growing Solar Energy Capabilities in the Middle East impacts. As such, we will also conduct our second materiality assessment • Sourcing Paper Responsibly and stakeholder engagement in Q1 2020 to set the group’s 2025 • Partnering for a Circular Economy of Plastics sustainability pledge and respective KPIs. Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com#environmental-sustainability Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 28 Environment 302-1B 4 Growing Solar Energy Capabilities in the Middle East Context OUR COMMITMENT In order to meet the international target to keep the global temperature is to reduce energy consumption within our manufacturing group and below two degrees Celsius, as set out in the Paris Accord of 2015, CO2 to partner closely with Middle East and North Africa governments and emissions must be reduced significantly by transforming the current fossil-fuel energy associations to formalize solar power as a political priority dependent energy system to renewable energy. [1] Fulfilling the Agreement means deploying renewables six times faster, increasing the total share of Management Approach renewable energy from around one-sixth of total world’s energy consumption in 2018/2019 to around two-thirds by 2050. [2] With our plants located in a region with 300 to 345 days of sunshine per year, INDEVCO identifies powering operations with solar energy In 2018, the sector added nearly 175 GW of renewable energy capacity globally among its key initiatives. INDEVCO has installed PV power plants and 98 GW of solar energy. [3] The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) has across its member companies in Lebanon to leverage on the abundant faced rising electricity demand due to population and economic growth paired and untapped renewable energy from the sun. with increased industrial activity. Between 2018 and 2022, Arab Petroleum Investment Corporation (APICORP) estimates that MENA power capacity is With topic boundaries extending past our plants, INDEVCO’s Phoenix expected to expand by an average of 6.4% per year. [4] Energy also works to prioritize solar energy as a priority in Lebanon and Egypt partnering with ministries and municipalities, healthcare As countries across the region have started setting clean energy targets and institutions and other organizations to launch solar projects in two the cost of solar energy technologies has fallen, investment in renewable energy countries. projects within the region has grown. [5] Although lagging, Egypt is accelerating renewable and solar energy consumption at a rate faster than the global average, while Lebanon is falling behind with quantity and acceleration much slower than the global average. [6] Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 29 Environment IMPACT INTERNAL SOLAR SAVINGS AT INDEVCO COMPANIES Lebanon 7,700 Polycrystalline PV panels Phoenix Energy has partnered with sister companies in Lebanon to transition plants to renewable solar energy through photovoltaic (PV) power systems. Phoenix Energy, renewable energy solutions provider, has installed PV systems at INDEVCO HQ in Ajaltoun, Masterpak and Sanita plants in Zouk 2.5 MWp Combined Capacity Mosbeh, Unipak and Unipak Tissue Mill in Halat, and Interstate Inks in Hosrayel. Sanita Hosrayel Plant Solar PV Power System 3,750 MWh of energy / year In 2018, Phoenix Energy partnered with sister company Sanita to install a PV power system covering 4,000 m2 at its Hosrayel plant. The PV system will decrease greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions resulting from the consumption of non-renewable energy by 702.6 MTCO2E, 55.9 Kg NOx, and 2.839 Kg SO2. IMPACT 2,000 Polycrystalline PV panels 688 kWp Capacity 1,000 MWh of energy / year Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 30 Environment SOLAR INSTALLATIONS Lebanon # of PV GHG IMPACT Project name Location Year Status Capacity Energy Area panels Reduction Qabrikha Solar PV 4,497 380 267.1 MTCO2E Power Project 1,900 Qabrikha 2018 Complete 250 kWp MWh / 960 21.2 Kg NOx Land mounted, m2 year 1.076 Kg SO2 on-grid system Polycrystalline PV panels Hashem Super Store Roof Mounted, on-grid 447.6 314.7 MTCO2E 2,900 1.2 MWp system and working in Rayfoun 2018 Complete 313 kWp MWh / 1,152 24.9 Kg NOX m2 synchronization with year 1.268 Kg SO2 diesel generators Combined Capacity Caritas Project for 53 Lebanese General 37.3 MTCO2E MWh / 600 Security Achrafieh 2018 Complete 37 kWp 115 3 Kg NOX year m2 1,661 MWh Roof Mounted, 0.15 Kg SO2 on-grid system Centre Hospitalier 780 of energy / year 2017 Universitaire Notre MWh / 5,000 1,000 Jbeil Complete 600 kWp 2,270 Dame Des Secours year m2 MTCO2E/year 2018 PV Project ASSOCIATION LEADERSHIP ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS Rabih Osta, Area General Manager, Phoenix Group of Companies Association of Lebanese Industrialists Lebanese Foundation for Renewable Energy Founding Member Lebanese Solar Energy Society Lebanese Order of Engineers & Architects Beirut Member World Energy Council Lebanese Solar Energy Society Vice President World Energy Council Advisory Board Member Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 31 Environment SOLAR INSTALLATIONS Egypt Benban Solar Park: The World’s Largest Solar Power Farm IMPACT In Q1 2018, Phoenix Energy began construction of the Benban Solar Park’s Phoenix Power One project alongside project partners Infinity Solar and BPE Partners of Egypt and IB Vogt of Germany. The target commercial operation date (COD) was January 2019. The 64 MWp PV power plant 193,600 will power 50,000 homes once installed and operational. By the end of 2018, Phoenix Power One Polycrystalline PV panels project construction was completed and testing commenced. 64 MWp The project is part of the larger Benban Solar Park which will operate a total capacity of 1,600 MW, remain operational for 25 years and sell electricity to the Egypt Electricity Transmission Company (EETC). This is part of Egypt’s Feed in Tariff (FiT) program, first introduced in 2014. Capacity Area 1.1 million m 2 GHG Emission 156,000 MWh Reduced Annually 74,000 MTCO E 2 of energy / year Memorandum of Understanding with ENOVA Phoenix Energy signed a Memorandum of Understanding in 2018 with ENOVA, regional leader in integrated energy Capacity 1.75 MWp Area 10,144 m 2 and multi-technical services, to launch on-grid PV power systems at three major Majid El Futtaim malls in Egypt: Mall Energy 2,842.9 MWh / yr GHG Emission 1,988.5 MTCO 2 of Egypt in Giza, Maadi City Center in Cario, and Alexandria Reduced Annually 158.5 Kg NOx City Center in Alexandria. # of PV Panels 5,170 8.1 Kg SO 2 See Appendix F for references. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 32 Environment 301-1 Sourcing Paper Responsibly Context OUR COMMITMENT Population growth, industrialism, and huge consumption of raw materials is to increase use of certified chain-of-custody fiber from global worldwide for mass production has greatly stressed natural resources sources and habitats. UN SDG12 Responsible Consumption and Production pushes for a shift to environmentally-friendly raw materials and finished goods1, while SDG15 Life on Land calls for greater visibility in the supply Management Approach chain to track sustainable management of forests2. As manufacturers of corrugated and paper packaging, and jumbo tissue rolls, we consume paper raw materials from forests. With deforestation a key global issue, INDEVCO identified responsible paper sourcing as a OUTCOMES material topic with boundaries including the direct impact of our tissue In 2017, nearly 74% of INDEVCO’s paper suppliers were reported to be mills, and the impacts of our paper suppliers worldwide. certified by one or more sustainable forestry bodies: Forest Stewardship Our performance is monitored through such external standards as Council (FSC, 98.5%), the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) and EcoVadis CSR Certification (PEFC, 50.5%), and/or the Sustainable Forestry Initiative® Scorecard audits. (0.10%). In 2018, INDEVCO began the process of evaluating paper raw See Appendix G for references. material suppliers. This report presents the same numbers as the prior report. We will communicate results of supplier evaluation in the 2019 report. % of INDEVCO Global % of INDEVCO Global Paper Supply Certifications Paper Supply Sustainably Sourced FSC 98.5% 26.1% PEFC 50.5% 73.9% 0.1% Yes SFI No Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 33 Environment 301-1 2 306-2 Partnering for a Circular Economy of Plastics Context OUR COMMITMENT The world is moving away from the linear model of consumption is to foster premium re-use of plastic waste to reduce carbon (Take–Make-Use–Dispose) to a circular economy of plastics which focuses on emissions and to divert plastics destined for landfills or incineration innovating, redesigning, and extending product lifecycles to facilitate re-use and into recycled applications supporting a circular economy of plastics recycling. In this system, waste no longer represents product end-of-life but rather a new form of raw material that goes back into the production process Management Approach as many times as possible. This model creates new value streams from waste, diverts plastics from landfill and marine, and reduces consumption of virgin raw As manufacturers of plastic packaging and the backlash against plastic materials and energy. Thus, the emission of greenhouse gases and use of nonwaste, INDEVCO Flexible Packaging and Napco National CJSC Flexible renewable resources is decreased. Packaging divisions have taken an active role in pushing towards a circular economy of plastics, meanwhile create green revenue streams In the Middle East and Arabian Gulf, rapid economic development and from recycling plastic waste. Equipped with recycling facilities and population growth have accelerated depletion of resources and increased waste collection, sorting and cleaning equipment, INDEVCO offers waste generation, greenhouse gas emissions, and other negative environmental waste-to-energy technologies, and post-industrial plastic collection, impacts. To maintain the growth rate and reduce vulnerability, Gulf Cooperation recycling, and regeneration. The topic boundaries extend from our Council (GCC) countries are moving toward a path of sustainability and manufacturing operations to our partners, from suppliers to customers circular economy. [1] The Gulf Petrochemicals & Chemicals Association (GPCA) to consumers and government entities, municipalities, petrochemical has highlighted the importance of plastic raw material producers in the producers, NGOs, and other public parties. Gulf to transform into a circular economy to attain sustainable growth and development. [2] The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, in collaboration with the UN Environment Programme, launched the Global Commitment to the New Plastics Economy in October 2018 to eliminate unnecessary plastic items to innovate plastics, so that they are reusable, recyclable or compostable, and to circulate plastics to keep them out of the environment. [3] Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/waste-circular-economy Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 34 Environment OUTCOMES Lebanon, Saudi Arabia IMPACT Napco National’s Recom in Saudi Arabia and Masterpak in Lebanon collect, sort, wash and recycle post-industrial plastic scrap. In 2018, over 40% of plastic scrap collected came from sister companies. 25% Increase of plastic scrap collection Masterpak plant in Zouk Mosbeh recycled and converted its own post-industrial scrap, while its plant in Bazyoun separated and washed agricultural films from local farmers and post-consumer plastic scrap 74,023m2 collected from local third party collectors for conversion by sister companies. Recom collects post-industrial plastic scrap across Saudi Arabia for recycling at plants in Jeddah and Dammam. Partnering with petrochemical producers, Recom offers 24/7 on-premises collection and of post-industrial plastic recycling of polymer scraps. Recom also works with sister consumer products plants to collect diaper scrap diverted from landfill [4] pack trim, local farms for agri and strawberry films, and shipping agencies, warehouses and commercial centers to collect post-commercial films. Eliminated GHG emissions In 2018, Napco National launched its sustainability program focused on partnering with schools associated to landfilling by to spread awareness on segregation and plastic recycling, as well as provide plastic scrap recycling services. Recom presented at schools and welcomed students to visit its recycling facility. 752 MTCO2E of carbon dioxide equivalent [5] Maintained production of Recycled Resins Eliminated associated GHG emissions by 66,196 MTCO2E of carbon dioxide equivalent [6] Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 35 Environment Plastic Scrap Collected by Type Each type of plastic scrap collected is recycled differently: 0.50% 0.60% PVC Core • Resin waste is washed and sent for converting into quality recycled plastics Scrap • Films, clogs, lumps, and non-woven diaper trims are segregated by polymer family and color, then ground, washed and sent for conversion into premium applications • PVC core waste is sold for reuse 2.10% 19.20% 25.40% Clog/ Resin Waste Woven Plants maintained steady production of recycled resins, while resin prices dropped in 2018, adversely Lumps effecting local demand for recycled resins. Sister companies utilized nearly 65% of regenerated resins, converting into such plastic films as mulch film, silage covers, garbage bags, bin liners, thermoforming sheets, bitumens, drip irrigation pipes, injection molding grates, and pallets. INDEVCO and Napco plastics converting plants use closed loop mechanical recycling to enhance plastic properties and regenerate collected scrap into same quality resins higher value converting that 52.10% can be recycled again. Film Waste In addition, our plants work in consultation with INDEVCO Polymer Application Center for Technology (PACT) to leverage extensive polymer expertise and testing capabilities to recycle and compound difficult polymers, such as multi-layer barrier films, as well as develop new ranges of compounded and recycled products. See Appendix H for references. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 36 Environment REGENERATED PRODUCTS BENEFITS PARTNER Reduce fossil-fuel with companies / industries based raw material consumption CONVERT COLLECT into premium plastic scrap Decrease greenhouse FEEDSTOCK / gas emissions applications internally & RENEWABLE RAW externally MATERIALS CIRCULAR Mineral Fillers ECONOMY Reduce waste OF PLASTICS generation & landfilling REGENERATE SORT Divert plastics from closed loop by material marine and desert mechanical and color recycling environments DESIGN & WASH INNOVATION (dry and wet) Create new green INDEVCO Polymer value streams Application Center for Technology (PACT) Provide green jobs Work with plastic converters to design products for: Improve surrounding Reusability community quality Recyclability of life Compostability Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 37 Product Development 301-1 Compounding Fillers from Minerals Context OUR COMMITMENT With increasing scrutiny, finding alternatives to finite fossil is to develop and expand production from naturally abundant fuel-based raw materials in plastic packaging has gained momentum. minerals, in order to offer sustainable raw material options to Minerals such as Calcium Carbonate and Talc are naturally abundant and plastics converters commonly used in plastic film converting, due to improved properties and high-performance. Using mineral fillers in plastics converting has steadily Management Approach increased over the years with the calcium carbonate fillers projected to grow by 5.3% CAGR by 2025 [1] and the talc filler market to grow by 4.91% INDEVCO Flexible Packaging division in Egypt and Napco National CAGR through 2023 [2]. Flexible Packaging division in Saudi Arabia have identified renewable raw materials for plastic packaging as a material topic. The plants Calcium carbonate is one of the most common raw materials on earth, manufacture mineral fillers to replace fossil-fuel based raw materials found in such natural sources such as limestone, chalk or marble and and, thus, reduce direct impacts, and the impacts of sister plastic composing 4% of the earth’s crust. This mineral is naturally replenished packaging manufacturers and external plastic converters. By using by rivers, lakes and oceans or formed as minerals in the form of shells, mineral fillers, plastic converters convert fewer fossil fuel-based virgin skeletons, stalactites and stalagmites. Calcium carbonate is renewed at materials, thereby reducing depletion of finite nonrenewable resources, minimum twice the rate of consumption, thus meeting the ISO 14021 carbon footprint, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. definition of renewable. [3] It is the most commonly used inorganic filler in plastics with a market share of 34%. [4] Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 38 Product Development OUTCOMES Egypt, Saudi Arabia IMPACT In 2018, INDEVCO expanded compounding of MicroMB calcium carbonate fillers by nearly 13% Increase at Masterpak Nile in Egypt and Napco National’s Recom in Saudi Arabia. CaCO3 Production by 12.9% These naturally abundant and renewable raw materials play a fundamental role in regenerating plastics by enhancing the mechanical and physical properties of plastic scrap that would have otherwise been lost in the recycling process. Calcium carbonate fillers enhance plastic film converting by speeding up heating, cooling, and converting. They also assist in downgauging, Eliminated GHG emissions by increasing output, and reducing blend structure cost. When used in recycling plastics, the fillers help maintain stiffness, impact strength, and barrier property, as well as increase material viscosity. [5] End applications for calcium carbonate filler include blown and cast films, blow 161,910 MTCO2E of carbon dioxide equivalent molding, injection molding, and rotational molding. [6] Masterpak Nile tripled talc filler production, 100% of which was sold externally. Silica-based talc Increased fillers assist production of softer surface plastic films with better tensile strength, heat resistance, impact absorption, stability, and electrical insulation. Talc filler is used for blown films, while Talc Production specialty micronized grades are used for automotive and engineering plastics products, as well as household appliances. [7] 3-fold GHG Emission Reduction from Use of CaCO3 2016 144,122 2017 143,429 2018 161,910.10 Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com/pdf/INDEVCO2017-Mineral-Filler-Initiative.pdf 130,000 135,000 145,000 150,000 155,000 160,000 165,000 See Appendix I for references. MTCO2E Reduced Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 39 Product Development 301-1 2 Innovating Consumer & Foodservice Disposables billion units by 2024. [1] Although disposable paper cups are convenient OUR COMMITMENT and more hygienic for hot and cold beverages, they usually end up in is to innovate and expand production of a sustainable Sanita landfills and are unrecyclable. [2] Natura disposable product portfolio to offer consumer and As consumer and public concern about the environment grow, away-from-home industry. brands are looking for ways to sustainably source renewable and recyclable raw materials, as well as enhance product recoverability. Management Approach Quick service and casual dining restaurant chains, as well as foodservice and catering companies have been searching for years for a sustainable In 2018, recognizing the significant impact unrecyclable paper cups packaging solution that maintains needed properties and meets industry have on the environment, INDEVCO established its Foodservice standards [3]. Packaging Innovation Team to develop the Sanita Natura ecofriendly foodservice packaging line. The team brought together Starbucks and McDonald’s partnered to launch the NextGen Cup Challenge member company experts in paperboard coating at Specialty Coating in 2018 to search for new recoverable solutions for the single-use paper & Laminating in Doswell, Virginia; paper sourcing and paper cup cup system. They were joined by The Coca-Cola Company USA, Yum! production Napco National in Dammam, Saudi Arabia; and global Brands, and Nestlé and World Wildlife Fund. Closed Loop Partner’s Center sustainability at headquarters in Zouk Mosbeh, Lebanon. Sanita for the Circular Economy managed the challenge. Natura® sustainably sources raw materials and uses a specialty coating formula to replace unrecyclable PE and wax liner dual structures. The specialty-coated repulpable and compostable product helps foodservice companies and consumers reduce their negative environmental impacts and encourages recycling. Context Global paper cup consumption in 2018 reached nearly 260 billion units with hot paper cups accounting for over 65% of the market (tea and coffee 45%). Consumption is projected to reach 290 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 40 Product Development OUTCOMES Lebanon, Saudi Arabia Sanita Natura® hot and cold cup was shortlisted in Starbuck’s / McDonald’s NextGen Cup Challenge’s top 29 of 480 entries from 53 countries. In 2018, INDEVCO Foodservice Packaging Innovation Team developed Sanita Natura® brand of eco-friendly coated foodservice paper products to address the growing need for recyclable foodservice packaging. In addition to hot and cold cups, the product line includes specialty-coated paper bags, sheets, rolls, and sachets, as well as paper straws and molded fiber bowls, plates, and boxes. Sustainable Raw Materials Sanita Natura® foodservice product line integrates a recyclable specialty coating formula that preserves moisture and provides grease barrier and sealing properties, while replacing unrecyclable PE or wax liner structures. The cupstock coating offers a proprietary water-based functional and barrier emulsion. In addition, INDEVCO leveraged existing supply chains to source certified cupstock paper raw materials. Recoverability Sanita Natura water-based coating and ink render it capable of entering any existing or future recovery system. The recyclable coating and ink dissolve in water during repulping, disperse, and become part of recycled pulp fibers without adversely impacting the recycled pulp. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 41 Product Development Recycled Applications Waste from coated cupstock and cups can be reconverted into a range of products for foodservice, agricultural, electronic, and other industries. Some applications include: Sack Paper Testliner & Fluting Coreboard Molded Pulp Packaging STANDARDS CERTIFICATIONS Paper cupstock complies with: Paper Cupstock Chain of Custody: US Federal Drug Administration (FDA) EC Regulation No 1935 • Sustainable Forestry Initiative® (SFI®) BfR Recommendation XXXVI • Program for the Endorsement of Forestry Certification® (PEFC®) Cupstock coating complies with: Repulpability certified by Western Michigan University • FDA • EU REACH Food-grade certified by IBE-BVI Belgian testing authorities www.SanitaNatura.com http://news.indevcogroup.com/sustainability/indevcos-sanita-natura-recyclable-cup-shortlisted-in-nextgen-cup-challenge/ See Appendix J for references. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 42 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 43 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH INDEVCO’s integral social pillars, Community and Employees, are derived Evaluating regional gaps, community needs, and the UN SDGs, we from our corporate philosophy, “What is good for the community is good for identified where we can make the greatest positive impact through the company. What is good for the company, we will strive to do excellently corporate and brand outreach programs and partnerships. Our and in a way that enriches the lives of our people.” community initiatives include: INDEVCO’s raison d’etre is the compass that guides the group in identifying and addressing community needs, while unleashing business opportunity and maximizing value. The group supports the work of NGOs and partners • Empowering Arab Women with a range of organizations, all the while addressing key UN Sustainable • Nurturing Childhood Development in the Middle East Development Goals (SDGs). • Developing & Strengthening Youth in Lebanon Aligning with our membership in the UN Global Compact, our operations are mandated to ensure an inclusive, quality, and safe work environment for all employees and workers with zero tolerance for discrimination. Our The boundaries of these Social material topics extend from indirect employee initiatives focus on: impacts of educational and healthcare institutions, local NGOs, industry associations, and other organizations supported in local and regional initiatives, as well as to employees in our global operations. • Enhancing Occupational Health & Safety • Fostering Employee Diversity & Inclusion Learn More http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com#social-responsibility Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 44 Employees 403-1 4 5 Enhancing Occupational 404-2 Health & Safety Context OUR COMMITMENT McKinsey’s Global Survey on Sustainability highlights a clear shift is to put in place and train staff on safety procedures and of focus from renewable energy and waste management to safety policies that meet international standards for decent and safe and security. [1] The UN set decent work for all as one of its 17 2030 working conditions to preserve employee health and wellbeing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UN SDG8, Target 8.8 focuses on promoting safe and secure working environment for all workers, including migrant workers. [2] Management Approach With over 10,100 people worldwide, employee wellbeing and safety are top priorities at INDEVCO. We have identified occupational health and safety as a clear material topic, supported by stakeholder responses in our 2017 materiality assessment. We have implemented universal health and safety systems and processes across all operations with our Internal Audit and Insurance Departments regularly conducting scheduled and surprise audits. These audits assess housekeeping, policies, hazard prevention, adherence to international labor law and certification requirements. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 45 Employees OUTCOMES IMPACT Within the manufacturing environment, employees are exposed to loud noises, operate heavy machinery, and encounter other risks associated with specific industrial processes. INDEVCO plants 33% require employees to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) protective gear and offer regular of manufacturing operations health checkups and treatments for workers. In addition, the group provides health and safety in Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, training, e-learning, and internal awareness campaigns. the UAE and USA hold international certifications Health & Safety Training In 2018, INDEVCO Human Resources and Operational Development’s (HROD) Learning & Development (L&D) Unit expanded its health and safety training in Lebanon and Saudi Arabia, managing 638 basic and advanced credit hours of training courses for 1,320 employees (98% male, 2% female) a 72% increase in internal reach from 370 employees in 2017. Furthermore, in Q4 2018, INDEVCO L&D rolled out its First Aid Video Series, accessible as a digital class by all employees in Egypt, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia via the learning management system. In line with requirements of the Egyptian Ministry of Civil Defense, all INDEVCO employees in Egypt undergo civil defense training provided by the local civil defense staff. OHS Training Courses First-Aid Video Series Emergency Response Fire Fighting Basics Introduction to First Aid Bleeding Intro to Forklift Safety First Aid Techniques Blood Donation Poisoning Machine Operational Safety Heavy Equipment And Personal Safety Skin Burns & Wounds Fractures Chemical Handling and Spills Response Safety Awareness Correct Behavior CPR Upper Airway Obstructions State of Shock Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 46 Employees Internal Health & Safety Awareness In 2018, Napco National in Saudi Arabia launched an internal ‘Devoted to Safety’ campaign to increase REACH employees awareness on the importance of occupational health and safety. The integrated campaign used a series of shocking internal emails and fliers distributed across plants. Communications focused on enforcing the use of such protective equipment and gear as safety gloves, 12 glasses, and earplugs. The campaign also emphasized best practices for fire prevention, chemical and Manufacturing Plants forklift safety. Employees received clear directions regarding safety policies and procedures. Over 70% of employees responded to an end-of-the campaign quiz. 1,271 Employees via Email ‘Devoted to Safety’ Campaign 5S Pillars Fire Prevention Measures 5,293 Employees via Fliers Personal Protective Equipment Chemical Safety Gloves to Avoid Hand Injuries Forklift Safety Instructions Safety Glasses to Avoid Eye Injuries Control Room Monitoring Instructions Earplugs to Avoid Hearing Damage For information about work-life balance for working mothers, see Fostering Employee Diversity & Inclusion on page 48. See Appendix K for references. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 47 Employees 404-2 405-1B Fostering Employee Diversity & Inclusion decision in 2017. [1] Saudi Vision 2030, meanwhile, set a major objective OUR COMMITMENT for equal opportunities, calling for lifelong talent development and job is to provide quality employment and decent working opportunities for people with disabilities and women. [2] conditions for people of all backgrounds Lebanon and Saudi Arabia both ranked among the lowest countries in the Global Gender Gap, 140 and 141 respectively out of 149 surveyed Management Approach countries. Based on the pace of improvement in closing this gap over Providing decent and inclusive work has been embedded in INDEVCO the years, the World Economic Forum estimates that it would take an for over six decades. The industrial manufacturing industry is maleadditional 153 years in the Middle East and North Africa to close the dominated; however, INDEVCO identifies economic inclusion, gender parity. Strong and aggressive support from policy-makers and employment and engagement of people with disabilities and women private companies can accelerate closing the gap. In 2018, Lebanon’s as an important material topic, with boundaries extending from our performance remained unchanged, while Saudi Arabia witnessed some HR and operations to universities, educational institutions, and partner improvements in wage equality and women’s labor force participation. [3] NGOs. INDEVCO and member companies leverage on the education and value that both groups can offer. In 2018, INDEVCO reevaluated and improved its approach to hiring people with disabilities, as well as enhanced efforts to support work-life balance for working mothers. Context In recent years, the Lebanese and Saudi Arabian governments have introduced legislation and focused on economic inclusion and rights of persons with disabilities to work in the private sector. In 2018, Lebanese Ministry of Labor communicated the enforcement of Law 220 / 2000 on the Rights of Disabled Persons, following the national Shura Council final Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 48 Employees OUTCOMES IMPACT Supporting Persons with Disabilities Employed ~ 170 Persons Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia with disabilities in Egypt, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia (95% male, 5% female) In 2018, INDEVCO Chairman & CEO endorsed the implementation of Law 220/2000, which takes effect in October 2019, governing the rights of disabled persons. Trained 30% of INDEVCO INDEVCO evaluated existing operations and set targets across Egypt, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia to reach national quotas for employment of people with disabilities. The Employees with Disabilities in Egypt, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia group is also assisting existing employees attain or renew expired social affairs cards. Recruiting People with Special Needs TRAINING COURSES TAKEN BY PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES INDEVCO Human Resources & Organizational Development (HROD) Department partnered Personal Development Courses with Lebanese NGO, ProAbled, to use Communication Skills English Beginners Part One its online recruitment platform to screen Industrial English qualified candidates with disabilities for our Team Building workforce in Lebanon. Our Recruitment Unit selects candidates based on required job Quality & Operations Courses British Retail Consortium (BRC) Standards for competencies, including physical and mental Food Safety & Quality requirements related to safety and operations Quality & ISO Standards in a manufacturing environment. Quality Assurance Occupational Health & Safety Courses 5S Methodology for Workplace Housekeeping Emergency Response Fire Fighting Basics Heavy Equipment & Personal Safety Machine Operational Safety Sanitation and Housekeeping Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 49 Employees Implementing Disability-Friendly Work Space Our companies offer reserved parking, disabled access into buildings and restrooms with safe TYPES OF DISABILITIES passageways, floor designations, and appropriate signage. In Lebanon, our consumer and institutional disposables manufacturing plant, Sanita, maintains a safe and secure packing section for persons with special needs at its plant in Zouk Mosbeh, while Phoenix Group facilities in Safra Amputations meet international standards for inclusive working conditions for disabled persons. Down Syndrome Raising Public Awareness Sanita’s Zouk Mosbeh plant is featured in ProAbled’s 2018 national campaign, the largest online Mobility & Dexterity campaign to raise awareness about the importance of fair employment of persons with disabilities Impairments in Lebanon. Sanita actively recruits persons with special needs, currently over 4% of the employee population. Speech Difficulties In addition, INDEVCO and Sanita shared their commitment to inclusive and quality work for all during events organized by the Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL). Paralysis CONFERENCES FOCUS GROUP PARTNERS Enhancing Diversity Within Organizations SDG8 Decent Work & Economic Growth ‘Diversity Through Recruitment & Development’ Round Table Sanita INDEVCO HROD & Sanita August 2018 September 2018 Lebanon Collaboration for SDGs Event ‘SDG Challenge: Are You Ready to Take It?’ Panel Discussion Sanita January 2018 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 50 Employees Strengthening the Role of Women in the MENA Workforce Bahrain, Egypt, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE IMPACT INDEVCO employs over 600 women in the Middle East and North Africa region, including over 100 women in Saudi Arabia. In 2018, over 130 women in Lebanon 600+ Women and Saudi Arabia attained training for personal and skill development, health and employed across MENA operations safety, and quality and operations. Supporting Working Mothers in Lebanon 26% of all female employees in Lebanon & With a heavy emphasis on work-life balance, Saudi Arabia received training INDEVCO extended its Maternity Policy, so that all mothers of children up to the age of 8 are eligible to benefit from reduced working hours to balance 100% responsibilities at home. Women still predominantly of working mothers in Lebanon with hold responsibility for the household, carrying out at a child 8 years or younger are eligible to benefit from INDEVCO’s maternity policy least two and a half times more unpaid household and care work than men. [4] During International Breastfeeding Week, the first week of August 2018, INDEVCO launched a breastfeeding awareness session for employees across operations in Lebanon. The Breastfeeding real benefits of breastfeeding for babies and Fundamentals Workshop brought together 28 mothers, tips on positioning, latching, preparations, INDEVCO mothers and mothers-to-be on 7 and working and breastfeeding. The initiative, August at the Reston Hotel in Jounieh. For the organized by INDEVCO HROD and Sustainability workshop, INDEVCO partnered with LACTICA, Departments, coincides with Lebanon’s 2018 an NGO dedicated to normalizing and promoting national breastfeeding campaign, which breastfeeding in Lebanon. Doctors specialized emphasizes the role businesses play in supporting in infant nutrition and lactation consultants from successful and continued breastfeeding for LACTICA highlighted scientific studies presenting working mothers. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 51 Employees Empowering Female Employees in Saudi Arabia Major reforms in Saudi Arabia transformed the rights of women in the Kingdom overnight. After new legislation lifted the ban on women driving in June 2018, Napco National launched an employee benefit program to support female employees interested in obtaining a driver’s license. The initiative, which will run through until July 2019, provides women who want to attain their driver’s license, regardless of nationality or position, a one-time compensation of 500 Saudi Riyals, as well as one day leave not deducted from annual leave or salary. The benefit program aims to partially compensate fees paid to attain the license and working days off needed to take driving lessons. The initiative was organized by Napco Communications Department in alignment with INDEVCO HROD Department, and INDEVCO Sustainability Department. See Appendix L for references. TRAINING COURSES TAKEN BY FEMALE EMPLOYEES Personal Development Courses Occupational Health & Safety Courses Accountability & Change Intermediate, Industrial Levels) Negotiation Skills (Advanced) 5S Methodology for Workplace Accounting Principles (Advanced) Enterprise Resources Planning (ERP)Procurement Management Principles Housekeeping Achieving High Performance Production Module Public Relations Emergency Response Acting & Achieving Finance for Non-Finance Professionals Selling Skills Basics Fire Fighting Basics Analytical & Critical Thinking Financial Analysis Skills (Advanced) Social Security Regulations Safety Awareness Archiving Tools (Advanced) High Performance Coach Academy Strategic Brand LeadershipBrand Awareness throughHigh Performance Teams & Brand Transformation Quality & Operations Courses Social Media Internal Auditor Team Building Project Management Concept & ExecutiveBusiness Writing (Intro) International Trade Finance Technical Exhibition / InformativeProject Management Code of Ethics Lead Auditor Sessions Standards Awareness & Interpretation Communication Skills Leading With Emotional Intelligence Time & Stress Management Digital Marketing Skills (Advanced) Microsoft Excel (Beginner & Advanced) Train the Trainer Emotional Intelligence Microsoft Outlook (Advanced) Wellness Awareness Employee Contracting Microsoft PowerPoint (Advanced) English (Beginner, Elementary, Microsoft Word (Beginner) Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 52 Community 413-1 Empowering Arab Women Context OUR COMMITMENT Saudi Vision 2030 has identified women as critical for societal and economic is to partner with NGOs, healthcare and educational development. [1] The vision’s equal opportunity target fueled major reforms institutions to empower women with the information and in women’s rights in the Kingdom, including the June 2018 new legislation tools needed to lead healthy, happy, and purposeful lives allowing women to drive in Saudi Arabia. The Saudi Ministry of Health highlights that breast cancer imposes socioManagement Approach economic burdens, citing it as the highest form of cancer in women in Saudi Napco National Consumer Division uses its leading feminine hygiene Arabia, affecting younger women and with delayed detection. [2] As such, the brands to deliver impactful outreach programs and campaigns that Ministry focuses annually on raising public awareness on early detection and target Arab women’s empowerment, health, and wellness. Impact prevention during Breast Cancer Awareness month in October. boundaries extend to partner NGOs, as well as educational and healthcare institutions. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 53 Community REACH OUTCOMES Encouraging Responsible Driving & Road Safety for Saudi Women 488,032 People Under the Fam® Cares slogan, Napco’s feminine hygiene brand launched a road safety campaign in Reached through Social Media support of the June 2018 royal decree granting women in Saudi Arabia the right to drive after completing mandated driving lesson hours. The #Fam_Tahtam_Bi_Salamatiki_Ala_Etarik (#Fam_Cares_for_Your_Safety_on_the_Road) campaign 75,000 Women Reached at Point Sales spread awareness about road safety and responsible driving. Running from March through May 2018, 17,000 Women the campaign targeted Saudi female drivers, sharing educational posts and instructional videos about traffic signs and driving regulations. In an effort to emphasize recall, Fam offered social media fans a chance to win a Mitsubishi car by passing a short online quiz on traffic regulations. Participants in Saudi Arabia Learn More http://news.indevcogroup.com/consumer-brands/fam-celebrates-saudi-women-driving-offers-fans-chance-win-mitsubishi/ Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 54 Community Partnering with Zahra for Breast Cancer Awareness Napco National’s Fam® brand supported Zahra Breast Cancer Awareness Association’s 2018 annual REACH awareness campaign in October. The #La_Tuhmili_Ay_Ichara (#Don’t_ignore_the_slightest_sign) campaign emphasized that no early sign of breast cancer should go unnoticed to ensure early detection and successful treatment. Over 90% of women diagnosed with breast cancer at the early stages have a 247,404 People Reached through Social Media 5-year survival rate compared to only 15% diagnosed at the latest stage. In its ninth year supporting the annual breast cancer awareness campaign, Fam launched hair donation stations at booths across 5 malls in Dammam, Jeddah, and Riyadh, under the slogan ‘Khosla Min Ajli 16,405 Women Basma’ (#One_strand_one_smile) to support women living with breast cancer. Persons donating hair Reached in the Gulf received a certificate of acknowledgment from the Crown Princess of Saudi Arabia. In addition, Fam launched an integrated social media campaign and pan-Arab TV commercial on 65 Hair Donations MBC 1 throughout the Pink Month. in Riyadh, Jeddah & Dammam Fam® brand is owned by INDEVCO and manufactured under license by Napco National. Learn More http://news.indevcogroup.com/consumer-brands/fam-teams-zahra-strengthen-breast-cancer-awareness-la_tuhmili_ay_ichara/ See Appendix M for references. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 55 Community 413-1 Nurturing Childhood Development in the Middle East OUR COMMITMENT enrollment, attendance and completion, access to quality education remains is to partner with local and international organizations, unequal. [2] The role of the private sector remains critical in supporting and NGOs, and the media to promote and support childhood launching programs, as MENA has the lowest investment in early childhood education as a precursor to success in life development in the world [3]. Management Approach With leading baby care brands in Lebanon and Saudi Arabia, INDEVCO recognizes the importance of leveraging brand reach to launch and support childhood development programs. Napco National’s social media campaigns help families and primary caregivers nurture cognitive and emotional development and secure wellbeing of children. INDEVCO partners with local NGOs to provide children equal access to quality education and a platform for creative expression. Topic boundaries extend to educational institution and NGOs. Context Children without access to early childhood development (ECD) tools and education are at higher risk for stunted development, as access has been correlated to the long-term success of children and their ability to contribute meaningfully to the society and economy. [1] The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region has nearly 22 million children who are either out of school or at risk of dropping out. Although many countries in the region have made significant progress in increasing school Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 56 Community REACH OUTCOMES Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Yemen 38,500 People Reached on Facebook Early Learning Bambi® ‘It Takes a Family to Raise a Child’ Campaign This year Bambi® baby care brand’s Early Learning campaign expanded beyond previous initiatives that 9,000 People reached on Instagram focused on the role of a child’s primary caregiver in nurturing development. In 2018, Bambi brand launched the ‘It Takes a Family to Raise a Child’ campaign, focusing on the critical role each member of a family plays in the cognitive, social, and emotional development of a young child. 8,000 The campaign on Bambi social media channels, from end January to mid-March 2018, shared posts that encouraged care, friendship, and positive bond-building between father-and child, siblings, and members of Impressions on Twitter the extended family, including aunts, uncles, and grandparents. Coinciding with the campaign, Bambi also provided new online Early Learning resources for mothers on its website, such as educational bedtime stories and music in Arabic and English. Napco National Bambi brand team engaged with parents and children at Kids in Motion, Saudi Arabia’s popular family trade show. Bambi® brand is owned by INDEVCO and manufactured under license by Napco National. Learn More http://www.napco-in-focus.com/csr-6-articles.aspx http://news.indevcogroup.com/consumer-brands/sanita-bambiwebsite-interactive-improve-mothers-parenting-skills/ Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 57 Community IMPACT Children’s Hygiene Sanita® ‘Back-to-School’ Hygiene Over 395,000 Campaign People In an effort to protect children from spread of reached on Facebook viruses and bacteria, Sanita® brand launched a ‘Back-to-School’ hygiene program in September 2018. Over 54,000 The campaign focused on highlighting all the places at school that harbor the most germs, People as well as how to properly wash hands and reached on Instagram maintain other hygiene practices. The campaign also featured additional helpful tips, such as how to keep packed lunches fresh Over 54,000 and reduce food waste, to make the transition back to school smooth for children and their Impressions on Twitter parents. 2 Videos, 40,000 Sanita® brand is owned by INDEVCO and manufactured under license by Napco National. Nearly views on Youtube and Facebook Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 58 Community OUTCOMES Lebanon Quality Education Paradis d’Enfants Non-Profit Primary Schools INDEVCO supports Paradis d’Enfants Association in its mission to provide quality education to children from underprivileged families. In addition to running three non-profit primary schools in Jounieh and Ghosta, Paradis d’Enfants’ Social Welfare Office works directly with families to improve family life and support family needs where possible. The association also orients primary school alumni to pursue higher education, university opportunities, and job placement in Lebanon. INDEVCO founder, Georges N. Frem, established Paradis d’Enfants Association in 1997. Educated 1,963 Students Employed over under privileged primary school 144 Teachers from across Lebanon Oriented 1,287 Families 1,480 Alumni to improve to higher education aspects of family life opportunities Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 59 Community IMPACT Creativity & Play Hosted 6 Plays Théâtre Athénée attended by 56,078 children (1,018 children free of charge) In line with INDEVCO’s commitment to nurturing childhood development, the group supports 15 Drama Théâtre Athénée in Jounieh, Lebanon, which inspires, entertains, and fosters creativity among Lebanese of all ages. Conducted Théâtre Athénée produces plays and organizes workshops for children to encourage creativity and dance, singing, and chess to build confidence and social skills. workshops to nearly 113 children In 2018, Théâtre Athénée performed 6 English and French plays executed by locally renowned aged 11-16 years old producers and performed by Théâtre Athénée workshop students: ‘Vers une Autre Planète’, ‘Super Lio’, ‘Bablou’, ‘La Fête des Fees’, ‘Louna Bom Bom Dino’, and ‘Oliver Twist’. Performances were broadcast by Télé Lumière’s Nour Kids TV from Lebanon to a wider audience. Hosted 16 Events Georges N. Frem Foundation founded Théâtre Athénée in 2003 as a platform for self-expression for associations, nurseries and schools and participation. See Appendix N for references. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 60 Community 413-1 Developing & Strengthening Youth in Lebanon Context OUR COMMITMENT Currently nearly half of the population of the Middle East and North is to provide industry leadership and support to Lebanon’s public and Africa (MENA) is under 24 years of age. As per the 2018 Arab Youth private universities, faculties and students to reduce skill gaps and Survey, two-thirds of youth in the Levant feel that they are not acquiring unemployment and to enhance industrial research achievements the skills needed for their future from the education system. Meanwhile, employers report a shortage of crucial life skills, specifically lack of creativity, critical thinking, problem-solving and communication [1]. Management Approach With a growing number of youth entering the labor market and a As an industrial manufacturing company looking for ways to innovate, major gap between market needs and available skills, youth skill INDEVCO turns to the youth and partners with universities to discuss building should be a major priority for decision makers and private theory, conduct research, exchange expertise, and share tools and sector companies looking to leverage on the underused resource. [2] technologies for mutual advancement. The group supports educational Youth unemployment rates in the MENA region, on the other hand, are infrastructure and sponsors youth innovation competitions, while executives among the highest in the world. The World Bank cites the 2018 youth across the company play active roles in university boards. As such, unemployment rate in Egypt, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia to be 32.6%, developing and strengthening youth in Lebanon is an important objective for 17.4% and 25.8% respectively. [3] INDEVCO. Boundaries of the topic extend to universities, NGOs, and other associations supporting youth skill building. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 61 Community OUTCOMES IMPACT Student Skill Building INDEVCO offers summer and semester internships to university students in Lebanon and abroad to 175 Interns (68% male, 32% female) from develop in-demand job skills for relevant work, as they prepare to enter the workforce. 19 universities and technical institutes ‘The HUNT’ Career Program INDEVCO Recruitment Unit organized its first edition of ‘The HUNT’ Career Program in 2018 to attract promising fresh graduates seeking employment within a manufacturing environment. After an 5 One-Year intensive multi-stage process, the group selected five winners from 25 shortlisted candidates to join the group following graduation in 2019. The first stage of the stringent two-stage program involved full-day outdoor activities and challenges to test individual and group skills in team building, planning, analysis, interactivity, creativity, and time Internships management. Those that progressed to the second stage were given specific projects related to for Graduating Students respective fields, including Mechanical, Electrical, and Industrial Engineering and Marketing. “ Learn More http://news.indevcogroup.com/corporate/indevco-awards-one-year-internships-huntThe HUNT journey was a unique and impressive career-program/ experience. We spent a very exciting day at Deir El Qamar. It was full of competitive games, where we used our skills and creativity to challenge ourselves and other teams. In the second stage of The HUNT, I did my best in preparing and presenting the marketing project in front of INDEVCO jury. And I was very grateful and satisfied when I received the congratulations letter from INDEVCO Recruitment Unit. I would like to thank INDEVCO “ Recruitment team for being very supportive through all the phases of The HUNT. Raphaella Saliba Marketing Student Winner Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 62 Community IMPACT Lebanese Industrial Research Achievements (LIRA) Program INDEVCO and member companies annually sponsor the LIRA program Forum of Technology & Phoenix Sponsored Industrial Innovations and sponsor participating graduate student projects. The LIRA Forum encourages collaboration between industrial manufacturers, universities, research centers, and youth to develop 4 Graduate Projects technological innovations in manufacturing. In 2018, INDEVCO’s Phoenix Machinery supported 4 LIRA projects. Phoenix Group Area General Manager, Rabih Osta, served once again as a LIRA panel judge. Passive System to Support the Locomotion of Paralyzed Persons on Snow Michel Maalouly & Rami Karkafi Lebanese American University IoTree Christina Chaccour Notre Dame University of Louaize A Novel Out-of-theBox Solar Wind Turbine Design & Implementation Ramy Nemr & Joe Khalil Notre Dame University of Louaize SCADA System for Distributed PV Plants Antoine El Hachem & Wissam Zogheib Saint Joseph University Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 63 Community Arab Student StarPack 2018 Competition INDEVCO member company, UNIPAK annually sponsors the Student Starpak Competition to support and promote innovative packaging designs by students. Dani Khoury, INDEVCO Paper Containers Innovation & C.I. Senior Director, sits on the panel of judges. As a Gold sponsor of the second edition of the Arab Student StarPack competition, UNIPAK General Manager, Habib Jaber, awarded Dana Yehia from Lebanon for her Outstanding Packaging Solution under Structural Design category. Yehia presented an innovative corrugated packaging design for the well-known Lebanese breakfast, ‘Mankoushe’ (Pastry with Thyme), observing consumer behavior and preferences to inspire design. Organized by the Lebanese Packaging Center, LibanPack in collaboration with UNIDO, the Arab StarPack Competition IMPACT invites university students in Arab countries to create packaging solutions for their national products. The competition engages youth in the industrial process and involves them in developing inclusive and sustainable packaging designs. Selected student Learn More Dana Yehia https://www.indevcopapercontainers.com/news/unipak-recognizes-a-new-arab-talentfor her Outstanding Packaging Solution at-the-second-edition-of-arab-student-starpack-competition-for-2018 under Structural Design category Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 64 Community IMPACT Youth Employment 194 New Recruits (88% male, 12% female) 19 Universities and Technical Institutes 5 Job Fairs Supporting Georges N. Frem Foundation Rural Transport Program Contributed to Georges N. Frem Foundation’s Rural Transport Program to reduce urban migration • Provided transportation to 738 students from 57 villages. Transportation was secured to Lebanese University Campuses and Dekwaneh Technical Institute • Increased pick-up locations from 40 to 45 and stop off location from 14 to 17. Moreover, 8 new pick-up locations were added with the inclusion of Ftouh Lines. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 65 Community Youth Empowerment IMPACT Supporting Youth Wellbeing & Community Development with Cénacle de la Lumiere (CDLL) In line with INDEVCO’s focus on youth, the group supports CDLL non-profit organization focused on 17,652 Persons community and youth development, as well as drug and alcohol addiction prevention and rehabilitation. reached through drug prevention CDLL works on three programs: Prevention, Recovery, and Community Development. In 2018, as part of awareness initiatives 370 Persons its Community Development program, CDLL helped 65 young vulnerable adults reintegrate into society and the job market by providing training to equip them with needed vocational and technical skills. Under the Recovery program, CDLL provided addiction recovery services to 370 patients, while its drug treated for substance abuse prevention and awareness initiatives reached over 17,600 persons in Lebanon. CDLL spreads awareness 65 Persons through conferences, school visits, on-going online ‘Bala Drugs’ campaign, and other initiatives. The Ministry of Social Affairs launched the ‘National Volunteer Service Program’ in 2018, funded by the World Bank. Under the program, CDLL launched the ‘Together for a Better Community’ project received vocational & technical training which addressed drug awareness and concerns leading to health risky behaviors among youth in the city of Amchit, Lebanon. In addition, CDLL implemented the ‘Together towards a Healthier Community’ prevention project in the region of Blat, Jbeil in partnership with AVSI and CESVI, supported by UNICEF, Participated in Lebanese Ministry of Public and funded by the governments of the United Kingdom, Germany, and Netherlands. Health mapping of treatment surveys on Both projects provided in-depth trainings on substance abuse sensitization. Beneficiaries then organized Prevention & Treatment Centers in Lebanon outreach initiatives to cascade the information received to the community, targeting different age groups Part of UNDP BML livelihood & Social (parents, youth and children) and diversifying the approaches to reach all community members. Stability Working Groups Learn More Certified by the Lebanese Ministry of Justice www.cdll.org.lb committee on drugs to treat addicts Bala Drugs Campaign Partners Lebanon Ministry of Social Affairs Ministry of Public Health Ministry of Education & Higher Education Ministry of Youth & Sports Ministry of Culture Ministry of Information Parliamentary Committee of Health Labor & Social Affairs Internal Security Forces Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 66 Community Stimulating Entrepreneurship with Olive Grove Co-Working Space With entrepreneurship one of INDEVCO’s core values, the group continues to support the Olive Grove co-working space young entrepreneurs in Hamra, Lebanon. The Olive Grove provides start-ups and small to medium sized enterprises professional and technically equipped businesses offices and meeting rooms. In 2017, INDEVCO funded the establishment of The Olive Grove within close proximity to the American University of Beirut and Lebanese American University Beirut Campuses. Promoting Lebanese Cultural Heritage with Maronite Foundation The Maronite Foundation of Lebanon annually launched an academy focused on introducing young Lebanese immigrants around the world to their country of origin, Lebanon, through e-learning sessions and round-trip all expenses covered two-week trip to Lebanon. In 2018, the Maronite Academy hosted over 48 young adults, aged 20 to 30, in Lebanon to learn about their heritage through daily lectures by prominent panellists at Holy Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK) and tours of historical sites and landmarks. Maronite Academy 2018 participants came from 12 countries: Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, France, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, USA, and Venezuela. INDEVCO CEO, Neemat Frem, co-founded the Maronite Foundation of the World in 2008 to connect youth diaspora to their Lebanese heritage. Learn More https://maronitefoundation.org/MaroniteAcademy/AcademyClasses/2018 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 67 Community Infrastructure Support IMPACT Frem Civic Center Engaged with Lebanese American University (LAU) Byblos 6 Top-Ranked The 4,716 m2 Frem Civic Center at LAU in Byblos universities in Lebanon houses the university’s School of Business and the Outreach and Civic Engagement Office. The fiveSat on story building, inaugurated in 2011, houses a lecture hall, 12 classrooms, and conference rooms to host 2 Boards of Trustees courses and events on civic responsibility, leadership, & 10 Advisory Boards transparency, ethical and governance practices.10 Maintained MOUs and cooperation agreements with Georges N. Frem Manufacturing Technologies Hub American University of Beirut (AUB) 3 Universities The 1500 m2 Georges N. Frem Manufacturing Technologies Hub,11-12 launched in 2014, is housed University Engagement at the AUB Faculty of Engineering and Architecture’s Irani-Oxy Building. The hub’s engineering labs encourage multi-disciplinary faculty research and student projects in Electrical, Computer, Mechanical, and Chemical and Petroleum Engineering. See Appendix O for references. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 68 Community Board Memberships American Mideast Educational & Training Services (AMIDEAST), Board of Directors Member Friends of the Lebanese Academy for Sciences (FLAS), Board of Directors Member Lebanese American University, Board of Trustees Member Lebanese American University, Institute of Family and Entrepreneurial Business Advisory Board Member Young Men’s Christian Association Lebanon (YMCA), Board Member Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 69 GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Description Page Table of Contents 2 102-17 Mechanisms for Advice & Concerns 12 about Ethics GENERAL DISCLOSURES Governance Organizational Profile 102-18 Governance Structure 16 102-1 Name of the Organization 4 102-19 Delegating Authority 16 102-2 Activity, Brands, Products & Services 6-8 102-20 Executive Level Responsibility for Economic, 16 102-3 Location of Organization’s Headquarters 4-5 Environmental & Social Topics 102-4 Location of Operations 4-7 102-21 Consulting Stakeholders on Economic, 16 Environmental, & Social Topics 102-5 Ownership & Legal Form 4-5 102-6 Markets Served 5 & 71 102-23 Chair of the Highest Governance Body 16 102-7 Scale of the Organization 4-7 102-26 Role of Highest Governance Body in Setting 10 Purpose, Values, and Strategy 102-8 Information on Employees & Other Workers 4-7 102-30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes 16 102-9 Supply Chain 9 102-10 Significant Changes to the Organization 15 102-31 Review of Economic, Environmental, 16 & its Supply Chain & Social Topics 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Approach 20 102-32 Highest Governance Body’s Role in 16 Sustainability Reporting 102-12 External Initiatives 12-14 Stakeholder Engagement 102-13 Memberships in Associations 14, 77-78 102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups 21 Strategy & Analysis 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements 4 102-15 Statement from Senior Decision-Maker 3 102-42 Identifying & Selecting Stakeholders 21 Ethics & Integrity 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards & Norms 10–12, 74 102-42 Key topics and concerns raised 21 of Behavior -76 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 70 GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Description Page Reporting Practice SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 102-45 Entities Included in the Consolidated Financial 4, 72 73 Statements Environmental 102-46 Defining Report Content & Topic Boundaries 22 24 301-1 Renewable Raw Materials 32, 37 – 41 102-47 List of Material Topics 22 – 24 301-2 Recycled Raw Materials 33 36 302-1B Renewable Energy Consumption 28 31 102-48 Restatements of Information 25 302-4 Energy Reduction 28 31 102-49 Changes in Reporting 25 306-2 Waste 33 36 102-50 Reporting Period 25 102-51 Date of Most Recent Report 25 Social 102-52 Reporting Cycle 25 403-1 Occupational Health & Safety 44-46 102-53 Contact Points for Questions Regarding 25 403-4 the Report 403-5 102-54 Claims of Reporting in Accordance with t 2 & 25 404-2 Programs for Upgrading Employee Skills 45,48 & 51 he GRI Standards 405-1B Employee Diversity & Inclusion 47 51 102-55 GRI Content Index 25 & 69 413-1 Operations with Local Community 52 68 102-56 External Assurance 16 Engagement, Impact Assessments, & Development Programs MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103 Sustainability 1719 103 Environmental 27 103 Social 43 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 71 APPENDIX A: EXPORT COUNTRIES | APPENDIX B: ORIGIN OF SUPPLIERS A B A B A B A B AFRICA AMERICAS EUROPE MIDDLE EAST Algeria • • Argentina • Albania • Bahrain • • Angola • • Brazil • • Austria • • Benin • • Iraq • Canada • • Belgium • • Bonaire • • Jordan • • Costa Rica • Bosnia Herzegovina • • Botswana • • Kuwait • • Burkina Faso • • Guatemala • Bulgaria • • Lebanon • • Cameroon • • Mexico • • Cyprus • • Oman • • Congo • • United States • • Czech Republic • • • Saudi Arabia • • Djibouti • Uruguay • Denmark • • Egypt • • United Arab Emirates • • Finland • • Ethiopia • Gabon • ASIA France • • Germany • • OCEANA Gambia • China • • Ghana • Hong Kong • Greece • • Australia • • Guinea • India • • Ireland • • Ivory Coast • New Zealand • Indonesia • • Italy • • Kenya • • Japan • • 97 60 Liberia • Netherlands • • TOTAL Malaysia • Libya • Poland • • Pakistan • • Madagascar • Russia • Portugal • Mali • Singapore • Romania • • Mauritania • South Korea • • Serbia • Mauritius • Taiwan • • Slovakia • • Morocco • Thailand • • Mozambique • Slovenia • Vietnam • Namibia • • Spain • • Niger • Sweden • • Nigeria • CARRIBEAN Switzerland • • Senegal • Dominican Republic • Grenada • Turkey • • Sierra Leone • South Africa • • Haiti • Ukraine • • Swaziland • • Trinidad & Tobago • • United Kingdom • • Tanzania • • Togo • Tunisia • • Uganda • Zambia • Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 72 APPENDIX C: COMPANIES IN FINANCIAL STATEMENT REGION COUNTRY PLANT / COMPANY NAME TYPE OF OPERATIONS Interstate Paper Industries SAE Manufacturer Masterpak Nile for Plastic Products SAE Operating as a Division Egypt Sanita Consumer Products SAE (Masterpak Nile / MicroMB) Manufacturer Africa Sanita Nile for Import & Trading Services Ltd. Trading Company UNIPAKNILE Ltd. Manufacturer Ghana Sanita Consumer Products Limited (Ghana) Manufacturer Gespa General Supplying Agencies Gespa (Overseas) Ltd. Trading Company Cyprus UNIPAK CYPRUS Ltd. Trading Company Europe PAKO SA Manufacturer Greece UNIPAK HELLAS Industrial & Commercial SA Manufacturer Iraq Sanita Consumer Products Limited Manufacturer Jordan Sanita Marketing & Distribution Ltd. Trading Company Altatrade SAL Offshore Trading Company Frem Industrial Group SAL F.I.G. Holding Company Gespa sal General Supplying Agencies Gespa SAL Trading Company Gespa International SAL Offshore Trading Company Middle East Greentex SAL Trading Company Lebanon INDEVCO Group SAL “Holding” Holding Company Indevco Industrial Parks SAL Services Real Estate Industrial Development Company “INDEVCO” SAL Holding Company Interstate Inks SAL Manufacturer Mediapak SAL Services Advertising & Publicity Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 73 APPENDIX C: COMPANIES IN FINANCIAL STATEMENT REGION COUNTRY PLANT / COMPANY NAME TYPE OF OPERATIONS New Lebanese Company for Converting Industries (Masterpak) SAL Manufacturer Masterpak Trading Trading Company Phoenix Machinery SAL Manufacturer Lebanon PrePak SAL Manufacturer Sanita Persona SAL Manufacturer Sanita SAL Manufacturer UNIPAK SAL Manufacturer EASTERNPAK Ltd. Manufacturer Multipak Ltd. Manufacturer Napco Composite Film Packaging Technology (COMPACT) Manufacturer Napco Consumer Products Company Ltd. Manufacturer Middle East Napco Modern Plastic Products Co (NMPPC) Manufacturer Napco National CJSC Holding Company Saudi Arabia Napco Packaging Systems Co. Ltd. (Uniplast) Manufacturer National Paper Company Ltd. Manufacturer National Paper Products Co (NPPC) Manufacturer Napco Riyadh Paper Products Ltd. Manufacturer Napco Trading Trading Company United Plastic Products Co (UPPC) Beaufort Overseas (FZ) LLC Services Investment Beaufort RAK Ltd. Manufacturer United Arab Emirates Roto Packing Materials Industry Co. LLC Manufacturer Rotopack Overseas Limited Services Investment Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 74 APPENDIX D: INDEVCO CODE OF CONDUCT 1. Purpose 4.1 CORE VALUES Honesty: Acting and interacting with integrity, transparency, and credibility with self and In line with INDEVCO Group’s culture and core INDEVCO Group is committed to maintaining and towards others values, and in recognition of its determination to developing its corporate culture and respecting the 7 core values addressed hereafter which have Modesty: Behaving and communicating with humility, promote business ethics and personal integrity in guided its business since the foundation. sincerity, and respect towards others different transactions and interactions, INDEVCO Group has adopted a new code of conduct that The Group’s success is tightly woven into the core Precision: Working to high standards of accuracy clarifies the standards of behavior that are expected values which influence the way “we do” our job and without losing sight of the big picture of all employees in the performance of their duties. the way “we think” about managing and leading our Servant Leadership: Sacrificing self-interest for the 2. Scope business. In a true sense, the core values are vital, essential, lasting and intended to be acted upon. good of the group and serving others equally This code of conduct is applicable to all INDEVCO Therefore, all employees need to stand by these 4.2 INCLUSION & DIVERSITY Group’s employees in all operating countries. All values which are capable to unite and inspire us to employees must abide by the Code, employment achieve a healthier, stronger and more productive INDEVCO Group believes in a fair, respectful, guidelines, and other applicable policies as a work environment, as well as empower and energize inclusive and safe work environment, where diversity condition of their employment within INDEVCO INDEVCO Group to earn customers and is valued and where unlawful discrimination, violence, Group. bullying, and harassment in any form are considered stakeholders’ confidence while growing unacceptable. 3. Responsibilities consistently and mounting toward higher achievements. At INDEVCO Group, employees shall be: It is the responsibility of the top management and senior executives, as well as the Human Resources INDEVCO Group expects all employees to embrace • Instrumental in creating a work environment and Administration departments across INDEVCO the 7 core values in business and personal where all members cooperate fully, find a Group to monitor the compliance with the Code and relationships: sense of belonging, and have opportunities to ensure its proper implementation among employees. Entrepreneurial Drive: Displaying self-motivation in engage with the comprehensive community; 4. Code of Conduct taking calculated risks and initiatives of a significant strategic contribution • Ready to integrate the principles of equality of employment opportunity, natural justice and The Code of Conduct sets the standards for “how we Family Spirit: Creating a feeling of belonging, inclusion into their day-to-day practices and work together” to develop and deliver our products supporting and caring for each other, and being behaviors. and services, “how we protect the repute” of there in times of need INDEVCO Group and its affiliates, and “how we deal 4.3 PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL BEHAVIOR with” customers, suppliers, distributors, and other Hard Work: Going the extra mile to overcome third parties. challenges, get things done, and achieve business Employees are to perform their duties diligently, objectives impartially and meticulously. Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 75 They are expected to: 4.5 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE • Employees shall not improperly cooperate or coordinate INDEVCO Group’s activities with Treat other team members, colleagues, visitors, suppliEmployees collectively share responsibility and commitcompetitors; they shall not offer or solicit improper ers, customers, stakeholders with the highest standards ment for maintaining a healthy and safe workplace in payments or gratuities in connection with the of professional integrity, courtesy, respect and sensitivity which the welfare and dignity of staff and visitors are held purchase of goods or services for INDEVCO Group or to their rights; uppermost by: the sales of its products or services; • Strive to keep up-to-date with advances and • Ensuring strict adherence to all legislative requirements • Employees, who have a financial interest in a changes for professional and behavioral and all policies relating to occupational health and company that is in a position to influence a contract development relevant to their areas of expertise; safety including, among others, INDEVCO No Smoking for business between that company and one of Policy; INDEVCO Group, should immediately declare this • Seek improvement in the proficiency and interest to their direct manager; effectiveness of the services and products • Taking reasonable care for the health and safety of they deliver; themselves and of other persons at their place of work; • Employees, who work with family members or with persons with whom they develop close personal • Build professional reputation on the merit of their • Immediately notifying their direct manager of any relationships inside INDEVCO Group must be aware services and shall not compete unfairly with others; work-related injury or accident; that this has the potential to create a conflict of • Stick to company policies and regulations and • Never compromising the health, safety or welfare of interest* and must bring the matter to the attention of cascade them; others through unnecessary physical risk, the their direct manager and take immediate steps to consumption of alcohol or the use of drugs. resolve the conflict; • Conform with INDEVCO Group’s commitment to sustainability. * Involved in a decision relating to the selection, 4.6 CHILD LABOR appointment or promotion of another; or in a 4.4 ACCOUNTABILITY There shall be no use of child labor which shall be exploitsupervisory relationship to another and is responsible ative or shall jeopardize the health, safety, educational for employment-related decisions; or in a personal or Employees shall act with honesty and integrity and in development or morals of any child. No person below the family relationship to another and have direct accordance with any professional standards and/or laws age of 16 is employed by our affiliates. If the local legal assessing responsibility and legislations that have application to the responsibilminimum age for work is higher than 16, we employ no ities they perform for or on behalf of INDEVCO Group • Before engaging in any activity, transaction or one younger than the legal minimum age. in line with the core values; relationship that might give rise to a conflict of interest, employees must seek review and approval 4.7 CONFLICT OF INTEREST • Employees shall adhere to the policies and from: procedures of INDEVCO Group and support the The conflict of interest is assessed in terms of situations decisions and directions of the top management and Presidents/EVPs for the divisional staff where employees’ private arrangements, benefits, interits delegated authority (refer to FCA); ests, personal circumstances or personal or family relationExecutive Directors for the business unit staff ships could, or could be perceived to, impact on the • Employees shall take responsibility for their actions performance of their duties. CEO for Head Office departments and decisions and ensure not to exceed the authority of their position. • Employees shall not compete or enter into any activity • Employees must fill the Acknowledgment and Pledge that may be in real or apparent conflict of interest with Form for Conflict of Interest and submit it to the INDEVCO Group; Administration/Personnel Department Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 76 4.8 PERSONAL BUSINESS • Employees shall not benefit from customers or/and any business relationship between the company suppliers by getting loans, services, benefits or/and and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates and any of its • Employees must not be engaged in any personal any personal courtesies; suppliers or customers. business as it will have an adverse effect on their job duties at INDEVCO Group • Employees may give or receive a gift which is 5. Breaches & Misconduct offered as part of a social, cultural or ceremonial • Before engaging in any family/personal business, practice only. In that case, the gift must be Reporting Process employees must seek review and approval from: reported to management and shall remain the This Code is designed to promote and enhance the property of the company; Presidents/EVPs for the divisional and business unit ethical behavior of INDEVCO Group’s employees in staff • If employees are offered a bribe, the incident must the workplace; thus, breaches of the Code’s aforebe reported to the relevant manager immediately; mentioned points are dealt with seriously and fairly. CEO for Head Office departments if employees are unsure how to respond to a gift of • Employees must report misconducts* and • Employees must fill the Acknowledgment and money, they should seek advice from their direct breaches of this Code to the management that is Pledge Form for Conflict of Interest and submit it to manager. responsible for the functional or organizational unit the Administration/Personnel Department • Employees shall protect company resources from in which they work; any willful damage or destruction; 4.9 GIFTS AND BENEFITS • INDEVCO Group will use their utmost endeavors • Employees shall secure prior approval of the to protect employees who in good faith and with • Employees have a responsibility to behave with management before using the company assets for good grounds report breaches to the Code of integrity and impartiality including responding community projects. Conduct; appropriately to offers of gifts, benefits and hospitality, including when travelling overseas on • If, upon inquiry, the purported disclosure pursuant 4.12 NON-COMPETITION business trips; to the breach of the Code of Conduct was • Employees shall agree that for two years following assessed as untrue and was made with malicious or • Employees or members of their immediate families their termination of employment: mischievous intent, the action disclosure will in shall not solicit or accept directly or indirectly, gifts, itself constitute misconduct and a breach of this entertainment, benefits, favors or other economic They will not directly or indirectly engage in any Code; consideration from any person, group, private employment or private business that is in compebusiness, or public agency that may compromise or tition with INDEVCO Group’s affiliates; • Employees found to be in breach of this Code may affect the impartial performance of the employee’s face disciplinary action, up to and including duties; They will not directly or indirectly, either individuimmediate dismissal. ally or as an agent, employee, director or owner, • Employees shall not seek or accept commissions or or otherwise on behalf of or in conjunction with *U nacceptable, dishonest and deceptive behavior allowances, directly or indirectly, from contractors or any person, firm, corporation, or other entity, such as dereliction of duty, failure to comply with other parties dealing with clients or internal/external cause or attempt to cause any supplier or custominstructions, prejudicial action to the health or parties in connection with work. Employees shall not er of the company and/or its subsidiaries and safety of others, bullying, harassing, intimidating, request, propose, or accept a commission on a affiliates not to do business with the company or overbearing or physically or emotionally contingent basis under circumstances in which their otherwise interfere or attempt to interfere with threatening. judgment may be compromised; Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 77 APPENDIX E: MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS The geographical location represents the location of the associations to which INDEVCO business units belong. Individual employees are actively involved and hold leadership positions and certifications in a wide range of professional associations. BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS SUSTAINABILITY ASSOCIATIONS 6th of October Investors Association Egyptian Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Chemical Industries (CCI) Egyptian-Cypriot Business Council Chamber of Printing & Packaging Industries EGYPT Egyptian Lebanese Businessmen Chemical & Fertilizers Export Council Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Friendship Association GS1 System International Numbering Sadat City Investor’s Association Chambre Of Commerce 6th of October Investors Association Export Council Printing Private Free Zone Association Association of Byblos Industrialists Caux Round Table Association of Lebanese Industrialists (ALI) LEBANON Global Compact Network Lebanon International Flexible Packaging Network (IFPN) Lebanese Chamber of Commerce Lebanese Solar Energy Society (LSES) Pulp & Paper Industry Intelligence (RISI) Society for Human Resource Management National Safety Council Syndicate of Paper & Packaging Industries in (SHRM) UN Global Compact Lebanon (SOPIL) World Energy Council Lebanon Committee Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Board Member Industry (TAPPI) SAUDI ARABIA Composite Can & Tube Institute (CCTA) European Core and Tube Association (ECTA) Saudi Chamber of Commerce & Industry EUROSAC Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO) Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA) International Flexible Packaging Association (IFPN) Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 78 APPENDIX E: MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS SUSTAINABILITY ASSOCIATIONS UAE Dubai Chamber of Commerce Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Shropshire Chamber of Commerce UK Shropshire Chamber of Commerce Veolia Packaging Waste Compliance Scheme (in line with UK Environment Agency requirement) USA Flexible Packaging Association (FPA) Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 79 APPENDIX F Growing Solar Energy Capabilities in the Middle East References: 1. IRENA (2018). Global Energy Transition: A Roadmap to 2050. https://www.irena.org/publications/2018/Apr/Global-Energy-Transition-A-Roadmap-to-2050 2. IRENA (2019). People, Planet, & Prosperity: Raising Climate Ambitions through Renewables. https://www.irena.org/publications/2019/Jul/People-Planet-and-Prosperity 3. IRENA (2019). Renewable Energy Statistics 2019. https://www.irena.org/publications/2019/Jul/Renewable-energy-statistics-2019 4. Arab Petroleum Investment Corporation – APICORP (2018, April). PRESS RELEASE: APICORP forecasts US$260 billion investment needed to meet MENA electricity demand over next 5 years. http://www.apicorp.org/press-release-apicorp-forecasts-us260-billion-investment-needed-to-meet-mena-electricity-demand-over-next-5-years 5. Middle East Solar Industry Association – MESIA (2019, January). Solar Outlook Report 2019. https://www.mesia.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/MESIA-Solar-Outlook-Report-Single-2019.pdf 6. IRENA (2019). Renewable Energy Statistics 2019. https://www.irena.org/publications/2019/Jul/Renewable-energy-statistics-2019 APPENDIX G Sourcing Paper Responsibly References 1. United Nations Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform. Sustainable Development Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg12 2. United Nations Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform. Sustainable Development Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg15 Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 80 APPENDIX H Partnering for a Circular Economy of Plastics References 1. Putting GCC cities in the loop: Sustainable growth in a circular economy.(2019) Ideation Center. https://www.ideationcenter.com/media/file/Putting-GCC-cities-in-the-loop.pdf 2. Transforming into a Circular Economy. (2018). The Gulf Petrochemicals & Chemicals Association (GPCA) https://gpca.org.ae/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Circular-Economy-poster.pdf 3. Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2019, June). New Plastics Economy Global Commitment – June 2019 Report. 4. To calculate the approximate landfill surface saved, we followed the following assumptions a) When disposing, plastic waste would be compressed in bales b) Each waste bale holds 400 kg (0.4 MT) with a width of 110 cm, height of 80 cm, and length of 130 cm c) Volume of bale = LxWxH= 1.144 m3 d) Landfill area per bale = LxW= 1.43 m2 5. United States Environmental Protection Agency (2015, March). WARM Version 13: Exhibit 4, p. 5. https://www3.epa.gov/epawaste/conserve/tools/warm/pdfs/Plastics.pdf Net landfilling emissions = 0.04MTCO2E/Short Tonne = 0.0363 MTCO2E/tonne 6. Pusch, Thema Umwelt, 1/2009, p. 3 https://timeforchange.org/plastic-bags-and-plastic-bottles-CO2-emissions Derivation: Recycling of plastic saves on average about 2.5 kg CO2 per kg of plastic (~2.5 MTCO2 per MT of plastic) Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 81 APPENDIX I Compounding Fillers from Minerals References 1. Grand View Research (2018, January). Calcium carbonate market worth $34.28 billion by 2025 | CAGR: 5.7%. www.grandviewresearch.com/press-release/global-calcium-carbonate-market 2. Modor Intelligence (2018, May). Global talc market – Segmented by deposit, end-user industry, and geography Growth, trends, and forecast (2018 -2023). www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/talc-market?gclid=CjwKCAjww6XXBRByEiwAM-ZUIPVfDL1IgkbFo_ F4o9rNceyAFF6dW2N9zFOUJcYEBJ4uFn4guBkxVRoCbA0QAvD_BwE 3. CCA Europe (2016, March). Calcium carbonate is a renewable raw material. www.ima-europe.eu/sites/ima-europe.eu/files/publications/Renewability%20 short%20statement_FINAL.PDF 4 & 5. Elsevier Science of Total Environment (2018, January). Are functional fillers improving environmental behavior of plastics? 6 & 7. Roskill (2015). Talc: Global industry markets & outlook, 10th Edition. https://roskill.com/product/talc-global-industry-markets-outlook-10th-edition-2015/ 8. Pusch, Thema Umwelt, 1/2009, p. 3. https://timeforchange.org/plastic-bags-and-plastic-bottles-CO2-emissions Derivation: 0.2 MT of CaCO3 reduces 1.1 MTCO2 E; 1 MT CaCO3 reduces 5.5 MTCO2 E APPENDIX J Innovating Consumer & Foodservice Disposables References 1. Expert Market Research (2019). Global Paper Cup Market to Grow at a CAGR of 1.8% between 2019-2024. https://www.expertmarketresearch.com/pressrelease/global-paper-cups-market 2 & 3. Open Ideo (2018). NextGen Cup Challenge. https://www.openideo.com/challenge-briefs/next-gen-cup-challenge Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 82 APPENDIX K Enhancing Occupational Health & Safety References 1. McKinsey & Company (2017, December). Sustainability’s deepening imprint. https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/sustainability-and-resource-productivity/our-insights/sustainabilitys-deepening-imprint 2. United Nations Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform. Sustainable Development Goal 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg8 APPENDIX L Fostering Employee Diversity & Inclusion References 1. The Daily Star Newspaper (2018, July 28). Disability law implementation, at last? http://www.dailystar.com.lb/News/Lebanon-News/2018/Jul-28/458205-disability-law-implementation-at-last.ashx 2. Saudi Vision 2030 (n.a.). Thriving economy rewarding opportunities. http://vision2030.gov.sa/en/node/8 3. World Economic Forum (2018, October). The Global Gender Gap Report 2018. http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_GGGR_2018.pdf 4. UN Women (2019, May). Gender equality starts at home: Seven tips for raising feminist kids. https://www.unwomen.org/en/news/stories/2019/5/compilation-gender-equality-starts-at-home APPENDIX M Empowering Arab Women References 1. Saudi Vision 2030 (n.a.). Thriving economy rewarding opportunities. http://vision2030.gov.sa/en/node/8 2. Saudi Arabian Ministry of Health (2018, October). Health Days 2018: Breast cancer awareness month. https://www.moh.gov.sa/en/HealthAwareness/healthDay/2018/Pages/HealthDay-2018-10-01-31.aspx 3. Cancer Research UK.Why is early diagnosis important? https://www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/cancer-symptoms/why-is-early-diagnosis-important Table of Contents Chairmanʻs Message INDEVCO Overview Environmental Sustainability Social Responsibility GRI Content Index 83 APPENDIX N Nurturing Childhood Development in the Middle East References 1. The World Bank – Education for Global Development (16 Jan., 2017). Early childhood as the foundation for tomorrow’s workforce. https://blogs.worldbank.org/education/early-childhood-foundation-tomorrow-s-workforce 2. Global Campaign for Education (2019). Education coalitions in the Arab region fight for the right to education. https://www.campaignforeducation.org/en/2019/05/06/the-arab-region-education-activists-claim-for-the-right-to-education/ 3. El-Kogali, Safaa & Krafft, Caroline (2015). Expanding opportunities for the next generation: Early childhood development in the Middle East and North Africa. Directions in Development--Human Development; Washington, DC: World Bank. https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/21287 License: CC BY 3.0 IGO. APPENDIX O Developing & Strengthening Youth in Lebanon References 1. UNICEF (n.d.) Education in Middle East & North Africa. https://www.unicef.org/mena/education 2. UNICEF (2018). MENA Generation 2030. https://www.unicef.org/mena/media/4141/file/MENA-Gen2030.pdf 3. The World Bank (2019, April). Unemployment, youth total (% of total labor force ages 15-24) (modeled ILO estimate). https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SL.UEM.1524.ZS 2018 Sustainability Initiatives http://sustainability.indevcogroup.com
