SYST E M B O L A G E T’S 2018 Responsibility Report The Board of Directors and the President of System­ bolaget AB, corporate ID number 556059-9473, hereby present the annual accounts, including the Corporate Governance Report and the Sustainability Report, for the 2018 financial year. Systembolaget AB has, in accordance with section 6, §11 of the Swedish Companies Act, elected to prepare the statutory sustainability report separately from the annual accounts. The Sustainability Report is ­presented on pages 3, 5– 15, 17–72 and 113–142 of this document. The legally required annual accounts, comprising the Directors’ Report and the financial reports, are accord­ ingly presented on pages 2, 4, 16 and 73 –112. The Sustainability Report, which is presented on pages 3, 5–15, 17–72 and 113–142, has undergone a combined review by the auditors. 2 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T Contents The year in brief 4 Financial reporting 73 Economic performance 74 Alcohol is not like Chairman’s Statement and 5 President’s Statement Risk and sensitivity analysis 78 other products. Corporate Governance Report 82 Ten-year overview 99 This is Systembolaget 8 Financial reports and Notes to the 100 Our purpose is to improve Our history 9 Accounts** The world around us 10 Proposed appropriation of profits, 112 public health by limiting the How we create sustainable value 13 and signatures harmful effects of alcohol. Systembolaget’s business model 15 Our materiality analysis 17 Sustainability notes 113 The UN’s global goals 19 Audit and review 116 Our mandate includes Systembolaget’s strategic plan 21 ­ roviding information on the p Glossary and definitions*** 138 List of references 142 risks associated with alcohol, Our three strategic shifts 26 offering a high-quality service, Financial calendar and contacts 143 and selling responsibly. We shall continue to impress 27 our customers Increase awareness of alcohol risks 52 and of why Systembolaget exists ** See Systembolaget’s Ansvarsredovisning 2018 for Creating optimum conditions for 61 full Notes to the Accounts. achieving our goals *** Words included in the Glossery are marked * Explanations on the same page are marked ** or ***. 3 The year in brief S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS The year in brief • The 2017 measurement of alcohol consumption** • Systembolaget signed up for the Global Deal* which • Barbro Holmberg was elected as a new full Member in Sweden showed that consumption was on a par is an initiative aimed at increasing social dialogue of the Board at the AGM held on 26 April. with levels in 2016, that is to say 9.0 litres per head between the labour market parties and national go­ • The Board adopted a new sustainable enterprise stra­ of population. Total consumption has fallen over the vernments. tegic goal for Systembolaget. The goal, which relates last ten years by 8 per cent.1 to inclusiveness and diversity, will be introduced in • Trial runs of our “Changed my mind” trolley, which is 2019 and the goal is for Systembolaget’s workforce to • Systembolaget published its Alcohol Report 2 for the located at the checkout to make changing your mind reflect society’s composition of people with different second year in succession. The aim of the report is easy, have been completed and the trolley will now be ethnic origins. to provide a one-stop shop for alcohol-related statis­ a permanent feature in all*** of our stores. tics, research, interviews, and information on trends • We are very proud to announce that this year’s Custo­ • There is substantial customer demand for local and mer Satisfaction Index reached a new record level of and harmful effects in Sweden. This year’s theme is craft products. 840 items from 347 producers were 84.6 (84.3). mental illness and passive drinking. launched in 2018, which means 66 new producers • Proof of Age checks were carried out in 95.6 per cent • The Nordic alcohol monopolies work in partnership were added to our range in 2018. (95.6) of cases. and have approved joint sustainability strategies for • Awards: • The Opinion Index figure for the year was 76.5 (76.9). the environment and social responsibility for the pe­ --Winner of the Medieakademin confidence barometer, • The return on equity was 11.4 per cent (17.2), which riod from 2018 to 2022. We have agreed a joint Code which measures public confidence in media compa­ exceeds the Owner’s return requirement. of Conduct and to collaborate and share experiences nies, institutions, and companies. 71 per cent of res­ on issues relating to risk analyses, our follow-up work, • The equity/assets ratio for the year was 25.7 per cent pondents expressed great or fairly great confidence educational measures, and personal learning. These (27.8). in Systembolaget.3 strategies will enhance our ability to influence terms • The sales volumes totalled 505 m (483) litres. and conditions in our respective supply chains. --Second place in ServiceScore’s best service award, which Systembolaget won every year between 2013 • Net sales increased to SEK 30,907 m (29,355). • The Drinks Industry Climate Initiative, which is a joint and 2017.4 • The operating profit decreased to SEK 227 m (270) initiative by Systembolaget, the Swedish Spirits & due to major investments for the future in such areas --Declared strongest brand in the Evimetrix Swedish Wine Suppliers’ Association (SVL), and the Brewers of as the digital customer interaction and alcohol-rela­ Brand Awards, in the Food Products category.5 Sweden Association, agreed to procure a shared tool ted risks. enabling us to measure, follow up on, and set goals --Sweden’s biggest PR competition, Spinn, awarded two golds to IQ-­initiativet’s “Fotboll utan fylla” [Sober • The net profit for the year decreased to SEK 180 m for participating operators’ climate impact. Our goal Football] campaign – one for the Social Information (282) due to investments and a decrease in net finan­ is, by 2045, to realise our vision of “A drinks industry Campaign of the Year, and one for Integrated Cam­ cial items. with zero climate impact, where every drop counts”. paign of the Year. ** The measurement of alcohol consumption was carried out in 2018 and refers to 2017. Reported one year in arrears. *** With the exception of two over-the-counter stores in food halls. 4 Chairman’s Statement and President’s Statement S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS A conversation with our President and Chairman of the Board As part of this year’s Responsibility Report, we have interviewed Kenneth Bengtsson, the Chairman of the Board, and Magdalena Gerger, Systembolaget’s President, in order to highlight the most important issues for Systembolaget in 2018, as they see them. What sort of outside world trends affect System­ bolaget? Kenneth: Attitudes to alcohol, climate change, new technology and digitisation – these are just some of the big picture trends that I see as affecting System­ bolaget. Both consumption patterns and society’s attitudes to alcohol are changing worldwide and here in Sweden. The WHO report 6 presented in October shows that Europe has the highest levels of per capita alcohol consumption in the world. There are several reasons for this: one is that there are many countries outside Europe that do not drink alcohol. Another is that, unlike in many other parts of the world, both men and wom­ are alarmingly high, although more and more countries the past ten years.1 Sweden now has one of the lowest en consume alcohol in Europe. We also have better are moving towards a more restrictive alcohol policy. alcohol consumption rates of all EU member states. economic conditions than many other parts of the world and a culture where alcohol is present in a wide We’ve made substantial progress in many ways in Swe­ Magdalena: That having been said, Sweden still faces variety of contexts. The figures for several countries den, and total consumption has fallen by 8 per cent over a number of challenges. The negative consequences 5 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS of alcohol primarily affect people other than those the trade associations, suppliers and Systembolaget societal engagement in second-hand alcohol-related who drink, and this is particularly the case for children. signed up to a joint climate initiative called The Drinks harm. Health and wellbeing are yet another aspect of Which is why it’s worrying to see that the most recent Industry Climate Initiative. Our goal is to work together sustainability, and an area where we have invested in Alcohol Index measurement shows a trend towards to do what we can to reduce the industry’s climate improving conditions in our stores by focusing on the a more permissive attitude to alcohol. One of the footprint. We’ve agreed on a climate reporting tool and work environment and encouraging sustainable, ergo­ things it reveals is that fewer and fewer people think also customised it in line with the industry’s operating nomic behaviour in our stores. that it is totally wrong to get drunk when children are conditions. What this means is that we, as an industry, around. Systembolaget has the opportunity to make now have the ability to measure how close we are get­ What does digitisation have to do with System­ a difference for everyone in Sweden. Our mandate is ting to our shared goals. bolaget? to sell responsibly and, at the same time, to offer a Kenneth: Being digital is a given for many people, and high-quality service. We are also tasked with providing But sustainability is about more than the environ­ the retail trade is one area where this trend has an im­ information about the harmful effects of alcohol and ment and the climate, isn’t it? pact. The digital landscape offers new types of mar­ the risks associated with its consumption. Kenneth: Ultimately, it’s we – human beings – who can ketplace and new means of simplifying companies’ ad­ make a difference and if we’re going to achieve the ministrative processes. It also means new perspectives Every day, our staff shoulder social responsibility by UN’s 2030 global sustainability goals, everyone has to on everything, from legislation to logistics solutions. applying our selling rules. These rules mean that they play a part and work together to bring about positive check the ID of people who they suspect may be under economic, social, and environmental changes. Con­ Magdalena: Digitisation means a lot of different things 25 years of age to ensure that no one under the age firming and actively working with diversity is import­ to us. It could be anything from the way in which we of 20 is able to purchase alcohol. They also mean that ant, and I’m delighted to see other companies are now interact with our customers on platforms other than in our staff will refuse to sell to anyone who is visibly in­ prioritising this too. our stores, to the way in which we develop our online toxicated or to anyone whom they suspect of buying customer interaction in line with our mandate and for resale. Magdalena: We’ve set our own long-term goals for vision. We must, of course, live up to our customers’ 2030, based on the global goals where several of the expectations, and we are keen to do so responsibly and The summer of 2018 was an unusually warm one, social aspect goals are of particular importance to knowledgeably, because alcohol is not just another which brought climate issues to the fore. In what way us, given our social mandate. The social aspects are product and our goal is neither to increase sales nor is Systembolaget affected by climate change? also important in our long and complex supply chain*, to maximise our profits. Kenneth: Climate change affects both people and where refugee flows are a factor that affects the risk the environment: people may have to relocate due to situation in Italy and elsewhere. The company man­ When we develop our offering, for example in the form flooding, fires, and so on. But cultivation conditions agement spent a few days in Italy in October as part of online customer interactions or by offering home also change when the climate changes: harvests may of a field trip and knowledge exchange process, and deliveries, it should not result in additional sales or in be smaller due to drought or other unforeseen events. organised roundtable meetings with 120 representa­ us setting aside our selling rules. And, of course, the In 2017, for example, the grape harvest was small al­ tives from the supply chain. same thing applies to the development of our physical most everywhere in the world and that has affected stores. This autumn saw us place “Changed my mind” supplies – particularly of organic grapes. The partnerships we have forged with other operators trolleys in all of our stores. They’re positioned close to are another example of our sustainability work. The aim the checkouts to make it easy for customers to return Magdalena: Just as Kenneth says, we’re seeing the of these partnerships is to make a difference to children the items they no longer want. Changing your mind impact of climate change, and in November 2017, who are being harmed by alcohol and to create greater should be easy. 6 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS What were the most important events in 2018? Magdalena: Our ability to offer a considerate and future. If we are to resolve our supply chain challenges, Kenneth: The fact that this summer saw our CSI (Cus­ knowledgeable customer interaction that lives up to we must work together through industry collabora­ tomer Satisfaction Index) improve for the first time ever our customers’ increased expectations, is very much tions. We have procured a system support tool that will at that time of year is a fantastic indicator of how the about equipping our staff to meet this challenge. One gather data throughout our lengthy supply chain, in company is doing. And this was in spite of an unusually example of the way in which we work with this is a order to ensure traceability and facilitate information warm summer which, in itself, placed more pressure programme we’ve run during the year where store em­ exchange, and our goal is to encourage our suppliers on operations – not least in our stores. But if we’re to ployees from all over Sweden have trialled combining to take increased responsibility in these areas. continue doing a good job in this respect, we must now their in-store positions with chatting to our customers. look to the future. Over the past year, the Board and the This is a new way of interacting with our customers and We will continue to work to promote sustainable de­ management team have taken the next step forward it’s quickly proved very successful. velopment and to focus on public health. One of the in our programme of strategic work between now and bright spots I can see for the future is the way in which 2023. Exciting times lie ahead! Our operations must be cost-effective, which means young people’s drinking habits are trending. More and we must also invest in our supply chain management, more young people are choosing not to drink alcohol Magdalena: The excellent customer satisfaction results IT, and other tools that make our staff’s working days or to postpone their alcohol debut, and this has con­ weren’t just true for the summer – a time when we also run more smoothly. We have also developed our cus­ tributed to historically low levels of alcohol consump­ had 800 summer staff on the books – but throughout tomer offering during the year, based on the improve­ tion amongst young people.7 More informed alcohol the year too, reaching a new record level of 84.6 per ments to the range that will be introduced next year, consumption will also, hopefully, lead to better public cent. Online customer orders have also increased by and we’re also planning to continue expanding our health in the long-term. 30 per cent over the past five years, with customers depot operations to handle the growing order trend. opting to pick up their orders in-store or from agents, And finally, why should I read Systembolaget’s or to have them delivered to their homes. All of our Kenneth: One worrying trend we are seeing, however, ­Responsibility Report? staff have focused, first and foremost, on the customer is that the successful Swedish alcohol policy, of which Kenneth: If you want to find out more about Systembo­ interaction and on providing advice in relation to food our monopoly is an important component, is currently laget, I think you should carry on reading once you’ve and drink, as well as on our important selling rules, being challenged by illegal distance sales of alcohol. finished this article – you’ll definitely know more than such as the Proof of Age checks*. We are seeing commercial operators who are using you did before you started! free shipping, bulk discounts, and aggressive alcohol What do you see, looking forward? marketing to challenge the Swedish model that we Magdalena: … and it’ll give you a good idea of what Kenneth: Systembolaget must continue to ensure cus­ have chosen for the trade in alcohol. What is needed we’re doing to realise our vision of a society in which tomer satisfaction and to have a high CSI, thanks to a here is a big picture decisiveness about how we want alcohol is enjoyed with due regard to health consider­ customer interaction that impresses – wherever the alcohol to be handled in Sweden – and it must not be ations so that no one is harmed. customer meets us. As a State-owned company with a viewed as “just another product”. monopoly, it’s also important that we continue to enjoy high levels of public confidence – which is measured Magdalena: And given the trends we spoke about ear­ through our OPI Opinion Index*. Satisfied customers lier – that the world is changing through everything and high levels of public confidence are something from migrant flows to climate change – increased we have to earn, and we can only do that by working traceability and transparency throughout the length of actively towards these goals, day in, day out. our supply chain will be an important challenge in the 7 CONTENTS This is Systembolaget 8 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Systembolaget’s history Our history is a history of kings, rivers of schnapps, temperance movements, ration Schnapps reaches Sweden as an ingredient in the Increased alcohol books, and mine owners – and of centuries of active alcohol policies. It includes manufacture of gunpowder. consumption leads to the bribery scandals, referenda, battles with the EU, and online sales – and centuries of But soon, everyone is formation of the temperance drinking it – even children. movement. active alcohol policies. Systembolaget’s history begins way back in the 15th century, when schnapps first 15th 18th 19th century century century 1850 reached Sweden. Today’s Systembolaget is the result of all the lessons we have learned about alcohol and the sale of alcohol over 700 years – lessons that have resulted in our clear social mandate: to sell alcoholic beverages through a retail King Gustav III allows the The first “Systembolaget” is State to take over all founded by mine owners in monopoly, responsibly and with a high quality service, and to provide information manufacture and sales of Falun who sought permission about the harmful effects of alcohol. schnapps, but this first for a monopoly on retail Systembolaget starts selling monopoly is unpopular and sales of alcohol in order to Bag-In-Box wines and alcopops, only lasts a few years. reduce interruptions to work Illustration: historic timeline. despite the risk of increased caused by accidents. The drinking. The move is in response A ration book for spirit revenues from sales would Systembolaget opens its first to EU requirements that prohibit rationing is introduced go to the improvement of Systembolaget expands its self-service stores in discrimination against products nationwide after a 5-year trial social conditions amongst opening hours to include Filipstad, Köping and or packagings. in Stockholm. the mineworkers. Saturdays and evenings. Vänersborg. 2001 1997 1996 1995 1991 1955 1919 1865 The European Court Sweden joins the EU and The ration book is abolished The State takes over all of rules that Systembolaget’s Vin & Sprit loses the and all of the regional the bars in Gothenburg and retail monopoly complies monopoly it had previously “system companies” were introduces a minimum with EU law. held on alcohol imports. amalgamated into a single, age limit of 18. Overnight, the number of State-owned company. importers increases from 1 to 115. Systembolaget organises its Systembolaget is declared first drinks auction after the Sweden’s best service Premiere of public passing of the Government’s Systembolaget launches its company for the fifth year in drinks tastings. Alcohol Bill. “Seek & Find” app. succession by ServiceScore. 2002 2003 2004 2007 2011 2012 2017 2018 A bribery scandal is The EU rules that a ban on Systembolaget introduces Systembolaget enjoys the revealed, and 92 people are imports contravenes EU home delivery trials. highest level of public prosecuted for taking or regulations. The ruling opens confidence of any giving bribes in connection the door to private imports participating company in with Systembolaget’s of alcohol to Sweden. Medieakademin’s procurement. Confidence Barometer between 2013 and 2018. 9 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS The world around us Systembolaget exists to limit the harmful effects of of the opinion that they have no problem at all with Reduced political engagement in an alcohol policy that alcohol. Our entire operations are structured for opti­ alcohol, but we know that almost one million Swedes focuses on public health also shows the importance mum success in this respect, but the world around us are consuming at hazardous levels (according to of those affected in various ways or who are working is changing and this places new demands on how we “Allmänheten om inställning till alkohol och monopol to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol in society should act if we are to achieve our vision of a society mm” [Public attitudes to alcohol and monopolies etc.], continuing to make their voices heard. Systembolag­ in which alcohol is enjoyed with due regard to health Novus, 2015). This is a major challenge for us and it’s et, the supporting legislation, and supervision, must considerations so that no one is harmed. an important one, given that other people – not just move with the times if our alcohol policy and System­ drinkers – suffer negative consequences. bolaget’s role in it are not to be seen as outdated. See below for some of the external factors that affect­ ed Systembolaget in 2018. ATTITUDES TO THE MONOPOLY A FASTER, MORE DIGITAL WORLD A majority of Swedes – three out of every four – sup­ The rapid pace of digital development is both posing ATTITUDES AND CONSUMPTION PATTERNS port the monopoly and a clear majority rate System­ challenges and offering opportunities. Our customers’ We must conduct ourselves, throughout our operations, bolaget’s service, range, and personnel as good. The underlying needs have not changed, but their be­ in accordance with our customers’ attitudes towards most common reasons cited by those customers who haviour and expectations are influenced by new ways alcohol and their alcohol-related behaviour – from our want to abolish the monopoly are convenience and an of using technology, in both the retail and distribution information work to our interactions with customers, ideological opposition to monopoly companies. sectors. whether in-store or via our digital channels. The trends that Systembolaget is currently handling include the At the same time, there is a trend in Sweden that risks Convenience is a more important factor nowadays for general reduction in binge drinking in Sweden since diluting support for the monopoly. The trend in Europe customers than was previously the case. Many of them the start of the new millennium and the fact that wom­ is towards a more restrictive alcohol policy, but in are seeking time-efficient solutions to everyday tasks, in en aged between 65 and 84 are drinking more than ­Sweden, we are seeing worrying trends where alco­ order to free up time. Thanks to e-commerce platforms, before, albeit this is an increase from low levels. Men holic beverages such as beer and wine are regarded such as Amazon and the Chinese equivalent, Wish, are continuing to get drunk more often and to drink in as relatively unproblematic. The marketing of alcohol pretty much everything can be delivered to your door larger amounts than women.8 We have also seen, in re­ is increasing in new channels and at events that target nowadays, with a single click. We are seeing this trend cent years, a postponement of people’s alcohol debut young and old alike. This is helping to normalise drink­ mirrored in grocery retail in Sweden. Consumers have and a greater acceptance of the idea of not drinking. ing. A number of operators are also recommending become used to being able to buy what they want for Young people are drinking less, and alcohol-related that farm sales* of alcohol be permitted, while others home delivery, quickly and easily – and this sometimes harm seems to be declining in young people.7 have noted that alcohol legislation in our neighbour, clashes with sustainable development, because more Finland, has become less restrictive. The collective home deliveries mean more carbon dioxide emissions. There are also, in addition to the actual changes in effect of these factors may be a reduction in people’s The fact remains, however, that expectations are con­ attitudes and behaviours in relation to alcohol, per­ understanding of why Sweden has chosen to imple­ stantly increasing that we, in common with other retail­ ceptions with regard to its associated risks. The fact ment a restrictive alcohol policy that focuses on public ers, will be able to deliver friction-free interactions – an of the matter is that 83 per cent of our customers are health. easy and sustainable way to shop and get your goods. 10 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Systembolaget finds itself, just like every other compa­ of 2018. Over and above the extensive humanitarian to achieving the UN’s global sustainability goal no. 8 ny, in the midst of this digital development, but unlike impact of this water shortage, it has also had a directly – Decent Work & Economic Growth. many other operators, we do not have an online pres­ negative effect on viticulture in the area. 9 ence in order to boost our sales. In a world in which Extreme weather can also generate additional risks in customers demand increased accessibility and simple The last few years have, fortunately, also seen signifi­ the supply chain. One consequence of the massive de­ solutions, we must be able to offer this responsibly. We cant initiatives aimed at countering this negative trend, cline in the harvest in South Africa – which was linked must continue to adhere to our customer guarantee not least the Paris Agreement, and the development of to the country’s drought – was, for example, that more in line with our alcohol policy mandate and must take a shared international agenda for sustainable devel­ producers used a higher percentage of temporary a sustainable view – and we must never try to make a opment based on the UN’s global goals and Agenda workers during the harvest season due to their inability profit. It’s a tricky balancing act. 2030. The global goals currently steer Systembolag­ to predict the size of the harvest that year. In a country et’s operations in this respect. We are, furthermore, that already has high unemployment, an increase in the CLIMATE CHANGE AND INCREASED AWARENESS seeing a growing awareness of both environmental temporary workforce percentage increases the risk of Systembolaget’s operations affect both the climate and health issues on the part of our customers, with deviations from labour law. and the environment. Our biggest impact is indirect increased demand for traceability and product infor­ and arises from our producers and suppliers. These mation, for example. Our customers are also continu­ Cooperation between different bodies, such as trade operations not only cause air pollution and have a neg­ ing to demand organic products and we are seeing unions, is one of the key factors for success in coun­ ative impact on the climate, they also impact biological a growing interest in locally produced products and teracting and minimising supply chain risks. diversity through increased land usage. climate-friendly packaging. THREATS AND VIOLENCE IN THE RETAIL SECTOR And at the same time as our operations contribute to SUPPLY CHAIN RISKS The biggest risks in our supply chain are located out­ this effect, they are directly harmed by climate change Systembolaget has over 700 suppliers and innumera­ side of Sweden, but we face challenges here at home, and the more extreme weather in which it results. ble producers in over 100 countries. Our supply chain too. Threats and violence are a growing problem for Warmer temperatures have, for example, resulted in it is complex, and it is an area we must constantly review retail personnel and are one of the biggest work envi­ no longer being possible to grow many types of grape in order to ensure we act responsibly. We want all of ronment risks for employees in many of our stores. It in the areas where they have always been grown. Old, our products to be sustainable products, both in terms is vital that we ensure our staff are protected against efficient vineyards are becoming difficult to cultivate of quality and from ethical, social and environmental these threats and violence, which can occur in all types and producers are being forced to close them down or perspectives. And our customers and owners want this of store and location. move to areas where the existing infrastructure, topog­ too – and they are demanding it more and more loudly raphy or land usage makes it difficult to produce wine. for every year that passes. DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES And this doesn’t just apply to wine: after the drought Systembolaget is currently experiencing the effect of and wildfires of the summer gone, beer manufacturers The conflicts seen in various parts of the world in a number of demographic changes, including pop­ in northern Germany and other parts of Europe – in­ recent years, and the ensuing migration flows, have ulation growth, urbanisation, and an older and more cluding Sweden – are anticipating a reduction in the created new risks in the supply chain. Many migrant multicultural population. grain harvest of up to 40 per cent. South Africa has workers work under poor conditions in countries pre­ experienced severe difficulties with droughts over the viously classified as safe under Systembolaget’s risk Urbanisation is, for example, expected to result in the past three years, culminating in a major water short­ classification system. This is a key focal area for Syst­ number of people entitled to shop at Systembolaget age that hit the Western Cape province in the spring embolaget, not least as part of our efforts to contribute in Sweden’s ten biggest municipalities increasing by 11 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS around 400,000 by 2024 (according to an in-house a whole. Sweden’s growing foreign-born population In the spring of 2018, Parliament issued a notice sup­ analysis based on Statisticon’s population forecasts for has changed the labour market, and we now have the porting the introduction of farm sales, provided that 2024). This will demand new solutions if we are to meet chance to expand and broaden our in-house exper­ they did not threaten Systembolaget’s monopoly. the needs of big city customers in small retail outlets. tise with new perspectives. We are working actively to ­attract this section of the labour market. In ten years’ time, 30 per cent of the population in Sweden is expected to have a foreign background. An LEGAL CONDITIONS AND SUPERVISION increasingly multicultural population means that we There is widespread agreement within the EU that al­ need to find ways of reaching out to and communi­ cohol is not just another product. Sweden has, in order cating with everyone in Sweden, whatever their back­ to limit the harmful effects, chosen to implement an ground. This is particularly important when it comes alcohol policy based on limited availability, high taxes, to explaining the benefits that Systembolaget offers and restricted marketing. Two issues that may affect and ensuring that everyone feels welcome at System­ Sweden’s alcohol policy were discussed in 2018: the bolaget. question of distance selling of alcoholic beverages, and the question of farm sales. Both questions affect Demographic changes outside Sweden also affect Systembolaget’s operations because the survival of our operations. Many populations, not least in Asia, the retail monopoly depends on a consistent and co­ are experiencing improved economic strength and hesive alcohol policy. are acquiring new habits 10. These new markets, with larger populations and increased consumption, are The distance selling of alcoholic beverages issue has giving rise to increased competition for available grape arisen due to the increasing digitisation of retail and volumes, posing new challenges for our purchasing to Swedish customers’ increased interest in shopping processes. via digital channels. The online commercial operators’ share of sales is still very small in Sweden, but they CHANGES IN THE LABOUR MARKET are acting in a climate of aggressive marketing and Working with diversity and inclusiveness is a given thereby contributing to a normalisation of alcohol as for us, as a State-owned company. Not only is it vital just another product. that we work with these issues in order to continue to be an attractive employer, if we are not to experience In June 2018, the Finnish Supreme Court confirmed recruitment difficulties in the future, but it is vital in the European Court ruling of 2015 in the so-called terms of customer satisfaction, too. Recognition is an Alkotaxi case. This ruling clarified that the online com­ important factor in whether a customer feels included mercial operators’ operations should be regarded as and receives personal service. retail sales in Sweden, and that their operations are, therefore, clearly illegal in that Systembolaget has a In 2018, only 12 per cent of our workforce had a foreign monopoly on such retail sales. For further information, background, as opposed to 27 per cent in Sweden as see page 76 Events after the closing day. 12 How we create sustainable value THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS How we create sustainable value The outside world affects Systembolaget, but we a ­ ffect The fact that Systembolaget is not tasked with maximis­ such that it now explicitly states that Systembolaget the outside world, too. Systembolaget works in a num­ ing its profits increases our ability to focus on reducing may take specific sustainability considerations into ber of ways to help create sustainable social value, the negative value of alcohol. We do this by means of, account in conjunction with it’s drinks procurement. whether this entails reinforcing and developing the amongst other things, alcohol-related research, via our directly positive social value that our operations entail, efforts to provide information on the risks associated SOCIAL SUSTAINABILTY or reducing the negative effects on the environment with alcohol, and by helping our customers, in a variety Social sustainability is an important issue in the con­ and people throughout the supply chain. of ways, to make informed choices*. We are, however, text of our value creation work, both locally in Sweden, aware that we have not, as yet, realised our vision of a and globally. Working conditions for people working in THE HARMFUL EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL society in which alcohol is enjoyed with due regard to the supply chain sometimes fail to comply with global Alcohol is not just another product. Alcohol continues health considerations so that no one is harmed. conventions on working conditions and human rights. to have negative consequences for individuals and Equally, there is also a risk of corruption and improper ­society at large. The downsides of alcohol do not just ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT influence within the industry, which is a problem that affect the person who drinks, but those around them Activities that affect the environment occur through­ can create massive negative value. Systembolaget too – and children, in particular. Systembolaget’s pur­ out the value chain. If we look, specifically, at climate works continuously to ensure high ethical standards pose is to limit the harmful effects of alcohol in society impact, it is clear that the biggest impact occurs in and good working conditions for the people who make and this is a natural focus for our value creation. Alco­ conjunction with packaging manufacturing, raw mate­ our products and we also endeavour to bring about a hol, itself, creates negative value, but Systembolaget’s rials cultivation, drinks production, and transportation. general improvement in conditions within the drinks role as an alcohol policy tool creates positive value that The production and cultivation processes use valuable industry by imposing requirements, monitoring com­ can counteract these negative consequences. natural resources – not least, water – and inappropriate pliance, and cooperation, and by helping our custom­ chemicals are also still used at some points along the ers make informed choices. In 2017, an international group of researchers present­ chain. ed a report on the effects of Systembolaget’s monop­ Systembolaget also helps create numerous job oppor­ oly on alcohol-related injuries, illnesses and deaths. Systembolaget works continuously to reduce both our tunities, both locally in Sweden and globally amongst The report showed that the number of alcohol-relat­ direct and indirect impact. The fact that Systembolaget our producers. Systembolaget’s procurement system ed deaths would increase by 1,400 per year and the does not try to maximise its economic profit improves is completely brand-neutral and must ensure that the number of hospital admissions by 20,000 per year if our opportunities to create positive value for both the range is both broad and deep. This approach creates Sweden were to abolish Systembolaget’s monopoly 11, environment in general and the climate. It creates, for opportunities for many of the drinks market’s oper­ demonstrating the positive value that Systembolaget example, the scope for working towards joint goals in ators, whether large or small, to reach more people creates. partnership with the drinks industry, e.g. through the with their products. This is good for our customers, Drinks Industry’s Climate Initiative. The opportunities who benefit from greater freedom of choice, and for There are, however, also customers who believe that to address our environmental and climate impact by the operators who have the chance to conduct their Systembolaget limits their freedom of action. making tougher demands have also increased thanks operations on a competitively neutral basis. to the clarification of our agreement with the State 13 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Systembolaget also, in addition to these areas in which harm that results from limiting the harmful effects of al­ our operations both offer opportunities and pose risks, cohol – for example, in the healthcare sector and legal creates a number of positive and sustainable ­economic system. Systembolaget has a clear social mandate and and social value. our owner has consequently stated that our purpose is not to maximise profits. Systembolaget must, how­ever, Systembolaget in brief WE CONTRIBUTE TO ENJOYMENT AND DINING operate cost-effectively and in a business-minded Employees: 5,810 – at least three in every PLEASURE way. Our owner has set three economic goals for the With over 16,000 products, Systembolaget ensures operations: equity/assets ratio*, return on equity*, and municipality freedom of choice and accessibility with regard to cost-effectiveness*. Stores and agents: 443 stores and just both alcohol-free and alcoholic drinks. Our expertise over 470 agents and good advice help our customers match their food and drink. Our extensive expertise and high-quality Active drinks suppliers: over 700 service ensure we can meet our customers’ needs, whether in-store or online. Items: circa 16,000; 2,500 in the fixed range, 11,700 in the available for or­ SWEDEN-WIDE FOCUS der range, and 1,800 in the temporary Systembolaget’s 443 stores and just over 470 agents range, 1,400 of which are in the local and throughout Sweden also generate positive value for small-scale range Swedish local communities, through job creation. System­b olaget has a presence and at least three Customer visits to the stores: 124.8 mil­ employees in every Swedish municipality, and 66 per lion cent of our employees work in the 329 stores located Visits via digital channels: 51.6 million outside of Sweden’s three biggest conurbations. The customer flow to the stores and agents also has a pos­ (systembolaget.se, the Search & Find app, itive effect on other local businesses. and the Promillekoll app) We also create positive value by being a good employ­ er that works to ensure both a good work environment for our employees and to reflect society. Our ambition to reflect society helps achieve integration and helps people who are outside the labour market to get jobs. At the end of the year, Systembolaget had 5,810 em­ ployees. WE CREATE ECONOMIC VALUE The most important economic value generated by Systembolaget takes the form of the reduced societal 14 Systembolaget’s business model THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Systembolaget’s Vision Mandate and objective For whom business model A society in which alcohol is enjoyed with due regard to health considerations so that no one is Systembolaget shall, through its monopoly, responsibly and with a high standard of service, sell alcoholic Systembolaget exists for everyone in Sweden. harmed. drinks and provide information on the harmful effects of alcohol. Several hundred years of Swedish alcohol consump­ tion and alcohol policy resulted in the formation of Systembolaget in 1955. Our business model derives from centuries of lessons learned, adapted in line with Values Activities Customer guarantee our mandate in the modern world. Our business model is, therefore, based on the outside world factors that Considerate, knowledgeable, Retail sales of alcoholic drinks, You should always be able to and inspirational. quality control of products, and learn from us, and you should affect us – and, of course, our effect on the outside provision of information on the always be able to rely on us to world. risks associated with alcohol. sell responsibly. Nowadays, we are a State-owned company and we, administratively, come under the Ministry of Health & Social Affairs. As such, our operations are regulated Fundamentals Offering Distribution to customers by a number of steering documents, including our agreement with the state, our Owner’s Directive, the Responsible sales, good service, Range, expertise, experience, Via stores, agents and a broad range, brand neutrality, and advice. home deliveries. Swedish Alcohol Act 12, and EU law. sustainable enterprise, and efficiency. Systembolaget’s vision is of a society in which alcohol is enjoyed with due regard to health considerations so that no one is harmed. We will realise this vision Revenues Costs through our mandate: we shall, through our monop­ oly, responsibly and with a high standard of service, Financed by surcharges on goods sold, based Purchases of goods and services, salaries, and premises primarily on handling costs from efficient and costs are the most significant. The company shall sell a ­ lcoholic drinks and provide information on the rational operations. The surcharge is objective, operate cost-effectively without maximising profits. harmful effects of alcohol. transparent and equal for all. Systembolaget does not exist to maximise our sales Corporate structure Steering documents – we exist to sell responsibly and to limit the harmful effects of alcohol. Systembolaget benefits everyone Limited company with a monopoly, owned by the State. The agreement with the State, the Owner’s Directive, the establishment policy, the Owner’s Policy, in Sweden, but only sells to people aged 20 or above the Swedish Alcohol Act, the Swedish Companies Act, and never sells to anyone who is noticeably intoxicated the Articles of Association, and EU law. or who is, we suspect, buying to resell. We provide 15 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS information on the harmful effects of alcohol and take and urbanisation. There are also, in addition to the our responsibility to enforcing the minimum age limit stores, just over 470 agents throughout Sweden from very seriously. PRESIDENT whom customers can order goods for collection. Sys­ tembolaget is also offering home delivery on a trial Systembolaget exists for the whole of Sweden, so basis in a number of areas across Sweden. The trial we have stores in all major communities – 443 stores PRESIDENT’S was expanded during the year to include additional at present – and online. For those who live in smaller STAFF FUNCTION areas, and by the end of the year, around 60 per cent of communities, we offer delivery via agents, and we have Sweden’s population had the option of ordering goods been trialling home deliveries in a number of areas COMPANY AND SOCIETY HR AND QUALITY for home delivery. since 2012. The operations are conducted by Systembolaget AB Systembolaget conducts retail sales of alcoholic FINANCE AND IT and the wholly owned subsidiaries, IQ-initiativet AB ADMINISTRATION beverages from manufacturers worldwide. Our range and AB K14 Näckströmsgatan. IQ-initiativet works with comprises approximately 16,000 different products. information and communication in order to prevent Procurement entails transparent procurement pro­ BUSINESS AREA, BUSINESS AREA, and limit the harmful effects of alcohol, while K14 cesses that focus on quality and sustainability. OFFERING SALES Näckströmsgatan manages Systembolaget’s operat­ ing premises. All alcohol is sold with no attempt to maximise profits PRODUCT RANGE AND SALES AREA, PROCUREMENT SOUTH and in a brand-neutral way. Pricing takes the form of Systembolaget AB is 100 per cent owned by the Swed­ surcharges on procured goods, based on handling ish State and there are 360,000 shares in the company. SALES AREA, costs. The surcharge is objective, transparent, and COMMUNICATION NORTH equal for all. Our business model and organisational structure shall SALES AREA, help optimise the conditions for our operations. If we ORGANISATION SUPPLY CHAIN E-CHANNEL are to succeed, we must constantly be aware of the Systembolaget’s operations are conducted via 443 changing world in which we live and must act in ac­ stores in Sweden which were visited by a combined OFFER STORE cordance with our mandate. On the next page, we talk total of 124.8 million (122.2) customers during the DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT about the issues that are, therefore, of the greatest im­ year. Two new stores opened in 2018, one in southern portance to us and to our stakeholders – summarised Sweden and one in the northern part of the country. in the form of a materiality analysis, and about how this Systembolaget’s Board of Directors also decided to will affect us going forward. strengthen the store network through the establish­ ment of four new stores, scheduled to open between 2019 and 2022, and a total of 3–4 new stores are now scheduled to open every year over the next few years. The aim of opening more stores, with the majority planned for large and medium-sized conurbations, is to meet the demands made by population increases 16 Our materiality analysis THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Our materiality analysis Systembolaget’s materiality analysis, together with the UN’s global goals for sustainable development, MORE forms the basis for much of our sustainability work. Limiting the The materiality analysis is conducted annually in or­ harmful effects of alcohol der to identify both the sustainability issues where Systembolaget can exert the greatest influence, and Importance to our stakeholders the issues which are of the greatest importance to the Combatting Promoting good bribery and working conditions company’s external and internal stakeholders, and corruption and human rights in which it is consequently important that we address the supply chain Product quality Work and Reflecting strategically and report. The process involves desig­ and safety (1) performance diversity in nating individual Factual Area Managers to ensure an environment for society employees Climate impact operations-based approach. The materiality analysis is throughout the adopted by Systembolaget’s company management value chain and Board of Directors. The results of the 2018 materi­ ality analysis are shown in the diagram. Recycling Environmental and reuse impact of The materiality analysis is based on ongoing stakehold­ production and cultivation (2) er dialogues with our most important stakeholders – customers, employees, owners, suppliers, and other parties. These stakeholder groups were identified at LESS an overall level several years ago, based on our social mandate and our operations. The subgroups of the LESS Significant impact on sustainable development MORE greatest relevance within these overall level groupings are reviewed on a rolling basis to ensure we can create relevant networks and platforms for our stakeholder 1. Health and safety (excluding the health aspects of the actual alcohol) dialogues. The dialogues with our stakeholders are 2. Refers to the effect on the surrounding environment and people, over and above the climate conducted on a rolling basis in a variety of forms, and impact, e.g. the impact on biological diversity, water and air pollution the most significant ones in 2018 are presented in the section on our stakeholder engagement (see page 116). 17 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS In the spring of 2018, we conducted our annual online The biggest difference from previous year’s materiality stakeholder dialogue with: analyses is that greater relative importance is now as­ • customers (a nationally representative selection of signed to the sustainability impact in the supply chain people aged 15+ – just over 1,000 responses). for both social and environmental aspects. Climate • Systembolaget’s managers (department managers, issues have also been assigned a greater importance unit managers, sales managers, area managers and in that the drinks industry, too, is affected by climate store managers). change. We have also incorporated a completely new • employees (new target group this year). aspect this year, namely product quality and safety, in • suppliers (the 100 biggest). the light of consumers’ increased focus on additives and chemicals. Evaluations of the importance of the sustainability ­issues to the stakeholders are based on the combined The annual online stakeholder dialogue showed that input from different stakeholder dialogues, primarily awareness of Systembolaget’s sustainability work the annual online stakeholder dialogue. continues to be relatively low, nationwide. There are, however, some exceptions in connection with limiting Supplier meetings, enquiries submitted to Customer the harmful effects of alcohol and regarding the range Services, and meetings with our owner also contrib­ of organic products. ute to the evaluation process. We have an ongoing dialogue and reconciliation process with our owners We present details of the way in which we are address­ regarding our priorities in the field of sustainable en­ ing issues raised by the materiality analysis in our terprise. section reporting on Systembolaget’s three strategic shifts which are, in turn, a result of our strategic plan One new feature of the materiality analysis this year for 2017-2020. The materiality analysis also indicates is that it has been produced in accordance with the on which of the UN’s global sustainability goals our new version of GRI* known as GRI Standards. The GRI operations will primarily focus. Standards have developed and clarified the concept of “impact” to include several dimensions. Impact is about the effect an organisation has on economic, environmental and social issues which, in turn, indi­ cates positive or negative contributions to sustainable development. This impact can be both direct and indi­ rect, conscious or unconscious, and can have different timeframes. It also, in turn, highlights the factors by which the organisation is affected. Taking an holistic approach to impact from a variety of perspective also ties in well with the organisation’s impact on and pos­ itive contributions to achieving the UN’s global goals. 18 The UN’s global goals THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS The UN’s global sustainability goals The UN’s global goals Systembolaget’s goals for 2030 3. Good health Through responsible selling, cooperation, communication and well-being and support for research, we have approached the realisation of our vision: “A society in which alcoholic drinks are enjoyed with due regard for health, so that no one is harmed.” 5. Gender equality We achieved gender equality at all levels in our company and ensured equal rights and opportunities with regard to recruitment, skill development, working conditions, and the opportunity to combine parenthood and work many years ago. Our suppliers have full responsibility for their supply chains and there is no discrimination amongst those working in the supply chain with our products. In 2015, the world’s leaders signed up to the UN’s 17 global sustainability goals and 8. Decent work Systembolaget is one of Sweden’s most attractive employers. Agenda 2030, in order to achieve the overall goals of abolishing poverty, reducing and ­e conomic Our suppliers have full responsibility for their supply chains inequality, solving the climate crisis, and promoting peace. These goals, together growth and everyone working in the supply chain behind our products with our materiality analysis have, since then, formed important starting points for has decent working conditions. Systembolaget’s sustainability work. State-owned companies shall, within the framework of their operations, analyse the sustainable development goals set forth in Agenda 2030 in order to identify the most relevant goals to which the company can, through its operations, exert and influence and make a contribution. In 2017, Systembolaget conducted an analysis of 10. Reduced Proactive work on inclusiveness has ensured we reflect the the UN’s global sustainability goals and the associated 169 subsidiary goals, in order inequalities differences in society well and have generated the precondi­ to determine which are most closely related to our operations and where we can tions for everyone’s equal right to and opportunity for work, do the most good and create value in the long-term. The analysis identified 7 goals irrespective of age, gender, functional variation, ethnicity, ori­ gin and religion. Our suppliers have full responsibility for their that are of particular relevance to us and we then, on the basis thereof, formulated supply chains and there is no discrimination amongst those our own long-term goals that describe where we want to be by 2030. These goals working in the supply chain behind our products. are important starting points for our operations. 19 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS 12: Responsible Our suppliers take full responsibility for their supply chains consumption and and the products we sell are produced with due regard for ­production sustainable resource usage and otherwise with knowledge of and consideration for the consequences for people’s health and the environment. Our customers have good access to information on the products’ sustainability impact and on how they can, through their purchases, contribute to increased sustainability. 13: Climate action Our own operations and all transport bought in are fossil fuel-free. We have managed to radically reduce the climate impact of our entire production chain with the help of our customers and in collaboration with our suppliers, distributors, and other partnerships. 16. Peace, justice and We work proactively to counter all forms of corruption and act strong institutions as role models, both internally and externally. Systembolaget’s value chain is fully transparent, which has helped reduce the risk of corruption. Goal 17 – Partnerships for the Goals – is, over and above these goals, another im­ portant starting point when it comes to working towards the other goals. It is a goal that generates preconditions and we have seen, through various forms of global and local cooperation, how Systembolaget can contribute to sustainability in areas where we have an impact on the world around us. Efforts to integrate the UN’s global goals into our day-to-day operations, and to concretise them, are an ongoing process. We provide details of our progress in 2018 in our presentation of the three strategic shifts upon which the current strategic plan focuses. 20 Systembolaget’s strategic plan THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Where we want to be – Systembolaget’s strategic plan Systembolaget’s vision is of a society in which alcohol In 2016, Systembolaget decided, in line with our vision goal for us, and an integrated sustainability perspec­ is enjoyed with due regard to health considerations and our mandate, and taking into account our value tive empowers our implementation of this approach. so that no one is harmed. We aim to realise this vision creation and the external factors that affect us, to through our mandate: to engage, through a monopo­ adopt the strategic plan that will run until 2020. The This Responsibility Report describes how we are work­ ly, responsibly and with a high standard of service, in plan is the first time that our key sustainability aspects ing to achieve the plan’s objectives – the measures and the retail sales of alcoholic beverages, and to inform have been integrated into the overall strategic plan. initiatives we are taking and the challenges we face people about the harmful effects of alcohol. Sustainability is an increasingly explicit operational and must address. But in order to be clear about why Strategic goal, 2020 I am proud of the fact that Sweden has those around me. I often think about how often, how clarified and the monitoring of compliance System­­bolaget! much, and what I drink. More and more people are with these rules is improving all the time. coming forward and saying why they appreciate I, as a customer, feel increasingly like a wel­ System­bolaget and its mandate, and it’s easier for me There are 5,000 Systembolaget employees come guest at Systembolaget. The offering to understand and appreciate the monopoly and the and we are placing increasing value on each is increasingly adapted in line with my re­ difference System­bolaget makes to public health. other’s differences. We are thinking along new quirements, and Systembolaget continues lines and achieving success by working with to offer the best service. I like that they take We employees know how we can help ensure more others. Developing our operations and each responsibility. Systembolaget ensures qual­ informed alcohol consumption. Thanks to us, people other makes optimum use of our resources ity and its range takes an increasingly clear know more about the downsides of alcohol and are in terms of money, employees, and the en­ position on social responsibility and the en­ aware of the risks that come with alcohol increasingly vironment. Our managers are creating good vironment. It allows me, through my choices, often being portrayed as just another product. We conditions and more people are willing, able, to make a difference, too. are very involved in the alcohol debate and System­ and allowed to take responsibility through a bolaget, along with other parties, is contributing to the clear mandate. We are well on the way to be­ As a customer, it’s easy for me to learn debate by providing knowhow and insights. The rules coming Sweden’s most attractive employer more about drinks and about how spirits, of the game when it comes to alcohol policy are being and are proud of making a difference. wine, beer and other drinks affect me and 21 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS we do what we do, it is important to understand where STRATEGIC SHIFTS SUBSIDIARY AREAS WORKING TOWARDS THE UN’S GLOBAL GOALS we are going. Three strategic shifts The customer interaction Continue to impress Achieving our strategic goal – where customers, A carefully selected range employees and our other stakeholders are proud of the customers A sustainable supply chain Systembolaget – demands hard work and that we take a stand on various issues. People’s expectations of Sys­ Sustainable in-house operations tembolaget are constantly increasing and we want to Ethics and anti-corruption be proactive in meeting them, which is why we have identified three strategic shifts as being of particular importance. WE WANT TO CONTINUE TO IMPRESS OUR Increase awareness of The benefits of Systembolaget ­CUSTOMERS alcohol’s risks and why Surveys show that our customers are happy with Systembolaget exists Increased social dialogue Systembolaget. But our customers’ expectations Tools that increase mindfulness are constantly increasing, which means that they are demanding more of us if their satisfaction levels are Research and facts to be maintained. The increase in digitisation is, for example, resulting in consumers generally demanding more in terms of service and accessibility and we are, therefore, keen to anticipate our customers’ changing behaviours and requirements and to be just as good online as we are in our physical stores. We must also Optimise conditions Securing the talent pool live up to our customers’ increased expectations of us Diversity and inclusiveness when it comes to operating a business that promotes sustainable development throughout our value chain. Finance This involves both doing more ourselves and involving not just our customers, but our suppliers and produc­ ers in our sustainability work. Systembolaget is not like other companies and alco­ Our shifts will move us closer to the subsidiary areas of our operations and to several of the UN’s global sustain­ hol is not like other products. We don’t want satisfied ability goals, the most important of which are presented, along with links to the relevant shift, in the graphic. customers to make them buy more. We do not run 22 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS campaigns and we do not sell three products for the able, and we must ensure that our employees have both The State’s ownership policy requires State-owned price of two. We do this in our own way, within the the mandate and the desire to contribute as much as companies to act as role models when it comes to sus­ parameters that support our mandate. Our goal is for possible. We want to be one of Sweden’s best and most tainable enterprise. Sustainable enterprise includes our customers to be proud of Systembolaget – and attractive employers. We want all of our employees, such areas as human rights, working conditions, the en­ achieving that means constantly striving for progress. through a diversity of perspective, a value-governed vironment, anti-corruption, and business ethics, as well management, sustainable and rational operations, and as gender equality and diversity. Acting as a role model WE NEED TO INCREASE PEOPLE’S AWARENESS by taking environmental and social responsibility, to feel with regard to sustainable enterprise means, amongst OF THE RISKS OF ALCOHOL AND WHY SYSTEM­ proud of us as an employer. other things, acting transparently on issues relating to BOLAGET EXISTS material risks and opportunities, engaging in an active Systembolaget and the monopoly enjoy high levels of KEY RATIOS AND GOAL LEVELS dialogue with the company’s stakeholders in society, public confidence, and we’re proud of that fact. But we Our owner, the State, has set a number of goals that cooperating with other companies and relevant organ­ also believe that there is a risk of the dialogue we want steer our course, and it is clear that the mandate goals isations, and complying with international guidelines in to promote being afforded less space if not enough take precedence. The primary goal, according to our the field. State-owned companies, such as Systembo­ people are involved. If we are to fulfil our mandate owner, is consequently the social benefit. The sec­ laget, must have well thought out and firmly established and limit the harmful effects of alcohol, this dialogue ondary goal is that we shall deliver a required return strategic goals in the area of sustainable enterprise, and needs to involve more people. Alcohol is increasingly on investment that is predetermined by the owner and Systembolaget has consequently established policies, perceived as “just another product”, as is clear from which is followed up over time through a number of strategies and strategic goals in this area. In December its marketing and in social media. We are pretty poor, financial key ratios. 2017, the Board decided to explicitly link five strategic in Sweden, at reflecting on our own alcohol consump­ goals to sustainable enterprise, and at the end of 2018, tion and only 7 per cent of Swedes believe that they, We have ensured that all of our strategic key ratios can the Board decided that a goal relating to ethnic diversity personally, drink too much, in spite of a survey by No­ be directly influenced through our own operations in should be added to those where progress is monitored, vus having shown that almost one million Swedes are order to achieve an increased focus and facilitate del­ starting in 2019. drinking at hazardous levels. Many consumers believe egation. that alcohol problems are “someone else’s problem” 13. The sustainable enterprise goals for 2018 are shown in Our goal is to involve more people in order to increase The owners’ goals over which we have direct influence the table on the next page, where we present strategic awareness and encourage greater mindfulness, dia­ are monitored by means of strategic steering key ratios. key ratios and indicators. The table shows that there is logue, and cooperation on alcohol-related issues. There are also a number of other key ratios that relate to at least one key ratio or GRI indicator for every material the broader owner’s goals, but which are defined in a sustainability area within the three strategic shifts, in WE MUST CREATE BETTER INTERNAL CONDITIONS way that enables us to measure our own performance. order to ensure monitoring and reporting. FOR ACHIEVING OUR GOALS All strategic key ratio goals – whether financial or non-fi­ If we are to succeed in all these endeavours, we need to nancial – are set by the Board of Directors. Other own­ The table overleaf also shows how our integrated re­ create even better conditions in which to operate. De­ er’s goals are followed up and analysed continuously porting is structured on the basis of our current stra­ veloping our operations and each other makes optimum in order to pick up on changes. Some of the goals are tegic plan and within which shift our most material use of our resources in terms of money, employees, set by the owners, other are not. This enables us to set sustainability issues are reported. The overall structure and the environment. Our employees are far and away goals for and follow up on our strategy in order to ensure is as follows: the most important key to success in this respect. The a balanced development at the same time as we ensure strength inherent in our 5,000 employees is consider­ we are meeting our owner’s goals. 23 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS • Continue to impress the customers Includes material sustainability issues in connection with the customer interaction, and sustainability ­issues in connection with our range and supply chain, Systembolaget’s own environmental and climate work, and our work with ethics and anti-corruption. • Increase awareness of alcohol’s risks and why System­ bolaget exists. Includes our social mandate to limit the harmful effects of alcohol. • Optimise conditions Includes sustainable performance environments and our efforts to reflect society’s diversity, and our finan­ cial strategic key ratios. Also includes a presentation of IT as an area that generates preconditions. In the next chapter, we will talk about what we are do­ ing to achieve the goals laid down in our three strategic shifts, and our plans for the future. 24 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS OUR STRATEGIC KEY RATIOS AND INDICATORS Sustainable Owner’s Board’s Strategic shift Area Strategic key ratio Result 2018 1 Goal 2018 enterprise goal 2 goal goal Continue to impress The customer interaction Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 84.6 84.5 – 85.0 x x x the customers Sustainable supply chain Suppliers' sustainability maturity See page 45 x x Sustainable in-house operations Climate impact of in-house ­operations* Annual 2,591 x x (net CO2) reduction Opinion Index, OPI (%) Increase awareness of Engage our customers and The percentage who want to retain ­alcohol’s risks and why other stakeholders in the bene­ ­Systembolaget’s monopoly on retail sales 76.5 77.5 x fits of Systembolaget of spirits, wine, and strong beer Tools that increase Proof of age checks 95.6 96.0 x x mindfulness Optimum conditions Securing the talent pool Performance culture 81.5 78.4 x x Sick leave (%) 4.5 4.8 x Finances Equity/assets ratio 25.7 20 – 30 x Return on equity 11.4 8.0 – 9.0 x Cost-effectiveness 2.3 � 2.3 x Strategic indicator 3 Result 2018 Goal 2018 Sustainable Owner’s Board’s enterprise goal goal goal Alcohol Index 4 61.4 x x Total consumption, litres of pure alcohol 9.0 x per head of population aged 15 or older 5 Systembolaget’s share of alcohol 62.8 x consumption 5  1. A s of 2017, Systembolaget reports all key ratios and indicators to one decimal place in order to increase transparency. The exception to this is the climate impact key ratio, which is reported under carbon dioxide equivalents. 2. In December 2017, the Board resolved to adopt the following five strategic goals for sustainable enterprise. 3. Strategic indicators are also followed up by the owner, but no goals are set. 4. The Alcohol Index goals are set in the Owner’s Directive. 5. Reported one year in arrears. 25 CONTENTS Our three strategic shifts 26 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS S T R AT E G I C S H I F T 1 : We shall ­continue ­to impress our ­customers Alcohol is not like other products. Systembolaget exists for a ­reason – to limit the harmful effects of alcohol. Systembolaget does not just exist for people who buy from us: it exists for ­everyone in Sweden. It is important for those who choose to shop with us that we offer a high-quality service. But it is also important that we ­sell­­responsibly. The world around us is changing rapidly, and as the world ­changes, so do our customers’ wishes, expectations and behaviour. To ensure that we continue to impress our customers, Systembolaget, works continuously on its development, and we do so within a ­number of different areas: in the physical and digital customer interaction, by means of a carefully selected range, in our work with ethics and anticorruption – and in our efforts to establish sustainability in both our supply chain and our own operations. 27 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Directive sustainability goals Guideline Sustainability Goals: 5, 8, 10, Customer ­interaction 12, 13, 16 Our customer promise Why this is important Systembolaget’s promise to all our customers is as follows: A first-class customer interaction and an impressive You should always feel welcome product range are two of our most important tools in • You are welcome and respected, whoever you our efforts to impress our customers. But unlike many are and whatever the reason for your visit. other companies, Systembolaget does not want sat­ • We are here for you and will actively show how isfied customers so that it can boost its sales. Rather, happy we are to see you. satisfied customers are important to us because they • We will do all we can to help you – simply and ensure our long-term ability to deliver on our social smoothly. mandate: to engage, through a monopoly, responsibly You should always feel that our knowledge and and with a high standard of service, in the retail sales expertise is at hand of alcoholic beverages, and to inform people about the • We share our knowledge generously in a way harmful effects of alcohol. that suits you. • You choose and we provide inspiration, so that you can enjoy our drinks with due regard for Direction and strategic ­initiatives both your own health and other people’s. • Our advice is brand-neutral and tailor-­m ade for you, to ensure you can make good, infor­ We have seen unusually major upheavals in the way med choices. in which general and specialist retailers must operate in recent years as a result of digitisation and changes You should always be able to rely on us to sell responsibly in consumption patterns and behaviours. Swedish • Our selling rules include consideration for ­d emographics are changing too, as shown in such everyone’s wellbeing, and we adhere to them trends as an aging population, urbanisation, and more at all times. Systembolaget’s sustainability work and more people with foreign backgrounds. ­Collectively, • The products you buy are carefully selected is based on several of the UN’s global responding to these changes will ask a great deal of and we are keen to ensure that they are sus­ goals for sustainable development. Systembolaget if we are to continue to live up to our tainable, both for people and for the environ­ customers’ high expectations and, at the same time, to ment. • Our goal is not to make as much money as pos­ Our strategic and practical work with­ sell responsibly. Therefore we work strategically with a sible. We are happy to talk about why System­ in the framework of this shift focuses number of areas in order to ensure that we continue to bolaget exists, and the benefits we bring. on achieving these overriding goals. impress our customers in every customer interaction Goal 17, Partnerships for the Goals, – whether physical or digital. guides us in all our strategic shifts. 28 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Our customer promise applies wherever the customer increased expectations of a high-quality digital inter­ support discussions of alcohol habits, Systembolaget, chooses to interact with us. Systembolaget has just over action. and our purpose. These initiatives will enable us to 5,000 employees who work with our customer promise increase people’s awareness of the risks associated every day. In 2018, we have taken additional steps to INCLUSIVENESS FOR CUSTOMERS with alcohol, and increase familiarity with our opera­ ensure that all our employees are better equipped to All customers must, in accordance with our customer tions and our mandate, help improve people’s Swedish deliver on our customer promise, whether in store or promise, feel welcome – wherever they interact with language skills, increase integration and, at the same online. We have, for example, produced a framework us and whatever their circumstances. Linguistic and time, help more people in Sweden to feel welcome at to guide us in our efforts to continue impressing our mobility variations are two of the factors upon which Systembolaget. customers by increasing our “customer-orientated our diversity and inclusiveness work focuses. As a ­basic expertise”. requirement, for example, our webpages, apps and MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO HEALTH other digital content should be designed in such a way “You should always feel that our knowledge and ex­ Systembolaget’s extensive range demands expertise if that they ensure accessibility for people with ­functional pertise is at hand” is part of our customer promise. It it is to be shown to its full advantage, and that expertise disabilities. We must also comply with fundamental is through our 125 million physical customer interac­ is also what can help our customers make informed requirements in the physical environment that derive tions, 52 million digital customer interactions, and our choices*. The framework consequently describes how from the Swedish Planning and Building Act (PBL). range offer that we have the greatest opportunity to we, with the help of our in-store staff, make System­ make a difference to health – both at an individual and bolaget’s combined expertise available to our custom­ In 2018, we made fundamental information about a public health level. Our expertise enables us to help ers. The framework also describes, in addition to the System­bolaget’s mandate and our selling rules avail­ customers make informed choices, and to continue range expertise, how we should pass on our know-how able at omsystembolaget.se. The information is pro­ impressing our customers. Systembolaget shall, there­ when it comes to Systembolaget’s various services and vided in easy-to-read Swedish and a further 21 different fore, be characterised by expertise – it is an important contact interfaces – in-store, by phone, and online. ­languages. component of our operations and fundamental to our strategic plan. It is, in other words, a precondition of We have also developed our digital customer inter­ In 2017, we launched materials designed to educate our success. action in line with our customer promise. Our Customer people about Systembolaget as part of the SFI (Swed­ Services department is increasingly receiving requests ish for Immigrants) courses. The material was one of At the same time, we are working to highlight and re­ for support in relation to orders, not least when it comes the most frequently ordered products on the educa­ mind our customers of our position as an expert and to our online ordering service. We have, therefore, to tion material website, utbudet.se, last year. This year, considerate specialist retailer. This autumn, for exam­ improve our ability to live up to our customers’ expecta­ we have asked SFI teachers and other educators to ple, we launched a broad campaign focusing on our tions, divided our Customer Services department into evaluate the material and have subsequently revised range and our expertise, to remind people of our offer­ two teams: one to provide customer orders support, and updated it. We have also conducted an analysis ing and of the things for which Systembolaget stands. and one to provide support on food and drink issues. of how we can reach out to more SFI schools and have The first films were shown in October 2018 on TV, in started working with the County Administrative Boards cinemas, and on digital channels. The campaign will Systembolaget offers its customer services via a range of Sweden’s Sveriges Länsstyrelsers ANDT* coordina­ continue in 2019. of channels – by phone, online chat, email, Facebook, tors at the individual county councils. (ANDT is the and at systembolaget.se. We have extended the open­ Government’s Council on alcohol, narcotics, doping DEVELOPMENT IN THE PHYSICAL STORE ing hours of the customer service chat facility on our and tobacco issues). Compulsory and upper second­ When we develop our offering in the physical stores, website during the year, to live up to our customers’ ary schools have also shown interest in the material to it should not result in additional sales or in us toning 29 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS down our selling rules. Customers must be able to deliveries, and by our agents, but the checks must not fering to succeed in this objective. Our expertise and rely on us to sell responsibly. All our in-store work is contravene our good customer service principle. the way in which we present it online in connection designed to meet our customers’ needs and live up with our range is an important part of our offering. We to their increased expectations, while simultaneously In 2018, therefore, we continued to integrate the proof have also identified scope for improvement in how ensuring that we continue to work in accordance with of age checks into our work on creating an even better we display our range and how we share expertise via Systembolaget’s mandate. This is the basis for the new customer interaction. This means that every situation our employees online. The results of the analysis form store concept that was developed and tested in 2015 must be assessed individually, rather than on the ba­ part of the insights that lay behind the development of and 2016. A total of 38 stores have now been renovated, sis of rigid regulations and preconceived ideas. Every our new online store, which will be launched in 2019. 22 of them in 2018. customer must be treated with consideration, not sus­ The aim of the new store is to make it easier for the picion. Bringing about this change in attitude is import­ customer to make informed and sustainable choices. The ability for customers to collect goods they have ant and every employee must not only feel personally We are also aiming, with the aid of additional and new ordered outside the store is another element of this responsible for this work, but must have a mandate to payment options, to make it easier to shop at System­ work, and one that is currently being trialled at the take the correct decision. bolaget online. Sergels Torg store. What it means is that customers do not need to actually enter the store, which results in a The Swedish Alcohol Act forms the basis for our proof Some new functions were made available to our online smoother visit and may reduce the number of sponta­ of age checks. The law mandates a minimum age limit customers in 2018. We improved our search facility, for neous purchases. The idea behind collection modules of 20 for shopping at Systembolaget, but assessing example, which our customers had been requesting. adjacent to stores is now being developed and trialled customers’ ages is difficult, which is why Systembolag­ We also extended the opening hours of our online chat in a number of suitable locations. et has an internal security rule to help in this process. facility, where 10 expert store workers from the north to We ask everyone who looks as though they could be the south of the country answer customers’ questions The “changed my mind” trolleys which became part under the age of 25 to produce a valid ID document, about everything drinks-related. By the autumn of 2018, of our store concept in the autumn are yet another thereby building a safety margin into our work. Actually just over 1,000 questions a week were being answered development in line with our customer promise. The carrying out proof of age checks is, ultimately, about via the chat function, which is twice as many as under “changed my mind” trolleys are located near the check­ personal responsibility on the part of our employees. the old chat function opening hours. outs, making it easy for customers to return items that For results, see page 59. they no longer want. It should be easy to change your We have also been working in 2018 on improving the mind. INCREASED SERVICE ONLINE way in which the quality of service in our various con­ Systembolaget’s efforts to impress our customers runs tact interfaces meets our customers’ needs. There are, PROOF OF AGE CHECKS IN THE CUSTOMER through every channel in which we interact with them for example, many people who visit us online nowadays ­INTERACTION – in our physical stores or online. The Customer Satis­ – to check out our range before visiting a physical store Everyone should feel welcome at Systembolaget, but faction Index (CSI)* value for our physical stores has to actually buy the products. Measures we have taken not everyone is allowed to shop at Systembolaget. been high for many years, and we are keen to approach in response to this need include making it easier to see We do not sell to anyone under the age of 20, anyone the same level for visitors to our online store. Our online online which products are carried by individual stores. who is visibly intoxicated, or anyone whom we suspect customers are currently satisfied, but we believe that We have also made it possible to open an account on will resell the products. Systembolaget’s Proof of Age we have the potential to impress them, too. our website, which makes lists that customers have cre­ checks* are, therefore, an important tool that must ated on the website accessible via our app. Introducing be used both in-store and in conjunction with home In 2018, we analysed ways of developing our online of­ the ability to scan a bottle’s EAN code via the app, and 30 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS immediately receive additional product information, allows our customers to learn more about our range, Key ratios, activities and means that we are approaching our target figure of be­ ing in the interval between 84.5 and 85.0. The new CSI wherever they may be. ­results level is due to a positive trend in all quality areas, not least those regarded as most important by our custom­ After having won the ServiceScore award for five years ers. Our customers’ perception of the service they re­ CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX – CSI in succession, we won a silver in the Best Service ceive from our staff in stores has reached a new record The way we interact with our customers has a con­ Company category 4 in 2018. The Best Retail Company high index figure of 91.2 (+0.4). The same is true of their siderable influence on their perceptions of System­ award, which Systembolaget also won for five years in perceptions of our social responsibility, where the index bolaget and our mandate. Customer satisfaction is succession, was abolished in 2018. In Medieakademin’s has risen by 0.7 to 82.2 in 2018. Customers’ perceptions consequently absolutely vital in enabling us to limit Confidence Barometer for 2018, Systembolaget enjoys of our range have also reached a new record high, with the harmful effects of alcohol in the long term. We higher levels of confidence than any of the other com­ an index of 80.6 (+0.2) (see also table on page 35). conduct a CSI survey in partnership with an external, panies and social institutions included in the survey.3 independent company (CFI Group) three times a year The highest ranked quality areas also include, as be­ in all of our stores in order to measure levels of cus­ HOME DELIVERY CUSTOMER INTERACTION fore, the stores’ social responsibility (index: 95.2). tomer satisfaction. The results reveal what is import­ Home deliveries are currently being trialled in six We are particularly pleased by this, as it is about the ant to our customers and how well we are living up to counties: Skåne, Stockholm, Uppsala, Västerbotten, extent to which our customers see us taking respon­ their expectations. The stores receive the results at Västernorrland and Västra Götaland. Systembolaget sibility for our selling rules. Last year, 95 per cent of store level in order to enable the entire organisation to can consequently now offer home deliveries for over our stores have a CSI rating of above 80, which is our continue working on relevant areas for improvement. 60 per cent of the Swedish population who are entitled minimum acceptable level, and this year that figure Two of the key factors in achieving a high index figure to buy goods from the company. has increased to 97 per cent. We will continue our col­ are proactivity and customer interaction, and we are lective efforts to improve the customer interactions of working hard to increase accessibility in our stores and Home delivery sales are an adaptation to societal the 13 stores that are below this level. Our customers’ ensure that we have the necessary expertise available trends, and a prerequisite of our continued ability to expectations are, however, successively increasing, so when our customers need help. The CSI index values impress our customers. The service does, however, we must also continue to develop, even in the stores range between 10 and 100. also impose demands on us in ensuring that sales with a high CSI rating. continue to be made in line with our mandate. We are, On three occasions in 2018, almost 49,000 customers as a result, providing ongoing training for the drivers, Our website is the second most commonly used were surveyed in our stores and a total of 32,513 cus­ all of whom are external, to ensure compliance with contact interface after the stores, where the CSI has tomers have participated in our CSI survey, yielding a Systembolaget’s social responsibility and that the cus­ increased to 76.6 (+1.1). For our ordering service, in that response rate of 66 per cent. tomer interaction is based on Systembolaget’s values almost 70 per cent of orders are now placed digitally, and customer promise. The drivers shall, just as in our 2018 2017 2016 the CSI rating has increased to 92 (+0.4). Here too, stores, ensure that the recipient is at least 20 years old, we hope to be able to continue this positive trend in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 84.6 84.3 84.1 and that they are not visibly intoxicated. The driver shall 2019, when we will be launching a new digital store in also refuse delivery if they suspect illegal resale. CSI – social component 82.2 81.5 81.0 order both to improve the way in which we meet our customers’ needs, and to be able to offer a simple and The results show that the CSI for 2018 has increased by smooth online customer interaction. 0.3 points to a new record index level of 84.6, which 31 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS The 2018 range A carefully selected range Number of items Quantity of units sold* Why this is important 95.9% The range is the core of Systembolaget’s offering. We must offer every customer in 72.8% Sweden a range that meets their needs. We are keen to continue working in partnership with our suppliers to continue de­ veloping a range that increases customer satisfaction, enables sustainable choices and informed consumption – and helps ensure an impressive customer interaction. The range is based on brand-neutral, non-discriminatory, and transparent principles. 15.8% 11.4% Direction and strategic ­initiatives 2.6% 1.5% Our purchasing department tries out several thousand drinks from all over the world FR TR OR FR TR OR every year. Factors such as customer demand, season, festivities, and national and international trends affect the choice of drinks bought in for Systembolaget’s range. Sales volume (l) Sales (SEK) Our customers’ knowledge of and interest in drinks, sustainability and health have 96.1% increased in recent years, increasing the demands made on our range. Our goal is to 93.9% Temporary Available for 2018 Fixed range range Order range Total Number of items1 2,500 1,800 11,700 16,000 Million units sold 2 870 24 14 908 Million litres 485 10 10 505 Net sales (SEK m) 28,800 983 888 30,700 (value ex. VAT) 2.1% 1.8% 3.2% 2.9% 1 Active on 31 Dec 2 Number of bottles, cans, boxes, etc. sold. FR TR OR FR TR OR 32 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS adjust the products we carry on our shelves in line with allocation of the range to the individual stores is done in from our stores or an agent, or opt for home delivery. customer preferences, quickly and in an optimal way. a brand-neutral way and is based on customer demand. In 2018, for example, 840 items from 347 different producers were launched in 2018, corresponding to OUR RANGE The temporary range accounts for two per cent of our an increase of 66 in the number of ­manufacturers, Customer demand is at the heart of Systembolaget’s sales in litres. The range is divided into three sub-cate­ which is the highest number since the range was range-related work. We track both consumer behaviour gories – exclusive, seasonal items, and local and smallintroduced. and drinks trends, and adapt our range continuously. scale items. All of Systembolaget’s stores shall carry a range that The Available for Order range accounts for two per cent corresponds to demand in that particular store. The size • Temporary Range – Exclusive (TRE) is our range of of our sales in litres. Drinks suppliers can list products of the range depends on the store’s customer base – exclusive items that are manufactured and procured that have not been bought in for one of Systembolag­ and if a particular product is not carried in a particular in small volumes. The products have very limited et’s other ranges for inclusion in the Available for Order store’s range, it can be ordered in, thereby ensuring our availability and a relatively high price level. New items range. The items can then be ­ordered in our stores, from customers have access to the entire range throughout are launched several times a month. The quantity is agents, and at systembolaget.se for delivery from the Sweden. Orders placed in the stores also form the basis limited, and the range is consequently only carried drinks suppliers’ stocks. The Available for Order range for analyses of future ranges. by a limited number of stores. All of the products are allows us to offer our customers an even broader range available for order at systembolaget.se. The most and the items that prove particularly popular may, after We have been working to update our range model since exclusive items can only be ordered online. evaluation, qualify for inclusion in the fixed range. If the late 2017. The aim of this work is to increase customer customer is looking for an item that is not included in satisfaction with the range, to increase the efficiency of • Temporary Range – Seasonal comprises products Systembolaget’s range, we offer the option of privately our range work in stores, and to generate preconditions that are available for a limited period of time because importing the item from another country. for an improved customer interaction. The effects of this they are associated with a particular festival or tradi­ work will begin to be seen in 2019. tion. Easter beer, October Fest beer, and Christmas AVAILABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY items including Christmas beer, mulled wine, and Range availability is a prerequisite of our ability to Systembolaget’s range comprises: certain spirits, are typical of this range. The products continue impressing our customers. Systembolaget • the fixed range (FR), which comprises around 2,500 are carried for the duration of the season. has a nationwide retail network of 443 stores and 471 items, agents. We base the ranges carried by individual stores • the temporary range (TR), which comprises around • Temporary Range – Local and Small-scale (TRLS) on customer demand, to ensure that the right product 1,800 items, and comprises craft products and those produced in reaches the right customer. Every store is allocated a • the available for order range (OR), which comprises limited volumes. Our local and small-scale range range mix adapted in line with customer demand in around 11,700 items. offers a wide variety of different types of beer, spirits that specific store – irrespective of the size of the store and wine. All of the drinks are tested and described or its location. Read on to find out more about our range breakdown: by bouquet and taste by Systembolaget’s experts. Systembolagets’s fixed range accounts for 96 per cent A local and small-scale may be carried in up to ten Systembolaget’s physical stores carry between around of our sales in litres and is designed to meet demand stores in a radius of 150 km from the producer. Cus­ 500 and 3,000 different items, depending on the size from the majority of our customers. There is a security, tomers can, in addition to the local range carried in of the store. Our entire range is, furthermore, available continuity, and long-term approach to the range com­ our stores, also order around 1,000 local and smallfor order via systembolaget.se, where our customers position that also ensures its breadth and depth. The scale products from all over Sweden and collect them can order drinks for collection from one of Systembo­ 33 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS laget’s stores, or, in smaller communities, from a Syst­ 1. Our organic products ed. This variable availability, coupled with increasing embolaget agent. We are also offering home deliveries For a number of years now, as part of our efforts to global demand, has resulted in increased competition on a trial basis in certain areas. reduce Systembolaget’s environmental footprint in the for those volumes that are available, and this trend will supply chain, we have invested in meeting the sub­ probably continue. Availability also has to do with Systembolaget’s per­ stantial customer demand for organic drinks. Organic sonnel sharing our expertise on the products and products now account for 13 per cent of our sales Switching to organic cultivation is also not something thereby making it easier for the customer to make volume. a producer can do overnight: it takes several years to informed choices. To this end, we have spotlighted switch from conventional to organic cultivation. We Organic products: our wide-ranging knowledge of drinks during the 2018 2017 2016 have longer initial contract periods for organically and share of sales year. Methods used have included concretising and ethically labelled products than for conventionally pro­ expanding the information provided on our shelves. Volume as a % of total sales 13.0 12.6 11.6 duced drinks, in order to ensure greater security for We also communicate new products in store and at producers during the process and, in the long term, systembolaget.se, in order to make it easier for cus­ create a good range of organic products. Organically Organic range1 2018 2017 2016 tomers to find them. cultivated drinks are guaranteed twelve months on our Number of items 448 428 373 shelves before any adjustments are made to distribu­ RANGE SUSTAINABILITY tion, in comparison with nine months for convention­ Sustainability is important to Systembolaget, both in Number of segments with ally cultivated drinks. 91 77 70 organic items terms of our mandate and in line with our customers’ expectations, with increased demands on climate con­ 1 The term, range, refers to items in our fixed range. 2. Our ethical products siderations, traceability, and production information, One way of improving working conditions in the ­supply for example. A trend towards lists of contents for the Having achieved our goal of organic products account­ chain is to increase the range of ethically certified products we sell may be helpful in this respect. Which ing for 10 per cent of sales by 2020 well in advance of items. Systembolaget currently labels wines from two is why we, here at Systembolaget, are monitoring dis­ schedule, we have set a new goal of including organic different ethical certification programmes, namely Fair­ cussions within the EU in this area and are hoping that alternatives in as many product segments as possible. trade and Fair for Life. We have chosen these l­ abelling they may result in changes to the rules so that, in fu­ In 2018, we had organic alternatives in 91 of our total of schemes because they are third ­p arty-certified, be­ ture, customers receive clear information on contents. 160 product segments. The development in the num­ cause they contribute to fair trade, and because they ber of segments with organic alternatives over the past guarantee a premium that ensures both financial and Developing a sustainable offering is a priority, and we three years is shown in the table below. increased social security for the people working with are continuing to develop and expand our range of Our efforts to maintain and develop a broad organic cultivation. Fair for Life is currently open to offering organic and ethically certified products. The same range pose a number of challenges. One of these chal­ certification in more countries than Fairtrade, which applies to the transition to packaging types that are lenges lies in the fact that in certain product groups, only certifies products from developing countries. more climate-friendly. We have been actively working the number of organic alternatives available is strictly during the year to increase the percentage of light­ limited. These crops are, furthermore, often more sen­ In 2017, we had 43 ethically labelled items in our fixed weight glass bottles and other types of packaging with sitive, which can impact harvests. The poor harvest in range and our goal for 2018 was to increase this figure a reduced climate impact. 2017, for example, impacted many organic suppliers to 50 or more. Unfortunately, we did not quite achieve and, as a result, they are finding it difficult to deliver this goal, and, by the end of 2018, we had 45 ethically the same volumes as before, or the volumes request­ labelled items in our range. 34 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS 3. Our climate-friendly packaging alcohol content is also increasing, making these alter­ climate-smart packagings, but an effect survey con­ Packaging accounts for the biggest share of System­ natives of greater interest to our customers and more ducted in the spring of 2018 showed that customers bolaget’s indirect environmental impact. available. find it hard to actually find these products in store. We need to simplify this process, both by talking about According to the Sustainable Brand Index (2017) 14, 5. Our alcohol-free range why choosing these products is good, and by making packaging is the most important issue that System­ Switching from alcoholic drinks to alcohol-free alter­ it easier for customers to find them in-store and online. bolaget needs to address, and one that interests all natives can, in many respects, be described as the customers groups, including those who are less inter­ most sustainable health switch that our customers ested in sustainability. can make. We are also seeing an increase in demand for alcohol-free drinks and are working constantly to Key ratios, activities, and results Systembolaget works on a broad front to promote the develop and improve the quality of our range. development of more ecoand climate-smart pack­ CSI FOR RANGE AND OFFERING aging solutions. In 2018, for example, we increased GUIDING CUSTOMERS TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE We monitor how well our range and offering live up the frequency with which we requested lighter weight CHOICES to our customers’ expectations through our Customer glass or PET bottles when issuing requests for tender Social and environmental sustainability are playing Satisfaction Index surveys, which have shown a steady to suppliers, and have also noted that more suppliers an increasingly significant role in our customers’ improvement in recent years, with a new record level are shifting to lighter weight glass or PET bottles for purchase decisions. Systembolaget works, every day of 84.6 achieved in 2018. existing products in our fixed range. The reasons for and in a variety of ways, to reduce our climate foot­ their shift include both commercial ones and a desire print, to save the earth’s resources, and to promote The element of the CSI survey that refers specifically to reduce their environmental and climate impact. social s­ ustainability. We are keen to encourage our to range and offering shows a relatively stable result customers to make informed choices, and to make this year, with a year on year improvement of 0.2 per­ We regard collaborations as an important part of our these choices easy. Which is why, for example, we centage points. efforts to reduce the climate footprint of our packag­ offer smaller bottles and drinks with a lower alcohol ings, and thereby help achieve the UN’s global goals content. If we are to get to the point where customers 2018 2017 2016 for combatting climate change. The foundations for are more likely to choose the sustainable range, and Customer Satisfaction Index 80.6 80.4 80.0 the industry-wide initiative, The Drinks Industry Cli­ where their appreciation of the range increases, we (CSI), Range and offering mate Initiative, which will be an important component must make information about the range more easily of Systembolaget’s climate work, were laid in 2017. accessible and actively persuade more people to un­ Find out more on page 44. derstand why sustainable products are a good choice. We have also seen an improvement of 0.6 percentage This is an ongoing project for us, and one that has been points when it comes to the element of the CSI survey 4. Smaller packagings and lower alcohol content intensified in 2018. that refers to Systembolaget’s environment-related We are continuing to broaden and deepen our offer­ sustainability work. This year’s level of 73.2 does, how­ ing when it comes to smaller sized packagings. In our Packaging accounts for one third of Systembolaget’s ever, mean that this parameter is lower than that of the stores, half bottles are displayed alongside full bottles climate footprint and by working in partnership with overall sustainability quality area, which also includes of the same size, guiding our customers who don’t our customers and suppliers, we have the potential human rights. We face an ongoing challenge in that need a whole bottle and making it easier for them to to reduce our climate impact. It is important to our many people are unaware of what Systembolaget is make their choice. The number of items with a lower customers that Systembolaget actively works to offer actually doing in the environmental sphere, and this 35 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS is reflected in a lower response frequency. And while the goals, and is a cornerstone of Systembolaget’s 5a. One is a corporate group of six wine producers, improving the way in which we conduct environmental sustainability work. three of whom produce the wines used in this work that helps achieve the global goals is vital, we particular wine. have realised that we also need not only to define our Systembolaget’s own materiality analysis, which is ambitions and goals for reducing our environmental conducted annually, is another important basis for our 5b. The other is an agricultural cooperative that impact more clearly, but to improve the ways in which work. The analysis shows the areas in which System­ is owned by 800 farmers whose lands may be we communicate what we are doing. bolaget has the greatest impact, and the issues that are spread over a wide geographical area and vary of the greatest importance to the company’s e ­ xternal hugely in size. 2018 2017 2016 and internal stakeholders. That takes us all the way from the grape to the glass. Customer Satisfaction Index 73.2 72.6 71.8 These two starting points make it clear that both the The fact that our supply chain is so complex means that (CSI), Sustainability/Environment direct and indirect impact in the supply chain are a we feel an extra responsibility and endeavour to ensure key focal area for Systembolaget. We are, ­accordingly, sustainability at every link in the chain. Our goal is to working systematically to influence and monitor ­supply sell high-quality drinks produced under good working chain sustainability in a transparent way. This is not just conditions by workers with good conditions of employ­ an important element of our responsibility, it is also a ment. Sustainable supply way for us to make an actual difference. This is also an area that is important to our customers. chain Systembolaget’s operations are global and our supply chain is complex. The majority of our over 700 active drinks suppliers have subcontractors and they, in turn, have subcontractors of their own. A really advanced Why this is important example of our procurement process can look like this: 1. Systembolaget buys a bottle of wine from a We have a responsibility, throughout our operations, Swedish supplier. to minimise our negative impact and maximise our positive impact, whether regarding the environment 2. The Swedish supplier has imported the wine via and climate, or from a social perspective. Systembo­ a bottling plant in Germany. laget’s sustainability work is based on Agenda 2030 and on the UN’s goals for sustainable development. 3. The bottled wine comes from an Italian company Several of these goals have direct tie-ins with our v ­ alue that buys in and blends bulk wines from different chain, including the Climate Action, Decent Work and producers. Economic Growth, and Responsible Consumption and Production. Goal 17, Partnerships for the Goals, 4. The Italian company, in turn, buys wines from two relates to the importance of cooperation in achieving different producers. 36 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS SYSTEMBOLAGET’S SUPPLY CHAIN Systembolaget’s operations are global and our supply chain is complex. The majority of our over 700 active drinks suppliers have subcontractors and they, in turn, have subcontractors of their own. An advanced example of our procurement process can look like this: 5b B A A A A A A The other is an agricultural cooperative that is owned by 800 farmers whose lands may be spread over a wide geographical area and vary hugely in size. 5a I TA LY One is a corporate group of six wine producers, three of whom produce the wines used in this particular wine. X SWEDEN A 4 B X The Italian company, in turn, buys wines from two different producers. 1 X X X X Systembolaget buys a bottle of X wine from a Swedish supplier. X GERMANY 2 X 3 X The Swedish supplier has imported The bottled wine comes from an the wine via a bottling plant in Italian company that buys in and Germany. blends bulk wines from different producers. 37 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Analysis of the risk of human • That human rights requirements should be integrated into the procurement process. rights breaches • That additional capacity regarding human rights, both internally and on the part of Systembolaget’s In the autumn of 2018, Systembolaget commissioned suppliers, was recommended. Enact to conduct an HRDD (Human Rights Due Dili­ gence) analysis. Enact was tasked with the following: • That the Code of Conduct drawn up by Systembo­ laget primarily focuses on working conditions and • To analyse whether and, if so, how Systembolaget that it consequently fails to address, with sufficient contributes within its supply chain, either directly or clarity, operations’ effect on human rights and local indirectly, to breaches of human rights. communities. • To ensure that human rights are handled systema­ • That the Code of Conduct was deemed to be too ge­ tically and proactively in Systembolaget’s procure­ neral to address the specific issues of relevance to ment process and throughout the supply chain. raw material production for the drinks industry. • To recommend measures that can be taken to ensure The analysis also resulted in a summary of the breach that risks in relation to human rights are handled as risks present in Systembolaget’s supply chain. The effectively as possible. risks are grouped into the following areas: most salient, ­salient, and less salient. See also the table on page 39. The analysis showed widespread awareness within Syst­ embolaget of issues relating to the ways in which human rights are handled in the supply chain. It also showed that a number of methodologies have already been established and implemented. Policy documents and a long-term strategy are in place, and clear demands are made of suppliers in the general purchasing terms and conditions. The analysis also showed, however, that several mea­ sures should be implemented. The relevant areas with scope for improvement set forth in the report are: • That Systembolaget’s current risk assessment and subsequent follow-up activities are insufficiently comprehensive, which may result in breaches not be­ ing identified and/or a failure to action them correctly. 38 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS MOST SALIENT RISKS SALIENT RISKS LESS SALIENT RISKS MOST CRITICAL RISKS CRITICAL RISKS LESS CRITICAL RISKS Modern slavery Excessive overtime Workers’ children – and Other occupational health and exploitation of especially seasonal/ and safety risks, such as inju­ migrant workers, migrant workers’ ries, physical pain, cancer due especially in agricul­ children –not attending to e.g. sun exposure, hearing tural production in school loss, etc. cross-border areas (such as southern Living wage issues, including ­Europe and California) bonus payments in wine potentially leading to alcohol Freedom of associ­ Precarious employment condi­ Unemployment due to abuse ation and collective tions due to informal, seasonal automation, especially bargaining, overall and and migrant work, sometimes amongst women and Use of excessive force by especially in relation to through middle men/agents/ African migrant wor­ security forces in the protec­ informal, seasonal, and recruiters and especially in kers in southern Europe ting of land and/or housing migrant work the harvesting of agricultural facilities products Child labour Discrimination based Lack of or substandard housing on race, ethnicity, standards, especially in South Use of water and its impact on nationality, gender, Africa local communities, especially social origin, political in water scarce areas status or any other status, and harass­ ment of low skilled/ Violence and abuse, parti­ precarious work­ cularly against women and forces children in employee families due to alcohol use/abuse Use of pesticides/ Land issues in agricultural chemicals and lack of ­production The analysis will form the basis for the ongoing development of our sustainability personal protective work in the supply chain. The summary of the main risks for human rights breaches equipment, especially will, amongst other things, provide support for our work in a range of different forums in the harvesting of and networks in which we intend to participate. The summary will also assist us in the agricultural products structuring of a stronger monitoring and follow-up programme. 39 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Direction and strategic FOUR PROCESSES FOR A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN and systematically targeted audits in areas with the greatest adjudged risk. Audits are conducted by third ­initiatives When drawing up the strategic objective for 2030, we increased the requirements we make of our suppliers party auditors who are qualified to carry out audits in accordance with the amfori Business Social Compli­ and concretised four primary processes for a sustain­ ance Initiatives (BSCI*) code. The process will, in future, Systembolaget’s framework for long-term sustainability able supply chain. These processes are structured be made comprehensive and include a risk analysis work is based on the UN’s 17 global goals, Agenda 2030. methodologies that ensure equal treatment, consis­ based on human rights. The audit selection process is These goals have formed the basis for Systembolaget’s tency, and traceability. The four processes are: situa­ a sub-process of the primary process. adoption of a number of long-term goals for a more sus­ tion analysis, the incident management process, the tainable supply chain. “at risk” country process, and the “high risk” country “High risk country” process – the process relates to process. suppliers and their producers of all ranges in System­ Our goal for 2030, focusing on good working condi­ bolaget’s “high risk countries”. The process includes tions, is to ensure that: Situation analysis – the situation analysis is an assess­ an annual mapping programme, work with self-assess­ Suppliers take full responsibility for their supply chains, ment of an individual supplier’s sustainability maturity. ment forms, and, when necessary BSCI audits. and everyone working in our products’ supply chain is The analysis is also a tool that helps suppliers comply working under good conditions. with our purchasing terms and our external Code of Our ongoing work places an additional focus on our Conduct. It also provides feedback on our processes suppliers, because we believe that we can both extend In the environmental sphere, our goal for 2030 is that: and methodology – painting a clear picture both of and deepen our reach by working hand in hand with our Suppliers take full responsibility for their supply chains areas where we have room to improve and of ways in suppliers on these issues. Our partnerships with the and for ensuring that cultivation and production use re­ which we can help our suppliers. suppliers include training courses, advisory services, sources sustainability and are responsible for minimal and support. Our goal is for them to be able to carry the emissions and discharges to air, soil, and water. Incident management process – the process de­ work on out to their own producers, farms, and workers, scribes how we handle incidents at any of our suppli­ and to thereby support them in taking full responsibility We also have the following overall climate goals that ers and their producers, and across all of our ranges. for their link in the supply chain. affect different parts of the value chain: We work in partnership with the IUF (The International With the help of our customers, and by cooperating with Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Cater­ In 2018, we also developed our overall risk assessment our suppliers and other partners, we have managed to ing, Tobacco and Allied Workers Associations) in order work by procuring a more comprehensive risk analysis radically reduce the climate impact in our supply chain. to improve our identification of potential incidents with additional parameters, including ones in the en­ (see page 43 for further information). We also have a vironmental sphere. The orientation of our work going This is an ambitious goal and achieving it will require search algorithm that uses news monitoring to enable forward will also be based on the HRDD (Human Rights a great deal of work. Our suppliers’ understanding of incidents to be identified. Due Diligence) analysis conducted in 2018 (see also and responsibility for complying with our purchasing page 38). terms’ sustainability requirements play a major part in “Risk country” process – the process relates to sup­ our plan for the future. The suppliers must also be able pliers and their producers in the Fixed-Fixed Range We also began work on procuring better system sup­ to demonstrate that they are working systematically on (FFR*) in Systembolaget’s “at risk” countries*. The pro­ port for increased traceability and simplified adminis­ these issues. cess includes annual mapping and evaluation of the tration of the supply chain, and this work will continue producers’ sustainability maturity, visits to producers, in 2019. 40 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS NEW STRATEGIC KEY RATIOS 2. Non-discrimination influence in areas where we are a major purchaser, and The strategic key ratio for suppliers’ sustainability 3. Wages we consequently compare the analysis with Systembo­ maturity that was developed at the end of 2017 was 4. Working hours laget’s sales volumes, where products from our fixed updated in 2018. The update concerned the situation 5. Health and safety range account for approximately 95 per cent of our analysis for fixed range suppliers, and now permits 6. A ban on child labour total sales volume. We also look at longterm approach­ suppliers, via questionnaires and meetings, to answer 7. Protection for young workers es, which was why the Fixed-Fixed Range concept was questions about whether they have a designated 8. Security of employment introduced, and which refers to products that have sustainability manager, whether they conduct an in9. A ban on forced labour formed part of our Fixed Range for over 12 months and house risk assessment of their products, their every­ 10. Environmental protection which are distributed to more than 10 stores. These day sustainability work, and the things that they find 11. Business ethics parameters collectively form the basis for our risk anal­ difficult. The analysis gives us the opportunity to help ysis (due diligence) and determine which producers our suppliers in their ongoing sustainability work by The Code is based on, amongst other things, the fol­ will be systematically audited by Systembolaget. providing advice, training, templates, and tools. The lowing international agreements on working conditions analysis was first conducted in 2017 for suppliers of our and human rights: As things currently stand, therefore, suppliers from Fixed-Fixed Range (FFR) operating in “at risk” countries • The UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights countries not classified as “at risk” are never system­ and suppliers operating in “high risk countries”. The • The UN’s Conventions on the Rights of the Child and atically selected for audits as they are eliminated in survey conducted in 2018 was aimed at all fixed range on the abolition of all types of discrimination against the first stage of our evaluation model (due diligence). suppliers. See page 45 for details. women ­Deviations from Systembolaget’s terms naturally pri­ • The ILO’s (International Labour Organization) conven­ marily occur in “at risk” and “high risk” countries, but SUPPLY CHAIN REQUIREMENTS tions on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work deviations do also occur in countries deemed to pose When they accept Systembolaget’s purchasing terms, • The UN’s Global Compact* a lower risk. These are picked up in our incident man­ our suppliers undertake to comply with the require­ • The OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies agement process (see page 42). ments of our external Code of Conduct and its associ­ ated monitoring systems. The Code has formed part of Systembolaget has a systematic approach to ensuring AUDITS our purchasing terms since 2012 and was developed by compliance with the requirements which takes the form Systembolaget monitors compliance with its Code of the amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), of third-party audits, visits to producers by Systembo­ Conduct through independent evaluations known as a global, non-profit organisation that works to promote laget, study trips, and dialogues and collaboration with audits. The audits are conducted on site, at the produc­ social responsibility in a variety of sectors and which our suppliers and relevant stakeholders. ers or the farms where the raw materials for the drinks sets requirements for everything from raw materials are cultivated. production to finished products15. The principle gov­ RISK ANALYSIS erning compliance with the Code of Conduct means Systembolaget applies a global “at risk” country anal­ When producers fail to live up to our Code of Conduct that every supplier is responsible for the working con­ ysis from Verisk Maplecroft. The analysis covers all of requirements ditions of their respective subcontractors – throughout Systembolaget’s purchasing countries – and they are It is relatively common for deviations from the Code of the supply chain. assessed in accordance with a number of parame­ Conduct or purchasing terms to be identified in pro­ ters which, in turn, reflect the requirements of amfori ducers undergoing their first audit. Systembolaget’s The Code of Conduct sets requirements in 11 areas: ­BSCI’s* Code of Conduct. The next stage involves pri­ follow-up process looks like this: 1. Freedom of association and collective negotiations oritisation. We believe that we can exert the greatest 41 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Once the audit report has been published by the the process of being audited, because an audit is just visits during the year, and met with a number of Italian third-party auditor, we convene a follow-up meeting a snapshot. industry and sustainability organisations. with our Swedish supplier at which the deviations iden­ tified in the audit report are discussed. Systembolaget follows up on reported incidents, wher­ In the spring of 2018, Systembolaget also began a part­ ever they may occur and has an incident management nership with a local contact person in Italy who has, The producer is requested, via our Swedish supplier, to process for reported incidents and which we implement during the course of the year, coordinated a team with produce an action plan within 60 days. Systembolaget in close consultation with our Swedish suppliers. Our experience of issues relating to social responsibility, then engages in an ongoing dialogue with our Swedish incident management* is global, but the majority of working conditions, and the environment in the Italian supplier and provides expert assistance and informa­ incidents in recent years have occurred in South Africa. wine sector. Systembolaget’s contact person has been tion to ensure that the action plan is addressed. tasked with conducting 96 producer visits in 13 regions Systembolaget has been working with sustainability and collating information on our behalf. They are also A secondary audit is then carried out, no later than one issues in South Africa for many years now. In the spring tasked with analysing if there is a need to increase ca­ year after the first audit. of 2018, we received nine incident reports from there. pacity at the producers visited. In August, Systembolaget visited all of the aforemen­ If a supplier is in breach of Systembolaget’s require­ tioned producers in South Africa in order to engage in a In October, we organised a sustainability day in Verona. ments, we are entitled to terminate the agreement dialogue on the information we had received. It became The aim of the day was to continue the dialogue from with them, but Systembolaget’s goal is to bring about clear, during the discussions with the producers, that a 2017 on sustainability in the drinks industry with Italian improvement and it is consequently very rare for us to good dialogue between employer and employee, and producers and Swedish suppliers. Systembolaget’s terminate a business relationship as long as we are see­ clearer information, are important in making improve­ corporate management team attended and conducted ing results from the improvement work and as long as ments. roundtable discussions with stakeholders in the Italian the producer continues to undergo our audits. wine industry. The discussions addressed the challeng­ Systembolaget must work with all of its suppliers to es involved in tracing grapes’ origin, migrant workers’ The rules governing Systembolaget’s audit process in­ identify more ways of helping producers to improve working conditions, and environmental challenges in clude a Zero Tolerance concept. A Zero Tolerance devi­ conditions for vineyard workers. This summer’s work­ Italy’s wine production. ation is a deviation that is regarded as unacceptable and shops organised by Systembolaget, Alko, and Vinmono­ classified as a serious breach of contract. A producer polet for trade unions in South Africa, looking at ways SUSTAINABILITY PARTNERSHIP who is responsible for this kind of deviation will not be they could optimise their contribution to audit process­ The Nordic alcohol monopolies accepted as a producer of any items in Systembolaget’s es and the way in which the various codes of conduct Systembolaget cooperates with other Nordic monopo­ range until the deviation has been permanently recti­ are structured, was one such activity. lies (within the framework of NAM, The Nordic Alcohol fied. Retail Monopolies) on issues relating to both social FOCUS ON ITALY IN 2018 and environmental sustainability. We all have the same WORKING WITH INCIDENTS Italian wines account for over 20 per cent of the prod­ code of conduct, which is based on amfori BSCI, and Systembolaget sometimes receives reports of abuses ucts in Systembolaget’s fixed range. Italy is classed as a we cooperate and share experiences with one another or shortcomings at producers who are not undergoing country with an elevated risk of breaches of our Code of on issues relating to risk analyses, our monitoring work, an audit process. These reports are known as incidents Conduct, primarily due to the high numbers of migrant education activities, and personal learning. Working to­ and trigger Systembolaget’s incident management workers and high percentages of non-union workers. gether on multiple different issues increases our oppor­ process. This may also happen at producers who are in We have continued to carry out audits and producer tunities to influence terms in our various supply chain. 42 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS The social responsibility and environmental groups Systembolaget’s sustainable supply chain unit will take they can use this channel. We also identified challenges have held regular check-ins and face to face meetings part in a number of working groups that will be working in building local confidence in the process and in get­ in 2018. The social responsibility group has, amongst to strengthen amfori BSCI’s work in the years ahead. ting all the parties to communicate within one another other things, held joint meetings with amfori BSCI on within the framework of the partnership. We accord­ education activities for industry operators, and on how Systembolaget is represented in the following groups: ingly visited South Africa in the company of Unionen, the various tools could be better adapted to meet our • Member Advisory Council SPF and IUF, to meet with trade unions and discuss the requirements (see below). The priority area for the en­ • Audit Integrity Programme partnership. During our stay, we met with representa­ vironmental group in 2018 was packaging. • amfori BSCI System Project Group tives of all parties, together with the majority of trade • Social Issues in the Food Industry Project Group unions and organisations, and presented the process. In October 2018, we made a joint field trip to Italy to The partnership was well received for two main reasons. increase our knowledge of specific sustainability Ongoing partnership with IUF Firstly, the trade unions regarded the reporting channel challenges there. The monopolies also all took part in In 2017, Systembolaget, in partnership with SPF as a concrete tool that would allow Systembolaget’s System­bolaget’s sustainability seminar, which was held Unionen (Systembolaget’s local union branch) and purchasing power to act as a positive counterweight in connection with this field trip. the Swedish trade union, Unionen, launched a global in challenging situations where the trade unions, them­ partnership with the international trade union organ­ selves, have difficulty in addressing problems with amfori BSCI isation, IUF (The International Union of Food, Agricul­ employers. And secondly, the fact that representatives Systembolaget has also intensified its involvement with tural, H ­ otel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied of both employers and employees took part in the meet­ amfori BSCI in the spring of 2018. This intensification Workers ­Associations). ings generated confidence in the process amongst the has, amongst other things, involved jointly initiating a trade unions. The presence of Unionen, SPF and IUF deeper and more regular dialogue with the other Nordic The aim of the partnership is to use trade union organ­ enabled a constructive dialogue in which local trade monopolies, focusing on specific challenges and activ­ isations to improve working conditions in the alcohol unions and Systembolaget could come together to ities relating to our industry. industry’s supply chain – which includes the people discuss both problems and solutions. who produce the products and those who cultivate the This has resulted in a number of measures, such as raw materials for the products that Systembolaget sells. Global Deal training in what the Code of Conduct means, and The partnership is keen to promote the opportunity that In 2018, we also signed up for Global Deal*. This is an how it should be implemented – in practical terms, for local trade unions must convey information on abuses initiative that aims to improve the dialogue between the producers in South Africa and Italy in order to achieve directly from employees in the supply chain. In practice, labour market’s parties and national governments in or­ better long-term returns on our Code-related work. This the partnership means that the local trade unions report der to improve employment conditions and productivi­ training was a contributory factor in the improvement potential incidents to IUF, who then escalate them to ty. Global Deal was started by Sweden’s Prime Minister, trend apparent in the repeat audits. Efforts to increase Systembolaget, SPF and Unionen. IUF consequently Stefan Löfvén, and has been structured in cooperation the number of accredited auditors in South Africa is an­ acts as a link between Systembolaget and a multiplicity with The Organisation for Economic Co­operation and other example of the measures taken. Training activities of local trade unions, making it easier for the informa­ Development, OECD, and the International Labour Or­ for Nordic importers are now being planned, along with tion to reach us. Which improves, in turn, our ability to ganization, ILO. improvements in ongoing communication and knowl­ react to any breaches of our Code of Conduct. edge sharing between the monopolies and amfori BSCI. Stronger Together In 2018, the parties involved identified a clear need to Systembolaget has also, since June 2018, been a mem­ Over and above this dialogue, representatives from provide the local trade unions with information on how ber of Stronger Together – an initiative that works to 43 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS prevent slavery in supply chains. The initiative is based OTHER MEASURES DURING THE YEAR and communication when it comes to our range. The in the UK, but has a steering group for South Africa, Mandatory environmental training for suppliers information could, for example, contribute to an over­ where Systembolaget, Tesco, Waitrose, Vinmonopolet In 2016, in partnership with the other Nordic alcohol all assessment of sustainability risks and could also be and Alko are amongst the members. Stronger T ­ ogether ­monopolies, we commissioned an environmental anal­ used in conjunction with targeted regional requests for offers free training for fruit and wine producers in South ysis of our drinks’ environmental impact, from cultiva­ tender and as product information for customers. Africa, and we encourage all suppliers who have pro­ tion to customer, to determine the actual impact of our ducers there to ask them to take part in the courses supply chain on the climate and the environment. The Code of Conduct environmental requirements offered. analysis showed that our indirect impact is primarily felt ­expanded in three areas of the environment: air pollution, climate Systembolaget’s Code of Conduct in accordance with The Drinks Industry Climate Initiative impact, and biological diversity thanks to increased amfori BSCI requires producers to, amongst other The UN’s Global Goal 17 says that partnerships are a pre­ land usage. The biggest climate impact in our value things, comply with fundamental environmental re­ requisite of the progress demanded by Agenda 2030. chain comes from the manufacture of packaging in gen­ quirements. We noted, in conjunction with the evalu­ The Drinks Industry Climate Initiative is just such a form eral and glass in particular. The second largest climate ation of the 2016-2017 audit results, that the existing of partnership. The initiative was launched in 2016 by impact comes from cultivation and production. environmental requirements are, by and large, already Systembolaget, the Swedish Spirits and Wine Suppliers’ being met by producers. We realised that this offered Association (SVL) and the Swedish Brewers’ Associa­ In 2018, Systembolaget developed a basic online train­ the opportunity to increase our ambition level, so in the tion to see how we can work together to benefit the ing course based on the environmental analysis. The autumn of 2018, we began work on expanding the Code climate. Our ambition, by measuring our carbon dioxide online training course was launched in September and of Conduct’s environmental requirements in such areas footprints, setting individual and collective goals, and is mandatory for all suppliers. It is the first step in in­ as climate, energy, resources, waste management, and improving and sharing good examples, is for the Initia­ creasing our understanding of how our specific industry chemicals. The plan is to successively apply and imple­ tive’s participants to be climate neutral by 2045. Our affects the environment and climate. The course is also ment this part of the Code of Conduct in partnership goal is also to act as a role model for other industries and provided in English to enable the know-how it contains with the suppliers and thereby take further, important to realise the Initiative’s vision of “A drinks industry with to be more widely dispersed, and thereby influence steps towards the establishment of sustainable supply zero climate impact, where every drop counts.” Every more people. The aim is for our suppliers to be able chains and a sustainable range. Some elements of this drinks industry supplier is welcome to join the Initiative. to use the course in discussions with their producers. work, which will begin in 2019, involve training courses, surveys, and communication and dialogues with pro­ The Drinks Industry Climate Initiative primarily works Sustainability certification review ducers and cultivators. with three of the UN’s global goals: In late 2018, we began preparing a review of 40 or so • Goal 12 – Responsible consumption and production. different sustainability certifications, in order to exploit Search algorithm picks up incidents • Goal 13 – Climate action. and reinforce the sustainability work being carried out In 2017, Systembolaget launched a search algorithm that • Goal 17 – Partnerships for the goals. at regional and local level by wine, spirits and beer pro­ will help us identify incidents, even in countries deemed ducers in different countries. The aim of the mapping to have a lower risk level. In simple terms, the algorithm In 2018, the Initiative has collectively procured and process, which will be launched during the first quarter picks up online content that would be of ­interest to us, developed a tool to enable measurement, monitoring of 2019, is to achieve a qualitative assessment of differ­ here at Systembolaget. The idea is that Systembolaget and goal-setting for the participating operators’ climate ent labelling and certification systems, and to evaluate will, for example, be able to find out when a local news­ impact. ways of optimising the information usage in future, to paper in Mexico reports on an incident at a brewery. reinforce Systembolaget’s sustainability-related work 44 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Purchasing policy and terms that increase on jointly creating a more in-depth understanding of All of these suppliers submitted completed surveys in ­sustainability these supply chains, enabling improved cooperation on the designated timescale, which is in line with the target Systembolaget updated its purchasing policy and pur­ social and environmental sustainability challenges, and figure of 100 in the following table. The suppliers who chasing terms in 2017, strengthening and clarifying the thereby enabling compliance with our Code of Conduct responded account for 99.6 per cent of our total sales sustainability requirements for both Systembolaget and requirements. Follow-up work in the form of additional volumes. The table below shows the subsidiary goals our partners. Our goal was for sustainability work to be meetings is planned. between now and 2020. Our overall goal is, by 2020, fully integrated in the ongoing range and procurement for all suppliers of the fixed range products to demon­ work. We have continued this work in 2018, by holding The theme of the supplier meetings in October was the strate a clear understanding of their responsibility in internal workshops on purchasing and sustainability, climate and environment, with particular emphasis on the supply chain and to be working proactively and and by forging close links between buyers who are packaging. systematically with their respective producers. working with purchases from “at risk” countries and the Sustainability Manager for the country in question. In The mandatory online course on climate and environ­ Target Target Target 2018, we imposed requirements for 25.3 per cent of the mental issues for suppliers is also part of our efforts to KPIs figure figure figure 2018 2019 2020 launched volume, and have also introduced expanded continuously increase our suppliers’ know-how in these checks in conjunction with launches. areas. ”Understanding and ­responsibility”: Support and training for suppliers Percentage (%) of suppliers 100 100 100 One of the insights gained from last year’s situation responding to the situation analysis was that suppliers wanted support for follow­ Key ratios, results, and analysis questionnaire within the ing up on the requirements to which they were subject. designated timeframe They were, amongst other things, looking to learn about ­activities Percentage (%) of suppliers who 100 100 100 how a risk analysis is conducted and were keen to see have completed Systembola­ more experience sharing with other suppliers. MONITORING SUPPLIERS’ SUSTAINABILITY get's online sustainability course ­MATURITY This past spring, therefore, we held a supplier meeting In 2017, Systembolaget introduced a new strategic key ”Proactive and systematic that included a workshop on supply chain risk analyses. ratio regarding the monitoring of suppliers’ sustain­ approach”: Proaktivitet och systematik : Our suppliers had also expressed a desire for us to en­ ability maturity, and as of 2018, suppliers’ sustainability able experience sharing, so we invited suppliers to the maturity forms one of the five strategic goals our Board Percentage (%) of suppliers who 50 75 100 meeting to share their experience of how they work, in has adopted for sustainable enterprise. A situation have conducted a risk analysis of concrete terms, with risk analyses in their respective ­analysis that exclusively targeted fixed range suppliers their supply chain links in the supply chain. with products from identified “at risk” countries and Percentage (%) of suppliers who 50 75 100 “high risk countries” was launched in 2017 as part of have guidelines or a process in Our spirit suppliers have also expressed a desire for a our monitoring of suppliers’ sustainability maturity. place for regular evaluations dialogue on the specific sustainability challenges pres­ of social responsibility in the ent in the supply chains for their products. Last autumn, The situation analysis conducted in 2018 was more supply chain therefore, we organised a roundtable discussion for comprehensive, and was aimed at all fixed range sup­ our spirits suppliers. The focus of the discussion was pliers, corresponding to a total of 112 drinks suppliers. 45 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS A number of training activities aimed at suppliers were but reports were not filed within the d ­ esignated time­ thought necessary and planned. The shortfall was partly conducted in 2018 in order to support them in their frame from the end of the year and have consequently due to the limited availability of auditors, and partly due improvement work. The results for 2018 were in line been excluded from the year’s statistics. to Systembolaget having focused on training producers with our “Understanding and responsibility” area’s on the import of the Code of Conduct and prioritising subsidiary goals, with the target figure of 100 per In 2018, as a complement to the shortage of qualified developing a clear overview of both the current situa­ cent for r­ esponses to the questionnaire, together with auditors identified, particularly in South Africa, a clearer tion and the requirements in Italy by means of a large a 96.5 per cent figure for online training completion. focus on training for producers in countries identified as number of producer visits (see also page 42). An online training course focusing on the environment “at risk” was implemented. A total of 37 of Systembolag­ was launched in 2018 and was, as with the 2017 course, et’s suppliers’ producers completed a total 126 training 55 per cent of the producers undergoing an audit pro­ mandatory for all of our active suppliers, who were re­ courses (modules) in South Africa, Italy, and Argentina gramme of more than two audit cycles have demon­ quired to complete the course by 10 December 2018. in 2018. 15 per cent of our identified “at risk” producers strated an improvement, with 19 per cent achieving the By the end of the year, not only had 96.5 per cent of have now completed at least one producer training highest level (level A) in accordance with amfori’s rating our active drinks suppliers completed the course, but course (module). The most extensive engagement took scale. This is the case for the 66 producers and farms a further 150 new suppliers, too. Measures taken with place in South Africa. that Systembolaget currently has in its range and who regard to the just under 10 suppliers who did not com­ have undergone at least two audits. plete the course include final request mailshots, and The sustainability check prior to launch introduced the start of the process of halting purchases of their in 2017 has been refined in 2018. A total of 158 items Unlike last year, no specific incident investigations in products. from identified “at risk” countries have been requested the form of so-called targeted audits carried out by for the fixed range by Systembolaget, and have hence a third-party auditor proved necessary. This was due The responses to the questionnaire show that the target undergone the check. All of these identified “at risk” to the fact that the incidents reported during the year figure of 50 per cent of suppliers who have conducted countries have submitted the material requested. related to producers who are already involved in our a risk analysis and who have guidelines or a process in normal audit programme, or to the fact that the inci­ place for regular evaluation of social responsibility was, Four of the 158 items from “at risk” countries that qual­ dents could be handled without the need for external in principle, achieved for both elements – 56.5 and 47.9 ified for promotion from the available for order range third-party verification. 15 incident reports have been per cent, respectively. Targeted training measures with to the fixed range during the year failed to meet the drawn up and handled during the year, in South Africa, annual follow-ups will be carried out in order to continue applicable requirements and were consequently not Trinidad, Spain, New Zealand, and Mexico, with the vast improving the maturity level. accepted into the fixed range. majority stemming from South Africa. 12 of the inci­ dents could be closed this year. Three of the incidents RESULT OF ACTIVITIES LINKED TO A SUSTAINABLE AUDIT RESULTS reported during the year require ongoing follow-up SUPPLY CHAIN This key ratio is used to measure the outcome of the work in 2019. In two of the other incidents reported 61 producer visits to Italy, Argentina, Austria, Germany, audits and to compare the results of original audits with and closed, the only action needed was to inform the and France were carried out in 2018. The aim of these follow-up audits, one year later. This enables us to see suppliers of the decision to close the incident. In sev­ producer visits is to strengthen Systembolaget’s risk whether the producers have improved their working eral cases, it became clear that the producer was not, assessment, as a complement to the annual mapping of conditions and whether they are working continuously to the best of our knowledge, part of our supply chain FFR products from identified “at risk” countries, and are to secure human rights in their supply chain. In 2018, and the incidents could be closed directly after inter­ carried out by personnel from the Sustainable Supply we conducted 85 third party audits in accordance with nal investigation. This applied to the incident which Chain unit. A further 30 or so visits were also conducted, BSCI 2.0, which is a lower figure than that originally had primarily been picked up via the search algorithm. 46 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS We have, as far as the other incidents are concerned, a decline to around one third of the original figure in pational health and safety. The “negatives” in working followed up the respective cases in accordance with the number of deviations. This shows a considerable, hours are largely due to the challenge posed by the the incident management programme. across the board, improvement and that our producers limited harvest season. are continuing to work actively with the issues. It is The summary of the results of completed audits differ­ worth noting that the percentage of new audits has entiates between significant and less critical deviations. declined since 2017 and the number of repeat audits The line between them is drawn on the basis of amfori’s regulations. increased. The result indicates that our audit pro­ gramme is working, because those producers who are the subject of audits are continuously improving and Sustainable inhouse Based on the amfori BSCI 2.0 Code of Conduct 2018 2017 2016 the total number of “negatives” has declined. Positive improvement areas that stand out from the ­operations Number of suppliers participa­ 85 186 55 figures are the improvements in occupational health ting in an evaluation of social conditions and safety and the reduction in the number of “neg­ Why this is important atives” due to child labour. Previous “negatives” were Number of suppliers with a 42 136 49 due to producers not having policies and procedures Awareness of the massive environmental and climate significantly negative impact in place, as required in accordance with amfori BSCI’s challenges that threaten our future is growing rapidly. on social conditions audit programme, but do not mean that child labour And at the same time, expectations that companies and was actually occurring. The improvement means that other operators will take greater responsibility and act Number of suppliers with a 78 182 52 more producers have adopted better policies and pro­ systematically and purposefully in the context of their less critical negative impact on social conditions cedures that include efforts to counter child labour. own environmental work is also growing. It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that we do what we can to Number of identified signifi­ 67.0 317.5 216.0 The number of critical deviations noted in an audit has minimise our own environmental and climate footprint, cant deviations with regard to gone from 3.9 in 2015 to an average of 0.8. The trend i.e. the impact that comes from the operation of our 443 social conditions in the supply over the past three years has been sharply downwards, stores, depots, offices, and other operations. System­ chain and despite the number of audits in 2018 being lower bolaget has set ambitious goals in line with, amongst Number of identified less 472.0 1,827.5 649.5 than in the previous year, this is indicative of a clearly other things, the global goals, the Drinks Industry Cli­ critical negative deviations with positive trend, with the re-audits showing the improve­ mate Initiative, the Government’s “Fossil Free Sweden” regard to social conditions in ments being made by the producers. Only one Zero initiative, and the EU’s goal for reducing plastic bag the supply chain Tolerance (ZT) case was noted in the 2018 audits, and usage. those cases noted in 2017 could be written off. The ZT When we speak of suppliers evaluated, we refer to pro­ flag has consequently been removed as a result of an ducers and subcontractors. These may be farmers who approved action plan that was followed up within the cultivate grapes for juice suppliers, etc. normal re-audit window. Positive improvements have been noted in the areas of verbal abuse and compul­ A comparison of the result of normal deviations in the sory labour. The largest number of “negatives” we are audit programme in 2018 with that in 2015 shows that seeing are still in the areas of working hours, and occu­ 47 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Direction and strategic We are, of course, reliant on technological development and on it becoming available sufficiently quickly, when carrier bags by SEK 0.50 in order to reduce their use and thereby reduce their environmental impact. ­initiatives it comes to achieving totally fossil fuel-free drinks trans­ portation. But at the same time, as a major operator, We also stopped offering plastic bottle protectors Systembolaget’s strategic climate goal for its own Systembolaget has an important part to play in acting during the year, reducing Systembolaget’s plastic con­ operations is to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions as a driving force and encouraging more fossil fuel-free sumption by over nine tonnes per year. to zero by 2023. To this end, we are implementing a transport solutions. We also have a responsibility to re­ number of energy-saving measures, always procure or duce the total number of transports through efficient demand green electricity for our stores, warehouses, logistics solutions. Key ratios, results and and offices, and are successively shifting entirely to fossil fuel-free vehicles. REDUCING PLASTIC BAG USAGE ­activities We have continued to work to reduce the amount of Our long-term goal for 2030 also includes drinks trans­ plastic consumed by Systembolaget in line with the CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS FROM OUR OWN ports to and from our stores and warehouses through­ new legislative requirement introduced in 2017 and the OPERATIONS out Sweden. These transports currently comprise two action plan we drew up in response. Every year, our cus­ We have reformulated the climate impact key ratio that main flows: the larger flow involves direct restocking tomers fill over 120 million baskets in our stores, which measures carbon dioxide emissions from our own oper­ of stores and is handled by our drinks suppliers via a translates to a lot of plastic bags. Systembolaget’s goal ations since 2017. The new key ratio includes both direct number of distributors. The other, considerably smaller is, by 2020, to reduce our plastic bag sales by 50 per CO2 emissions from the company’s leased vehicles and flow is the one we procure in-house in order to distribute cent from levels prevailing in 2016. estimated indirect CO2 emissions from the operations’ goods from the available for order range to agents – electricity and heating use. and this goes via our own depots. The majority of the In 2018, we sold 3.5 million fewer plastic bags than in . CO2 emissions from our own drinks transports are currently made by truck. Electri­ the previous year, and since 2016, our plastic bag sales operations, total no. tonnes 2018 2017 2016 cally powered trains are, however, by far the type of have reduced by a combined total of 8.3 per cent. land-based transportation that results in the smallest Electricity consumption 2 196 3 236 3 513 amount of greenhouse gas emissions. Train-based The following measures were amongst those we imple­ solutions require a different type of logistics system, mented in 2018 in order to accelerate the rate of change Coolants1 0 0 0 however, and the longer the routes are, the better they and achieve our goal by 2020: Internal trips using leased 395 347 342 work. We are, therefore, pleased to see that long-dis­ • We have developed three different repeat use bags in vehicles tance transports from distributors to the terminals in order to be able to offer alternatives to plastic. Sundsvall and points north are increasingly handled by • A report showing the reduction in sales of plastic Total CO2 emissions 2 591 3 583 3 855 train. Measured in terms of the number of long-distance bags in an individual store is available to the store Reduction/increase in tonnes -992 transports per distributor, approximately 30 per cent employees in order to increase their sense of enga­ of CO2e in comparison with the are now transported this way, which is twice what the gement. previous year figure was in 2017. We are also aware that our distribu­ • We have strengthened our communication about tors, when it comes to choosing to transport by rail, are plastic bags in all channels in order to bring about a The base year for our new climate goal is 2016 experiencing lead-time problems in some cases, and behavioural change amongst our customers. 1 Reported one year in arrears this is something we will be reviewing. • On 1 September 2018, we raised the price of plastic 48 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS The above climate impact is also reported as part of our important trend and one in which we are keen to partic­ prevent regulatory breaches by means of established follow-up work based on the GHG protocol, which we ipate and thereby contribute to a reduction in climate risk assessment processes and with zero tolerance for present in greater detail on page 120. impact. bribery and other forms of corruption. Emissions from our own operations fell by 28 per cent in We reject any form of direct or indirect attempt to exert 2018, and emissions from our electricity consumption improper influence on our employees, either by sup­ also decreased as a result of the efficiency enhancing measures we have initiated. The lower energy consump­ tion figure is also due to the fact that we have been able Ethics and pliers or partners. Our ambition, if a regulatory breach nonetheless occurs, is to make reporting it as simple and secure as possible, and to conduct a programme to verify more stores that use green electricity, which enables us to report more accurately than in previous years. In 2019, we will continue to chart the energy ­anti-corruption of incident management work that focuses on conse­ quences and change. sources used in our facilities and work to introduce cli­ Systembolaget has a number of tools for working pre­ mate-friendly alternatives in more stores, in order to cut Why this is important ventatively with corruption. These tools are presented energy consumption in all of our operating premises. in brief below. We will continue with both these and other new activi­ Systembolaget is obliged to act in a way that is com­ ties until we reach our goal of zero emissions from our patible with EU law regulations governing State-owned OUR INTERNAL CODE OF CONDUCT own operations by 2023. retail monopolies, and we are keen to be transparent in We have an internal code of conduct for all our employ­ our dealings with our customers, owners, and suppli­ ees. The Code of Conduct brings together several of Our reporting cycle for coolant means that we report ers. In brief, this means that in conjunction both with the internal rules and policies that we apply in a single these figures one year in arrears. Under the provisions of the purchase and sale of alcoholic drinks, we shall act document. It includes, amongst other things, rules gov­ the legislative change that came into force on 1 January impartially and in a brand-neutral way in accordance erning corruption and impropriety, external contacts, 2017, we have seven facilities for which we are obliged with applicable legislation. Acting transparently and inclusiveness, and conduct in social media. to submit reports; two at the head office, our learning in a brand-neutral way is something that is required centre on Skarpö, and four stores. There was no coolant of us due to our special role and our monopoly. Act­ Our internal Code of Conduct is provided in the form of leakage in 2017, nor have there been any emissions from ing ethically and working to counteract corruption is, an e-training course and is mandatory for all new em­ these facilities. furthermore, vital if we are to continue to impress our ployees. Systembolaget’s Board of Directors has also customers. completed the course. The e-learning course will be Emissions from travel in vehicles leased by the compa­ completed by all managers every other year in order to ny increased by 48 tonnes of CO2 equivalents between ensure that the Code of Conduct remains fresh in their 2017 and 2018. We have identified substantial potential Directives and strategic memory. for improvement in this area with regard to choice of fuel and will, therefore, be tightening up our policies ­initiatives OUR EXTERNAL CODE OF CONDUCT and internal rules for vehicles in 2019. Our goal is to have Systembolaget has an external Code of Conduct drawn switched to exclusively fossil fuel-free leased v ­ ehicles Systembolaget works in a committed and structured up by the BSCI organisation (Business Social Compli­ by 2023. This ambition presupposes innovations in the way to maintain high ethical standards and to ­counter ance Initiative). The Code imposes requirements in development of fossil fuel-free vehicle fleets. This is an corruption throughout the value chain. We work to 11 different areas, such as anti-corruption, the work 49 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS environment, occupational health and safety, forced OUR POLICIES In the spring of 2018, over 95 per cent of managers labour, working hours, wages and freedom of associ­ All of Systembolaget’s policies are a matter of public reported that they had conducted an Ethics dialogue ation, non-discrimination, special protection for young record, and can be viewed at omsystembolaget.se, as with their colleagues. workers, and a ban on child labour.15 part of our efforts to be more transparent. The Whistleblowing system The Code of Conduct is included in Systembolaget’s GDPR Systembolaget has an external whistleblowing system. purchasing agreement with all of our suppliers. Every The new personal data legislation, GDPR*, came into This channel gives both employees and external parties, supplier is, furthermore, required to ensure that the force in May 2018. Our focus, during the first part of such as suppliers, the chance to report Systembolaget Code of Conduct is also applied throughout the sup­ 2018, was on systemising processes and methodolo­ employees in senior or key positions who the informant plier’s supply chain. gies to ensure they comply with the legislative require­ suspects of serious improprieties. Unsatisfactory state ments. We also conducted classroom-based training of affairs can also be reported here. OUR PURCHASING AND EVALUATION PROCESS courses during this period, and established a network Systembolaget has a centralised and transparent pur­ for monitoring issues. Applicable routines state that all whistleblowing reports chasing and evaluation process which, in accordance received shall be categorised and those remaining as with Systembolaget’s Owner’s Directive, shall be con­ MONITORING ROUTES whistleblowing shall be reported to the President by the ducted in an impartial and brand-neutral way. We apply Systembolaget gathers reports on suspected impropri­ Department Director. The cases are then processed by the same terms and negotiate in the same way with all eties through a number of channels, such as our whis­ the Directors, and the Head of Compliance and Ethics drinks suppliers. tleblowing system and our ethics advisors. All reports is kept updated on a rolling basis. on suspected improprieties are collated by our Head of The process is based on: Compliance and Ethics. This gives us a good overview Around twenty reports were received during the year, • Transparency – Systembolaget’s general purchasing of the incidents and enables potential “patterns” to be but were, it turned out, matters for the HR Department terms for the purchase of alcoholic drinks are the same detected at an early stage. and which were not classified as whistleblowing cases. for all suppliers, are a matter of public record, and are amended in line with previously determined norms. Ethics dialogues Annual reporting The Ethics dialogues offer the opportunity to talk openly Our Head of Compliance and Ethics compiles and • Objectivity – In Systembolaget’s range model, the about ethical issues that may arise during the course presents an annual report to the Board of Directors, via primary determinant of the items that make up Syst­ of day-to-day operations, both in interactions with its ethics and sustainability committee. The aim is to embolaget’s range is customer demand. customers and in our work environment. All managers ensure that the Board is familiarised with any incidents are tasked with holding an Ethics dialogue with their and with the compliance work carried out. • Brand neutrality – the tender tasting procedures car­ immediate colleagues once a year. The aim is to bolster ried out by Systembolaget in conjunction with the pur­ our ability to act in accordance with Systembolaget’s chase of alcoholic drinks are conducted completely values and to think about issues that seldom have an blind. The people carrying out the testing have no idea unambiguous answer. which product is contained in which glass. In the spring of 2018, we began reporting on the im­ All of our stores follow our centrally approved display plementation of our Ethics dialogues digitally, in order and placement rules. to improve reporting, quantifiability, and monitoring. 50 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Key ratios, results and book or Instagram, while the other two related to the application of our internal rules governing sideline ­activities ­occupations and/or product placement. We are aware of the risk of some incidents not being reported, and the fact that incidents do occur shows the importance CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION of ongoing training in and information on our rules and This key ratio measures incidents where we have dis­ the ethical dilemma if we are to maintain a focus on covered breaches by employees of the preventative these issues throughout the organisation. routines that we have put in place to counter corruption. MEASURES TO STRENGTHEN OUR Reported incidents of ­ANTI-CORRUPTION WORK ­corruption1 2018 2017 2016 In 2017, we carried out an anti-corruption survey of Total number of confirmed 5 9 5 Systembolaget’s 100 biggest suppliers and all TRLS incidents of corruption 1 suppliers (Temporary Range Local and Small scale). The survey showed that we are not getting our mes­ Total number of confirmed 5 9 5 incidents where employees sage across to our smaller suppliers in the same way as were subjected to occupational to our larger ones. The smaller suppliers are generally law-related disciplinary measu­ less familiar with our purchasing policy and our exter­ res due to corruption nal code of conduct. Number of legal proceedings 0 0 0 We carried out a number of activities targeting smaller resolved in a public court of law or administrative court due suppliers in 2018 in order to address this issue. We to incidents of corruption have held several information meetings with smaller suppliers across Sweden, both in groups and as indi­ 1 The key ratio measures incidents where we have discovered vidual producer meetings, and made more study visits breaches by employees of the preventative routines that we have to our smaller suppliers. put in place to counter corruption. No incident was sufficiently serious that bribery was suspected. No reports were made to the police and the sanction comprised, instead, disciplinary measures We have also clarified the rules governing procure­ by Systembolaget in its role as an employer – a written reminder. ment and supplier contacts in other channels, such as the Supplier Portal and our intranet, and spotlighted We have endeavoured, for a number of years now, to the whistleblowing function. We have also – in order create a transparent culture in which improprieties are to facilitate monitoring – encouraged our stores to re­ highlighted and incidents reported. We saw, in 2018 port incidents via our internal incident management that this work has resulted in a decrease in the number system, when necessary. of incidents, and we are now once again at the same level as in 2016. Of the five incidents confirmed in 2018, three involved publication of pictures on Face­ 51 Increase awareness of alcohol risks and of why Systembolaget exists O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS S T R AT E G I C S H I F T 2 : Increase awareness of alcohol’s risks and why Systembolaget exists Alcohol is not like other products. It can cause harm, not just to individu­ al drinkers, but also to their nearest and dearest, and to society at large. The goal of the Swedish alcohol policy, which is set by Parliament, is to reduce the total consumption of alcohol. Which is also why System­ bolaget exists – if sales of alcohol are made without any attempt at profit maximisation*, alcohol-related problems are reduced. Our information mandate is important in giving people a realistic picture of the risks potentially entailed in alcohol consumption. Many people currently regard alcohol consumption – and beer and wine consumption, in particular – as non-problematic. 83 per cent of our customers do not think they have any problems at all with alcohol. This despite the fact that, according to “Allmänheten om inställning till alkohol och monopol m m”, Novus, 2015” (Public attitudes to alcohol and the monopoly, et cetera), almost one million Swedes are consuming alcohol at hazardous levels. 52 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Guideline sustainability goals The benefits of Four out of every five Swedes currently support the retention of Systembolaget’s monopoly. Our custom­ ers believe that Systembolaget makes a difference ­Systembolaget and that our monopoly results in fewer people being harmed by alcohol. At the same time, however, our mo­ nopoly is being challenged by e-commerce, for exam­ ple, and the debate on whether so-called farm sales* should be allowed. Which is why we need to continue Why this is important developing and improving our offering, wherever the customer chooses to interact with us. It is also import­ The more alcohol people drink in a society, the greater ant that we have consistent and cohesive legislation the problems in the form of accidents, violence and adapted to contemporary society and which enables disease.11 close supervision. It is our hope that by increasing awareness of the risks associated The social problems in society affect not just those with alcohol, we can help achieve the UN’s Global goal 3, Good Health and who drink but those around them as well – such as all Direction and strategic of the children who grow up in families where one or Well-Being, which includes limiting harmful alcohol use and second-hand both parents drink to excess. ­initiatives harm. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), We are working in a number of ways to generate great­ the three most effective tools for limiting alcohol con­ er social benefit from the monopoly, including target­ sumption* are regulating availability, pricing, and mar­ ed communication campaigns, tools to enable people keting.16 Without these types of regulation, we would to take informed decisions, and a range of different drink more, and the harm caused would increase dra­ collaborative efforts. matically. A study has calculated that if alcohol were sold in ordinary stores, there would be 29,000 more WORKING TO PREVENT ILLICIT RESUPPLY cases of violence per year in Sweden and up to 1,400 A young, growing body is more affected by alcohol more alcohol-related deaths.11 than an adult one. Young people are, furthermore, more likely to expose themselves to risk and hazardous This is the background to Systembolaget’s clear social situations, in addition to which it has been scientifically mandate: to engage responsibly, and with a high stan­ proven that people who started drinking at a young dard of service, in the retail sales of spirits, wines and age are more likely to develop problems with alcohol strong beers, and to inform people about the harmful later in life.17 This is why our countering illicit resupply effects of alcohol. The latter task requires research, a work is so important. clear programme of information work, and an ongoing dialogue with different parts of society. Walpurgis Night, Midsummer, and the final day of the school year are all examples of the sort of high days 53 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS and holidays when many young people make their now used regularly by our customers. soever to order or buy alcohol. We use this website alcohol debut.18 Which is why Systembolaget runs to communicate with all of our target groups and to specific campaigns at these times, countering illicit Our “changed my mind” trolleys at checkouts were provide a one-stop shop for information on our man­ resupply, in order to increase awareness of the risks of rolled out in all of our stores in 2018, with the aim of date, the harmful effects of alcohol, sustainability, the buying alcohol for others. making it easy for customers to return goods that they employer brand, alcohol research, and anti-illegal no longer wish to buy. Changing your mind should resupply communication. We continued our communication work on the theme be easy. The “changed my mind” trolley is a concrete of countering illicit resupply in 2018 in the form of, example of how Systembolaget does not attempt to NEW PARTNERSHIPS amongst other things, native advertising* and part­ maximise either its sales or its profits. In 2018, Sweden’s Parliament decided to incorporate nerships with influencers*. We have, for example, run the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swed­ a campaign with YouTube profiles who have made NEW COMMUNICATION STRATEGY ish law. The principles stating that children’s rights and personal films. The message of the films was not to In a world in which it is becoming increasingly difficult what is best for the child should be expressed will play buy alcohol for anyone who is under 20 years of age. to cut through the information overload, we identified a central role in decision-making processes that relate the need to create a new communication strategy – not to children. It will, in particular, make a difference for We have also tried new methods of reaching our tar­ just to reach out to people, but to reach in to them, too. vulnerable children. get group of young adults, such as launching the “Bad In concrete terms, it’s about our desire to generate News filter”, which is an image filter on the Snapchat greater engagement with the alcohol issue. Systembolaget is keen to generate greater engage­ social media platform. The filter helps people who ment in the alcohol issue in general, and, in particular, refuse to buy be perceived in a positive light and as We endeavour to be perceived as “The world’s most on behalf of children who suffer as a result of adults’ considerate by their younger siblings/friends. It was considerate specialist retailer” in everything we do. drinking. launched to coincide with the end of the school year The starting gun for our efforts was fired in the form of and was spread via advertisements on platforms where a new film, “Things we do out of consideration”, which Systembolaget, in line with our vision of a society in young adults are found, such as Facebook, Instagram, was launched in the spring of 2018 on TV, in cinemas, which no one is harmed by alcohol, has been working Snapchat and YouTube – and in partnership with in­ and in digital channels. The aim of the film was to re­ with IQ during the year to build a partnership with BRIS fluencers. mind people that we all do things out of consideration (Children’s’ Rights in Society), Trygga Barnen (the Safe for one another. And that one way of showing consid­ Kids Foundation), Maskrosbarn (the Dandelion Kids ENGAGEMENT IN THE CUSTOMER INTERACTION eration was to support the idea behind Systembolag­ organisation) and the World Childhood Foundation. Every interaction with a customer here at Systembo­ et, because research shows that our monopoly helps These are all children’s rights organisations whose laget gives us the opportunity to inspire people to con­ ensure fewer people are harmed by alcohol. work focuses on children in a variety of ways, and on sume more mindfully. We use our range, the customer situations where alcohol often poses a problem in the interaction, and communication to increase people’s ONE WEBSITE BECOMES TWO children’s daily lives. knowledge of the choices available to them. Last year, We have two different websites – one that is store-ori­ for example, we launched the Drinks Planner at system­ entated and focuses on our products, and one that is The aim of Systembolaget’s new partnership is, by bolaget.se. Its primary purpose is to make it easier for about Systembolaget’s mandate and operations – in means of increased engagement with society, to im­ the customer to calculate the amount of drink provided order to make life easier for our customers and other prove conditions for children suffering as a result of at larger dinners and events, so that the customer does stakeholders. Our omsystembolaget.se website was someone else’s alcohol consumption. We also want to not need to buy extra “for safety’s sake”. The service is launched in February 2018 and offers no means what­ work proactively to persuade more parents and adults 54 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS to think about alcohol and children, and about their POLITICAL DIALOGUE Systembolaget offers politicians with an interest in pub­ own habits. This past year has seen Systembolaget and Systembolaget attended several national political lic health policy and related issues in-store work experi­ our partner organisations focusing on identifying ways parties’ major events in the capacity of an exhibitor in ence. Over the past year, both local politicians and MPs in which we can work together. 2018. We addressed issues such as Systembolaget’s have done work experience in our stores throughout range, with the focus on our local and small-scale pro­ Sweden. Giving them practical experience of different ducer range. Other issues discussed were our plans aspects of work in a Systembolaget store gives them for new store openings, our opening hours, our sell­ a reality-based and concrete means of seeing what Increased social ing rules, our social responsibility, and our efforts to ­counter illegal resale. our employees experience on a day-to-day basis, and thereby enables a more informed dialogue about our operations and the benefits of System­bolaget. ­dialogue During the Almedalen Week, Systembolaget, the Swedish Brewers’ Association, and the Swedish Spirits and Wine Suppliers’ Association (SVL) held a seminar INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATION Systembolaget has an ongoing dialogue with other on “going to Systemet” in 2030. The panellists dis­ Nordic alcohol monopolies, and monopolies in the Why this is important cussed how Systembolaget should develop to ensure USA and Canada, on issues of common interest, such it continues to live up to our customers’ substantial ex­ as sustainability in the supply chain and quality assuring If Systembolaget is to increase awareness of the harm­ pectations with regard to social responsibility, service, our drinks. We have established several working groups ful effects of alcohol and why Systembolaget exists, and range. Other subjects discussed included our im­ to address a range of issues, and meet regularly. an effective social dialogue is a must. Systembolaget pending store opening plans, our opening hours, our has an information provision mandate that we take selling rules, our social responsibility, and our efforts The most recent meeting between the Nordic monop­ very seriously indeed. We are, at the same time, keen to counter illegal resupply. olies was held on Skarpö in September 2018 in con­ to learn how politicians, influencers, and the Swedish junction with Systembolaget’s annual alcohol research public view topical alcohol issues, and Systembolaget Parliament took a decision on farm sales in the spring. conference. consequently conducts an active programme of dia­ A majority of MPs supported an acknowledgement that logue, both inside and outside Sweden. Systembolaget’s monopoly should be protected, but Systembolaget also conducts an ongoing dialogue that combining it with farm sales, if possible, would with stakeholders and operators at EU level. One issue be desirable. that we are monitoring with considerable interest is the Direction and strategic European Commission’s demand for lists of contents Systembolaget also held a roundtable discussion on on beer, wine, and spirits. ­initiatives mental illness. The discussions took as their starting point the Alcohol Report*, whose theme for 2018 was ALCOHOL RESEARCH SEMINARS Our efforts to enhance social dialogue are more about passive drinking and mental illness.2 We also, together Systembolaget organises open, free of charge semi­ creating a dialogue than about simply providing infor­ with the Swedish Spirits and Wine Suppliers’ Associ­ nars on a variety of themes throughout Sweden every mation. As part of our work and implementation of our ation (SVL) and the Swedish Brewers’ Association, year. The aim is to disseminate knowledge amongst mandate, we organise seminars and discussions, and organised a seminar entitled “From jamming on the everyone with an interest, whether personal or work in a variety of ways to inform and listen to de­ brakes to cooperation” – a seminar that focused on ­professional, in alcohol research and the role of alco­ cision-makers and people who mould public opinion. climate partnerships in the grocery retail sector. hol in society. 55 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS In early 2018, we held seminars in Örebro and Luleå ness and engagement in alcohol consumption – both IQ also produces information material based on The on the theme of the 2017 Alcohol Report – Alcohol, one’s own and other people’s. Teenage Phrasebook in order to support people work­ parents, and children19. A seminar entitled “Alcohol at ing with local, alcohol-prevention measures. A brochure work – who’s responsible?” was also held in cooper­ The best chance of getting this type of message across entitled “Alcohol and Teenagers” is one ­example of this ation with the Center for Education and Research on is in settings in which people come into contact with and is aimed at parents who have recently arrived in Addiction (CERA) at Gothenburg University. We have alcohol in one way or another. Which is why IQ is de­ Sweden, providing information and tips in a range of also held seminars on alcohol, mental illness, and pas­ veloping digital and analogue tools that can reach languages. An evaluation of people working with al­ sive drinking in Östersund during the year. people in specific situations. IQ has worked with a cohol prevention and integration in 2018 showed that number of initiatives during the year – see below for a there is a real need for this type of material, and 8 out few ­examples. of 10 had already spread or were planning to spread the brochure within their county or municipality. Tools that help inTHE TEENAGE PHRASEBOOK The Teenage Phrasebook handbook offers facts and tips for parents of teenagers20. The aim of the hand­ “FOTBOLL UTAN FYLLA” [SOBER FOOTBALL] IQ has continued to work on its collaborative project, crease mindfulness book is to make conversations about alcohol between parents and teenagers easier and, hopefully, help postpone their alcohol debuts. The book is sent to all “Fotboll utan Fylla” [Sober Football] in 2018, working in partnership with, amongst others, STAD (Stockholm prevents alcohol and drug problems), Swedish premier legal guardians of children who have their 14th birthdays league football clubs, the police, and sports arenas. Why this is important during the year, in time for Walpurgis Night and the end The focus of this year’s projects has been on drawing of the school year. The 2018 evaluation showed that 6 up a methodology manual and starting to disseminate Drinking alcohol can be harmful, both for the individual out every 10 parents who received The Teenage Phrase­ the method amongst more of Sweden’s football clubs. drinker and for the people around them. If the risks are to book had discussed its contents with their teenager, be reduced, our customers need both information and and that 85 per cent had saved the book. Sweden’s biggest PR competition, Spinn, awarded two opportunities for mindfulness. Which is why developing golds to the campaign work, one for Social Information tools that can inform and help increase mindfulness is The Teenage Phrasebook is also published online, in Campaign of the Year, and one for Integrated Campaign an important part of Systembolaget’s mandate. both Swedish and English, and is available as an audio­ of the Year. book at tonårsparlören.se. 75,000 copies of the book­ lets were also handed out at Systembolaget’s stores IQ INSPIRERS Direction and strategic during the year. IQ inspirers works to increase local engagement in alcohol issues, and to spread good examples of alco­ ­initiatives Inspiration meetings have been held in cooperation hol-prevention measures. The IQ inspirers are System­ with Sweden’s county councils, who coordinate bolaget employees who, over and above their in-store Systembolaget and our independent subsidiary com­ alcohol-­prevention measures in the country’s munic­ roles, have taken on the role of IQ inspirer. pany, IQ, work in a number of ways to increase our ipalities, in order to inspire further activities based on customers’ mindfulness. IQ’s mandate is to promote a The Teenage Phrasebook. IQ has also organised work­ IQ’S NETWORK MEETINGS smarter approach to alcohol, and they work, via knowshops during the course of four meetings that brought In the autumn of 2018, IQ organised inspiration how and communication, to create awareness, mindful­ ­together municipalities from across Sweden in 2018. meetings on the theme of alcohol and sport in six 56 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS towns across Sweden (Gothenburg, Luleå, Malmö, on where to turn if they are worried about themselves missioned by IQ, and the questions are put once a year Norrköping, Stockholm and Sundsvall). The aim of or a friend. To date, just over 18,000 students have used to people aged 16 and above. The number of Alcohol the meetings was to build a local network of people the chat bot, with 60 per cent of users male and 40 per Index subjects doubled in 2018 to 4,000, and the re­ engaged in preventing the harmful effects of alcohol. cent female. 70 per cent of users are aged between 18 sults for the year show a continuing trend towards a The meetings discussed attitudes towards alcohol in and 24, and almost 8 out of every 10 estimate that they more permissive attitude to alcohol. sport and ways of helping bring about a change at both drink four standard glasses or more during the course local and national level. In the run up to the meetings, of an evening’s partying. 2018 2017 2016 IQ produced a new version of the “Leader Check” bro­ Alcohol Index 61.4 62.0 62.6 chure, which is designed to support sports leaders on IQ’S SOCIAL MEDIA CHANNEL WORK TO COUNTER alcohol-related issues. ILLEGAL RESUPPLY With an alcohol index of 61.4, this year’s value is the In 2018, IQ launched a programme that aims to put a lowest since measurements began in 2010. The trend IQ’S DIGITAL STRATEGY AND NEW WEBSITE stop to the widespread illegal resupply to young peo­ towards a more permissive attitude is driven primarily IQ developed a new digital strategy in 2017, based on ple that occurs with the help of social media channels. by women aged between 45 and 59, whose attitudes the changing media landscape. The aim of the new IQ reported a number of the major illegal resupply have shown the biggest change since 2017. strategy is for communication to be increasingly driv­ accounts on Instagram to the police in the spring. IQ en by engagement and behavioural change by making also launched a media campaign, aimed at parents, Workday Index more individualised use of digital solutions, for exam­ drawing their attention to the phenomenon, and start­ The Workday Index shows the public’s attitude towards ple. ed a dialogue with Facebook on how these accounts so-called workday drinking. The 2018 index shows a can be restricted on an ongoing basis. IQ was also a gentle decline towards a more permissive attitude IQ’s new website, which was launched in 2018 is target co-organiser of an event on Facebook where influenc­ towards drinking wine or beer on weekdays. groupand mobile-friendly, and focuses on providing ers were given tips and advice on their behaviour on tips and support for the visitor. People who are thinking social media – both to ensure they comply with legal 2018 2017 2016 about their own or someone else’s alcohol consump­ requirements and to act as a role models, particularly tion, and parents of teenage children, will receive clear when it comes to alcohol. Weekday Index 55.0 56.4 55.4 advice. The tips and support will address such issues as how to drink smarter, or how to talk to someone you’re ALCOHOL INDEX worried about. Swedes’ attitudes to alcohol are an important issue THE MONITORING SURVEY – ALCOHOL CONSUMPfor Systembolaget and IQ. The Alcohol Index* is a TION IN SWEDEN IQ BOTTLER strategically important key ratio and gives a combined Systembolaget is tasked by the Government with con­ The Bottler chat bot was initially launched in the autumn measurement of people’s attitudes to alcohol in dif­ ducting annual measurements of the total volume of of 2017 and then relaunched in 2018 with new function­ ferent situations. The Alcohol Index is generated from alcohol consumed in Sweden. The Monitoring Survey 1 ality and tonality. The aim of Bottler is to help bring responses to nine questions asking what people see is conducted by the Swedish Council for Information about a smarter way to party for students and to inspire as right or wrong when it comes to alcohol. The lower on Alcohol and Other Drugs (CAN) and entails com­ them to think about their own and other people’s alco­ the index value, the more permissive the attitude to plemented registered sales of alcohol in Sweden with hol consumption. Bottler offers support, advice, and alcohol. other, unregistered acquisition sources. The survey is reminders before, during and after the party. It helps conducted on a rolling basis throughout the year by users set their own drinking goals and gives them tips The data gathering is carried out by Novus and com­ means of interviews with just over 18,000 people, and 57 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS is reported one year in arrears in the Responsibility total alcohol consumption in Sweden fell by approxi­ alcohol-induced harm. In 2018, the Council comprised Report. mately 2 per cent, imports by travellers declined, and 15 members – nine researchers and 6 societal repre­ Systembolaget’s share of sales increased by just under sentatives. The results of the 2017 Monitoring Survey were pub­ 3 per cent, year on year. The 2018 report will be pub­ lished in September 2018 1. The survey showed that lished in March 2019. The total research subsidy for 2018 was SEK 10 million. alcohol consumption in Sweden in 2017 is almost SEK 3 million of this was earmarked for research into identical to the previous year, at 9.0 litres per head of two focus areas, namely hazardous consumption by population aged 15 and above. Imports by travellers parents of small children, and young people’s alcohol did, however, increase, while purchases of smuggled alcohol decreased in comparison with 2016. System­ bolaget accounted for 62.8 per cent of sales of the Research and facts consumption. SEK 6 million was freely allocated to alco­ hol-related research, and SEK 1 million was earmarked for applications from recent doctoral graduates. alcohol consumed in 2017, with restaurants account­ ing for 10.2 per cent and cans of medium-strength Why this is important In the 2017 round of applications, 47 of the 73 appli­ beer from grocery stores accounting for 5.3 per cent. cations received were approved. In 2018, a project The remaining sales comprised unregistered sales, Alcohol research is of great importance to the entire catalogue containing brief descriptions of all of the with imports by travellers accounting for 13.5 per range of Systembolaget’s operations. It results in a projects granting funding in the most recent round was cent of the total, smuggled alcohol for 4.6 per cent, greater insight into one of our biggest public health produced. home-produced alcohol for 2.3 per cent, and online problems and of the ways in which this problem can purchases for 1.3 per cent. be reduced and supporting alcohol research is conse­ ANNUAL ALCOHOL RESEARCH CONFERENCE quently an important part of Systembolaget’s mandate. Systembolaget organises an annual, two-day confer­ 41.7 per cent of the alcohol consumed was wine. ence on alcohol research. The conference’s target Strong beer accounted for 30.9 per cent, spirits for groups are researchers, civil servants, and civil society, 20.5 per cent, medium-strength beer for 5.3 per cent, Direction and strategic and this year’s conference brought together just over and cider for 1.6 per cent. 80 delegates. ­initiatives Total alcohol consumption in Sweden has declined by A special focus on junior researchers in the Nordic 8 per cent between 2008 and 2017. Systembolaget has reinforced and intensified its work region was announced at the conference. The aim is with alcohol research in 2018. to stimulate interest in the field of alcohol research Young people aged between 17 and 19 were also inter­ amongst younger people working in the field. viewed within the framework of the Monitor Survey, The independent Alcohol Research Council is an asking them whether they had personally bought al­ important player in Systembolaget’s research work. TARGETED RESEARCH PROGRAMMES cohol at Systembolaget. Since the question was intro­ Systembolaget subsidises research work, but it is the In 2017, alcohol researchers from the Swedish Council duced in 2014, virtually no one (0.1 %) under the age Council that decides which research projects that will for Information on Alcohol and Other Drugs (CAN) com­ of 20 has admitted buying alcohol at Systembolaget receive the funding. The Council finances or partially pleted a study of Systembolaget’s home deliveries. The during the previous 30 days. finances a number of scientific studies every year in the researchers spent the spring tracking home delivery areas of medicine, and social and public health. Spe­ customers’ alcohol consumption in order to investigate Preliminary figures from CAN for 2018 indicate that cial priority is given to preventative work in relation to whether Systembolaget’s home deliveries resulted in 58 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS any increase in consumption, or in an increase in haz­ ardous consumption levels. The study established that there was no increase on either front. Key ratios, results Opinion Index (OPI) % 2018 76.5 2017 76.9 2016 76.2 In 2018, Senior Lecturer Peter Larm at Mälardalen Uni­ versity, produced a summary of scientific studies pub­ and activities The 2018 figure for those wishing to retain Systembo­ laget’s monopoly is 76.5 per cent, which is on a par lished from 2010 onwards that illustrated the societal Systembolaget sets goals for and follows up on several with the figure for the previous year (76.9 %), and cor­ costs of alcohol abuse. The summary is the first stage key ratios linked to our purpose of limiting the harmful responds to a qualified majority in favour of System­ in a larger study of the societal costs of alcohol that effects of alcohol. We are, however, aware that we are bolaget’s monopoly. The 2018 result did not, however, Systembolaget intends to carry out. only one of the many factors that affect the results. The quite achieve the record high listing reported in 2017, Opinion Index* and Proof of Age Checks key ratios are but is close to our goal for 2018 of 77 per cent. The per­ PRIZES AND GRANTS two strategic key ratios that indicate how well we are centage of people who do want strong beer, wine, and Systembolaget awards an Achievement Prize every year fulfilling our mandate: to engage, through a monopo­ spirits to be sold in other stores has decreased to 18.4 to reward leading researchers who have contributed ly, responsibly and with a high standard of service, in per cent (-0.3 %), while the percentage who did not new know-how in the field of alcohol research. The the retail sales of alcoholic beverages, and to inform express an opinion increased to 5.0 per cent (+0.6 %). 2018 prize was awarded to Sven Andréasson, a Profes­ people about the harmful effects of alcohol. sor of Social Medicine at the Karolinska Institute. Prof. The results show that, as was previously the case, Andréasson received the prize for his systematic and OPINION INDEX – OPI support for the monopoly is stronger amongst women expert socio-scientific research into alcohol and for A positive attitude towards Systembolaget on the than men, in those aged 65+, and in those with tertiary the importance of the research findings to a restrictive part of the population of Sweden is important in education. The downturn during the year is not signif­ alcohol policy in Sweden. terms of our ability to carry out our mandate in the icant, but does show the importance of continuing to long term, which is why we measure the percentage remind people that limiting the availability of alcohol Systembolaget’s research stipend for junior research­ of Swedes who wish to retain Systembolaget and helps improve public health. ers was awarded to social scientist, Jonas Raninen, who the monopoly on sales of strong beer, wines and works at the Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol spirits on a rolling basis through our Opinion Index. PROOF OF AGE CHECKS and Other Drugs (CAN). He received the prize for his re­ Every month, a n ­ ationally representative selection of Systembolaget does not sell to anyone under the age search into factors affecting changes in drinking habits. 750 people aged 15 and above are asked, via K ­ antar of 20, to anyone who is visibly intoxicated, or to anyone SIFO, “Do you think that Systembolaget and the we suspect of illicit resupply. Control purchases are Systembolaget also awards the annual Bertil Görans­ ­monopoly on the sale of strong beer, wine and spirits carried out every year by “mystery shoppers” aged son travel grant to junior researchers. The 2018 grant should be retained, or would you prefer strong beer, between 20 and 24 to ensure that we are complying was awarded to Karin Boson, a psychologist and Ph.D. wine and spirits to be sold in other stores”. A total with these selling rules. 5,884 control purchases were student at Gothenburg University who is conducting of 9,000 interviews are conducted every year (no carried out in stores in 2018, and proof of age was research into the ways in which mental health in young ­interviews conducted during the holiday month of July. requested in 95.6 per cent of the control purchases people can be affected by personality in conjunction 1,500 interviews conducted in August). The OPI is carried out, which is in line with the results last year. with an early alcohol debut. ­reported quarterly. 59 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Proof of age checks 2018 2017 2016 % 95.6 95.6 95.7 The results show that the percentage of approved test purchases continues to be high and just under the target figure of 96 per cent. The results for proof of age checks in stores has remained stable at this level for the past five years. Higher proof of age check fig­ ures were reported during the warm summer of 2018 than for the same periods in 2017 and 2016, despite the stores being very busy. The number of proof of age checks for the 20 –21 age group also continued to increase, and we achieved our target figure for 21 year olds of 98 per cent. The number of approved proof of age checks in the 20-year old age group was 97 per cent, however, which is below the target figure of 99 per cent. We will continue to work systematically with day-to-day learning, informal training by colleagues, and formal training courses, to develop our proof of age checks and get closer to our target figure. Our success in this area is monitored continuously through our proof of age check surveys. 60 Creating optimum conditions for achieving our O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S goals CONTENTS S T R AT E G I C S H I F T 3 : Creating ­optimum conditions for ­achieving our goals Achieving Systembolaget’s ambitious goals in the areas of service, sharing our expertise, and sustainability means we must create optimum conditions for all of our employees. A good working environment, a corporate culture of which we can all be proud, and processes and structures that help develop and support our operations, are all key to our success in achieving our purpose – reducing the harmful effects of alcohol. Securing the talent pool at Systembolaget is a natural part of our efforts to achieve our goals. The ability to interpret future skill requirements and tomor­ row’s labour market is key to our ability to create these optimum conditions. The definition of skills – and the ways in which people will work in future – are changing quickly nowadays, and we must keep pace with developments in this area if we are to continue to be an attractive employer. Systembolaget is not a company that attempts to maximise its profits. Running Systembolaget in a resource-smart way – both cost-effectively and sustain­ ably, in other words – is, however, an important part of what we do. Because doing this gives us the scope to invest more in creating the conditions under which we can achieve our goals. We must be a role model when it comes to sustainable enterprise. This means that we shall conduct our operations in a sustainable, transparent, and ethical manner, and that we shall make the most of opportunities to create sustainable value and new, innovative business mod­ els. This new approach is vital if we, as a society, are to meet the substantial sustainability challenges that the world now faces. 61 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Guideline sustainability goals Goals: 5, 8, and 10 Securing the imise their potential to enable them, in turn, to help oth­ ers maximise their potential. Managers are responsible for creating conditions for learning and development talent pool by their colleagues. We have implemented a number of activities during the year with the aim of strengthening and developing Why this is important our managers: • We have improved our introductory operational training Impressed customers are vital if we are to retain our for newly appointed store managers in the form of an monopoly and be able to fulfil our mandate. And one introduction course lasting approximately six weeks. of the keys to continuing to impress our customers is • One of this year’s management meetings focused the expertise of Systembolaget’s employees. on developing Area Managers’ and Unit Managers’ familiarity with both the new range framework and Securing the talent pool primarily means two things personal development in a management context. for us: finding the right people for us, as a company, in • We have also implemented a talent-spotting pro­ conjunction with new recruitments, and ensuring that gramme for potential Area Managers. our existing personnel are happy in their jobs. Being a • The majority of the head office personnel have com­ good employer lies at the heart of our ability to attract, pleted a course in personal leadership. The course will develop, and retain the expertise we need to impress be further developed and extended in 2019. Systembolaget shall, in line with our customers. • We brought all of our 550 or so managers together the UN’s global goals of promoting for a management meeting over the course of two gender equality and reducing in­ days in April. The aim was to create the preconditions equality, be an employer that offers Direction and strategic for realising our strategic plan. A number of subjects good performance environments, in were discussed, including inclusiveness and diversity, which all of our employees can truly ­initiatives Agenda 2030, our climate and environmental impact, come into their own, make a differ­ digitisation, food and drink know-how, as well as per­ ence, and feel good. We are also We believe that ensuring engaged employees is dif­ sonal leadership. keen to help create a sustainable ficult without good management, so Systembolaget and equal society by creating job has been working for many years now to develop a “KRAFTEN I 5 000” EMPLOYEES opportunities for people who are management structure tasked with creating optimum The “Kraften i 5 000” [The strength of 5,000] employ­ currently excluded from the labour conditions that allow all of our 5,000 employees to do ees are Systembolaget’s engine and direction in the market. their jobs well and achieve their goals. ­current strategic period. This is a strategic approach that addresses how we want to bring about improve­ LEADERSHIP AT SYSTEMBOLAGET ment in both Systembolaget and everyone who works Leadership within Systembolaget is based on the core here. Our aim, through the strength of 5,000 employ­ belief that every individual shall be encouraged to max­ ees, is to achieve an increased engagement and sense 62 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS of ­participation, an increased group efficiency, and opportunity for numerous employees to get involved processing, platforms, and infrastructure. We work to stronger personal leadership. and try out new things. We have implemented eight understand and integrate Systembolaget’s processes “greenhouses” to date and are planning more. A variety and to create a unified IT architecture that supports our We follow up on these goals by means of, amongst of teams from Systembolaget have, for example, tried operations, today and tomorrow. other things, our Agerus employee satisfaction survey out and developed operational processes using robot every autumn. See page 65 for this year’s results. technology, artificial intelligence, and virtual reality, The IT and Information Security policy adopted by the amongst others, as part of the “greenhouses” – and Board of Directors forms the cornerstone of Systembo­ BETTER TOGETHER we have also tried out ideas for our stores, including laget’s IT and information security work. The goal is to The ability to work across borders is becoming increas­ fronting tools and top-up trolleys. The fronting tool, ensure long-term secure IT and information manage­ ingly important in meeting our customers’ needs in a which is a tool that is designed to make it easier to ment for Systembolaget. world that is changing faster and faster. To this end, handle bottles on store shelves, has been developed 2018 saw us working to develop our ability to work to­ during the year with the help of store staff and a model IMPROVED QUANTIFIABILITY gether, as part of our Better Together initiative, in order has now been developed that is available for order by We have increasingly begun to make use of statistics to achieve the desired effect of the “Kraften i 5 000” all stores. Work on building a culture that promotes and in-depth analyses to quantify and analyse our programme. We believe that, together, people with dif­ innovation is continuing and is a strategic initiative that successes and challenges as employers. In 2017, we ferent perspectives and skills – customers, suppliers, is monitored by Systembolaget’s management. began using a digital tool that creates visualisations of and people from different parts of Systembolaget’s op­ several of our key ratios. We continued to develop this erations – are better at interpreting tomorrow’s needs CREATING CONDITIONS THROUGH IT tool in 2018, and as a result, the visualisation tool will, and at developing the solutions we need. IT is a business-critical component of all modern in 2019, give our managers access to rolling statistics companies, and Systembolaget is no different in this on staff diversity in terms of gender, age, and ethnicity. We use talks, workshops, training courses, and sup­ respect. For Systembolaget, IT – in the broadest sense The tool will also provide in-depth information on the port, within the framework of the initiative, to focus on of the word – both develops operations and creates working climate from an inclusiveness perspective and how we can take decisions more rapidly and how we conditions. It is an important facilitator and a source we have, in addition, used the tool to compile all of the can involve additional perspectives and skills. Another of inspiration that enables us to fulfil our mandate. It work environment incidents across the organisation. of the initiative’s goals is to investigate ways of creat­ is about not only delivering on our customer prom­ The visualisation is primarily used as part of the Work ing active and inclusive meetings and ways in which ise, but on supporting internal processes, helping to Environment Committee’s analysis work, offering high we – whatever our organisational base and skills – can create a good work environment, and helping us work quality supporting data for decisions on improvement develop our operations together. towards sustainable operations. work and any measures needed. A CULTURE THAT PROMOTES INNOVATION IT should help bring about proactive development The interlinking of multiple data sources has, amongst In the autumn of 2017, Systembolaget began working throughout our operations, enhance customer benefit, other things, enabled us to see that there is a clear to build a culture that promotes innovation. We want result in a more rapid realisation of effects, and func­ link between an employee’s perception of validation, to create conditions under which any employee can tion as an innovative support tool. Working successful­ inclusiveness, and group efficiency. The analysis gives contribute good ideas and dare to try out new meth­ ly with IT demands more than just smart systems and us valuable insights into the areas we need to focus on odologies that take advantage, for example, of new technical solutions. Systembolaget’s operations are in helping achieve our goals. We have also decided to technical opportunities. Our concrete innovation constantly developing, as are new structures related compile an in-depth report twice a year to provide an work is conducted within “greenhouses”, offering the to strategies, methodologies, security, information overview of our diversity and inclusiveness work. 63 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS TARGETED ACTIVITY SEGMENTATION The FOCUS/performance reviews are an important part of creating sustainable per­ In 2017 and 2018, we have developed a segmentation model for our stores that formance environments, not least as the manager’s most important channel to his enables us to target our store activities more effectively and thereby improve the or her colleagues is the personal encounter. smoothness of our operations. The model groups the stores into segments, based on their operational conditions, and will make it easier for us to analyse and target FOCUS reviews in 2018** Yes % No % Total no. measures where they are needed and, where appropriate, avoid applying a “one (number) (number) ­responses1 size fits all” approach. Head office personnel 424 86 69 14 493 We rolled out the model on a large scale at the management meeting in April 2018, Store personnel 2 3,184 78 881 22 4,065 and it has already helped us structure our training so that it reaches those stores with Total 3,608 79 950 21 4,558 a specific need for training in handling threats and violence, for example. Our goal, 1 A total of 4,558 employees responded. in 2019, is to use it, as appropriate, for all such developmental work. 2 Also includes Store Managers and Area Managers. TRAINING TO BOOST SECURITY FOCUS reviews in 2017** Yes % No % Total no. Threats and violence are increasing in the grocery retail sector, and are one of the (number) (number) ­responses1 biggest work environment risks for our employees in several of our stores. In 2016, we created a Security Unit at Systembolaget to address this problem, which has Head office personnel 391 91 38 9 429 enabled us to work with these issues in a more focused manner. Store personnel 2 3,107 79 841 21 3,948 The In-store safety/Threats and violence course is held every year and involves both Totalt 3,498 80 879 20 4,377 theoretical and practical training. The training is provided for particularly vulnerable 1 A total of 4,377 employees responded. 2 Also includes Store Managers and Area Managers. stores, which are often high footfall stores in urban locations. The problems can, however, arise in all types of store and in all locations, and the course was held a total of 14 times in 2018. We also implement more targeted measures, such as a course FOCUS reviews in 2016** Yes % No % Total no. on threats and violence issues for supervisors. (number) (number) ­responses1 Head office personnel 368 91 37 9 405 In 2019, our Work Environment Days will focus on the issue of threats and violence. The aim is twofold, namely to map the stores’ threat scenarios and to gather knowl­ Store personnel 2 2,946 76 907 24 3,853 edge that will enable us to make relevant decisions on the activities and measures Totalt 3,314 78 944 22 4,258 needed to action and address the problem. 1 A total of 4,258 employees responded. 2 Also includes Store Managers and Area Managers. Key ratios, results and activities ** B oundary: it is not, as yet, possible to break the figures down by gender within each category that has completed a FOCUS review. FOCUS/PERFORMANCE REVIEWS We use this key ratio to follow up on the percentage of employees who receive The figure for the number of FOCUS/performance reviews is based on Systembolaget’s Agerus survey. The employees personally answered a question about whether they had completed a FOCUS/performance review with their manager regular evaluation and following up of their performance and career development. during the year. 64 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Performance reviews are an important part of cre­ Performance culture 2018 2017 2016 performance culture during the year as part of the ating sustainable performance environments. All “Strength of 5,000” programme. The results of the Systembolaget employees shall have annual perfor­ % 81.5 81.5 77.9 employee survey show, we believe, that we are on the mance reviews in which we follow up on and assess right track. The conclusion is that the organisation is our shared skills and individual goals. We follow up on The results of this year’s employee survey show gen­ well equipped and has good preconditions for perfor­ goals, goal fulfilment, and skills, and draw up individual erally high values, which means that our performance mance and health. development plans for all employees on the basis of culture continues to be sustainable. We know that this the reviews’ findings. is an important prerequisite of Systembolaget’s ongo­ It is incredibly important that our employees feel that ing ability to deliver impressive customer interactions. they have the necessary preconditions to perform well The templates for performance reviews were further The 2018 result of 81.5 per cent is on a par with the at work and that they feel that their basic requirements simplified to make it easier to conduct them, ahead previous year. We have also noted that there are clear as employees are being met. The percentage of System­ of this year’s round of reviews. We structured the tem­ links between a sustainable performance culture and bolaget employees who are satisfied with their ability plates to place greater emphasis on the current year lower levels of sick leave and staff turnover. The num­ to perform is high and continuing to increase. There and to clarify our expectations of every employee. ber of units within the organisation failing to achieve are, however, still employees who responded with low a sustainable performance culture has fallen by just values for this key ratio, and we are keen to improve 79 per cent of employees stated that they had com­ under half during the period from 2013 to 2018. their situation. All of our managers must, therefore, ac­ pleted a FOCUS review during the past year, which is tively work with results dialogues within their working on a par with levels during the immediately preceding The 2018 result of 8.1 per cent is on a par with the 2017 groups. During these dialogues, the participants anal­ two years. level, and is high in comparison with our benchmark yse strengths and areas where improvement is needed, figure of 72 per cent (the benchmark comprises ap­ talk about risks, and draw up proposed action plans that In 2018, we procured a new system support tool, the proximately 110,000 responses from the survey sup­ will be actively implemented in the year ahead. Skill Portal, for our performance reviews. The new Skill plier’s total customer database). All of the values have, Portal, which will be implemented in 2019, will improve at aggregate level, remained stable since the previous In the first half of 2017, we conducted an Organisa­ our ability to work with development, including skill survey and we have noted a significant increase since tional Dialogue, in order to build up a picture of the development, throughout the organisation. 2013. The spread has, however, increased in some current situation in Systembolaget’s Operating Area, parts of the organisation, but decreased in others. Sales (OAS). The aim of the Organisational Dialogue STABLE PERFORMANCE CULTURE was to obtain an honest picture of the current situation The performance culture* key ratio measures the ex­ The preconditions for employees to be able to per­ within the operating area and of any gaps between tent to which employees believe that the preconditions form well (want to, know how to, capable of, allowed theoretical ambitions and actual conditions. exist in their workplace for them to perform well (want to, should) remained at a high level and the spread to, know how to, capable of, allowed to, should), and within different preconditions is low at an overall level. The interviews revolved around OAS’ strategy and op­ the individual’s perceptions of how their basic needs The ”allowed to” area, which is the lowest ranked, is no erating plan and the conditions needed to achieve the are being met (to contribute, to belong, to develop, to longer seen as a problem area. The basic requirements goals. The sales management team then drew up both feel confirmed). These factors are basic requirements level (to contribute, to belong, to develop, to feel con­ a long-term and a short-term action plan, based on the and preconditions for our ability to establish and main­ firmed) continues to be high and consistent. insights gained. Initiation of these measures began in tain sustainable performance environments. 2017 and work on implementing the plan continued We have actively worked on the development of our in 2018. 65 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS A follow-up of the Organisational Dialogue was con­ as last year, but we are seeing some increase in shortphones and tablets and which support our employees ducted in 2018, in order to gain an overview of the ef­ term sick leave, and the overall rate is consequently not in making lifestyle changes. The aim of the tool was to fect of the measures implemented. The results showed quite as high as in 2017. The most pronounced reduc­ test the degree to which they were able to help bring that many people are experiencing improvements in tion occurred amongst Store Managers, and long-term about behavioural changes in employees’ health. The several areas, and other areas with scope for improve­ sick leave amongst sales personnel is steadily declin­ test evaluations carried out at the end of the year will ment were also highlighted. Store Managers, for exam­ ing. Our staff turnover and sick leave rates amongst form the basis for decisions on the next step. ple, feel that there has been a marked improvement in Store Managers were previously too high, but have their situation and that direction and follow-up work fallen this year, thanks to the targeted measures imple­ We have also improved our ability to integrate a work has improved substantially. One area where we do, mented in the form of, amongst other things, training environment perspective into an increasing number however, need to come together and address is the courses. We are actively working with the Store Manag­ of development projects conducted within the organ­ growing number of customer orders, where there is er’s organisational and social work environment, and isation. a real need to establish better preconditions that will have completed the ergonomics improvement work improve the stores’ ability to handle the work involved. begun in 2017. This programme was implemented both We have secured our ongoing ergonomics work at in stores and at the head office. the head office by adopting a new methodology. We A revised action plan has been drawn up, based on identified the need, based on an increased focus on the 2018 dialogue, in order to support the ongoing All of the activities approved in the action plan drawn interdepartmental cooperation, to enhance our abili­ improvement work. up in 2017 with a view to reducing sick leave rates ty to identify and action cooperation difficulties at an amongst store managers have now been implement­ early stage. To this end, we provided a training course SICK LEAVE PERCENTAGE ed. One major activity, which initially targeted Store for all managers at head office on the theme of conflict The sick leave percentage is an important metric for Managers but was subsequently expanded to include resolution during the year. determining the sustainability of our work environ­ all store-based personnel, was the Sustainable Inments. We want our employees to be able to continue Store Ergonomics plan. The aim of the project was to STAFF TURNOVER working for us until they retire, and to want to do so. increase the extent to which ergonomic tools were A healthy rate of staff turnover is an indicator that we The total sick leave rate* is measured using the Swed­ used and thereby reduce stress and strain issues. have sustainable performance environments. This key ish National Financial Management Authority (ESV) We adopted a new approach here, working with be­ ratio was introduced in 2016 and the measurements definition, which measures hours of sick leave relative havioural change in accordance with Organizational have been made possible by our new analysis meth­ to the total number of available hours during the same Behaviour Management (OBM). ods. We are able to measure both total staff turnover period. and the turnover for different groups of employees. The primary focus of future measures needs to be on Sick leave as a percentage 2018 2017 2016 short-term sick leave, particularly amongst employees Staff turnover 2018 2017 2016 under the age of 30. The new health key ratio created % 4.5 4.8 5.0 in 2017 is being tested in one area in 2018. The subse­ % 17.3 18.0 16.6 quent evaluation will guide us in taking the next steps In 2018, we have continued our focus on sick leave and towards implementation. Staff turnover rates continued to be relatively high in increased health amongst our managers and employ­ 2018, with an overall rate of 17.3 per cent and a turn­ ees, and sick leave rates have fallen sharply during the In the autumn of 2018, we tested two new digital health over rate for employees aged between 20 and 29 that year. Long-term sick leave is declining at the same rate tools, which are variations on health apps for mobile ­continues to be just over 30 per cent. Staff turnover 66 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS rates have declined slightly, year on year, for sales personnel, but have increased for Store Managers and head office employees. Diversity and ments into our systematic work environment activi­ ties. In 2018, 387 permanent employees who gave notice have responded to our exit survey, corresponding to ­Inclusiveness • Clarification of managers’ responsibility to action and prevent discrimination, harassment, and repression. a response frequency of 50 per cent and a response • Securing equal treatment of existing employees group that is representative, in terms of gender, age Why this is important and in conjunction with recruitment by drawing up and role, of the combined group of people who have a check list for risk assessment in conjunction with a left the company during the year. Sweden is constantly changing and is now a multi­ reduced fitness for work. cultural society. We need to reflect this and to keep When asked what the primary reason for them deciding up with societal development. Systembolaget exists We have also: to leave was, by far the most common reason given is for everyone in Sweden and reflecting society is busi­ • Conducted a detailed analysis of our personnel sta­ “Other” (33 per cent of respondents). It is also clear ness critical. It is important, not least, in enabling us tistics in order to increase our own understanding of from the written comments that this group was, by and to meet our customers’ varying requirements and on the bases for discrimination in relation to gender and large, very satisfied with their time at Systembolaget, ensuring that all of our customers feel welcome and age. The analysis shows, amongst other things, that but that they had chosen to leave in order to pursue included. Our goal is to have employees with different although Systembolaget enjoys relative gender equ­ new challenges or, perhaps, to take up a position that proficiencies, skills, experiences, and abilities. Our ality at an overall level, there are substantial variations was more in line with a training or education course working climate shall be characterised by respect and across the country and by store type. We need to do they had now completed. understanding. It shall be a climate that welcomes more if we are to comply with legislative requirements and includes people with different backgrounds and and achieve our internal goals in this area. The second most common reason given was dissatis­ experiences. faction with their level of employment (12 per cent of • Complemented our employee satisfaction survey respondents), followed by dissatisfaction with salary/ with questions that improved our ability to monitor benefits, working hours, and management (10 per cent Direction and strategic the incidence of discrimination, harassment, bully­ of respondents for each of these reasons). ing, and negative/exclusive phraseology. ­initiatives We have continued, in 2018, to work on a project that is We will conduct an in-depth mapping process in 2019 designed to simplify and improve staff planning for our In 2018, we conducted an in-depth mapping of the and identify measures linked to discrimination based on Store Managers, to increase timetable predictability requirements of discrimination legislation21. The anal­ religion/faith, sexual orientation, and gender identity. for our employees, and to review the conditions for ysis has enabled us to enhance our HR department’s better employment contracts. We believe that we will, expertise in relation to the Swedish Discrimination Act, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVENESS PLAN in the long-term, be able to reduce our staff turnover to create new routines, and to draw up an activity plan We have continued to work in accordance with the di­ as we see the effects of this project, which is one of our for our legislative compliance work. versity and inclusiveness plan adopted for the period organisation’s highest priority projects. from 2015 to 2018, but have also adopted a new plan Work on the following areas continued during the year: for the period from 2019 to 2020. The current plan has • Integration of Swedish Discrimination Act require­ four focus areas: 67 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS • increasing diversity amongst our employees so that late 2018, the Board adopted a new strategic key ratio • Our partnership with the Swedish Public Employment we reflect society; in relation to the diversity and inclusiveness area. The Service in 2018 resulted in us taking on a total of 133 key ratio, which is called “Percentage of employees with people during the year in work experience places or • creating an inclusive climate; as subsidised employees – people who, for a variety foreign backgrounds”, will be introduced in 2019. • integrating the inclusiveness perspective into our of reasons, had found it difficult to enter the labour collective methodologies and routines; We have also worked on developing a number of op­ market. erational metrics that will be used to follow up on the performance of every manager. • We have continued to work within the framework of • ensuring that everything we do for our customers is the above-mentioned partnership with the Swedish inclusive. MEASURES TO INCREASE DIVERSITY Public Employment Service to give more people with One of the most important goals of our current diver­ We have continued to develop our efforts to expand disabilities the chance to gain a foothold in the labour sity and inclusiveness plan is to improve skill levels our talent pool in order to reach out to new groups and market. We do this by offering work experience places throughout the organisation, and to make diversity and thereby support achievement of our increased diversity and subsidised employment, primarily in partnership inclusiveness a matter for everyone. Our work has yield­ goals. Activities during the year have included: with the Swedish Public Employment Service as part ed a number of good results in line with our goals: our of their “Gör plats!” [Make space!] project, but also in managers’ and leaders’ familiarity with our orientation • We have tested a selection/screening test as part of cooperation with other local operators. In 2018, Syst­ and activities in the area of diversity and inclusiveness our summer recruitment of sales personnel, based on embolaget had an average of 5 work experience em­ has gone from moderate to very good. Our managers’ research showing that a manual selection of applica­ ployees and 79 employees with disabilities per month assessment of Systembolaget’s performance in this tions often results in unconscious criteria biasing the via various forms of subsidised employment. This is a area has, at the same time, increased from moderate to results. An initial selection test increases the likelihood substantial and positive increase since 2015, and we good, and we have also seen a positive shift in relation that objective criteria will determine the choices made. are seeing a trend whereby more of the people in these to increased gender equality. positions are becoming permanent employees. • We have communicated our employer brand by high­ lighting role models and good examples of diversity • We have enabled internal experience swaps and skill The focus of the 2019 –2020 plan is on integrating the enhancement via membership of Diversity Charter, a diversity and inclusiveness perspective into everything and inclusiveness in social media. non-profit organisation that focuses on diversity and we do, on creating clear ownership of these issues • We have, within the framework of the Swedish Public inclusiveness. throughout the organisation, and on ensuring that we Employment Service’s “Sverige Tillsammans” [Sweden comply with the provisions of the Swedish Discrimina­ Together] project and the “100-klubben” [The 100 • We have collaborated with the DUA Delegation (Dele­ tion Act. Club] initiative, taken on 114 people newly arrived in gation for the Employment of Young People and Newly Sweden since the project started in 2015. Our goal Arrived Migrants) on the development of labour market We have reviewed our diversity and inclusiveness policy was to take 100 people during a three-year period end­ measures for new arrivals. during the year and clarified our belief that everyone ing in 2018. The Swedish Public Employment Service is of equal value. We have, furthermore, clarified the will be winding up this project this year – a project in • Systembolaget’s product depot in Sundsvall has also responsibility of managers and employees for living up which a total of 31 companies have helped 3,728 new been nominated for Samhall’s “Visa Vägen” [Show the to our policy and, in connection therewith, reviewed arrivals gain work experience or be offered subsidised Way] prize, which is awarded to companies and activ­ our internal regulations for handling and preventing employment. ists who have done most to open the labour market up discrimination, harassment, repression, and bullying. In for people with disabilities. 68 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS In 2017, we collaborated with three other State-owned companies to offer work expe­ PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES (GENDER AND AGE GROUP) rience places for graduates. We had high ambitions, but it has proved difficult to find Systembolaget endeavours to ensure an even gender distribution and to have good matches with the work experience places we were able to offer. We evaluated employees of all ages. We have identified a distortion amongst smaller stores and the preliminary work carried out and have learned lessons for similar future projects. in smaller communities with a higher percentage of elderly people, and there are few head office employees under the age of 30. In 2018, we saw an increase in the percentage of male employees and the total Key ratios, results and activities gender breakdown consequently continued its progression towards a more equal breakdown (60/40). The percentage of younger employees (under the age of 30) DIVERSITY STATISTICS has increased relatively sharply, year on year. In 2018, 12 per cent of our employees had a foreign background, in comparison with the population of Sweden as a whole, for which the corresponding figure was 27 per In-depth analyses of the information have, however, revealed that even if things are cent. One of Systembolaget’s goals is to increase the number of employees with reasonably equal at company level, there are substantial variations across Sweden. foreign backgrounds so that they approach the same percentage as workforce as they We face challenges, particularly in smaller stores and smaller communities, where do the population makeup of Sweden. We reviewed the new requirements for ensuring the workforce is overwhelmingly female, and only 20 per cent of the stores are correct data processing in conjunction with the GDPR* coming into force, and no achieving the 60/40 distribution requirement. We will investigate this further in diversity statistics were consequently reported for 2016 and 2017. We did, however, 2019 and identify and implement measures to increase gender equality. manage to carry out a mapping in 2018, and have followed up on the percentage of employees with foreign backgrounds in order to see how far we have come in our We refined the breakdown of our survey, starting in 2017, by dividing head office efforts to reflect diversity in society. (HQ) personnel into two categories: employees and managers. At managerial level, we have also elected to divide the managers into HQ managers and Area Managers. Percentage with 2018 20152 20142 a foreign back­ ground 1 (%) Swedish Foreign Swedish Foreign Swedish Foreign The refined breakdown makes it easier to see whether the gender breakdown at managerial level reflects the gender breakdown within the respective sections of Managers 91.8 8.2 91.8 8.2 92.3 7.7 the organisation, in the same way as is already possible for our store personnel. The results show that although we are approaching the definition of equal, the gender Employees 87.4 12.6 – – – – breakdown at managerial level does not really reflect the gender breakdown of the workforce. Our ambition in 2018 was to take a closer look at why these differences Total 87.8 12.2 90.2 9.8 89.8 10.2 exist, but this issue will be spotlighted more strongly in 2019 when we take an 1. A Swedish background is defined as a person born in Sweden or with one parent born in another country. A foreign holistic approach to the Swedish Discrimination Act. background is defined as a person born in another country or with both parents born abroad. 2. Data for separate reporting unavailable. 69 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS 2018 Number of Women Men Aged <30 Aged 30-50 Aged >50 2016 Number of Women Men Aged <30 Aged 30-50 Aged >50 employees (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) employees (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Sales personnel 4,776 64 36 38 44 18 Sales personnel 4,512 64 36 37 45 18 Store Managers 461 58 42 6 70 25 Store Managers 456 58 42 6 73 20 Janitors 12 83 17 8 8 83 Janitors 19 89 11 5 11 84 Store personnel, total 5,249 64 36 35 46 19 Store personnel, total 4,987 64 36 34 47 18 HQ employees 458 56 44 7 70 23 HQ employees 386 59 41 7 68 25 HQ Managers 74 61 39 3 55 42 HQ Managers 57 63 37 0 47 53 Area Managers 29 48 52 0 52 48 Area Managers 31 52 48 0 71 29 HQ personnel, total 561 56 44 6 67 27 HQ personnel, total 474 59 41 6 66 28 Systembolaget, total 5,810 63 37 33 48 19 Systembolaget, total 5,461 63 37 32 49 19 2017 Number of Women Men Aged <30 Aged 30-50 Aged >50 The Board of Directors, including the four employee representatives, and the com­ employees (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) pany management (included in the HQ employees category) comprised 12 women Sales personnel 4,725 65 35 38 44 18 and 8 men in 2018. None of the Members of the Board or of the company manage­ Store Managers 476 59 41 7 71 22 ment are in the aged <30 age group, while five people are aged between 30 and 50, and 15 are in the aged >50 group. Janitors 13 85 15 0 8 92 Store personnel, total 5,214 64 36 35 46 18 Finance HQ employees 412 57 43 7 68 24 HQ Managers 58 60 40 0 47 53 Area Managers 30 43 57 0 63 37 HQ personnel, total 500 57 43 6 66 28 Why this is important Systembolaget, total 5,714 64 36 33 48 19 Systembolaget is not driven by selling targets or profit maximisation. The most important financial value generated by Systembolaget is, rather, in the form of reduced social costs achieved by limiting the harmful effects of alcohol. Our infor­ mation mandate is, in this context, an important part of painting a realistic picture for people of the risks that may be entailed by alcohol consumption. Our primary goal, as mandated by our owner – the State – is, instead, to be of benefit to society. 70 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Systembolaget shall, at the same time, operate in a Systembolaget has three financial key ratios: equity/as­ Swedish Companies Act, total the equivalent of 80 –100 cost-effective and business-like way, and our second­ sets ratio*, return on equity*, and cost-effectiveness*. per cent of the profit/loss for the year after tax. If the ary goal is, therefore, to deliver a yield requirement return exceeds the yield target figure, consideration is over time that is predetermined by our owner. The The equity/assets ratio is calculated as adjusted equity given to whether the surplus should be reversed to the revenues generated by the operations shall, therefore, as a percentage of the Balance Sheet total. The owner’s operations in order to generate the maximum possible both cover costs and generate a return for the State. goal is for an equity/assets ratio of 20 –30 per cent. social benefit in line with the mandate and mandate Achieving this means it is important that we act in a The equity/assets ratio is affected by changes in equity goals. See page 112 for the suggested appropriation resource-smart way. relative to other Balance Sheet items, such as financial of profits for the year. assets and inventories. Projects and initiatives that re­ sult in increased efficiency for Balance Sheet items, The company’s operations shall be conducted in a Direction and strategic such as stock management, may, therefore, result in manner that enables us to ensure the high-quality an increase in the equity/assets ratio. The aim of the execution of the company’s mandate. The operations ­initiatives equity/assets metric is to show what percentage of shall, therefore, be conducted in a cost-effective man­ the assets are financed with the company’s equity: to ner. By this, we mean that the company’s costs shall be Our long-term ambition is to be an effective going show, in other words, how sensitive the company is to covered and the State shall receive a reasonable return concern with a reasonable rate of cost development, interest rate changes. The company currently has no in accordance with the specified yield requirement. maintaining a high standard of quality while simulta­ loan financing and its liquidity is good, and the interest Cost-effectiveness is calculated as the ratio between neously achieving the yield requirement. The system rate sensitivity is, therefore low. total overheads and quantities sold. The goal is for support tool that has been developed to enhance the this key ratio to be equivalent to or less than 2.3 over efficiency of draft orders, freeing up time in the stores The return on equity is calculated as the operating prof­ time. Systembolaget may not conduct its operations for customer interactions and handling the increase it/loss for the period (rolling, 12 months) as a percent­ in a way that maximises profits, nor may it actively pro­ in orders placed, should be seen as part of this work. age of the average adjusted equity. The term, average mote sales, and the effectiveness metric is, therefore, adjusted equity, refers to the average of the opening intended solely to ensure cost-effectiveness. Systembolaget is financed by means of surcharges and closing equity for the year, plus the capital share on goods sold. These surcharges are based on the of untaxed reserves. The return on equity should, in the handling costs of the goods, assuming efficient and long-term correspond to the ten-year bond yield (aver­ rational operations. The surcharge calculated is objec­ age calculated for the financial year) plus 7 percentage tive, transparent, and equal for all, and is non-negotia­ points. The owner’s yield requirement, together with Key ratios, results and ble. The surcharge comprises a general surcharge of other financial key ratios, forms the basis for the princi­ 17.5 per cent, based on the procurement price, and a ples used when preparing the budget. Systembolaget ­activities variable surcharge per packaging. The revenues gen­ does not attempt to increase sales and its budget work erated by Systembolaget’s retail sales include alcohol consequently focuses on ensuring optimum cost util­ EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO tax*, which is a State-imposed excise duty. Changes to isation, based on an anticipated gross profit, in order On 31 December 2018, the equity/assets ratio was 25.7 alcohol tax rates affect Systembolaget’s revenues, as to achieve the yield requirement. per cent (27.8). The Owner’s Instructions state that the do the cost of the goods sold, and a change in alcohol equity/assets ratio shall be 20 –30 per cent for the full tax must not, therefore, have any impact on the gross The Owner’s Instructions also state that the dividend year. The equity/assets ratio normally varies over the profit. The alcohol tax accrues to the State. should, if permitted by the dividend provisions of the course of the year. 71 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS RETURN ON EQUITY 2018 2017 2016 The return on equity shall, according to the Owner’s Equity/assets ratio, % 25.7 27.8 28.2 Instructions, correspond over time to the average 10-year government bond yield, plus 7 percentage Return on equity, % 11.4 17.2 17.5 points, which, on 31 December 2018, corresponded Cost-effectiveness (factor) 2.3 2.2 2.3 to 7.7 per cent (rolling, 12 months). Systembolaget’s return on equity on 31 December 2018 was 11.4 per cent (17.2). The return decreased, year on year, despite increased sales. Costs were higher due to investments in development projects to meet future requirements, investments in the digital customer interaction, and the creation of conditions for future efficiency en­ hancing work and improvements in stores. System­ bolaget has also invested in expanding its operations in relation to Systembolaget’s mandate and the risks ­a ssociated with alcohol, and this has resulted in an increase in both personnel and information costs. Personnel costs also increased due to the increase in the volume of sales, the annual pay review, and the in­ crease in the number of stores. Personnel costs were, furthermore, affected by an increase in the number of customer orders placed. COST EFFECTIVENESS This key ratio refers to a new owner’s goal and is presented once yearly. The aim of the effectiveness metric is to adapt overheads in different periods to changes in quantities sold. The 2017 Annual General Meeting approved a new calculation basis for the key ratio and a target level of less than or equal to 2.3. The cost effectiveness on 31 December 2018 was 2.3 (2.2), which is in line with the agreed target figure. The increase was primarily due to higher costs than in the preceding year, but was also affected by a change in the product group mix. 72 CONTENTS Financial reporting 73 Economic performance FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Economic performance Systembolaget shall be run in a commercial manner SEK 7,511 m (7,028). Sales of spiritous drinks increased Sales of organic products increased by 9 per cent to without attempting to maximise profits. In practical by 3.4 per cent and totalled SEK 6,005 m (5,810), SEK 4,520 m and comprised 14.7 per cent of total sales terms, this means that, unlike other companies, we do while sales of cider and mixed drinks increased by 14.1 in SEK million. There were a total of 448 (428) organic not advertise in an attempt to boost sales and we do per cent to SEK 867 m (760). The biggest increase in items in the fixed range at the end of the year. not attempt to persuade people to buy more products revenues is volume-related, but was also due to some or to buy products other than those they had intended customers choosing products from the more expen­ The number of ethically labelled products in Syst­ to buy. sive segments. embolaget’s fixed range increased to 45 (43). Sales totalled SEK 703 m (615), corresponding to an increase Systembolaget has a monopoly on the retail sales of Systembolaget’s sales volume increased by 4.5 per of 14.2 per cent. spiritous drinks, wine, and strong beer. This monopoly cent, year-on-year, and totalled 504.9 million (483.0) li­ has a socio-political purpose and limits the harmful tres. Preliminary figures from CAN indicate, at the same Interest in the alcohol-free range continues to in­ effects of alcohol, partly by eliminating private profit time, that total alcohol consumption in Sweden fell by crease, with sales of alcohol-free products increasing motives in conjunction with retail sales, and partly by approximately two per cent between 2017 and 2018, by 9.3 per cent and totalling SEK 199 m (182). This is a limiting availability. Our owner, the State, has set a and that Systembolaget’s share of sales increased by trend that Systembolaget is keen to promote, and we number of goals that are based on this purpose and just under three percentage points. Our theory is that are now able to offer a total of 71 (66) alcohol-free items which make it clear that the mandate goals are the pri­ the increase in Systembolaget’s sales is primarily due in our fixed range. mary goals. The primary goal is, therefore, according to the fine, hot summer and autumn and that this, cou­ to our owner, the good of society. The secondary goal pled with the weak Swedish krona, may have resulted is to deliver a return over time that is predetermined by in more Swedes opting for a staycation. According to Alcohol-free the owner and which is monitored through a number the most recently published Monitor Survey1 for 2017, 3.6 Strong of economic goals. total alcohol consumption has fallen by eight per cent Cider and beer over the past ten years (2008-2017). Systembolaget’s mixed drinks 256.8 SALES share, meanwhile, has increased by almost eight per 21.2 Systembolaget’s revenues in 2018 totalled SEK 30,907 cent during the same period. The same survey shows m (29,355), corresponding to a year-on-year increase that the total consumption of pure alcohol per head of Spirits of 5.3 per cent. Sales of wine totalled SEK 16,150 m population aged 15 or above was 9.0 litres, which is on 19.8 (15,409), corresponding to an increase of 4.8 per cent, a par with levels in 2016.1 Wine 203.5 while sales of strong beer increased by 6.9 per cent to Drinks sales in 2018, million litres. 74 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS FUTURE SALES DEVELOPMENT • T he trend towards more expensive products in all were also affected by the yearly pay review. The oper­ While total alcohol consumption has declined by eight product groups is expected to increase in the next ating margin was 0.7 per cent (0.9). per cent between 2008 and 2017, the sales develop­ few years, albeit not quite as rapidly. ment in recent years has been relatively stable, with NET FINANCIAL ITEMS AND PRE-TAX PROFIT an annual increase in revenues of between 2 and 4 per • Organic products have experienced strong growth in The pre-tax profit was SEK 232 m (353). Net financial cent. Alcohol tax increases in 2015 and 2017 account recent years and this growth is expected to continue items totalled SEK -2 m (58), SEK 24 m (30) of which for approximately 1 – 2 per cent of this increase. The in the years ahead. comprised interest income from financial investments, underlying development is expected to continue over and SEK -43 m (-14) of which comprised changes in the next few years, resulting in a continued increase OPERATING PROFIT the value of financial investments. Interest expenses in sales volumes in all product groups. The volume Systembolaget shall operate under business-like totalled SEK 0 m (0). A dividend of SEK 17 m (43) was development in 2018 showed an unusually steep in­ principles, without promoting sales, and shall focus received from Systembolaget’s subsidiary company, crease, however, due to a warm summer, so is likely on cost-effectiveness*. Systembolaget posted an AB K14 Näckströmsgatan, during the year. The year-onto be less steep between 2018 and 2019 than in 2018. ­operating profit* of SEK 227 m (270) and a gross profit year decrease in the dividend of SEK 25 m was due to Some differences are, however, apparent between the of SEK 3,903 m (3,700), with the increase primarily the sale of a property in 2017. The market valuation of product groups, with the changes primarily influenced attributable to the increase in sales volumes. Selling Systembolaget’s investments has performed negatively by changes in alcohol tax*, prices, and trends. expenses increased to SEK 2,942 m (2,767) and admin­ during the year due to prevailing market conditions at istration expenses totalled SEK 738 m (669). The selling the end of the year. • The cider and mixed drinks product group has report­ expenses sub-category, personnel costs, reported an ed the strongest growth in recent years. This trend is increase that was due to the increase in sales volumes CASH FLOW expected to continue, and volumes are, in future, ex­ and number of stores. Store premises rental costs The cash flow from operating activities totalled SEK pected to increase at the same rate as in recent years. have also increased due, in part, to the increase in the 624 m (529). The cash flow from investment activities number of stores. totalled SEK -57 m (-918) and comprised net investments • The trend in sales of spiritous drinks was declining un­ in financial assets totalling SEK 74 m (-739) and net in­ til 2014, since when a moderate increase in volumes Systembolaget is investing, long-term, in development vestments in tangible fixed assets of SEK -131 m (-179). has occurred. Sales volumes are, in future, expected projects that focus on tomorrow’s digital customer The investment in tangible fixed assets primarily com­ to continue to increase at the same rate as in recent interaction and future efficiency-enhancing measures, prised the construction of new stores and renovation years. which has an impact on selling expenses. of existing ones. The year-on-year change in financial investments is largely due to the fact that, as of 2018, • S ales of beer and wine are expected to increase in Administration expenses have increased due to ac­ Systembolaget’s suppliers have the option of invoicing tandem with population growth and on a par with the tivities in the sustainability sphere, information cam­ more frequently, and this has affected the liquidity flow. increases seen in recent years. paigns about the risks associated with alcohol and The cash flow from financial activities totalled SEK why Systembolaget exists, and to increased IT op­ -265 m (-246) and comprised a dividend of SEK 17 m • Sales of alcohol-free drinks are expected to increase, erations coats, which are largely associated with the (43) from AB K14 Näckströmsgatan, corresponding to but not at the same rate as that seen in recent years. above-mentioned development projects. The increase the company’s net profit, and Systembolaget’s payment This is primarily attributable to the fact that the retail in personnel costs is attributable to, amongst other of a dividend of SEK -282 m (-289) to the owner. sector as a whole has expanded its range to meet things, new recruitments in the above-mentioned customer demand. areas. Selling expenses and administration expenses 75 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS FINANCIAL POSITION gal bearing on Systembolaget AB’s operations, in that a considerable value in a continuation of efforts to clarify Shareholders’ equity on 31 December 2018 totalled SEK consistent and cohesive alcohol policy is a prerequisite the legislation. 1,503 m, corresponding to a year-on-year decrease of for the survival of the retail monopoly. SEK 102 m. The change comprised the net profit for the The report entitled “The regulation of alcoholic ice year less the dividend paid to the owner, which totalled The farm sales issue has already been investigated, cream and other products24” presented in the summer SEK 282 m. most recently in SOU 2010:9822, which clearly showed of 2017 continues to be processed by the Swedish Gov­ the impossibility of combining the retail monopoly with ernment Offices. The report proposes that alcoholic SUMMARY OF THE SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES a parallel system in which privately-owned for profit preparations that resemble alcoholic drinks may only be IQ-initiativet AB (IQ) works to help promote a smarter companies are allowed to sell alcoholic drinks covered sold by Systembolaget. Systembolaget has supported approach to alcohol by using know-how and communi­ by the retail monopoly. In the spring of 2018, Parliament the report’s proposal in its position paper. The proposal cation to create awareness, mindfulness, and engage­ took a decision supporting farm sales in the spring, pro­ was processed by the Council in 2018 and is now being ment in people’s own drinking and that of others, and vided that it did not threaten Systembolaget’s monopo­ prepared by the Swedish Government Offices. thereby help reduce the harmful effects of alcohol in ly. See also under Events after the closing day. society. IQ is financed by Systembolaget with an annual Systembolaget also worked, in 2018, on protecting its budget of SEK 35 m (35). The pre-tax profit for the peri­ The subject of distance sales of alcoholic drinks has information and functionality, its brand, and its intellec­ od was SEK 1.7 m (-0.2). become topical due to the growth in digitisation and tual property in order – give the socio-political mandate Swedish customers’ increased interest in shopping and the requirement for brand neutrality – to avoid being AB K14 Näckströmsgatan manages Systembolaget’s via digital channels. The commercial online operators’ associated with or being perceived as the originator of operating properties. The pre-tax profit was SEK 21.8 share of sales is still very low in Sweden, but they are alcohol advertising or provider of commercial services. m (22.0). The net profit is attributable to intra-Group using aggressive marketing in this context and thereby Systembolaget is simultaneously – in a way that focuses rental revenue. contributing to the normalisation of alcohol as just an­ on the customer and which is based on our purpose other product. The Finnish Supreme Court’s confirma­ and mandate as well as the changes in external factors LEGAL ISSUES tion on 28 June 2018 of the European Court ruling from – developing our digital offering and range. There is a broad consensus within the EU that alcohol is 2015 in the so-called Alkotaxi case further clarified that not just another product. Alcohol consumption causes these operators’ activities should be classified as retail EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DAY societal harm, both socially and economically, and Swe­ trade in Sweden. The operations are, therefore, clearly In February 2019, Systembolaget brought suit against den has consequently chosen to implement an alcohol illegal in that Systembolaget has a monopoly on such the online wine retailers, Winefinder AB and Winefind­ policy based on restricted availability, high taxes and retail sales. See also under Events after the closing day. er ApS, in the Patent and Market Court in response to limited marketing. Private profitmaking interests should Winefinder’s statement that they do not intend to stop be restricted with regard to retail sales of alcohol in that As noted in previous government reviews (see the engaging in retail sales of alcoholic drinks to Swedish having profit as an incentive results in increased avail­ “Private imports of alcoholic drinks”, and DS 2016:33 consumers – which is illegal and infringes upon System­ ability and, consequently, an increase in consumption “Regulation of distance selling of alcoholic drinks23”), bolaget’s monopoly. that is bad for public health. the legislator has identified a need to clarify existing legislation and modernise supervisory work, in that In January 2019, Systembolaget and IQ launched “Barn­ The question of farm sales was discussed in the Swedish this form of retail trade poses challenges to the longdom utan baksmälla” (Hangover-free childhood), which political sphere in 2018, as was the question of distance term retention of Sweden’s restrictive alcohol policy. is a partnership with the BRIS (Children’s’ Rights in So­ sales of alcoholic drinks. Both of these issues have a le­ Systembolaget shares the legislator’s opinion and sees ciety), Trygga Barnen (the Safe Kids Foundation), World 76 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Childhood Foundation, and Maskrosbarn (the Dandelion Kids organisation) children’s rights organisations. Vice President Marie Nygren has decided to leave ­Systembolaget in 2019. Recruitment of her successor is now underway. A General Election was held in Sweden on 9 September 2018. Forming a government took time, and a new gov­ ernment was not in place until January 2019. One point in the agreement between the four parliamentary par­ ties, states that the government will set up a commission to investigate farm sales of alcoholic drinks in 2020. The agreement also states that securing Systembolaget’s monopoly is a prerequisite of the Commission’s work. 77 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Risk and sensitivity analysis Systembolaget’s objective for its risk management is PROCESS policies as part of its efforts to reduce the company’s an operation in which the risks to which the company The risk management methodology within Systembo­ risk exposure. Systembolaget’s insurance programme are exposed to are identified at an early stage and laget harmonises with COSO Enterprise Risk Manage­ includes property and consequential loss insurance, managed in line with the degree of impact that they ment and ISO 31000. Processes, categorisation, and liability insurance for general liability, and product can have on the company and its mandate. System­ organisational breakdown of risk management within liability insurance. These policies are managed by bolaget’s risk management work shall, furthermore, be Systembolaget are clarified in the framework ultimate­ Systembolaget’s security unit with the assistance of an integral part of its operational governance and shall ly approved by the Board on a yearly basis. an insurance broker. Systembolaget also takes out help ensure that the owner feels secure in the way in collective agreement insurance against occupational which Systembolaget fulfils its mandate and manages Systembolaget carries out a company-wide risk anal­ injuries. These policies are managed by Systembolag­ its risks. ysis every year. The risk analysis aggregates the risks et’s HR department. from the operating areas and departments for evalu­ RESPONSIBILITY ation by managers and key individuals within the op­ Several of these types of insurance cover are a statu­ Responsibility for risk management within Systembo­ erations and by the company management team with tory requirement for businesses and Systembolaget laget complies with the lines of defence described by regard to the way in which the risks affect the company has also elected to take out additional insurance cover, the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the at an overall strategic and operational level. over and above the statutory requirement, in order to Treadway Commission (COSO). Line Managers and guarantee the well-being, safety and security of our process owners consequently have primary respon­ Operational risks are reported and followed up on a employees and the company. sibility for managing their risks and are, therefore, by six-monthly basis by the company management and definition, risk owners. Risk controllers support the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. The CRISIS AND CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT risk owners and control and review compliance with principle that underlies the risk evaluation work is that The crisis and continuity management methodologies Systembolaget’s risk management framework. The in­ Systembolaget’s risk acceptance and tolerance levels are spread across risk control and the security unit, ternal audit, which is audited by an external company, are generally low, particularly with regard to threats with the security unit responsible for crisis manage­ is tasked by the Board of Directors with reviewing the to the safety and health of employees and the general ment. Established fora exist in which incident, risk, efficiency and fitness for purpose of the risk manage­ public, or risks to the company’s existence, mandate crisis, and continuity management are discussed and ment framework and the operations’ risk management or brand. developed in order to strengthen the work in this area. work. Crisis management and continuity plans are tested and INSURANCE updated every year as far as is practically possible. Systembolaget chooses to take out various insurance 78 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS RISKS The areas in which Systembolaget’s risk exposure is greatest, including risks from a sustainability perspective, are presented below. RISK AREA DESCRIPTION COMMENTS RISK AREA DESCRIPTION COMMENTS Reputation Existing legislation and the structure of Systembolaget is working Working The type of retail operations that Systembolaget addres­ alcohol advertising may open the door to bring about a change conditions Systembolaget conducts are exposed ses the risk scenario to uncertainty about the identity of the in the way in which the to the risk of robbery. Threats and in­ continuously through its advertiser. This poses a challenge to brand is used in the cidents of violence against employees security unit, and reviews the brand, which may generate a lack media. are also, unfortunately, not unknown its personnel's levels of of trust in Systembolaget’s objective within the company. Uncertainty awareness of and exposu­ and the way in which the company consequently always exists with regard re to threats and violence. handles its mandate. to whether the security-enhancing me­ asures in place within the company are External Social development in Sweden is hel­ Systembolaget is working sufficient to address this issue. factors ping to give rise to uncertainty about continuously to achieving Systembolaget’s ability to manage ongoing improvements in Indepen­ Systembolaget’s monopoly means that Systembolaget works con­ our customers’ increasingly elevated its customer interactions dence there is always a risk that stakeholders tinuously to raise levels of expectations of the ways in which in order to proactively will, in a variety of ways, attempt to influ­ awareness amongst our Systembolaget makes its products address the changing ence the company’s purchasing proces­ employees and to inform available. demand picture. ses and, hence, the product range. our stakeholders and ensure clarity with regard Legislation One of the preconditions for System­ Systembolaget’s legal to our purchasing routines bolaget’s monopoly is that Swedish department continuously and terms and conditions. legislation in this area is cohesive and examines and reviews the consistent, and that it is strictly super­ legal context in which Systembolaget also vised. There is currently a lack of clarity Systembolaget operates. continuously reviews the in both the legislative and supervisory fitness for purpose of its respect, which creates uncertainty in purchasing process. the context in which Systembolaget operates. 79 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS RISK AREA DESCRIPTION COMMENTS DESCRIPTION COMMENTS Transpa­ Systembolaget operates in an industry Systembolaget conducts Increased Challenges to Systembolaget’s mo­ Systembolaget's monopoly rency in in which traceability and transparency annual mapping proces­ alcohol-­ nopoly can impair our ability to fulfil on the sale of alcoholic the supply in the supply chain have not, historically ses to identify risk areas. related our mandate to reduce the harmful drinks without a profit chain speaking, been regarded as necessary. harm effects of alcohol at both an individual interest is, in itself, a means Systembolaget imple­ In some cases, the lack thereof may also, and a societal level. Increased alcohol of addressing the risks en­ ments system support due to the nature of the products, consti­ consumption would result in increased tailed by increased alcohol in order to ensure more tute a competitive advantage for certain societal costs for policing and medical consumption. Availability is effective follow-up work. subcontractors. This may make it difficult care due to increases in violence, the limited through the number for Systembolaget and, to some extent, number of traffic accidents, and sick of retail outlets, and ope­ Systembolaget’s suppliers, to ensure leave. ning hours, and through transparency at every link in the supply selling rules that mandate chain. selling responsibly at all times. Complex Systembolaget operates in an environ­ Systembolaget is increa­ supply ment with complex supply chains and sing its annual supplier and Second-­ Alcohol doesn’t just harm the person Systembolaget works to chains a complex business model with an producer audits in order hand harm who drinks – it harms those around limit the harmful effects extensive spread of purchases from to gain increased control them, and children are particularly of alcohol by selling numerous regions and countries. This over the products sold. vulnerable in this context. 4–5 per cent responsibly and providing means that the volumes per business of all children under the age of 18 in information on the risks Systembolaget also Sweden live with a parent who abuses associated with alcohol. are not great, reducing Systembolaget’s complements its audits or is addicted to alcohol25. 14 per cent Systembolaget provides degree of influence and offering less with training activities at of ninth graders state that their parents' information on the omsys­ potential for monitoring compliance the producer stage of the alcohol consumption has resulted in tembolaget. se website, with sustainability requirements. chain. them having several negative expe­ publishes the Alcohol Re­ Systembolaget imple­ riences during childhood7, and seven port, and holds seminars, ments system support out of every 10 schoolteachers have, at and finances research and in order to ensure more some point, suspected that their pupils' research conferences. effective follow-up work. parents are drinking to excess19. Systembolaget has also, Compliance The large number of suppliers and Systembolaget is working within the framework of with the subcontractors results in a diversified to increase skill levels, to the research projects Code of supplier basis, which creates problems clarify the requirements financed in 2017 and 2018, Conduct of scale in the follow-up work. The imposed, to improve its focused on research into company’s equal treatment policy also follow-up work, remedial parents of young children means that all suppliers, irrespective actions and consequence and hazardous alcohol of size, must comply with the same activities, in order to in­ consumption. This resear­ requirements. These areas create crease compliance with our ch is expected to generate uncertainty regarding the compliance Code of Conduct and redu­ valuable new findings over with our external Code of Conduct. ce the risk of corruption. the new five years. 80 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Financial risks, such as interest rate, credit, and liquidi­ ty risks are limited at Systembolaget. Systembolaget is self-financing thanks to, amongst other things, a high rate of stock turnover* that matches the purchasing and payment terms. Systembolaget has no interest-bearing liabilities. All sales are paid for in cash or by credit card and Syst­ embolaget consequently has no significant accounts receivable. The drinks suppliers are responsible for the importation of alcoholic drinks and for reporting alcohol tax. Systembolaget’s purchases are primarily made in Swedish kronor and the company’s exposure to exchange rate and currency risks is consequently very low. 81 Corporate Governance Report FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Corporate Governance Report Systembolaget AB is wholly-owned by the Swedish three mandate goals for Systembolaget, together with Meetings are held on a rolling basis, approximately State. The ownership is administered by the Govern­ a number of financial goals, in the Owners Directive. four to five times a year, between representatives of ment through the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs The mandate goals take precedence, with the financial the owner and Systembolaget’s Chairman of the Board and the responsibility for Systembolaget’s manage­ goals defined as secondary to the mandate ones. and President. Representatives of Systembolaget’s ment and control is shared between the owner, the company management, over and above the Presi­ Board of Directors and the President. Fulfilment of the mandate goals is measured using the Customer Satisfaction Index*, the Alcohol Index, and Alcohol Consumption* in Sweden. The financial goals comprise the equity/assets ratio*, the return require­ Corporate governance principles The owner ment, the dividend requirement, and a cost-effective­ ness metric. Systembolaget’s corporate governance is ­conducted principally on the basis of: • the Swedish Companies Act The owner’s expectations of Systembolaget are speci­ • other applicable Swedish legislation The agreement between Systembolaget and the State fied in the agreement between Systembolaget and the • the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the was clarified in 2017 such that it now explicitly states state, in the Owner’s Directive, in the State’s ownership Code) that Systembolaget shall take specific sustainability • the State’s ownership policy, which also includes policy, and in the guidelines for State-owned compa­ considerations into account in conjunction with its guidelines for external reporting and guidelines nies. The agreement and the Owner’s Directive specify drinks purchasing. The clarification manifests the for remuneration and other conditions of employ­ the bases for the company’s operations with regard importance of sustainable development and that it is ment for senior executives to the social mandate, the requirement for financial • the agreement between Systembolaget and the something upon which Systembolaget must focus. efficiency, and any other requirements with regard to State the company’s operations, including the provision that • the State’s ownership directive for Systembolaget Systembolaget’s mandate is to engage responsibly (the Owner’s Directive) Systembolaget is not driven by sales goals or profit and with a high standard of service, in the retail sales • the State’s ownership goals maximisation*. The owner determines the objectives of alcoholic beverages, and to inform people about the • the Articles of Association of the company’s operations through the Articles of • the formal workplans for the Board of Directors harmful effects of alcohol. The aim is to help improve Association, while the ownership policy establishes and the Board-appointed committees public health by limiting the harmful effects of alcohol. the owner’s expectations of the company as one of • the instructions for the President The monopoly means that Systembolaget is the only • internal steering documents the State-owned companies, and the owner issues in­ company permitted to engage in retail sales of strong structions to the Board of Directors of System­bolaget beer, wines and spiritous drinks in Sweden. through the Owner’s Directive. The owner has set 82 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS dent, attend these meetings as required. Areas discussed at these meetings during the year include the work of the Board of Directors, operational monitoring, including fol­ The resolutions approved by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting included the following: The Board of low ups of key performance indicators, the mandate goals, the financial goals, and the strategic goals for sustainable enterprise. Sustainability issues, the farm sales issue, the • Re-election of Kenneth Bengtsson as the Chairman of the Board. • Re-election of the following Members of the Board: ­Directors distance sales issue, pension issues, and other issues of Crister Fritzson, Kerstin W ­ igzell, Håkan Leifman, Vi­ Systembolaget’s Board of Directors is responsible, un­ relevance for the company have also been discussed. The veca Bergstedt Sten, Frida Johansson Metso, Robert der the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act, for owner exercises its rights as a shareholder at the Annual Damberg and Cecilia Halle, and the new election as the organisation of the company and the administra­ General Meeting. a Member of the Board of Barbro Holmberg. tion of the company’s affairs. According to the State’s • Directors’ fees payable to Members of the Board ownership policy, the Board of Directors in companies elected by the Annual General Meeting, members where the State has an ownership interest shall ensure of the company’s Board-appointed committees, and that the companies are operated in a model way within Auditors. the scope of the legislation, the company’s Articles of The Annual General • Approval of the “Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior executives Association, the owner’s instructions and the State’s ownership policy. Some of the work involved in ensur­ of Systembolaget AB” proposed by the Board of Di­ ing public confidence in Systembolaget’s operations Meeting rectors”. • Adoption of the Income Statement and the Balance entails the drawing up of relevant policy documents and conducting annual evaluations of existing policies, Sheet. which are published on Systembolaget’s website. The Annual General Meeting shall, under the terms of the • Allocation of the company’s profits. State’s ownership policy, be held no later than 30 April ev­ • Granting of discharge from liability for the Board of ery year. Members of Parliament are entitled, upon applica­ Directors and the President. tion, to attend the Annual General Meeting and the general public shall also be afforded the opportunity to attend. The The minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available Board of Directors is responsible for issuing a notice con­ on the omsystembolaget.se website. vening the Annual General Meeting to the shareholder no later than four weeks and no earlier than six weeks before the Meeting. The 2019 Annual General The 2018 Annual General ­Meeting ­Meeting The 2019 Annual General Meeting will be held on 11 Systembolaget’s 2018 Annual General Meeting was held April 2019 in Stockholm. Notices convening the Annual on 26 April in Stockholm and was open to the public. The General Meeting will be sent out in March 2019. owner was represented by Permanent Secretary, Agneta Karlsson, from the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. 83 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Code and the State’s ownership policy directs that the composition of the Board OWNER shall, with due regard for the company’s operations, developmental stage, and The Owner’s Directive and conditions in general, be fit for purpose and characterised by diversity and breadth the agreement with the State with regard to areas of expertise, experience and background. Diversity aspects such as ethnic and cultural background shall also be taken into account and an even EXTERNAL AUDIT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOMINATION PROCESS gender distribution shall be sought. The ownership policy states that the gender The State’s ownership policy makeup of the Board shall comprise at least 40 per cent of either sex. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTERNAL AUDIT The starting point when nominating a Member shall be the Board’s expertise re­ quirements and Board Members shall always possess industry know-how or other THE REMUNERATION expertise of direct relevance to the company. The Board must also be able to work THE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE strategically with issues relating to sustainable enterprise. THE ETHICS AND To be considered for a seat on the Board, individuals must possess high-level SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE competence in the company’s ongoing commercial operations, and expertise in commercial development, industry know-how, financial issues, and sustainable THE PRESIDENT enterprise, or other relevant areas. The Members of the Board must also be able to dedicate the amount of time and display the level of commitment required for the role, and must, in addition, display a strong sense of integrity, good judgement, The nomination process for the and the ability to work in the best interests of Systembolaget. The selection is made from a broad recruitment base in order to take advantage of the skills possessed by Board of Directors both men and women, and those possessed by people with different backgrounds and experiences. The appointment of the Board complies with the nomination process described in the State’s ownership policy. The nomination process is coordinated by the Min­ Systembolaget’s Board of Directors comprises nine Members appointed by the istry of Finance. The skills requirement is analysed on the basis of the company’s Annual General Meeting. Five of these Members are women and four, men. The operations, situation and future challenges, and the existing composition of the Board also includes two employee representatives and two Deputy Members ap­ Board and Board Member evaluations carried out. The owner has applied the diver­ pointed by the employees’ organisations. Two of the employee representatives are sity principles set forth in the ownership policy in their work with the nomination women and two, men. None of the Members of the Board are part of the company process. management. All Board Members shall be regarded as independent in relation to the company and the company management. Composition of the Board The owner’s representative submitted a rationale for the composition of the Board and the proposed change at the 2018 Annual General Meeting. The proposed The Articles of Association prescribe that the Board of Directors shall comprise a Members of the Board were deemed to possess the competence, experience and minimum of six and a maximum of nine Members appointed by the General Meeting. background required for the operation of the company. The composition of the The employee organisations are also entitled to appoint Members of the Board. The Board was also, with regard to the company’s operations, developmental phase, 84 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS and conditions in general, deemed to be fit for pur­ pose, to be characterised by diversity and breadth with The Chairman of the Board • working in consultation with the President to set the agenda for Board Meetings; reference to the Members’ competence, experience • checking that the Board’s decisions are implemented; The Chairman shall, pursuant to the provisions of the and background, and to achieve the Government’s • ensuring that the work of the Board is evaluated an­ Swedish Companies Act, lead the work of the Board goal of an even gender breakdown as mandated in the nually. and ensure that the Board carries out its duties. The ownership policy. Code states that the Chairman of the Board shall also The Chairman consults with the President on strategic be responsible for: Systembolaget’s President and Chief Financial Officer issues as they arise and represents the company on attend the Board Meetings. Systembolaget’s Director issues relating to corporate governance. The Chair­ • ensuring that the work of the Board is conducted Corporate, Public and Legal Affairs is the Secretary to man also has certain additional obligations which are efficiently and is well-organised; the Board. Other members of the company manage­ specified in the rules of procedure for the Board of • ensuring that the Board receives sufficient infor­ ment attend as required. Directors. mation and source data on which to base its deci­ sion-making work; The work of the Board Deviations from the Code The Board has adopted a formal work plan which spec­ Systembolaget applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code with the following deviations: ifies how the work is to be divided between System­ bolaget’s Board, the owner, the committees and the Code regulation Deviation Explanation/comments President. The work plan is reviewed annually and was adjusted and adopted in 2018 at the Meeting held by 1.1 Publication of information on the Not published. The aim of this regulation is to give the share­ the newly formed Board in April of that year. The work shareholders’ right of initiation. holders plenty of time to prepare for the Annual plan states that the Board, as a rule, shall hold at least General Meeting and to have issues included in the five meetings per financial year in addition to the Board notice convening the Annual General Meeting. The­ Meeting that is held following elections. re is no reason to observe this regulation in a wholly State-owned company. The Board is responsible for the optimal administra­ tion of the company and for ensuring that the com­ 2. The company shall establish a No Nomination The preparation of nomination committee issues pany’s mandate is executed efficiently and that the Nomination Committee to represent Committee in State-owned companies is carried out by the operations are conducted in a manner conducive to the company’s shareholders in has been Government in the manner detailed in the State’s sustainable development – economically, socially and conjunction with the election and ­established. ownership policy. environmentally. The Board is responsible for ensuring determination of remuneration of the that Systembolaget is run in an exemplary manner in Board of Directors and Auditors of accordance with applicable regulations, and that the the company. operations enjoy public confidence. 85 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS PRESENCE AT BOARD MEETINGS, 2018 PRESENCE AT AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS, 2018 Name Function Presence Note Name Function Presence Note Kenneth Bengtsson Chairman 7/7 Viveca Bergstedt Sten Chairman 5/5 Resigned seat at the Annual General Meeting Thord Andersson Member 3/3 Resigned on 26 April 2018 Thord Andersson Member 2/2 on 26 April 2018 Crister Fritzson Member 5/5 Viveca Bergstedt Sten Member 6/7 Cecilia Halle Member 5/5 Robert Damberg Member 6/7 Crister Fritzson Member 7/7 Cecilia Halle Member 7/7 PRESENCE AT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS, 2018 Barbro Holmberg Member 4/5 Appointed at the Annual General Meeting on Name Function Presence 26 April 2018 (elected at the Board Meeting Kenneth Bengtsson Chairman 4/4 following election on 26 April 2018) Robert Damberg Member 4/4 Frida Johansson Metso Member 7/7 Håkan Leifman Member 5/7 Kerstin Wigzell Member 7/7 PRESENCE AT ETHICS AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE MEETINGS, 2018 Robert Adrell Employee 6/6 Appointed at the SPF (Systembolaget’s Name Function Presence ­representative Personnel Association) meeting on 23-24 (Member) February 2018 Kerstin Wigzell Chairman 2/2 Karin Larsson Employee 6/7 Frida Johansson Metso Member 2/2 ­representative (Deputy Member) Håkan Leifman Member 2/2 Berit Morén Employee 0/1 Resigned seat in February 2018 ­representative (Member) Maria Nilsson Employee 7/7 ­representative (Member) Nils Undall-Behrend Employee 7/7 ­representative (Deputy Member) 86 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board is also responsible for the organisation of • Systembolaget’s direct climate impact (from purcha­ panies Act (ABL 8:23). All Members of Systembolaget’s the company and the administration of its affairs in sed energy, operating and company vehicles, and Board of Directors work actively with the issues that it the best interests of the company and the owner. The coolants) shall be zero by 2023, which is in line with is incumbent upon the Board to address and otherwise Board shall, if Systembolaget is faced with particularly the Fossil-free Sweden initiative. with issues referred to it for consideration. The Board important decisions, such as major strategic changes meets annually with the company’s auditors. to the company’s operations, coordinate its position, The Board also decided, in December 2018, to intro­ through the Chairman, with representatives of the duce a new strategic goal for sustainable enterprise The structure of the Board’s work is laid down in the owner. The coordination shall occur well in advance with regard to inclusiveness and ethnic diversity. A Board’s work plan, which is adopted annually. The work of any decision. new strategic key performance indicator will, there­ plan forms the basis for the planning of the Board’s fore, be implemented for follow-up purposes with work and stipulates the point during the financial year The Board is responsible for setting goals for Systembo­ the goal of ensuring that Systembolaget’s employees when special areas of responsibility shall be addressed laget’s sustainability work, for ensuring that the goals reflect society’s composition of people with different by the Board. are integrated into the company’s business strategy, ethnic origins. and for ensuring that the sustainability work is report­ STRATEGIC PLAN ed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative The Board is also responsible for ensuring that System­ The Board of Directors draws up the strategic plan (GRI*) international reporting standard, and otherwise bolaget complies with relevant guidelines on environ­ which establishes the way in which Systembolaget in accordance with the owner’s policy. Five of System­ mental considerations, human rights, working condi­ prioritises its investments, resources and activities bolaget’s eleven strategic goals adopted by the Board tions, anti-corruption, and business ethics. during the strategic period. The strategic plan extends have been classified as strategic goals for sustainable four years forward in time and is revised every third enterprise over the next few years. These are: All Board Members are responsible to an equal degree year. The strategic plan in force in 2018 was adopted for the work of the Board unless otherwise approved at the Board Meeting in June 2016 and refers to the • the Customer Satisfaction Index shall not fall below at a Board Meeting or in the Board’s formal work plan. years from 2017 to 2020. See page 21 for additional an index value of 84.5-85. information on the strategic plan. A collection of documents (“Laws, steering documents • the Proof of Age Checks* shall not fall below an index etcetera for Systembolaget AB”) has been prepared THE WORK OF THE BOARD IN 2018 value of 96. to support the Board in its work. The collection in­ The Board held a total of seven Board Meetings in cludes certain legislative texts pertaining to the oper­ 2018. The usual follow-up work, both on the company’s • the Performance Culture*, where the goal for 2019 is ations, documents issued by the EU, company-related economic performance and on the social and envi­ that the aggregate result of the employee survey shall documentation, owner-related documentation and ronmental aspects that arose during the course of the not fall below an index value of 82. agreements, investment regulations, Systembolag­ operations has been carried out on an ongoing basis et’s current strategic plan, Systembolaget’s Code of by the Board. This follow-up work took the form of the • the Suppliers’ sustainability maturity, where the goal Conduct, policies, internal guidelines and regulations, presentation of strategic key performance indicators, for 2020 is that all of the suppliers behind the pro­ and information on Systembolaget’s subsidiaries. the equity/assets ratio, and the return on shareholders’ ducts sold in the fixed range shall demonstrate a clear equity*, cost-effectiveness*, following up on the stra­ understanding of their responsibility in the supply The avoidance of conflicts of interest within the Board tegic goals for sustainable enterprise and the owner’s chain and are working proactively and systematically is regulated by the Board’s formal work plan and in mandate goals, as well as Board memoranda on topical with their respective producers. accordance with the provisions of the Swedish Com­ issues. In March, the Board met with the company’s 87 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS auditors, without the presence of the management, as prescribed by the Code. Collectively, this information Evaluation of the work The Audit Committee has afforded the Board the opportunity to monitor the operations’ results on an ongoing basis, including of the Board COMPOSITION Systembolaget’s Audit Committee in 2018 comprised with regard to sustainable enterprise. Aside from the The Code, the State’s ownership policy and the formal Members of the Board Viveca Bergstedt Sten (Chair­ ongoing monitoring of strategic key performance in­ work instructions for the Board of Directors all man­ man of the Committee), Crister Fritzson, and Cecilia dicators, the issues addressed by the Board included: date that the Board shall, by means of a systematic and Halle. Thord Andersson was a member of the commit­ structured process, carry out an annual evaluation of tee until the Board Meeting following election in April • the Responsibility Report; the work of the Board. It shall be incumbent upon the 2018, when he resigned. None of the members of the • real estate issues; Chairman of the Board to ensure that such evaluation Audit Committee are part of the company’s manage­ • the digitisation agenda and other strategic issues; work is carried out. The evaluation addresses both ment. Systembolaget’s CFO and its Director Corpo­ • tomorrow’s online store; the processes employed in the Board’s work and the rate, Public and Legal Affairs, who is also the Secretary • tomorrow’s depot solution; performance of the Board itself, including the way in to the Committee, and the auditors participate in the • issues relating to distance sales/the home delivery which the Board handles relevant economic, environ­ Audit Committee meetings, as, when necessary, does trial; mental, and social issues. Systembolaget’s President and other members of the • farm sales; company management. • issues relating to sustainable enterprise; This year’s evaluation of the work of the Board was • the business plan for 2019; conducted by means of a questionnaire answered by RESPONSIBILITIES • the next strategic plan for the period ending 2023; the Members of the Board, and the work was led by The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee • issues relating to the Alcohol Research Council; the Chairman of the Board. The questionnaire included the right to address certain issues, and to take deci­ • the management talent pool and succession plan­ questions about the working climate and cooperation, sions on the same, and has, furthermore, tasked the ning; and skills, the work of the Board, and the role of the Chair­ Committee with otherwise preparing and monitoring • skill development for managers and employees. man. The results of the evaluation of the work of the issues relating to Systembolaget’s financial reporting Board have been presented to the Board in the form of and the efficiency of the company’s internal controls, a Board memorandum and been discussed at a Board internal and external audits, and risk management. The Directors’ fees and fees for meeting. Board has delegated the following issues to the Audit Committee and authorised the Committee to make committee members In February 2019, the Chairman of the Board notified the Government Offices of Sweden of the results of the decisions on the same: the annual determination of the orientation of internal audit work, the taking of de­ evaluation, in accordance with the State’s ownership cisions on material sustainability areas to be addressed Directors’ fees and fees for work in committees spe­ policy. The Government Offices of Sweden’s ongo­ in the Responsibility Report, together with the associ­ cially established by the Board are approved by the ing work with the nomination process also includes ated GRI indicators and key performance indicators, Annual General Meeting. The fees shall, under the ongoing evaluations of the Boards of State-owned the determination of transparency reporting, and the terms of the State’s ownership policy, be competitive companies. evaluation and adoption of Systembolaget’s invest­ but not market-leading. ment regulations. 88 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Audit Committee is also tasked with familiarising itself with the auditing of the annual accounts, and meetings and the HR Director attends, as necessary. The Ethics and Sustainability with reviewing and monitoring the impartiality and independence of the Auditors and with paying partic­ RESPONSIBILITIES The Remuneration Committee is tasked with preparing Committee ular attention, in this context, to whether the Auditors issues relating to remuneration and other terms of em­ COMPOSITION perform any other services for the company, over and ployment for senior executives. The Committee may, EThe Ethics and Sustainability Committee comprised above auditing engagements. within the framework of the guidelines adopted by the three members in 2018: Kerstin Wigzell (Chairman), Annual General Meeting, independently negotiate with Håkan Leifman, and Frida Johansson Metso. None of THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 the President and the Vice President with regard to re­ the members of the Ethics and Sustainability Commit­ The Audit Committee has held five meetings during muneration and other conditions of employment. Deci­ tee are part of the company’s management. System­ the year. The committee carries out ongoing follow-up sions on remuneration and other terms of employment bolaget’s Director Corporate, Public and Legal Affairs, work on the company’s financial performance and a for the President and the Vice President are, however, who is also the Secretary to the Committee, attend the number of strategic key performance indicators of its the preserve of the Board of Directors. Committee’s meetings. Other members of the company operations. Systembolaget’s auditors have, in addition, management attend, as necessary. presented significant accounting and audit issues, as The Remuneration Committee is also entitled, in co­ well as internal control and process issues. The Com­ operation with the President, to independently recruit RESPONSIBILITIES mittee also addressed such issues as internal and ex­ and negotiate remuneration and other terms of em­ The Ethics and Sustainability Committee is tasked with ternal audits, the Responsibility Report, risk analysis, ployment for senior executives other than the Presi­ preparing and monitoring issues in relation to System­ investment regulations, non-audit engagements per­ dent and the Vice President. Decisions on contracts of bolaget’s sustainability work. The Committee’s primary formed by the Auditor, the final report for the new ERP employment for senior executives (with the exception task is to act as a preparatory body and the Committee system, the pension fund, and the annual evaluation of of the President and the Vice President) shall ultimately has no decision-making powers. certain policies. The Chairman of the Committee pro­ be taken by the Remuneration Committee. vided the Board of Directors with regular information on the Committee’s work. THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2018 The Remuneration Committee has held four meetings The Ethics and Sustainability Committee held two meet­ during the year. The Committee has, in customary ings during the year. The Committee has, amongst ­other fashion, drawn up proposed guidelines for terms of The Remuneration Committee employment for senior executives of Systembolaget. things, addressed issues relating to the company’s strategic goals for sustainable enterprise, the annual The Committee has, furthermore, addressed issues report from IQ, inclusiveness, sustainable enterprise, COMPOSITION relating to pay reviews, pensions, the company man­ the work environment, including occupational health Systembolaget’s Remuneration Committee comprised agement’s salary trend, evaluation of the work of the and safety work in connection with #metoo, the annual two members in 2018: the Chairman of the Board, Ken­ President of the company, the management talent pool report from Compliance and Ethical Directors, and the neth Bengtsson, who is also the Chairman of the Remu­ and succession planning, and the annual evaluation annual evaluation of certain policies. neration Committee, and Committee member, Robert and updating of certain policies. The Chairman of the Damberg. None of the members of the Remuneration Committee provided the Board of Directors with reg­ Committee are part of the company’s management. ular information on the Committee’s work. Systembolaget’s President attends the Committee’s 89 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The President and Systembolaget. These source data delimit the scope of the operating activities and take the form of inter­ nal steering documents, such as internal regulations PRESIDENT senior executives and process, operational, steering, and information models. The President is responsible for the ongoing admin­ istration of the company’s operations and leads the operations pursuant to the provisions of the Swedish Guidelines for remuneration Companies Act, other legislation and regulations, Government guidelines and the Owner’s Directive, and other terms of employthe Code, the Articles of Association and within the framework laid down by the Board of Directors in the ment for senior executives Magdalena Gerger instructions for the President, etcetera. The President, Magdalena Gerger took over as President of Systembolaget follows, in every significant respect, Systembolaget in May 2009. Her previous in consultation with the Chairman, prepares informa­ the Government’s guidelines on remuneration and positions include those of Vice President of tion and documentation to support the work by the terms of employment for senior executives in StateArla Foods, Divisional Manager within Nestlé Board and to enable the Board to take well-founded owned companies. Systembolaget also complies with Ltd in the UK. She is also a former Member of decisions. The President also reports to the Board on the Board of IKEA. the normative provisions in the Code on remuneration the company’s performance. for senior executives, which stipulate that the com­ Born: 1964 pany shall have formalised and transparent processes Other directorships: Member of the Boards for deciding on the remuneration payable to senior Systembolaget’s management executives. of Investor AB, Ahlsell AB and the Swedish Trade Federation. Principal education: Graduate in Business and steering structure Administration, MBA, Stockholm School of Assessment of the President Economics, and leadership and management Systembolaget’s company management comprises, in training. addition to the President, six persons. The company The Board shall, under the provisions of the Code, Independence: Neither the President nor any persons closely associated with her has management meets every other week and the work is carry out a continual assessment of the President’s any significant shareholding in or ownership headed up by the President who, in consultation with performance and shall specifically address this issue, of companies with which Systembolaget has the management, takes decisions in relation to the at least once a year. An assessment was carried out significant commercial links. operating activities. in the autumn under the leadership of the Chairman of the Board and examined the following elements of The decisions by the President and the management the President’s performance: goal fulfilment, media are based on the guidelines and instructions adopted analysis, and a verbal assessment that took place in by the Board of Directors and it is on this basis that the February 2019 in the form of a discussion by the Board, of the assessment were very good across the board President and management compile, amongst other led by the Chairman of the Board, of the President’s and revealed that the President is strongly supported things, source data for the various managers within performance and developmental potential. The results by both the Board and the company management. 90 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS External audit e ­ stablished principles for financial reporting and inter­ nal control. The responsibility also includes ensuring that the company’s financial reporting is prepared in tions shall be used in conjunction with the valuation of financial assets, is one example of an important factor in the control environment. An external auditor shall, under the provisions of the accordance with statutory requirements, applicable Swedish Companies Act, audit Systembolaget’s annu­ accounting standards, and other external require­ RISK ASSESSMENT al accounts and bookkeeping, and the administration ments. The most important features of the company’s Systembolaget conducts an annual, company-wide by the Board of Directors and the President. The audi­ systems for internal control and risk management in risk analysis. The stages of the risk analysis are as fol­ tor is engaged by and reports to the General Meeting conjunction with the financial reporting are described lows: Identify, evaluate, prioritise, manage and monitor and may not allow him or herself to be guided by the below. risks. The risks are identified and evaluated by manag­ management or the Board. ers and key persons within the organisation, and by the Systembolaget has established formalised processes company management. The risk analysis is prepared Deloitte AB was appointed as the auditors of System­ for internal and external reporting. The external finan­ and approved by the company management and the bolaget at the Annual General Meeting, with Autho­ cial reporting of Systembolaget comprises interim Audit Committee. The Board adopts follow-up pro­ rised Public Accountant, Didrik Roos, as the auditor reports, financial statements and the annual Respon­ posals and management of the highest priority risks in charge for the period up to and including the 2019 sibility Report. is then assigned to operations managers. Progress is Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting monitored by the company’s management and the also approved the payment of auditors’ fees to Deloitte CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Audit Committee. AB, in accordance with approved invoices. The basis for Systembolaget’s internal control com­ prises the control environment, together with the A financial risk analysis is carried out every other year It was also announced at the Annual General Meet­ organisation, decision-making paths, authority and and assesses every item in the Balance Sheet and ing that the Riksdag Board has, in accordance with responsibility. The control environment is document­ Income Statement on the basis of specific criteria, a resolution dated 11 April 2018, appointed three Lay ed and communicated in steering documents, such as namely materiality, the complexity of the valuation, Auditors, namely Maria Plass, Jörgen Hellman and policies, internal regulations, work routines and man­ previous errors, and the potential for fraud. Lennart Axelsson, together with three Deputy Lay uals, and the fundamental values communicated and Auditors, namely Niklas Karlsson, Andrea Völkler and operated upon by the Board and the company man­ The assessment of the risk of errors in the financial Amir Adan, for the period up to and including the 2019 agement. Systembolaget has internal functions for risk reporting is also carried out on an ongoing basis as Annual General Meeting. control, security and compliance. Internal audits are part of the day-to-day operations through the various carried out by an external company. control activities carried out. Internal control Steering documents include the formal work plans for the Board, including the Board-appointed committees, the Instructions for the President, and the Financial CONTROL ACTIVITIES The control activities are structured to prevent, identi­ fy and rectify errors in the financial reporting. System­ The Board of Directors is responsible, pursuant to authorisations for the company’s employees. bolaget’s substantial liquid transactions and those that the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act and could potentially impact the results are, for example the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, for en­ The strict application of the duality principle, whereby analysed daily. Business Control works in partnership suring that the company has good internal controls no one person alone shall administer the entire pro­ with operations managers to monitor the way in which and formalised routines that ensure compliance with cessing chain and two mutually independent institu­ Systembolaget’s operations are developing in relation 91 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS to the business plan, budget and set goals. Other members operations’ development in relation to the business plan, of the Accounts & Administration Department monitor the budget, and established goals. The Audit Committee also administrative processes within the organisation, including receives regular reports on the results of external and processes relating to VAT and tax accounting, internal and internal audits, and on the operations’ risk management external entertainment, and compliance with authorisation activities. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports and delegation regulations. back to the Board on material issues. The Board receives the results of the financial results and key performance indicator monitoring on a rolling basis throughout the year. Some areas are also presented to the Board in greater depth, such as indicators, key performance indicators, and projects. A dialogue is held with the Own­ er four times a year on Systembolaget’s fulfilment of its mandate. The prioritised, company-wide risks form the basis for the internal audit plan. The internal audit is independent and is conducted by an external company. Systembolaget’s exter­ nal auditors not only audit the annual report, but conduct ongoing reviews. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Systembolaget’s internal communication process en­ sures that information is disseminated in a structured way throughout the organisation. Steering documents, such as policies, internal regulations, work routines and manuals are, for example, available via Systembolaget’s intranet. Work routines are also communicated via employee train­ ing programmes. Our external reporting – interim reports, financial state­ ments, and the annual Responsibility Report – is published on the omsystembolaget.se website. MONITORING The company management and the Board of Directors receive ongoing financial reports in order to monitor the 92 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman Viveca Bergstedt Sten Robert Damberg Crister Fritzson Born: 1961 Born: 1959 Born: 1982 Born: 1961 Principal education: Upper secondary Principal education: LL.B. Stockholm Principal education: International ­studies Principal education: B.Sc. (Market school economics course graduate and University, B.Sc. (Economics and Business in sociology and political science at the ­Economics) from MIS in Stockholm, Insead. internal training courses within the ICA Administration), Stockholm School of Linnaeus University and Uppsala ­University. system. Economics. Other positions held: President and CEO of Other positions: Member of the Board of SJ AB, Member of the Boards of Net ­Insight Other positions held: Chairman of the Other positions: Author and lecturer. Visit Linköping, District Chairman of the AB, Samtrafiken i Sverige AB, ­Almega Boards of Ahlsell AB, Clas Ohlson, the Member of the Boards of the Swedish Red Östergötland branch of the Swedish Green Tjänsteförbunden, Svensk Turism AB, the Ersta Diakoni charitable organisation, Cross Center for Tortured Refugees, and Party, Political Secretary to Linköping Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, and Euro­commerce and the World Childhood Eknö Hemman. municipality. the Railway Industry’s Collaboration Forum. ­Foundation. Member of the Boards of Chairman of the Association of Swedish ­H erenco and Synsam. Elected: 2014 Elected: 2016 Train Operating Companies and CER – the Community of European Railway. Elected: 2014 Positions previously held: Senior Legal Positions previously held: County Council Counsel & Corporate Secretary of PostNord Commissioner, Uppsala County Council, Elected: 2012 Positions previously held: President & AB, Senior Legal Counsel of LetsBuyit.com, 2014-2016, Political Secretary, 2011–2014 CEO of ICA AB, 2001–2012, Chairman of Senior Legal Counsel of Amadeus Scan­ to Uppsala County Council, Green Party Positions previously held: CEO of Boxer, the Board of the Confederation of Swedish dinavia. Member of the Boards of Svensk spokesman, 2010, Chairman of the President & CEO of Teracom Group. Chair­ Enterprise, 2010–2013, and Chairman of Kassaservice AB and Strålfors AB. Member Swedish Youth Temperance Organisation, man of the Boards of PlusTV Finland and the Board of the Swedish Trade Federation, of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise UNF, 2005-2009. Boxer Danmark. 2005–2010. Corporate Legal Reference Group. 93 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors Cecilia Halle Barbro Holmberg Frida Johansson Metso Håkan Leifman Born: 1969 Born: 1952 Born: 1984 Born: 1963 Principal education: B.SC in Local Principal education: B.Sc. in Social Work, Principal education: Registered Principal education: Ph.D. (Sociology) ­G overnment Administration, specialising specialising in local government adminis­ ­Psychologist, Uppsala University. from Stockholm University. in international organisations, at Uppsala tration. University. Other positions held: Psychologist at the Other positions held: Regional Director Other positions held: Chairman of the Na­ Transcultural Centre, Stockholm County for Planet Youth (Nordic countries), private Other positions held: Senior Advisor and tional Government Service Centre. Mem­ Council, Member of the Board of the Mind ­business specialising and researching Group Manager for the Public Health & ber of the Boards of the University of Gävle Foundation. alcohol, tobacco, and narcotics issues, Medical Care Unit of the Ministry of Health and Lantmäteriet (the Swedish National doctor and researcher at the Karolinska & Social Affairs. Chairman of the National Land Survey), the Riksdag Remunerations Elected: 2016 Institute and member of the Swedish Expert Group for improving accessibility in Board, the Swedish Bar Association’s Disci­ ­Standards Institute’s supervisory council. cancer care. Sweden’s representative in the plinary Committee, Orbaden Spa & Resort, Positions previously held: Assistant EU’s High-Level Expert Group on health. and Orsjö AB. ­Operations Manager at the Red Cross Elected: 2014 ­C entre for Tortured Refugees, Chairman of Elected: 2017 Elected: 2018 the Swedish Liberal Party Youth Associa­ Positions previously held: Director of the tion, LUF, 2007-2010. Swedish Council for Information on Alco­ Positions previously held: Under-Secre­ Positions previously held: Chairman of the hol and Other Drugs (CAN), Member of the tary the Public Health & Medical Care Unit Municipal and County Boundaries Commit­ Board of SAD (the Swedish Association for of the Ministry of Health & Social Affairs. tee, Gävleborg County Governor, private Alcohol & Drug Research), and Member of Special Advisor to the Global Cooperation consultancy company focusing on alcohol Svenska Spel’s Science Council. Unit, Ministry for Foreign Affairs. and narcotics issues. 94 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors Kerstin Wigzell Born: 1945 Principal education: Behavioural and ­Social Sciences at Stockholm University. Other positions held: Vice Chairman of Swedish Pensions Agency. Member of the Boards of the University of Linköping and the National Swedish Police Board’s Ethics Council. Member of the Board of the Swedish Agency for Health and Care ­Services Analysis. Elected: 2009 Positions previously held: Director General of the Swedish National Board for Youth Affairs and the National Board of Health and Welfare, Director General of the National Swedish Social Insurance Board. Chairman of the Boards of Stockholm Academy of ­Dramatic Arts, and the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and ­Welfare. 95 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors – employee representatives Robert Adrell, Member Maria Nilsson, Member Karin Larsson, Deputy Nils Undall-Behrend, Deputy Born: 1964 Born: 1965 Born: 1958 Born: 1954 Principal education: Studied chemistry, Principal education: Social Sciences Principal education: Upper secondary Principal education: Upper secondary political science, history, and economic ­ ourses at upper secondary school, c school courses in health care. school science courses, and mechanical history at the University of Gothenburg. and the College of Printmaking Arts in engineering. ­Stockholm. Other positions held: Employed as a Other positions held: Employed as a sales­ member of the sales team since 1989. Other positions held: Employed since person and drinks tasting supervisor since Other positions held: Employed since Member of the Board of Systembolaget’s 1982, Store Manager since 1991. 1987, member of the Board of System­ 1988. Chairman of Systembolaget’s Staff Association, Member of the Board bolaget’s Personnel Association (SPF)/­ Personnel Association, SPF Unionen, of the Pension Foundation, Coordinating Appointed: 2015 Unionen, Section Chairman of western Chairman of the Stockholm branch of the Work Environment Representative (SAMO) branch of SPF/Unionen, Sales Personnel. Unionen trade union. for Systembolaget. Association Auditor, Unionen. Appointed: 2018 Appointed: 2015 Appointed: 2012 96 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Company management Magdalena Gerger, President Marie Nygren, Vice President, Communi­ Tobias Frohm, Human Resources Director Charlotte Hansson, Chief Financial Officer cation, and Purchasing Director Born: 1964 Born: 1965 Born: 1969 Born: 1965 Employed: 2009 Employed: 2011 Employed: 2015 Employed: 2007 Education and previous positions: B.Sc. Education and previous positions: Education and previous positions: M.Sc. (Economics and Business Administration) Education and previous experience: B.Sc. ­Human Resources Specialist degree from from the University of Gothenburg School and MBA, Stockholm School of Economics. (Economics and Business Administration), ­Linköping University. of Business, Economics and Law. Stockholm University. Ms Gerger’s previous positions include Mr Frohm’s previous positions include Ms Hansson has previously worked as ­those of Marketing Director at Arla Foods Ms. Nygren’s previous positions include those of HR Director at Lernia AB, HR Lead the CFO of Cision AB and of the service and Divisional Manager at Nestlé Ltd in those of CEO of Adara (subsidiary of Sweden at Accenture and a Manager at company, Addici AB. She has also worked the UK. Apoteket AB), Purchasing & Supply Chain Consultus Leadership Partner AB. in a variety of positions within the Modern Director at Coop Sweden and CEO at Times Group (MTG). See page 90 of the Corporate Governance Stor&Liten AB. Report for further information about the President. 97 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Company management Hans Jungland, Sales Director Eva Listi, IT Director Malin Sandquist, Director Corporate, Public and Legal Affairs Born: 1965 Born: 1962 Born: 1972 Employed: 2003 Employed: 2016 Employed: 2012 Education and previous positions: Internal Education and previous positions: Studied training at executive level. chemistry, biology, law and economics Education and previous positions: LL.B. at Stockholm University, and internal and at Uppsala University and internal and Mr Jungland has previously worked as a external training at executive level. ­external training at executive level. Departmental Manager/Category Manager at Coop, and as a Sales Director at Stor & Ms Listi has previously worked as Deputy Ms Sandquist was formerly the Senior Liten. CIO at PostNord AB, and as CIP at Ericsson Legal Counsel at Systembolaget and and in a variety of senior IT positions at has previously worked as a lawyer, most AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Pharmacia. recently as a joint owner of Advokatﬁrman Hammarskiöld & Co. 98 Ten-year overview FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Ten-year overview 2018 20171 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Profit/loss (SEK m) Net sales (including alcohol tax) 30,907 29,355 28,469 27,645 26,431 25,709 25,099 24,416 24,111 23,360 Net sales (excluding alcohol tax) 18,692 17,511 17,034 16,379 15,901 15,589 15,003 14,368 14,004 13,337 Gross profit/loss 3,903 3,700 3,591 3,488 3,382 3,303 3,201 3,115 3,051 2,961 Operating profit/loss 227 270 217 179 370 168 270 159 339 424 Net financial items -2 58 47 -3 56 208 58 119 –24 109 Profit before tax 232 353 368 256 324 317 248 278 315 533 Net profit/loss for the year 180 282 289 198 251 287 180 223 223 406 Financial position (SEK m) Fixed assets 3,665 3,439 2,797 2,300 2,520 2,258 1,921 1,697 1,916 2,296 Current assets 2,266 2,424 3,075 3,517 3,236 3,205 3,222 3,339 3,257 2,823 Shareholders' equity 1,503 1,605 1,612 1,521 1,574 1,610 1,411 1,390 1,469 1,591 Liabilities 4,319 4,258 4,260 4,297 4,182 3,853 3,732 3,646 3,704 3,528 Balance Sheet total 5,931 5,863 5,872 5,817 5,756 5,463 5,143 5,036 5,173 5,119 Cash flow (SEK m) Cash flow from operating activities 624 529 306 480 632 456 574 343 537 762 Cash flow from investment activities -57 -918 -638 -117 -416 -530 -318 138 -204 34 Cash flow from financing activities -265 -246 -182 -251 -287 -90 -159 -332 -345 -201 Cash flow for the year 302 -635 -514 112 -71 -164 97 149 -12 595 Strategic key performance indicators Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 84.6 84.3 84 84 83 82 81 79 78 78 Proof of age checks, % 95.6 95.6 96 96 97 96 95 94 94 93 Opinion Index (OPI), % 76.5 76.9 76 77 74 72 71 68 66 66 Total sick leave, % 4.5 4.8 5.2 5.3 4.9 – – – – – Climate impact of own operations, CO2e 2,591 3,583 3,855 – – – – – – – Return on shareholders’ equity, % 11.4 17.2 18 12 14 18 13 16 15 27 Equity/assets ratio, % 25.7 27.8 28 28 31 31 29 28 28 31 Cost-effectiveness 2.3 2.2 2.3 – – – – – – – Alcohol Index 61.4 62.0 63 65 62 66 – – – – Total consumption, litres of pure alcohol per head of population aged 15+ 9.0 9.0 9.2 – – – – – – – Systembolaget's share of consumption, % 2 62.8 63.2 62 – – – – – – – Other key performance indicators Trading margin, % 12.6 12.6 12.6 12.6 12.8 12.8 12.8 12.8 12.7 12.7 Operating margin, % 0.7 0.9 0.8 0.6 1.4 0.7 1.1 0.7 1.4 1.8 Stock turnover rate, multiple 22.4 21.8 22.7 22.9 23.5 23.9 24.7 24.5 25.7 25.4 Yearly employees 3 3,496 3,359 3,258 3,159 3,101 3,038 2,994 3,113 3,080 3,037 1 All key performance indicators are reported to one decimal place, as of 2017. 2 Reported one year in arrears. 3 The “yearly employees” metric has replaced the former “average number of employees” metric”, as of 2017. The comparison figures are adjusted in line with the new calculation. 99 Financial reports and Notes to the Accounts FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Income Statement Statement of SEK M 2018 2017 comprehensive income Net sales 30,907 29,355 SEK M 2018 2017 Cost of goods sold -27,004 -25,655 Net profit/loss for the year 180 282 Gross profit/loss 3,903 3,700 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income for the year 180 282 Selling expenses -2,942 -2,767 Administrative expenses -738 -669 Other operating income 6 7 Other operating expenses -2 -1 Operating profit/loss 227 270 Income from participations in Group companies 17 43 Income from other securities and receivables -19 15 classified as fixed assets Interest income 0 0 Interest expenses and similar P/L items 0 0 Profit/loss after financial items 225 328 Appropriations 7 25 Profit/loss before tax 232 353 Tax -52 -71 Net profit/loss for the year 180 282 100 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Balance Sheet ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SEK M 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 SEK M 31-12-2018 31-12-2017 Fixed assets Shareholder's equity Restricted equity Tangible fixed assets Share capital (360,000 shares) 360 360 Buildings and land 28 30 Statutory reserve 72 72 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 426 412 Total restricted equity 432 432 Construction work in progress 30 71 Total tangible fixed assets 484 513 Non-restricted equity Profit/loss brought forward 891 891 Financial fixed assets Net profit/loss for the year 180 282 Participations in Group companies 0 0 Total non-restricted equity 1,071 1,173 Deferred tax receivables 34 30 Total shareholders' equity 1,503 1,605 Other long-term securities holdings 3,140 2,886 Other long-term receivables 7 10 Untaxed reserves Total financial fixed assets 3,181 2,926 Tax allocation reserve 25 32 Total fixed assets 3,665 3,439 Total untaxed reserves 25 32 Current assets Provisions Inventory 1,076 1,169 Long-term provisions 84 85 Receivables Total provisions 84 85 Accounts receivable 8 8 Receivables from Group companies 0 0 Long-term liabilities Other receivables 7 5 Long-term liabilities to Group companies 85 84 Prepaid costs and accrued income, Group companies 7 7 Other liabilities 23 23 Prepaid costs and accrued income 142 135 Deferred tax liabilities 0 – Total receivables 164 155 Total long-term liabilities 108 107 Short-term investments 0 376 Current liabilities Cash and bank balances 1,026 724 Accounts payable 3,761 3,657 Total current assets 2,266 2,424 Current liabilities to Group companies 3 1 TOTAL ASSETS 5,931 5,863 Current tax liability 5 12 Other liabilities 239 165 Accrued costs and prepaid income 203 199 Total current liabilities 4,211 4,034 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 5,931 5,863 101 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Change in shareholders’ equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Statutory Profit/loss brought Net profit/loss Total shareholders' equity for SEK M Share capital reserve forward for the year the year Opening balance, 1 January 2017 360 72 891 289 1,612 Transfer to non-restricted reserves 289 -289 – Net profit/loss for the year 282 282 Dividend paid to the owner -289 -289 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 360 72 891 282 1,605 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 360 72 891 282 1,605 Transfer to non-restricted reserves 282 -282 – Net profit/loss for the year 180 180 Dividend paid to the owner -282 -282 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 360 72 891 180 1,503 102 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Cash Flow Statement SEK M 2018 2017 Operating activities Profit/loss before tax 232 353 Adjustment for items not included in the cash flow Depreciation and write-downs 157 162 Capital gain/loss 11 6 Other 56 -33 Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in inventory 93 103 Change in receivables -8 21 Change in liabilities 183 -2 Change in financial receivables/liabilities from/to subsidiaries 4 10 Cash flow from operating activities after changes in working capital 728 620 Tax paid -104 -91 Cash flow from operating activities 624 529 Investment activities Acquisition of tangible fixed assets -131 -179 Acquisition/sale of financial fixed assets 74 -739 Cash flow from investment activities -57 -918 Financing activities Dividend paid to the owner -282 -289 Dividend received from AB K14 Näckströmsgatan 17 43 Cash flow from financing activities -265 -246 Cash flow for the year 302 -635 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 724 1,359 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,026 724 103 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Note 1 – Accounting principles The following is a presentation of the significant nearest million Swedish kronor (SEK m), unless other­ subsidiary companies are deemed both individually ­accounting principles applied during the preparation wise stated, and the amounts in parentheses consti­ and collectively to have no material importance and of the annual accounts. tute values for the comparison year. System­b olaget AB’s annual accounts for the legal entity provide a true and fair view of the company’s Transactions in foreign currencies are converted to the position and results. General functional currency at the exchange rate applicable on the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities EXEMPTIONS FROM IFRS The Parent Company, Systembolaget AB, is a whol­ expressed in foreign currencies are reported in the Operating segments ly-government owned company whose registered Balance Sheet after conversion at the rate applicable IFRS 8 Operating segments is not applicable to Syst­ offices are in Stockholm and which is registered in on the closing day. Exchange rate differences arising embolaget as the operations are conducted within one Sweden. The address of the head office is Kungs­ in conjunction with conversion are reported in the In­ business segment and one geographic market. trädgårdsgatan 14 and the postal address is SE-103 84 come Statement. Stockholm, Sweden. Systembolaget holds a monopoly Pensions on retail sales of strong beer, wine, and spiritous drinks DATES The company’s defined benefit pension undertakings in Sweden. Systembolaget conducts operations that Income Statement-related items refer to the period have, in accordance with the simplification rule in are related to the retail sector operations, but which are from 1st January to 31st December and Balance Sheet RFR2, been calculated and reported on the basis of not captive, via two separate, wholly-owned subsidiar­ items refer to 31st December. the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act, which ies – IQ-initiativet AB and AB K14 Näckströmsgatan. deviate from the provisions of IAS 19. ANNUAL ACCOUNTS The annual accounts for the 2018 financial year were The annual accounts have been prepared in accor­ Development costs approved for publication by the Board of Directors and dance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and All development costs in respect of, for example, busi­ the President on 19 March 2019 and will be submitted recommendation RFR 2 issued by the Swedish Finan­ ness systems, are carried as expenses in accordance to the Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2019. cial Reporting Board. RFR 2 entails the application by with the exemption in respect of IAS 38.57 in RFR 2. Systembolaget AB of all standards and statements is­ sued by IASB and IFRIC, as approved by the European Untaxed reserves Bases for preparation Commission for application within the EU. This shall The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves comprise be done to the extent possible within the framework of taxable temporary differences. The deferred tax liabili­ AMOUNTS AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and with reference ty attributable to the untaxed reserves in the company The functional currency, i.e. the currency of the prima­ to the link between accounting and taxation. is not reported separately due to the link between ac­ ry economic environment in which the Parent Compa­ counting and taxation. ny conducts its operations, is the Swedish krona. The Systembolaget does not, as of 1 January 2012, pre­ Swedish krona is the reporting currency. The amounts pare any consolidated accounts in accordance with Leasing in the financial reports have been rounded off to the chapt. 7, §3a of the Swedish Companies Act. All of the All leasing costs are reported, in accordance with the 104 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS exemption in respect of IAS 17:20-32 and 36-48 of RFR Systembolaget’s revenues are generated, in every sig­ leasing agreements into RFR 2, which is the exemption 2, as operational leasing. nificant respect, by the sale of drinks to consumers. rule currently applied by Systembolaget. Sales are recognised as revenue in conjunction with the sale of the product to customers. Sales are paid New and amended standards for in cash or by credit card. Systembolaget is of the Important estimates and opinion that the recognition of these revenues is not New or amended IFRS standards and new interpreta­ affected by the new standard. Systembolaget may, in ­assessments tions that have come into force on 1 January 2018 have future, acquire new types of revenues, but as is appar­ had no material effect on Systembolaget’s financial re­ ent from the annual accounts, the scale of other types Systembolaget makes estimates and assumptions with ports and no specific transition method has, therefore, of revenue is currently negligible. regard to the future, based on the latest available and been applied. most reliable information and on historic experience. Changes to preconditions may entail adjustments to IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Future standards the reported amounts for assets and liabilities in the The standard replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: next financial year due to the fact that the actual results Recognition and Measurement. It includes regulations The future standards, amendments and interpretations can differ from the reported amounts. governing the classification and valuation of financial that will or may affect the accounts in 2019 or thereaf­ assets and liabilities, the impairment of financial instru­ ter are presented below. When applying the company’s accounting principles, ments, and hedge accounting. the company management makes various assess­ IFRS 16 LEASES ments that can have an effect on the reported amounts Systembolaget’s financial instruments primarily com­ IFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17 Leases. IFRS 16 in the Income Statement and the Balance Sheet. The prise investments in the form of securities holdings, introduces a “right of use model” and requires the risks that Systembolaget has deemed to exist for the cash and cash equivalents, and accounts payable. lessee to report virtually all leasing agreements in company are described under Risks and sensitivity Systembolaget currently has no loans, accounts re­ the Balance Sheet. Classification as operational and analysis on page 78. ceivable or other receivables that total significant financial leasing agreements shall, therefore, not amounts. There is also, at present, no hedge account­ occur. Leasing agreements that are non-material or ing. Systembolaget is of the opinion that the reporting which have a leasing period of 12 months or less are Revenue recognition of the current types of financial instrument is not ma­ exempted from this requirement. Depreciation of the terially affected by the new standard. asset and interest costs on the liability are reported Systembolaget has, pursuant to the provisions of the in the Income Statement. The new standard includes Swedish Alcohol Act, a monopoly on the retail of alco­ IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH more comprehensive disclosure requirements than holic drinks in Sweden. This monopoly has a socio-po­ ­CUSTOMERS the current standard. litical purpose and entails restricting the availability The standard addresses the reporting of revenues from of alcohol. In these circumstances, Systembolaget’s contracts and from sales of certain non-financial as­ IFRS 16 is applicable to financial years commencing on retail sales are reported as its primary activity. Other sets. It has replaced IAS 11 Accounting for Construction 1 January 2019 and early application is permitted. The operations – which are not critical to Systembolaget’s Contracts and IAS 18 Revenues, and associated inter­ standard has been adopted by the EU. The Swedish Fi­ retail operations and which could be conducted by pretations and has been applied from 1 January 2018. nancial Reporting Board has agreed the incorporation another business – are reported separately (in accor­ of an equivalent of the current exemption for financial dance with the requirements of the owner’s directive) 105 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS and are regarded as non-operating income and ex­ evant period, applying the effective interest method. has signed leasing agreements that, in every significant penses. This classification has been adjudged to pro­ Effective interest is the interest that discounts the respect, relate to rental payments for premises. The vide the most true and fair view of System­b olaget’s ­estimated future cash flows exactly over the anticipat­ leasing charge is carried as an expense linearly over the primary activity. Revenues from System­bolaget’s retail ed term of the financial instrument to the instrument’s leasing period, which is the period for which System­ sales include alcohol tax, which is a State excise duty. reported value. bolaget has contractually agreed to lease an asset. Changes to the rate of alcohol tax affect both System­ bolaget’s revenues and the cost of goods sold, and changes to the rate of alcohol tax consequently have State subsidies Income tax no effect on the gross profit. Subsidies are reported at fair value when a reasonable Reported tax comprises the combined sum of current Income is generated, in every significant respect, by certainty exists that the subsidy will be received and and deferred tax calculated on the basis of the profit/ the direct sale of drinks, via Systembolaget’s stores, that the Group will comply with the terms and condi­ loss for the period. Current tax is the tax that is pay­ to consumers. Sales of gift items and fees paid in con­ tions associated with the subsidy. Subsidies intended able or receivable during the current period, including junction with drinks auctions, amongst other things, to cover costs – in Systembolaget’s case, wage sub­ adjustments to current tax for previous periods. and is are also included in the net sales. The percentage sidies of minor value only – are reported net in the calculated for the taxable result for a period, including of revenues that derive from other sales channels, Income Statement presentation of staff overheads. adjustments to current tax for previous periods. Cur­ such as agent sales and home delivery orders, is not rent tax is calculated and valued on the basis of the tax significant. rules and tax rates applicable on the closing day, which Cost accounting was 22 per cent as of 31 December 2018. Systembolaget offers gift cards which are recognised as revenue in conjunction with their redemption. The The Income Statement is presented by function and Deferred tax is calculated using the Balance Sheet gift cards are valid for a period of 5 years. Systembo­ costs are accordingly classified on the basis of their method whereby temporary differences, that is differ­ laget also takes payment in advance for home deliv­ function. ences between the reported and fiscal values of assets ery orders. These comprise such a small percentage and liabilities, give rise to deferred tax liabilities or tax of revenues, however, that they are not material. The cost of goods sold primarily comprises the pur­ receivables. Deferred tax liabilities are calculated on chase of goods for resale. Selling expenses include the basis of all fiscal temporary differences while de­ Sales are reported as income, in every significant re­ costs arising from the store operations, largely com­ ferred tax receivables are reported to the extent that spect, in conjunction with the sale of the goods to the prising personneland premises-related costs. Ad­ it is likely that a future fiscal surplus will exist, against customer. Sales are paid for in cash or by debit/credit ministrative expenses include costs arising from the which the temporary differences can be offset. De­ card. Systembolaget offers a 14 day right of withdraw­ central administrative functions at the head office. ferred tax is calculated and valued in accordance al period. The percentage of returns is insignificant with the tax rules and at the tax rates approved or an­ and has no material effect on revenues. nounced on the closing day and which are expected Leasing to apply when the tax receivable in question is realised Revenues are valued at the fair value of goods and or the tax liability is settled. The tax rate for tax receiv­ services sold, excluding Value Added Tax. All leasing costs are reported in accordance with the ables expected to be realised in 2019 and 2020 is 21.4 exemption in accordance with IAS 17:20–32, and with per cent. The tax rate for tax receivables expected to Interest income is recognised as revenue over a rel­ 36–48 of RFR 2, as operational leasing. The company be realised in or after 2021 is 20.6 per cent. 106 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Current tax and deferred tax are reported in the In­ over and above its original level, increase the reported Asset Useful life come Statement. value of the asset. Expenses attributable to repairs and maintenance are capitalised on a rolling basis. Buildings 33 years Machinery, fixtures and fittings 3 – 5 years In-store renovations 7 years Information on related parties Intangible assets Intangible assets 5 years Systembolaget defines related parties as Group com­ Additional development costs, for example for busi­ Expenses attributable to improvements in another par­ panies, pension funds, State-owned companies in ness systems, have been carried as expenses since ty’s premises are depreciated over a period of between which the State has a controlling influence, and senior 2012 in accordance with the exemption in respect of 7 and 20 years. Land is not depreciated. executives, Members of the Board and close family IAS 38.57 in RFR 2. Development costs reported before members of the same. Systembolaget applies IAS 24, 2012 have been reported as intangible assets when the The residual value and useful life of each asset is re­ Related Party Disclosures, and disclosures regarding following criteria are met: viewed as of every closing day and adjustments are transactions with State-owned companies in which the made, if necessary. State has a controlling influence hence only need to • the intangible asset is identifiable; be made if the value of the transactions is substantial. • Systembolaget has control of the assets; • the asset generates future economic benefits; and Write-downs Information is provided when transactions have oc­ • the asset’s historic cost can be reliably calculated. curred with a related party, irrespective of whether An impairment test is carried out, as of every closing remuneration was disbursed. The term, transactions, The reported value includes expenditure arising from day, to determine whether there is any indication of a refers to the transfer of resources, services or under­ the purchase of services and materials. Intangible write-down requirement with regard to the reported takings. Transactions with related parties are conduct­ ­assets are valued using the acquisition method at their values. If such indications do exist, the recoverable ed on an arm’s length basis. historical cost, less any accumulated depreciation and amount is calculated, namely whichever is the higher any accumulated write-downs. of the fair value less selling expenses and the useful value of the asset, that is the current value of the esti­ Tangible fixed assets mated future cash flows that the asset is expected to Depreciation generate. A write-down is effected when the reported A tangible fixed asset is reported as an asset in the value exceeds the recoverable value for an asset and Balance Sheet when the historical cost can be reliably Tangible fixed assets and intangible assets are depre­ is capitalised immediately in the Income Statement. calculated and when it is likely that the future eco­ ciated linearly over the useful life of the asset, which nomic benefits associated with the asset will accrue is the period during which Systembolaget expects A calculation is carried out on every closing day to de­ to Systembolaget. to make use of the asset for its designated purpose. termine whether there is any indication that a previous Depreciation is based on the acquisition value after write-down, either wholly or in part, is no longer jus­ Tangible fixed assets are valued using the cost method deductions for any residual values. The depreciation tified, and in such cases, the recoverable value of the at the historical cost less accumulated depreciation is based on the following useful life periods: asset is calculated and a reversal occurs. The reversal and any accumulated write-downs. Expenses attribut­ increases the reported value of the asset. The reported able to the improvement of the assets’ performance, value may not exceed the value that would have been 107 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS reported, after depreciation, if no write-down had ever occurred. will receive after retirement, based on age, duration of service, and pensionable salary. The company has Financial instruments an obligation to disburse the agreed remuneration to Financial instruments comprise every type of agree­ current or former employees Systembolaget and the ment that gives rise to a financial asset in a company, Remuneration to employees company, in every significant respect, carries the ac­ tuarial risk and the investment risk. The calculation of or to a financial liability or equity instrument in another company. They include cash and cash equivalents, the pension undertaking is based on the salary and Remuneration in the form of salaries and pensions accounts receivable, accounts payable and financial pension level obtaining on the closing day. are reported as operating expenses during the period investments. when the employee performs the services to which The PRI bases for valuation are those used to calculate the remuneration refers. The expense is classified as a RECOGNITION IN AND ELIMINATION FROM the pension liability that relates to defined benefit ITP selling expense or administrative expense, depending THE BALANCE SHEET occupational pension plan pensions. The Swedish Se­ on the nature of the employee’s duties. A financial asset or financial liability is reported in the curing Pension Commitments Act’s bases for valuation Balance Sheet when the company becomes a party to and the Swedish Financial Security Authority’s instruc­ PENSIONS the instrument’s contractual terms and conditions. A tions for calculating pension liabilities, FFS 2007:24, in The company has both defined benefit and defined receivable is reported when the company has fulfilled accordance with the 2018 bases, are used as bases for contribution pension plans, primarily within the col­ its commitment and a contractual obligation exists for valuation for other defined benefit pension liabilities. lective agreement-based ITP occupational pension the counterparty to pay, even if an invoice has not yet plan, but also has in-house pension plans. The defined been raised. Accounts receivable are reported in the The company also has defined contribution pension contribution plans are financed by the payment of Balance Sheet when an invoice has been raised. A lia­ plans, primarily within the ITP occupational pension premiums to insurance companies or administration bility is reported when the counterparty has fulfilled its plan. In defined contribution pension plans, the com­ companies. The defined benefit pension plans are commitment and a contractual obligation to pay exists, pany’s undertaking is limited to the amount that the primarily secured via Systembolaget’s Pension Fund even if an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts company has agreed to contribute, which means that and through provisions made in the Balance Sheet. payable are reported when an invoice is received. the employee carries the actuarial risk and the invest­ The provisions reported in the Parent Company’s ment risk. Fees payable to defined contribution pen­ Balance Sheet refer primarily to non-vesting pension A financial asset is eliminated from the Balance Sheet sion plans are reported as an expense over the period undertakings, i.e. they are contingent on continued when the contractual rights are realised, when risks and during which the employee works for the company. employment. They are not covered by the provisions of benefits are transferred to another party, when rights the Swedish Securing Pension Commitments Act and to the cash flow cease, or when the company loses SEVERANCE PAYMENTS hence may not be secured via pension funds. System­ control over the asset. This applies equally to parts of Severance payments are reported when Systembo­ bolaget has elected not to report them in the Balance a financial asset. A financial liability is eliminated from laget is obliged either to terminate an employment Sheet under the Pension Provisions heading; rather, the Balance Sheet when the contractual commitment before the normal date, in accordance with a detailed they are reported under the “Long-term provisions” is fulfilled or otherwise ceases. This applies equally to formal plan without any realistic possibility of a recall, heading. parts of a financial liability. Acquisitions and divest­ or to pay compensation in conjunction with an offer ments of financial assets are reported on the trade date. designed to encourage voluntary redundancy. A defined benefit pension plan is a pension plan that The trade date constitutes the date when the company specifies the pension benefit amount an employee undertakes to acquire or divest the asset. 108 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS CLASSIFICATION AND VALUATION Financial assets are classified using the business mod­ Financial instruments el in which the asset is managed and the nature of its cashflow. Fair value via the Income 31-12-2018 Amortised cost Statement Reported value If the financial asset is held within the framework of a business model whose objective is to collect contractu­ Financial assets, SEK m al cash flows, and the contractual terms and conditions of the financial asset give rise, at set points in time, Other long-term securities holdings 3,140 3,140 to cash flows that exclusively comprise payments of Other long-term receivables 7 7 principals and interest on the outstanding principal, the asset is reported at the amortised cost. This business Accounts receivable 8 8 model is categorised as “hold to collect”. Accrued income 2 2 If the financial asset is held in a business model whose Short-term investments – 0 objective can be achieved both by collecting contrac­ Cash and cash equivalents 1,026 1,026 tual cash flows and by selling financial assets, and the contractual terms and conditions of the financial asset Total financial assets 17 4,166 4,183 give rise, at set points in time, to cash flows that exclu­ sively comprise payments of principals and interest on Financial liabilities, SEK m the outstanding principal, the asset is reported at fair value via Other comprehensive income. This business Accounts payable 3,761 3,761 model is categorised as “hold to collect and sell”. Accrued costs 203 203 All other business models where the purpose is specu­ Total financial liabilities 3,964 – 3,964 lation, held for trading, or where the nature of the cash flow excludes other business models, entail reporting at fair value via the Income Statement. This business model is categorised as “other”. Systembolaget applies the “other” business model with Accounts payable are primarily in Swedish kronor and regard to other long-term securities holdings, shortare valued at amortised cost. The expected term of Systembolaget applies the “hold to collect” business term investments, and cash and cash equivalents, which accounts payable is, however, short, and the liability model for loan receivables, accounts receivable, and means that they are valued at fair value via the Income is, therefore, reported in a nominal amount without other current receivables, and the assets are accord­ Statement. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash discounting. Current account overdrafts are valued at ingly reported at amortised cost. Loan receivables and and bank balances and short-term liquid investments amortised cost using the effective interest method. Oth­ accounts receivable are financial assets that have fixed with a maximum term of 90 days, which can easily be er financial liabilities are classified at amortised cost. or fixable payments and which are not quoted on an converted to a known sum and which are only exposed active market. to an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. 109 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS FAIR VALUE with a net sum in the Balance Sheet when a legal right future cash flows is calculated. Provisions are reviewed The fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded to offset exists and when the intention exists to regu­ as of every closing day and, if necessary, adjusted to in an active market is determined with reference to late the items in a net sum or to simultaneously realise reflect the current best estimate. the listed market price. The fair value of other finan­ the asset and regulate the liability. cial assets and liabilities is determined in accordance with generally accepted valuation models, such as the Contingent liabilities discounting of future cash flows and by means of in­ Inventory formation gathered from current market transactions. A contingent liability is reported when a possible The inventory has been valued at whichever is the low­ commitment exists deriving from events that have oc­ The reported value of all financial assets and liabilities er of the historical cost and the net sales value. The curred and whose incidence is only confirmed by one is deemed to constitute a good approximation of their historical cost is calculated using the first in, first out or more uncertain future events, or when there is an fair value, unless otherwise specified. method (FIFO) and the net sales value is the estimated existing commitment that is not reported as a liability sale price less selling expenses attributable to the sale. or provision because it is not likely that a disbursement AMORTISED COST AND THE EFFECTIVE The inventory comprises goods for resale. of resources will be required, or because the size of INTEREST METHOD the commitment cannot be calculated with sufficient The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount The reported value of goods held in stock that are sold reliability. at which the financial asset is valued in conjunction is capitalised in the period when the corresponding with it first being reported, minus the principal, plus income is recognised. Adjustments of goods held in the accumulated write-down using the effective inter­ stock to their net sales value, together with losses on Cash Flow Statement est method of any difference between the principal goods held in stock, are reported in the Income State­ and the outstanding principal, adjusted for any writement in the period when the adjustment or loss occurs. The Cash Flow Statement demonstrates the inflow and downs. The reported gross value of a financial asset outflow of monies attributable to the operating activi­ comprises the amortised value of a financial asset be­ ties, investment activities and financing activities, and fore adjustments for any loan-loss reserve. Financial Provisions which has occurred during the period. liabilities are reported at the amortised value using the effective interest method or at fair value via the Income A provision is defined as a liability that is uncertain The Cash Flow Statement is prepared using the indi­ Statement. with regard to the due date or the amount. Provisions rect method, whereby the result is adjusted for: are reported in the Balance Sheet when the Group has The effective interest rate is the interest rate which, in an existing legal or informal undertaking as a result of • transactions that have not entailed the inflow or out­ conjunction with a discounting of all future estimated an event that has occurred, and for which it is likely flow of monies; cash flows over the anticipated term, results in the ini­ that a disbursement of resources will be required to • accrued or prepaid items that refer to previous or tially reported value of the financial asset or financial settle the commitment and the amount can be reliably future periods; and liability. estimated. Provisions are valued at the amount that is • any income and expenses where the effects on the the best estimate of the amount, which, on the clos­ cash flow are attributable to investment or financing OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS ing day, is required to settle the existing commitment. activities. AND LIABILITES When the effect of the point in time at which payment Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported is made is significant, the current value of anticipated 110 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Events after the Balance Sheet date Events after the balance sheet date are defined as events that occur during the period from the balance sheet date to the day when the financial reports are approved for publication. Systembolaget adjusts the amounts in the financial reports as instructed by the Board of Directors for events, positive or negative, that confirm the circum­ stances that existed on the closing day. If, however, events occur that indicate circumstances that arose after the closing day, the financial reports are not ad­ justed. Information on the events that are so significant that its omission could affect the financial decisions that users take on the basis of the financial reports is, however, provided. 111 Proposed appropriation of profits, and signatures FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Proposed appropriation of profits and signatures The Board of Directors proposes that the profits available for allo­ Stockholm, 7 March 2019 cation, comprising SEK 1,070,548,183, be appropriated as follows: Dividend (SEK 499.3 per share) 179,735,498 Kenneth Bengtsson Carried forward 890,812,685 Chairman Total 1,070,548,183 It is proposed that the dividend be disbursed on 25 April 2019. Viveca Bergstedt Sten Robert Damberg Crister Fritzson Member Member Member The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the proposed divi­ dend payment is justifiable with reference to the requirements laid down in chapt. 17:3, §§ 2 and 3 of the Swedish Companies Cecilia Halle Barbro Holmberg Frida Johansson Metso Act, and with reference to the requirements that the nature of the Member Member Member operations, their scope and their inherent risks make of the share­ holders’ equity in the company. The dividend is also deemed jus­ tifiable from the point of view of Systembolaget’s consolidation requirements, liquidity, and position in general, and is compatible Håkan Leifman Kerstin Wigzell Member Member with the owner’s requirements and expectations. The Board of Directors and the President hereby affirm that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with gen­ Robert Adrell Maria Nilsson Employee representative Employee representative erally accepted accounting principles and that they provide a true and fair view of the company’s position and results. The un­ dersigned also affirm that the accounts have been prepared on the basis of the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Magdalena Gerger Supervisory Authority recommendation, RFR2 Reporting for legal President entities, and that they provide a true and fair view of the compa­ ny’s position and results. It is further affirmed that the Directors’ Our audit report was submitted on 7 March 2019 Report provides a true and fair view of the performance of the Deloitte AB company operations, their position and their result, and that it describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the Didrik Roos company. 112 CONTENTS Sustainability notes 113 Sustainability notes S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS About our Responsibility Report The Responsibility Report integrates our annual ac­ Climate and environmental issues are integrated with with these guidelines. In 2018, we have applied the counts and our Corporate Governance Report with social aspects in our work on establishing a sustainable GRI Standards for the first time, and this report has our Sustainability Report. Systembolaget began supply chain. been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards producing a more integrated report in 2017, in order Core option. The most recent report was published on to describe our work with sustainability issues in line The subsidiary area, environment and climate, is now 21 March 2018. This year’s report has, as in previous with the 2017-2020 strategic plan, where sustainability included in the presentation of the first strategic shift years, been subject to review by Systembolaget’s ex­ formed an integral part. This strategic plan is still in to be able to provide a comprehensive overview of ternal auditors, and a full-scale audit has, in addition, force, so the fundamental structure of the 2018 sus­ our sustainable supply chain management work from been conducted of the key performance indicator sick tainability report is the same as in the preceding year. both perspectives. Contacts with stakeholders also leave percentage as part of our ambition to transition The reporting is, therefore, structured in line with the revealed that environmental and climate issues as towards an audit-level review of our entire integrated three strategic shifts of our current strategic plan: well as ethics and anti-corruption affect customers’ report. See the Auditor’s review report in respect of perceptions of Systembolaget. We have, therefore, the Sustainability Report on page 136. • Continue to impress our customers decided to report on the ethics and anti-corruption Comprises significant sustainability issues in rela­ area within the same strategic shift rather than, as was The financial reports for 2018 comprise Systembolaget tion to the customer interaction and sustainability previously the case, including it in the third “creating AB only, while the Sustainability Report for the 2018 issues in relation to our range and supply chain. This optimum conditions” shift. financial year comprises the operations of System­ section of the 2018 report also includes details of bolaget AB and the wholly owned subsidiary company, Systembolaget’s own environmental and climate Systembolaget’s 2018 Responsibility Report contin­ IQ-initiativet AB, which are material from a sustainabil­ work, and our ethics and anti-corruption work. ues to draw inspiration from the Integrated Reporting ity perspective. Sustainability data that falls outside of (IR) regulations issued by the International Integrated the information mandate of IQ-initiativet, or which re­ • Increase awareness of alcohol’s risks and why System­­ Reporting Council (IIRC), with regard to the presen­ fers to Systembolaget’s other subsidiary companies is bolaget exists tation of our operations’ value creation and business not, however, included as these data have no ­material Comprises, as before, our work to limit the harmful model. IR is, however, a principles-based framework significance in relation to Systembolaget as a whole. effects of alcohol. without specific reporting criteria, and Systembolag­ et has consequently elected to continue preparing its Systembolaget currently conducts its measurement • Creating optimum conditions sustainability reporting in accordance with GRI* and and monitoring of work in relation to sustainability Comprises sustainable performance environments has, therefore, shifted to reporting in accordance with issues at company level. In cases where the GRI guide­ and our efforts to reflect society’s diversity. This currently applicable GRI Standards. lines encourage reporting per region, therefore, the section also addresses our work with IT in order to region corresponds to Sweden as a whole. We con­ clarify how important this is in creating optimum GRI, the Global Reporting Initiative, is a global net­ tinue, as far as possible, to report non-financial key conditions. This strategic shift also includes our work that issues regulations containing guidelines performance indicators that reflect the monitoring and strategic key performance indicators in the financial for sustainability reporting, and this is the eleventh follow-up work carried out within the organisation and area. successive year that we have reported in accordance to apply only those GRI disclosures that provide added 114 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS value for our sustainability management. Systembo­ sustainability reporting’s company-specific key perfor­ laget has reported 8 GRI disclosures and 14 compa­ mance indicators and GRI disclosures is conducted ny-specific key performance indicators for 2018. by Systembolaget’s GRI Controller. Target figures and comparative figures are reported, where relevant. All There is at least one key performance indicator or GRI monitoring data for our carbon dioxide emissions is, disclosure for every material sustainability area within as has been the case since 2015, calculated in line with the three strategic shifts, in order to ensure monitoring the Green House Gas Protocol. Any amendments to and reporting. The materiality analysis shows that the comparison figures from previous years’ reports are most material sustainability issues are the same as in noted under the disclosure in question. the preceding year, and the majority of company-spe­ cific key performance indicators and GRI disclosures Systembolaget’s annual internal audit reviews a num­ included in the GRI index at that time are, therefore, ber of operational areas, including our anti-corruption still relevant. work, which is based on a risk analysis that assesses relevance based on a jointly weighted risk value. This The only change made relates to the key performance is described in greater detail in the Corporate Gover­ indicator for range monitoring. We propose, in order nance Report on page 82. to reflect that many sustainability labelling schemes are of relevance to our stakeholders’ decisions and Contact person at Systembolaget our contribution to sustainable development, over Press Manager, Lennart Agén and above the organic ones, to replace the organic Tel. (switchboard): 08-503 300 00 products’ share of sales key performance indicator with two broader ones: CSI* – range and offering, and CSI – Sustainability/environment. We propose, instead, to report the organic products’ share of sales key performance indicator as part of our sustainability management, but outside of the scope of the GRI index. The same applies to a number of strategic indicators, such as the Alcohol Index* and average alcohol consumption* which, as in previous years, will be addressed within our integrated report­ ing but outside of the scope of the GRI index. Measurement and calculation methods are, where nec­ essary, described in conjunction with the respective indicator. The compilation and quality assurance of the 115 Audit and review S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Stakeholder engagement We are engaged in ongoing dialogues with the following stakeholder groups: own­ Information on The Alcohol Report is produced in order to provide an overall ers, customers, employees, suppliers, producers and stakeholder organisations, the harmful ef­ picture of alcohol in Sweden. The theme of this year’s report was and with society as a whole. We conduct questionnaire-based surveys at least fects of alcohol passive drinking and mental illness. The Alcohol Report was sent once a year and also hold roundtable discussions and carry out surveys based on out to around 1,000 interested politicians, opinion formers, and interested parties. Media activities and seminars were also used need and specific subject areas. The results of our questionnaire-based surveys to tell people about the report and its content. and dialogues are used in, amongst other things, Systembolaget’s strategic work, and form the basis for our strategic key ratios. We usually conduct some form of Alcohol research is an important component of Systembolaget’s stakeholder mapping work to ensure we target the right stakeholders within the mandate and we contribute to scientific work in this area by finan­ stakeholder groups, in line with the occasion and the dialogue objective, in order cing research and disseminating research findings. Contacts and dialogues with representatives of the research community are an to determine which stakeholders are likely to be able to make a contribution. The important part of this work. In 2018, roundtable discussions were dialogues conducted in 2018, together with a brief description of what these dia­ held with junior alcohol researchers from the Nordic countries logues led to, are presented below. with the aim of identifying shared challenges and opportunities. Attitudes to The Alcohol Index is based on an attitude survey conducted by IQ Stakeholder Important key Examples of dialogues and what we have done to address these alcohol every year since 2010. 2,000 people are surveyed every year and group issues key issues the results are representative of the Swedish population. Society Systembolaget Systembolaget meets regularly with politicians and those active in The Teenage Phrasebook is a recurring annual dialogue and is and society party politics to engage in dialogues about Systembolaget’s ope­ published in a number of languages to ensure it reaches as many rations and social mandate. We pick up on and respond to topical parents and young people as possible. Examples of other dia­ issues by offering in-store work experience, through roundtable logues during the year include dialogues about our ”Fotboll utan discussions, and through exhibitions at political parties’ major Fylla” [Sober Football] project, and the student campaign, ”Bästa events, etc. The most commonly raised issues in 2018 concerned festen” [The Best Party]. the breadth and depth of the range, store establishments, and the local and small-scale range. Diversity and Launch of SFI (Swedish for Immigrants) material in SFI schools in inclusiveness various locations nationwide in order to reach new arrivals with A growing interest in issues relating to Systembolaget’s opening information on Systembolaget’s purpose and role, and on the hours and our digital offering was also noted during the year. risks of alcohol. Opinion surveys Every month, a nationally representative selection of people aged Dialogue with county councils’ ANDT-Coordinators on how we 15+ are asked “Do you think that Systembolaget and the monopo­ can reach out to new arrivals with information about Systembo­ ly on the sale of strong beer, wines and spirits should be retained, laget. (ANDT is the Government’s Council on alcohol, narcotics, or would you prefer strong beer, wines and spirits to be sold in doping and tobacco issues.) other stores” by the Kantar Sifo survey organisation. The aim is to find out what our customers think about our monopoly. A total of Dialogue with stakeholder organisations in areas of relevance to 9,000 interviews are conducted every year. our work with diversity and inclusiveness, including Funka, which works with accessibility for people with disabilities. 116 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Partnership with the Swedish Public Employment Service via a We want to ensure that we live up to our customers’ expectations national cooperation agreement designed to help identify ways of good service and a responsible interaction. We do so by of helping reduce unemployment, with a primary focus on people conducting annual measurements of the customer experience who are new arrivals in Sweden or born overseas and on people in physical stores (CSI), the digital store (ordering service), from with disabilities. our agents, at systembolaget.se, in our Search & Find app, at our drinks auctions, and from our Customer Services (via phone, Collaboration with the DUA Delegation (Delegation for young email, Facebook or online chat services). people and new arrivals in the labour market) in order to develop labour market measures for new arrivals. Developing with We are continuously testing new solutions in the physical and/ the customer or digital environment where we can rapidly obtain customers’ Dialogue with the European Social Fund regarding participation reactions. These reactions then form the basis for our further de­ in the ”Universally Designed Workplaces” project. velopment work. Examples from 2018 include the new checkout counter for ordered goods at the Sergels Torg store, the ”pre-­ Survey targeting people with a foreign background who have store” for ordered goods at our Bromma Blocks store, the ability ­Arabic, Somali, or Farsi as their native languages, in order to in several parts of Sweden to order from our entire range for understand their views of Systembolaget as a company and in-store collection or for home delivery, and the new functionality employer, and their alcohol habits and attitudes to alcohol. currently being beta-tested on our website. Supervision We conduct regular dialogues with supervisory authorities in Our sustainability We conduct a sustainability dialogue with the public (just over areas of relevance to our operations, such as the Public Health work 1,000 randomly selected people aged 18 and above) every year, Agency of Sweden, the Swedish Consumer Agency, the Swedish during which we examine how they view different elements of our Competition Authority, the National Food Administration, sustainability work based on know-how, performance, and how the ­Alcoholic Beverages Product Range Board, and Swedish important they think it is. The results form the basis for both our ­C ustoms. materiality analysis and our strategy and communication work. Customers Good service We conduct a Customer Satisfaction survey (CSI) three times a Owners The social Owner dialogue and Annual General Meeting. We have an year, recruiting customers in virtually all of our stores, to enable ­mandate ongoing dialogue with our owners to ensure that we live up to us to continue developing our offering and the just over 120 mil­ their expectations and requirements. Areas discussed during the lion customer interactions that take place in our stores. A total of year include the work of the Board, operational monitoring and around 33,000 interviews are conducted annually in cooperation follow-up work, the Annual General Meeting, and monitoring of with an external, independent company (CFI Group). The survey key performance indicators, mandate goals, financial goals, and reveals what is important to our customers and how well we are the strategic goals for sustainable enterprise. Systembolaget’s living up to their expectations. digitisation agenda, the home delivery trial, and other issues of relevance to the company have also been discussed. Customer inte­ We conduct ongoing quantitative studies where we monitor our raction customers’ experiences of their interaction with us, wherever Strategic goal Owner dialogue and Annual General Meeting (AGM). The goal they choose to interact with us – via our digital contact inter­ level for the cost-effectiveness metric was adopted by the faces (the website, app), via our digital store, via our Customer 2017 AGM and is now reported on an ongoing basis. The cost-­ ­Services, via our agents, when they receive their home deliveries, effectiveness metric is designed to ensure rationalised operations and at our drinks auctions. This aim is to obtain a more in-depth within our company. picture of their experiences, to identify gaps between their ­expectations and our perceived performance, and to enable us to identify new developmental areas. 117 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Owner Sustainable Owner dialogues, meetings with representatives of the Ministry Discrimination, An addition was made to the annual employee survey in the enterprise of Health & Social Affairs and the Ministry of Enterprise & harassment, and autumn of 2018 with regard to the Swedish Discrimination Innovation, Annual General Meeting. Dialogues during the year bullying Act and the Swedish Work Environment Act. The aim is to map have specifically concerned Systembolaget’s strategic goals for incidences of discrimination, harassment and bullying, and sustainable enterprise, and Systembolaget’s efforts to ensure employees’ perceptions of the psychosocial climate in the respect for human rights, our work in South Africa, and our workplace. The results are reported and analysed at an overall partnerships with trade union organisations. A Human Rights level and any deficiencies detected will result in targeted Due Diligence procedure was carried out in 2018 with the help measures being planned. of external experts, resulting in a deeper understanding of the risks present in our value chain in connection with human rights, Ethics and Ethics dialogues designed to keep ethical issues front of mind together with recommendations on how we can ensure that our ­sustainability and to create a dialogue on the ethical dilemma throughout work takes these risks into account in an optimal way. the organisation. We have an ongoing dialogue regarding our Code of Conduct, for which there Is also a mandatory online Employees Skills and deve­ Ongoing “Focus” discussions with employees. These are the training course. lopment managers’ and employees’ most important tool for jointly setting goals, talking about expectations, and developing both employ­ We also conduct an annual sustainability dialogue with all ees and the operations. The goals are followed up on and revised of our managers and with a random selection of employ­ continuously in the day-to-day operations. If we are to impress ees, during which we investigate perceptions of different our customers, it is vital that we continuously develop both our­ components of our sustainability work, based on know-how, selves and our skills. performance, and how important they think it is, along with questions relating to how well integrated our sustainability Performance Work with Good Leadership and Agerus employee surveys. work is. The results form the basis for both our materiality terms System­b olaget’s annual Agerus dialogue is carried out every analysis and our strategy and communication work. autumn in working groups. The dialogue is based on the results of the survey carried out within the group, where everyone Work Work Environment Committee and collaboration agreements. is asked to answer a number of questions posed in an online ­environment Systembolaget has a Work Environment Committee that ­questionnaire. The dialogue helps us identify measures that we issues meets four times a year at which time employer and personnel can use to generate optimum conditions for achieving our goal representatives (from different trade unions) get together to of “An impressive customer interaction”. address strategic work environment issues. Both parties are responsible for highlighting important issues. Systembolaget Organisational The first ”Organisational Dialogue” was carried out in 2017 in is careful to keep the trade unions informed of ongoing deve­ dialogue response to an initiative from the Sales Management, with the aim lopments in the work environment sphere and the contribution of Identifying the gaps between the ways in which Systembolaget of the unions is, in turn, important in terms of the end results. works in principle and in practice. A wide range of improvement It is equally important that the unions provide information and measures have been implemented in response to the information sound the alarm if something is not working, in order to enable obtained. In the spring of 2018, the Sales Management began the the company to act. Organisational Dialogue’s follow-up work with the goal of deter­ mining employees’ perceptions of the measures implemented and the effect of the measures, and of learning more about the challenges that lie ahead. 118 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Suppliers Environment and Climate footprint is one of the biggest shared challenges fa­ Working condi­ The work being conducted within the framework of the climate ced by the drinks industry. To this end we have, amongst other tions and health Global Deal, and specifically our collaboration with the IUF things, formed a working group comprising representatives in the supply (International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, of Swedish Spirits and Wine Suppliers’ Association (SVL) and chain Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers Associations), has been the Swedish Brewers’ Association, together with 11 member clarified during the year and resulted in a jointly produced companies. Over the course of the year, we continued to work process description for incident management. The Swedish with the procurement and implementation of a tool to counter trade union, Unionen, in the form both of Systembolaget’s own our climate impact and with setting shared goal figures for union branch and Unionen’s international department, is also our work. An Environmental Strategy Day was held on 23 involved in this work. November. In 2018, Systembolaget was elected to four project groups Ongoing Over the course of the year, we invited suppliers to attend within the amfori organisation, where personnel from the ­c ollaboration, three specific supplier meetings focusing on sustainability. sustainable supply chain unit are helping with amfori’s deve­ incl. ­working lopment in a variety of ways. conditions and A newsletter has been sent out to our suppliers on a rolling health basis in the latter half of 2018. In 2018, Systembolaget signed up to Stronger Together, ena­ bling a greater number of capacity-boosting measures In the The Supplier Barometer survey is conducted once yearly in South African producer stage of the supply chain. October. We ask our 100 biggest suppliers for feedback on our ongoing work and their perceptions of the partnership with Collaborative Children who suffer as a result of other people’s drinking Systembolaget. The results deliver insights for our ongoing partnerships constitute a vulnerable group in society. Systembolaget improvement work. focusing on has, therefore, in partnership with IQ, initiated a partnership children and se­ designed to increase societal engagement in this issue, with Following up on We carry out situation analyses of our suppliers to establish cond-hand harm the goal of reducing the number of children who suffer due suppliers’ sustai­ their degree of sustainability maturity. As of 2018, the analyses to other people’s drinking. Discussions and workshops were nability maturity include all suppliers with products in our fixed range. The held during the year with the Trygga Barnen (the Safe Kids response frequency was 100 % and the information was used Foundation), BRIS (Children’s’ Rights in Society), Maskrosbarn during the year to provide input for the supplier meetings (the Dandelion Kids organisation), and the World Childhood held. Foundation children’s rights organisations, with the aim of developing a joint platform on which to base our work. In the Producers Sustainability We have conducted around 100 third party audits and a autumn, we continued working with the insights gained from work, incl. wor­ further 100 or so producer visits focusing on sustainability our meetings – to develop concrete ideas for implementation king conditions during the year. In October, we held a seminar in Italy attended in 2019 under the shared tagline of ”Barndom utan baksmälla” and health by Swedish suppliers and their producers, together with local [Hangover-free Childhood]. industry organisations. Stakeholder Ongoing collabo­ Collaboration and ongoing dialogue with other Nordic mono­ organisations ration on social polies within NAM (The Nordic Alcohol Retail Monopolies). A and environmen­ joint field trip to Italy was carried out in 2018 in order to increa­ tal sustainability se our knowledge of the challenges faced there. 119 Carbon dioxide emissions reported in accordance with the GHG protocol S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Carbon dioxide emissions reported in accordance with the GHG protocol In 2015, Systembolaget initiated a more explicit moni­ emissions. The key performance indicator was most The year-on-year reduction in Scope 2 is primarily toring of its emissions, based on the Green House Gas recently revised in 2017 and now only includes our own due to our ongoing programme of increasing energy Protocol (GHG protocol). We have included relevant operations. The revision occurred in conjunction with efficiency and the mapping of the type of energy GRI disclosures for this (referred to in the GRI Stan­ the adoption of a new climate goal with the ambition sources used for to generate the electricity we dards as 305-1 and 305-2) in our sustainability report­ of reducing our emissions from purchased energy, consume. See also page 48. ing ever since, in order to report our climate impact* coolants and leased vehicles to zero by 2023. in accordance with the GHG protocol. Greenhouse CO2e/ We apply the calculation methodology referred to Greenhouse gas gases/year year The 305-1 disclosure applies to the area referred to within the GHG protocol as “operational control”. The emissions in 2018 GWP (tonnes) (tonnes) within the GHG protocol as Scope 1, while 305-2 refers calculations use the global warming potential (GWP) Carbon dioxide, CO2 1 2,065 2,065 to the area known as Scope 2. Scope 1 shows estimated of the Kyoto gases, based on the Intergovernmental direct carbon dioxide emissions from the operations, Panel on Climate Change, IPCC’s Fourth Assessment Methane, CH4 25 0.01 0.22 for example from cars leased by the company. In Syst­ Report, 2007. embolaget’s case, Scope 2 calculates indirect carbon Nitrous oxide, N2O 298 0.01 3.78 dioxide emissions from the operations’ electricity and Carbon dioxide equivalents, 1 2,427 2,427 Calculation of CO2 heat consumption. ­emissions, based on 2018 2017 2016 CO2e the GHG Protocol Total, CO2e tonnes 4,496 The GHG protocol also include a Scope 3, which com­ prises other indirect emissions. We are successively Scope 1 analysing an ever-larger component of the climate im­ Systembolaget’s own 322 283 285 Greenhouse CO2e/ pact from our supply chains and know, amongst other vehicles and heating of the Greenhouse gas gases/year year Learning Centre things, that our single biggest Scope 3 climate impact emissions in 2017 GWP (tonnes) (tonnes) comes from packaging. As in previous years, however, Scope 2 we do not report Scope 3. Energy consumption, own Carbon dioxide, CO2 1 3,204 3,204 4,1731 5,501 6,655 operations (electricity and Methane, CH4 25 0.01 0.13 Our ambitions and governance when it comes to re­ heating) ducing our negative climate impact are presented in Nitrous oxide, N2O 298 0.01 2.09 Total, CO2e (tonnes) 4,496 5,783 6,940 the section on page 36 entitled Sustainable Supply Carbon dioxide equivalents, 1 2,577 2,577 Chain, and in the section Sustainable Operations at 1 If our electricity consumption for 2018 were to be calculated in accordance CO2e Systembolaget (page 47). These sections describe our with the method referred to in the GHG protocol as “location based”, which is based on IEA (2017), our carbon dioxide emissions from energy consumption strategic key performance indicator for carbon dioxide would, instead, total 3,247 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents. Total, CO2e tonnes 5,783 120 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Greenhouse CO2e/ Greenhouse gas gases/year year emissions in 2016 GWP (tonnes) (tonnes) Carbon dioxide, CO2 1 3,419 3,419 Methane, CH4 25 0.00 0.12 Nitrous oxide, N2O 298 0.01 2.11 Carbon dioxide equivalents, 1 3,518 3,518 CO2e Total, CO2e tonnes 6,940 121 GRI Boundary table S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS GRI Boundary table Systembolaget has identified 14 company-specific key closures for monitoring the material sustainability areas, Boundaries and results for these disclosures and indica­ performance indicators for 2018, along with 8 GRI dis­ which we have grouped within our three strategic shifts. tors are shown in the table below. COMPANY-SPECIFIC KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GRI INDICATORS IN OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Company-specific key ­p erformance indicator Boundary – the point in our value chain where the **=Strategic key Result, Goal, Strategic shift Area area is important – and the impact in brief GRI disclosure ­performance indicator 2018 2018 Continue to The customer interaction The entire local community (everyone in Sweden) is 102-43 Customer Satisfaction Index** 84.6 84.5– 85.0 impress the affected directly and/or indirectly by our responsible (section concerning CSI – social component 82.2 – ­customers selling and by information about our products and ­customer satisfaction) our social mandate. Carefully selected range The entire local community (everyone in Sweden) is CSI – Range and offering 80.6 – affected directly and/or indirectly by our responsible CSI – Sustainability/environ­ 73.2 – selling and by information about our products. ment Sustainable supply chain Material at both producer and cultivation level, 414-2 Suppliers’ sustainability but also in evaluating whether the suppliers take (Social responsibility in the maturity** responsibility for these issues. We can exert supply chain) situation analysis 100 100 influence through cooperation and education, and ­questionnaire by requiring compliance with our Code of Conduct. online training 96.5 100 The climate footprint of our supply chain has a risk analysis 56.5 50 considerable influence on sustainable development, guidelines/process for and we use the same means of exerting influence evalu­ating social responsi­ here, with the emphasis on cooperation. bility 47.9 50 Sustainable in-house Within the area of direct climate impact from our 305-1 (direct sources) Climate footprint of System­ 2,591 Annual ­operations own operations we have the greatest potential for 305-2 (indirect sources) bolaget’s own operations reduction ­exerting influence and this has an important signal­ (net CO2)** ling value, even if the scale is not material. Ethics and anti-corruption The area is material, both within the organisation 205-3 5 – and in the supply chain. We exert influence by (Confirmed incidents of ­reducing the risk of corruption, which is done by corruption where action ­monitoring compliance with our Code of Conduct. has been taken) 122 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Company-specific key ­p erformance indicator Boundary – the point in our value chain where the **=Strategic key Result, Goal, Strategic shift Area area is important – and the impact in brief GRI disclosure ­performance indicator 2018 2018 Increase awareness The benefits of System­ The entire local community (everyone in Sweden) 413-1 Opinion Index (OPI)** 76.5 77.5 of the risks associa­ bolaget is affected, directly and/or indirectly, by how well (Our influence on society) (The percentage who want ted with alcohol and Systembolaget succeeds with its aim of limiting the to retain Systembolaget’s why Systembolaget Increased social dialogue harmful effects of alcohol. We are, at the same time, monopoly on retail sales exists aware that we are one of many factors that influence of spirits, wine and strong the outcome. beer.) Tools that help increase Proof of age checks** (%) 95.6 96.0 mindfulness Research and facts Optimise Securing the talent pool Throughout Systembolaget’s operations, where we 404-3 Performance culture** 81.5 78.4 conditions have a direct influence on our employees through (Focus – performance measures designed to create optimum conditions. reviews) Sick leave**(%) 4.5 4.8 Staff turnover (%) 17.3 – Diversity and inclusiveness We view diversity from an outside-in perspective 405-1 – we are there for everyone in Sweden. The area (Diversity and is also material with regard to securing our own inclusiveness) talent pool, which is an area where we have a direct ­influence through our recruitment processes. Finance Throughout Systembolaget’s operations, where we Equity/assets ratio** 25.7 20–30 have a direct influence by conducting cost-effective operations such that we cover our costs and meet our Return on shareholders’ 11.4 8.0–9.0 owner’s yield requirements, which are set in line with equity** the fact that our primary goal is societal benefit. Cost-effectiveness** 2.3 � 2.3 123 GRI index S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS GRI index This sustainability report complies with the Global Re­ area. For the 2018 financial year, Systembolaget has adjudged relevant to its operations on the basis of the porting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines, version Standards, grouped its material sustainability topics around seven company’s most important sustainability issues, which and has undergone a combined review by Deloitte AB. sustainability issues within the GRI index. are integrated into the strategic plan. Information on Systembolaget, in accordance with the Core option, boundaries and other matters can be found in the in­ reports at least one disclosure or company-specific This index includes all disclosures or company-specific dex or via a reference to the location of the information key performance indicator per material sustainability key performance indicators that Systembolaget has in question. Disclosure no. Name Reference Page Disclosure no. Name Reference Page 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Number/percentage of 129 GRI STANDARD: GRI 102 – GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 a) Total number of employees by employment contract employees Organisational profile (permanent and temporary), by gender 102-1 Name of the organisation Note 1 Accounting principles 104 b) Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Systembolaget’s business model 15 c) Total number of employees by employment type 102-3 Location of headquarters Note 1 Accounting principles 104 (permanent and temporary), by gender 102-4 Number of countries where the organisation operates Note 1 Accounting principles 104 d) W hether a significant portion of the organisation’s activities are performed by workers who are not 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate Governance Report 82 employees 102-6 Markets served (Incl. geographic locations, sectors served, Systembolaget’s business model 15 e) Any significant variations in the numbers reported in types of customers) Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as 102-7 Scale of the organisation, including: seasonal variations) – total number of employees f) An explanation of how the data have been compiled, – total number of operations including any assumptions made. – net sales – quantity of products and services provided Systembolaget’s business model 15 Deviation: it is not possible to obtain figures for contract – total assets Income Statement 100 personnel from our system in that we use our payroll – beneficial ownership Balance Sheet 101 system, Heroma, which only shows Systembolaget – net sales or net revenues by countries and Note 2 net sales ** employees, in our calculations. We currently have no regions that make up 5% or more of total Number of employees 129 means of reporting contract personnel in a corresrevenues ponding manner, and contract personnel are consequcosts by countries and regions that make up ently excluded in order to eliminate the risk of 5% or more of total costs misleading reporting. 102-9 A description of the organisation’s supply chain, including Sustainable supply chain 36 its main elements as they relate to the organisation’s activities, primary brands, products, and services 124 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Disclosure no. Name Reference Page Disclosure no. Name Reference Page 102-10 Report significant changes during the reporting period to Business and Policy Studies, the Swedish Communication the size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: Association, the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA, the Center for Retailing (the Stockholm – C hanges in the location of, or changes in, operations, School of Economics) and of the SIDA (Swedish Inter­ including facility openings, closings, and expansions national ­D evelopment Cooperation Agency) Swedish – C hanges in the share capital structure and other capital Leadership for S ­ ustainable ­D evelopment (SLSD) network. formation – C hanges in the location of suppliers, the structure of Systembolaget’s business model 15 the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, Sustainable supply chain 36 Strategy including selection and termination 102-14 A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the A conversation with our President 102-11 Report whether and how the organisation applies the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to and Chairman of the Board 5 Precautionary Principle or approach the organisation and its strategy for addressing sustainability Comment: Systembolaget does not use the precautionary approach as a control concept per se, but we operate in Ethics and Integrity accordance therewith in many cases, e.g. the risk analyses and their follow-ups conducted in order to identify, 102-16 A description of the organisation’s values, principles, Ethics and anti-corruption 49 evaluate, compile and report risks, including sustainabilitystandards and norms of behavior related risks. Risk management is followed up annually. Comment: an internal Code of Conduct was adopted in 2015. 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, environmental There Is also an external Code of Conduct, Employee Policy, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which and a Commercial Ethics Responsibility Policy. the organisation subscribes, or which it endorses Comment: Systembolaget has been a member of the amfori Governance BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) organisation 102-18 Describe the governance structure of the organisation, Corporate Governance Report 82 since 2011 and of Global Compact since 2013. In August including committees of the highest governance body 2017, an ­a greement was signed with the IUF, International – identify committees responsible for decision-making on Union of Food, Agricultural, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco economic, environmental and social topics and Allied Workers Associations, and, in the same year, a decision was taken to become a member of the Global Stakeholder engagement Deal. Systembolaget has also been a member of Stronger Together, an initiative that works to prevent slavery in the 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by organisation Stakeholder engagement 116 supply chain, since June 2018. 102-41 Describe the percentage of total employees covered by 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other collective bargaining agreements associations, and national or international advocacy Comment: 100% of the employees are covered by collective organisations where the ­o rganisation: bargaining agreements. – holds a position on the governance body 102-42 Describe the basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality analysis 17 – participates in projects or committees with whom to engage – provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues 102-43 • D escribe the organisation’s approach to stakeholder – views Its membership as strategic engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, including customer satisfaction Comment: Systembolaget is, for strategic reasons, a surveys member of the amfori Business Social Compliance Initia­ • D escribe also whether any of the engagement was underStakeholder engagement 116 tive (BSCI), the Swedish Trade Federation, the Confedera­ taken specifically as part of the report preparation process The Customer Interaction 31 tion of Swedish Enter­p rise, the SNS Centre for 125 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Disclosure no. Name Reference Page Disclosure no. Name Reference Page 102-44 • Report key topics and concerns that have been raised 102-56 Describe the organisation’s policy and current practice with through stakeholder engagement, including how the orga­ regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If the nisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, report has been externally assured: including through its ­reporting. – Provide a reference to the external assurance report, Audit Report and Review 131 • Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key Stakeholder engagement 116 statements or opinions Report In respect of the topics and concerns – Describe the relationship between the organisation and Annual Accounts the assurance provider Combined assurance 136 – Describe whether or how the highest governance body engagement of the Reporting practice or senior executives are involved in seeking external sustainability reporting 102-45 • L ist all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report Corporate Governance Report 82 financial statements or equivalent documents • Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s About our Responsibility Report 114 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents GRI STANDARD: GRI 103 – MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 is not covered by the report Management approach 102-46 • E xplain the process for defining the report content and the 103-1 For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall topic Boundaries report the following information: • E xplain how the organisation has implemented the Materiality analysis 17 a) An explanation of why the topic is material Reporting Principles for defining report content b) T he Boundary for the material topic, which includes a 102-47 List all of the material topics identified in the process for Materiality analysis 17 description of: defining report content – where the impact occurs – the organisation’s involvement with the impacts See GRI Boundary Table 122 102-48 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information c) Any specific limitation regarding the and respective referral texts given in previous reports, and the reasons for such topic Boundary in the GRI Index (page 124) restatements. Restatements can result from: 103-2 For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall – mergers or acquisitions report the following information: – change of base years or periods a) An explanation of how the organisation manages the topic – nature of business b) A statement of the purpose of the management approach – measurement methods About our Responsibility Report 114 c) A description of the following, if the management See respective referral texts in the approach includes that component: policies, GRI Index (page 124) 102-49 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods Materiality analysis 17 commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries resources, grievance mechanisms, and specific actions such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 102-50 Reporting period About our Responsibility Report 114 103-3 For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall 102-51 Date of most recent report About our Responsibility Report 114 report the following information: 102-52 Reporting cycle About our Responsibility Report 114 a) An explanation of how the organisation evaluates the 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About our Responsibility Report 114 management approach, including: i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the 102-54 Report claim made by the organisation, if it has prepared About our Responsibility Report 114 management approach a report in accordance with either the GRI Standards ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach See respective referral texts in the ”Core option” or ”Comprehensive option” iii. any related adjustments to the management approach GRI Index (page 124) 102-55 Report the GRI content index for the chosen method of GRI index 124 reporting, as per the above 126 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS DISCLOSURES AND COMPANY-SPECIFIC KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PER SUSTAINABILITY AREA Disclosure no. Name Reference Page Disclosure no. Name Reference Page ECONOMIC IMPACT 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethics and anti-corruption 51 GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 Deviation: this key performance indicator measures incidents when we have discovered that employees are 103-1/2/3 Management approach disclosures for financial Finance 70 in breach of our preventative routines to counter corruption, (page 126) key performance indicators and this document contains no presentation of any Company-specific Equity/assets ratio Finance 71 termination of commercial agreements due to breaches key performance of commercial terms by suppliers. indicator Company-specific Return on equity Finance 72 SUSTAINABILITY AREA: key performance indicator CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OWN OPERATIONS Company-specific Cost-effectiveness Finance 72 GRI 305 – Emissions 2016 key performance 103-1/2/3 Approach to GRI 305 – Management approach disclosures Systembolaget’s sustainable 47 indicator (page 126) for reducing the operations’ CO 2 emissions operations Company-specific The climate impact of own operations (net CO 2) Systembolaget’s sustainable 48 SUSTAINABILITY AREA: OUR CUSTOMER INTERACTION AND RANGE key performance operations GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 Indicator 103-1/2/3 Management approach disclosures of customer The Customer Interaction 28 305-1 CO 2 emissions from direct sources, calculated using The GHG protocol 120 (page 126) satisfaction routines, including results of customer surveys Scope 1 of the Green House Gas Protocol (GHG protocol) Own vehicles and heating the Learning Centre Company-specific key performance Customer Satisfaction Index The Customer Interaction 31 305-2 CO 2 emissions from indirect sources, calculated using The GHG protocol 120 indicator (monitoring customer satisfaction) Scope 2 of the Green House Gas Protocol (GHG protocol). Energy consumption, own operations Company-specific Customer Satisfaction Index Social component (monitoring The Customer Interaction 31 key performance customer satisfaction with regard to the provision of Indicator information on the harmful effects of alcohol) SUSTAINABILITY AREA: SECURING THE TALENT POOL Company-specific Customer Satisfaction Index – Range and offering A Carefully Selected Range 35 GRI 404 – Training and Education 2016 key performance (monitoring customer satisfaction with regard to offering 103-1/2/3 Management approach disclosures for GRI 404 how we Securing the talent pool 62 indicator a broad and sustainable range) (page 126) develop ourselves and our skills Company-specific Customer Satisfaction Index – Sustainability/environment A Carefully Selected Range 36 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Securing the talent pool 64 key performance (monitoring customer satisfaction with regard and career development reviews indicator to a sustainable range) Deviation: A breakdown by gender within every category of those employees who have received performance reviews is not currently possible in our system. We are reviewing SUSTAINABILITY AREA: ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION whether this is of value from an inclusiveness perspective and, GRI 205 – Anti-corruption 2016 if it proves to be so, examining the system engineering opportunities for reporting by roll with a gender breakdown. 103-1/2/3 Approach to GRI 205 – Management approach disclosures Ethics and anti-corruption 49 (page 126) ofrisk assessment procedures in ethics and anti-corruption 127 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Disclosure no. Name Reference Page Disclosure no. Name Reference Page Company-specific Performance culture Securing the talent pool 65 service, in the retail sales of spirits, wines and strong beers, key performance and to inform people about the harmful effects of alcohol. Indicator Achieving the latter objective requires clear information provision and an ongoing dialogue with different elements Company-specific Total sick leave, % Securing the talent pool 66 of society. key performance Indicator Company-specific Opinion Index Increase awareness of 59 key performance (measures Swedes’ attitudes to Systembolaget) alcohol’s risks and why Company-specific Staff turnover, % Securing the talent pool 66 indicator Systembolaget exists key performance Indicator Company-specific Proof of age checks, % Increase awareness of 60 key performance (ensure that alcohol is not sold to minors) alcohol’s risks and why Indicator Systembolaget exists SUSTAINABILITY AREA: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVENESS GRI 405 – Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AREA: A SUSTAINBLE SUPPLY CHAIN 103-1/2/3 Approach to GRI 405 – Management approach disclosures Diversity and inclusiveness 67 GRI 414 – Supplier Social Assessment 2016 (page 126) for diversity and inclusiveness 103-1/2/3 Approach to a sustainable supply chain – Management A Sustainable Supply Chain 36 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees by gender Diversity and inclusiveness 69 (page 126) approach disclosures with regard to both social and age groups, and, where relevant, other indicators of and environmental impact in the supply chain diversity (such as minority or vulnerable groups) Company-specific Suppliers’ sustainability maturity A Sustainable Supply Chain 45 Deviation: In light of the minor changes from previous years’ key performance monitoring of nationality, we focused in 2016 and 2017 on Indicator investigating what the new requirements entailed by the introduction of GDPR (General Data Protection regulation) 103-1/2/3 Approach to GRI 414 – Management approach disclosures A Sustainable Supply Chain 36 would mean and consequently did not chart this area in (page 126) with regard to negative social impacts in the supply chain these years. and actions taken 414-2 Evaluation of social conditions in the supply chain with A Sustainable Supply Chain 47 SUSTAINABILITY AREA: INCREASING KNOWLEDGE OF ALCOHOL’S RISKS AND regard to significant and potentially negative impacts, and actions taken WHY SYSTEMBOLAGET EXISTS IN ORDER TO REDUCE THE HARMFUL EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL GRI 413 – Local Communities 2016 103-1/2/3 Approach to GRI 413 – Management approach disclosures Increase awareness of 53 (page 126) with regard to the operations’ social impact alcohol’s risks and why Systembolaget exists 413-1 Operations with implemented local community Increase awareness of 53 engagement, impact assessments, and development alcohol’s risks and why programs Systembolaget exists Comment: The goal of the Swedish alcohol policy is to limit total alcohol consumption in society so that alcohol-related harm, whether medical or social, is reduced as much as possible. Systembolaget consequently has a clear social mandate: to engage responsibly and with a high standard of 128 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Number of employees, 2018 Permanent Fixed term Full-time Part-time All employees employees employees employees ­employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Sales personnel 1,714 3,062 4,776 1,441 2,611 4,052 273 451 724 301 324 625 1,413 2,738 4,151 SA North** 977 1,515 2,492 835 1,282 2,117 142 233 375 164 133 297 813 1,382 2,195 SA South** 737 1,547 2,284 606 1,329 1,935 131 218 349 137 191 328 600 1,356 1,956 Store Managers 193 268 461 193 268 461 0 0 0 193 265 458 0 3 3 SA North** 101 115 216 101 115 216 0 0 0 101 112 213 0 3 3 SA South** 92 153 245 92 153 245 0 0 0 92 153 245 0 0 0 Janitors 2 10 12 2 9 11 0 1 1 0 0 0 2 10 12 SA North** 1 4 5 1 4 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 4 5 SA South** 1 6 7 1 5 6 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 6 7 HQ personnel, Managers 44 59 103 44 59 103 0 0 0 44 59 103 0 0 0 of whom, 14 20 34 14 20 34 0 0 0 14 20 34 0 0 0 Unit Managers of whom, 15 14 29 15 14 29 0 0 0 15 14 29 0 0 0 Area Managers HQ personnel, 201 257 458 195 252 447 6 5 11 196 245 441 5 12 17 ­employees Contract personnel Systembolaget, total 2,154 3,656 5,810 1,875 3,199 5,074 279 457 736 734 893 1,627 1,420 2,763 4,183 IQ 1 7 8 1 7 8 0 0 0 1 7 8 0 0 0 Total 2,155 3,663 5,818 1,876 3,206 5,082 279 457 736 735 900 1,635 1,420 2,763 4,183 ** Sales Area Comment: The number of employees (refers to the number employed on 31 December, as per the Heroma payroll system). The fact that we have many fixed term and part-time employees is due to the fact that we have sales peaks at the end of the week and cannot occupy weekend personnel levels throughout the week. These conditions are common within the retail sector. 129 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S CONTENTS Percentage of employees, 2018 All Permanent Fixed term Full-time Part-time employees (%) employees (%) employees (%) employees (%) employees (%) Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Sales personnel 36 64 36 64 85 38 62 15 48 52 13 34 66 87 SA North** 39 61 39 61 85 38 62 15 55 45 12 37 63 88 SA South** 32 68 31 69 85 38 62 15 42 58 14 31 69 86 Store Managers 42 58 42 58 100 0 42 58 99 0 100 1 SA North** 47 53 47 53 100 0 47 53 99 0 100 1 SA South** 38 62 38 62 100 0 38 62 100 0 Janitors 17 83 18 82 92 0 100 8 0 17 83 100 SA North** 20 80 20 80 100 0 0 20 80 100 SA South** 14 86 17 83 86 0 100 14 0 14 86 100 HQ personnel, Managers 43 57 43 57 100 0 43 57 100 0 of whom, 41 59 41 59 100 0 41 59 100 0 Unit Managers of whom, 52 48 52 48 100 0 52 48 100 0 Area Managers HQ personnel, 44 56 44 56 98 55 45 2 44 56 96 29 71 4 ­employees Contract personnel Systembolaget, total 37 63 37 63 87 38 62 13 45 55 28 34 66 72 IQ 13 88 13 88 100 0 13 88 100 0 Total 37 63 37 63 87 38 62 13 45 55 28 34 66 72 ** Sales Area Boundary: We do not report consultants/contract personnel, or personnel within outsourced IT operations. We have not broken down the percentage of men and women by region because we do not break down our figures in this way. Our operations are located solely in Sweden and we therefore regard Sweden as our sole region. 130 Audit and review S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS Audit Report To the Annual General Meeting of Systembolaget AB, r­ esponsibilities in accordance with these standards ment of this other information, we are required to re­ corporate identity number 556059-9473 are described in greater detail in the section entitled port that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. “Auditor’s responsibility”. We are, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, in­ RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Report on the Annual Accounts dependent in relation to Systembolaget AB, and have AND THE PRESIDENT otherwise complied with professional ethical require­ The Board of Directors and the President are responsi­ OPINION ments in accordance with these standards. ble for the preparation and fair presentation of annual We have audited the annual accounts of Systembo­ accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual laget AB for 2018, with the exception of the Corporate We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained ­Accounts Act. The Board of Directors and the President Governance Report on pages 82–98. The company’s is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our are also responsible for the internal controls that they annual accounts are presented on pages 2, 4, 16 and audit opinion. deem necessary for preparing annual accounts that 73–112 of this document. are free from material misstatement, whether due to INFORMATION OTHER THAN THAT CONTAINED IN fraud or error. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act The Board of Directors and the President are responsi­ In preparing the annual accounts, the Board of Direc­ and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial ble for the other information. The other information is tors and the Managing Director are responsible for the position of Systembolaget AB as of 31 December 2018 presented on pages 3, 5–15, 17–72 and 113–142. assessment of the company’s and the Group’s ability to and its financial performance and cash flows for the continue as a going concern. They disclose, as appli­ year in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Our opinion on the annual accounts does not cover cable, matters related to going concern and using the Act. this information and we do not express any form of going concern basis of accounting. The going concern assurance regarding this other information. basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board The statutory administration report is consistent with of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liq­ the other parts of the annual accounts. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts, our uidate the company, to cease operations, or have no responsibility is to read the information identified above realistic alternative but to do so. We therefore recommend that the Annual General and consider whether the information is materially in­ Meeting adopt the Income Statement and the Balance consistent with the annual accounts. In this procedure AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Sheet for Systembolaget AB. we also take into account our knowledge otherwise Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance obtained during the audit and assess whether the in­ about whether the annual accounts as a whole are free BASES FOR OPINIONS formation otherwise appears to be materially misstated. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or We conducted our audit in accordance with Inter­ error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our national Standards on Auditing (ISA) and gener­ If we, based on the work performed concerning this opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assur­ ally ­a ccepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our information, conclude that there is a material misstate­ ance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 131 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the profit or loss. standards in Sweden will always detect a material mis­ audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material statement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders fraud or error and are considered material if, individually may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we proposal in the statutory administration report and that to influence the economic decisions of users taken on conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are the members of the Board of Directors and the President the basis of these annual accounts. required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to be discharged from liability for the financial year. the related disclosures in the annual accounts or, if As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exer­ such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opi­ BASIS FOR OPINIONS cise professional judgement and maintain professional nion about the annual accounts. Our conclusions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally scepticism throughout the audit. We also: are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our respon­ date of our auditor’s report. However, future events sibilities under those standards are further described • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement or conditions may cause a company and a Group to in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are inde­ of the annual accounts, whether due to fraud or er­ cease to continue as a going concern; pendent of the parent company in accordance with ror, design and perform audit procedures responsi­ professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and ve to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and con­ have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our tent of the annual accounts, including the disclosu­ accordance with these requirements. opinions. The risk of not detecting a material miss­ res, and whether the annual accounts represent the tatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one underlying transactions and events in a manner that We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, achieves fair presentation. is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or opinions. the override of internal control; We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS • obtain an understanding of the company’s internal must also inform of significant audit findings during AND THE PRESIDENT control relevant to our audit in order to design audit our audit, including any significant deficiencies in The Board of Directors is responsible for the propos­ procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, ­internal control that we identified. al for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on In connection with the proposal of a dividend, this the effectiveness of the company’s internal control; includes an assessment of whether the dividend is Report on other legal and justifiable considering the requirements which the • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies company’s type of operations, size and risks place on used and the reasonableness of accounting estima­ ­regulatory requirements the size of the parent company’s equity, consolidation tes and related disclosures made by the Board of requirements, liquidity and position in general. Directors and the President; OPINIONS In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s • conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Di­ have also audited the administration of the Board of organisation and the administration of the company’s rectors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going Directors and the President of Systembolaget AB for affairs. This includes among other things continuous concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual 2018 and the proposed appropriation of the company’s assessment of the company’s financial situation and 132 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS ensuring that the company’s organisation is designed proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or nance statement is different and substantially less in so that the accounting, management of assets and the loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. scope than an audit conducted in accordance with company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled International Standards on Auditing and generally ac­ in a reassuring manner. The President shall manage As part of an audit in accordance with generally ac­ cepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the ongoing administration according to the Board cepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise the examination has provided us with sufficient basis of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among professional judgement and maintain professional for our opinions. other matters take measures that are necessary to ful­ scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of fil the company’s accounting in accordance with law the administration and the proposed appropriations of A corporate governance statement has been prepared. and handle the management of assets in a reassuring the company’s profit or loss are based primarily on the Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the manner. audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures per­ second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts formed are based on our professional judgment with Act are consistent with the other parts of the annual AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY the starting point of risk and materiality. This means accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accor­ Our objective concerning the audit of the administra­ that we focus the examination on such actions, areas dance with the Annual Accounts Act. tion, and thereby our opinion about discharge from and relationships that are material for the operations liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a and where deviations and violations would have par­ Stockholm, 7 March 2019 reasonable degree of assurance whether any member ticular importance for the company’s situation. We of the Board of Directors or the President in any ma­ examine and test decisions undertaken, support for Deloitte AB terial respect: decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omis­ liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Direc­ Didrik Roos sion which can give rise to liability to the company, or tors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit Authorised Public Accountant or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned • has in any other way acted in contravention of the statement and a selection of supporting evidence in Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act, or the order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in ­Articles of Association. accordance with the Companies Act. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed AUDITOR’S REVIEW OF THE CORPORATE appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and ­GOVERNANCE REPORT thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with rea­ The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate sonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is Governance Report on pages 82–98 and for ensuring in accordance with the Companies Act. that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual ­Accounts Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accor­ Our review has been conducted in accordance with dance with generally accepted auditing standards in FAR’s auditing standard, RevU 16 The auditor´s exam­ Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that ination of the corporate governance statement. This can give rise to liability to the company, or that the means that our examination of the corporate gover­ 133 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Systembolaget AB, corporate ID no. 556059-9473 ENGAGEMENT AND DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for 2018 on pages 3, 5 –15, 17–72 and 113–142, and for its preparation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. FOCUS AND SCOPE OF THE REVIEW Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sus­ tainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally ac­ cepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. OPINION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 7 March 2019 Deloitte AB Didrik Roos Authorised Public Account 134 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS Review Report in respect of the Annual Accounts To the Annual General Meeting of Systembolaget AB, corporate identity number 556059-9473. In our role as lay auditors and on behalf of the Swed­ ish Parliament’s Board of Administration, we have examined the administration and internal controls of Systembolaget AB in the 2018 financial year. We have examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances in the company in order to be able to determine whether the company has been managed in an appropriate and financially acceptable manner and whether the company’s internal controls are adequate. Our examination did not reveal any circumstances giving cause for objection. We have also examined whether the company, its management and Board observed the guidelines laid down by the government with specific reference to Systembolaget AB and to State-owned enterprises in general. This examination also failed to reveal any circumstances giving cause for objection. Stockholm, 7 March 2019 Lennart Axelsson (Lay Auditor) Jörgen Hellman (Lay Auditor) Maria Plass (Lay Auditor) 135 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS Auditor’s combined assurance engagement on Systembolaget’s Sustainability Report To Systembolaget AB misstatements, whether due to error or to fraud. level of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. This is a combined engagement and we consequently AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY express our opinions with regard to the audit engage­ We have been engaged by the Board of Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the ment and limited assurance engagement in separate Directors of Systembolaget AB to perform Sustainability Report, based on our review. sections. a combined assurance engagement on We have performed our engagement in accordance The audit company applies ISQC 1 (International Stan­ System­bolaget AB’s Sustainability Report with ISAE 3000 Engagements Other than Audits or dard on Quality Control) and hence has a multifaceted for 2018. The company has defined the scope Reviews of Historical Financial Information. The review system of quality control that includes documented of the sustainability report alongside the includes a limited assurance engagement comprising guidelines and routines in respect of compliance a review of the sustainability report as a whole and an with business ethics requirements, professional con­ list of contents for Systembolaget’s 2018 audit of certain information which is specified below. duct standards, and applicable legislative and other Responsibility Report. The objective of an audit engagement is to obtain rea­ regulatory requirements. We are, in accordance with sonable assurance about whether the information is generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, in­ RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS free from material misstatement and entails reviewing dependent in relation to Systembolaget AB, and have AND THE EXECUTIVE COMPANY MANAGEMENT a selection of supporting documentation for quanti­ otherwise complied with professional ethical require­ FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT tative and qualitative information in the Sustainability ments in accordance with these standards. The Board of Directors and the executive company Report. A limited assurance engagement consists of management are responsible for the preparation and making enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for Our audit engagement has included sustainability-­ presentation of the Sustainability Report in accor­ the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and apply­ related information presented in Systembolaget AB’s dance with applicable criteria, which are specified ing analytical and other review procedures. The orien­ 2018 Responsibility Report regarding the “Sick leave” alongside the list of contents for Systembolaget’s 2018 tation and scope of a limited assurance engagement key performance indicator on page 66. Responsibility Report, and which comprise those sec­ differs from and is considerably less than the orienta­ tions of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (issued tion and scope of an audit engagement conducted in Our review is based on the criteria chosen by the Board by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) applicable to accordance with the IAASB standards for auditing and of Directors and executive company management, the Sustainability Report, and the specific reporting quality control and with generally accepted auditing which are defined above. We consider these criteria and measurement principles developed and issued practices. to be suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability by the company. This responsibility also includes the Report. internal controls deemed necessary for the prepara­ The conclusion based on our limited assurance en­ tion of a Sustainability Report that contains no material gagement consequently does not provide the same We believe that the evidence we have obtained during 136 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS our combined assurance engagement is sufficient and appropriate to enable us to provide a basis for the opin­ ion expressed below. OPINION Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the crite­ ria presented above by the Board of Directors and the executive company management. Based on our audit, we believe that the information presented in the Sustainability Report and comprised by our engagement has, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the criteria presented above by the Board of Directors and the executive company management. Stockholm, 7 March 2019 Deloitte AB Didrik Roos Authorised Public Accountant 137 Glossary and definitions** S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS Glossary ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION AMFORI BSCI • Country Risk, which comprises seven indicators Consumption of alcoholic beverages, recalculated The sustainability initiative that Systembolaget has • Industry Risk as litres of 100 per cent alcohol, per person aged 15 signed up to the Business Social Compliance Ini­ and above. The term, alcoholic beverage, refers to a tiative (BSCI) – is, as of 2018, restructured as amfori • Commodity Risk beverage with an alcohol content in excess of 2.25 per BSCI. This has occurred as part of the integration pro­ “At risk countries” meet at least one of the following cent by volume (the Swedish Alcohol Act, 2010:1622). cess approved by the FTA, Foreign Trade Association parameters: (commercial focus), BEPI, Business Environmental • the country’s combined risk indicator value is lower ALCOHOL INDEX Performance Initiative (environmental focus) and BSCI than 50; The Alcohol Index is a combined measurement of (social focus). BSCI will continue as the product name people’s attitudes to alcohol in different situations. Glossary for a further one year, as is the case for BEPI, • the country’s risk indicator value for at least one of The higher the index on a scale of 0-100, the more after which it will be known simply as “amfori”. the seven indicators included in Country Risk is lower moderate the attitude to alcohol. The Alcohol Index is than 2.5; generated using the responses to nine questions on The initiative, which is based in Brussels, is a European, • the country’s risk indicator value for at least one of the what people think is right and wrong when it comes commercially run cooperation initiative for companies primary indicators (Country Risk, Industry Risk och to alcohol. The survey also asks additional questions, keen to improve working conditions in the global sup­ Commodity Risk) is lower than 2.5. including five questions about “everyday drinking” ply chain. and which for the basis for the Everyday Index. The The global “at risk country” analysis is updated every questions are put to 2,000 people aged 16 and above ANDT: THE ANDT COUNCIL three years. The World Bank’s “at risk country” list is once a year. Data collection is carried out by Novus. The Government’s Council on alcohol, narcotics, dop­ used to analyse countries added to the producer list ing and tobacco issues acts in an advisory role to the during the intervening period. This “at risk country” ALCOHOL REPORT Government and provides information on research list also forms the basis for identification of high-risk Systembolaget publishes an annual Alcohol Report. and survey results among others, of relevance for the countries in accordance with the following definition: The aim of the Alcohol Report is to provide a cohesive implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the a high-risk country is a country with a rating that is less overview of alcohol and its risks in Sweden. strategy. than 20 % in accordance with the World Bank’s “at risk country” list. ALCOHOL TAX “AT RISK COUNTRIES” Alcohol tax is an excise duty levied by the Government. Systembolaget applies a global “at risk country” anal­ CFI Changes to the alcohol tax rate affect both Systembo­ ysis from Verisk Maplecroft. The analysis covers 99 Claes Fornell International CFI AB, which carries out laget’s income and its cost of goods sold, and changes countries whose products are included in Systembo­ our Customer Satisfaction Index surveys. to the alcohol tax rate consequently have no effect on laget’s range. The analysis weights and summarises the trading margin. the following three primary indicators to produce an overall risk assessment ranking of between 0 and 10 (where 0 is the highest risk and 10 is the lowest risk): 138 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS CLIMATE IMPACT FROM SYSTEMBOLAGET’S OWN FARM SALES been structured in cooperation with the OECD and OPERATIONS Entails a local wine, spirits or beer producer engaging ILO. Agenda 2030 includes a specific goal relating to We have reformulated our climate impact key perfor­ in the sale of in-house produced drinks to visitors or decent labour conditions and inclusive growth. Global mance indicator, as of 2017, to measure carbon diox­ local customers, directly at the farm or factory, but Deal is a step towards achieving that goal. ide emissions from our own operations. The goal is also entails everyone who manufactures alcohol being for emissions from purchased energy, coolants, and entitled to sell directly to consumers. This is true of GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE leased vehicles to be zero by 2023. both foreign and Swedish operators in both urban and A global network that issues a framework with guide­ rural areas. lines for sustainability reporting. The climate impact of our own operations is followed up annually. FFR INCIDENT MANAGEMENT The abbreviation, FFR, stands for the Fast Fast Range The term, incident management, refers to a systematic COMPLEX SUPPLY CHAIN and entails a listing period of 12 months and distribu­ approach to working with suspected breaches of our Systembolaget buys products from around 100 differ­ tion in at least 10 stores. Code of Conduct on the part of producers. We may ent countries. We always buy via Swedish suppliers be made aware of incidents via a number of different – currently around 700 in number. Our suppliers often GDPR – GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION channels, both internal and external, and they are not have subcontractors/producers who may, in turn, have GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) is a data limited to any identified “at risk country” or product subcontractors of their own. protection regulation that replaces the Swedish Data range from which the product in question derives. Protection Act (PUL). GDPR is the law in all EU member CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX – CSI states, while PUL only applied in Sweden. One of the INFLUENCERS The CSI measures how satisfied customers are with main innovations is that the Swedish Data Protection An influencer works to sell products, using influence as Systembolaget. The total index is an average value ob­ Authority can impose high punitive fines and the fact a market force. They create close digital relationships tained from responses to the three following questions: that personal data breaches must be reported within with their followers by presenting themselves in social 72 hours. media and these relationships act as a marketing tool. • How satisfied or dissatisfied are you with the System­ bolaget store, overall? GLOBAL COMPACT INFORMED CHOICE • How well does the Systembolaget store live up to your A UN initiative and framework for sustainable enter­ For us, working to promote informed choice means expectations? prise. Global Compact is based around ten principles offering products with a lower alcohol content and in within the following four areas: human rights, labour smaller packs, and products that take into account en­ • How close to or far from ideal do you think that the conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption. vironmental considerations and working conditions in Systembolaget store is? the supply chain. The customers’ answers, which are given on a scale GLOBAL DEAL from 1 to 10, are converted to a figure between 10 In November 2017, Systembolaget elected to sign up MYSTERY SHOPPERS and 100. Systembolaget engages CFI to conduct the for the Global Deal, an initiative that aims to improve People aged between 20 and 24 who make control survey. The survey base comprises a total of around the dialogue between labour market parties and purchases in our stores to check whether we are com­ 48,000 randomly selected customers, spread over all countries’ governments in order to improve labour plying with a proof of age check selling rules. of the stores. The CSI is measured and reported three conditions and productivity. Global Deal was initiated times a year. by Sweden’s Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, and has 139 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS NATIVE ADVERTISING Marketing that takes the form of advertisements that PROFIT MAXIMISATION When the primary purpose of an organisation’s oper­ Definition of alternative key look like and are perceived as editorial article content where they are presented. ations is to generate the maximum possible profit for the owner. performance indicators Alternative key performance indicators are financial OPINION INDEX – OPI PROOF OF AGE CHECKS metrics that are not defined in IFRS. Systembolaget be­ The Opinion Index measures the percentage of the The proof of age checks measure how often proof of lieves that these metrics provide valuable complemen­ Swedish population who wish to retain Systembolaget age was requested as a percentage of the total num­ tary information for our owner, Board of Directors, and and the monopoly on retail sales of strong beer, wines ber of control purchases. The control purchases are executive company management in that they enable and spirits. The survey base is asked to respond to the carried out by people aged between 20 and 24. Syst­ the evaluation of Systembolaget’s operating profit/ following question: Do you think that Systembolaget embolaget commissions Better Business to carry out loss and financial performance. Three alternative key and the monopoly on the sale of strong beer, wines and these checks. A total of around 5,800 control purchas­ performance indicators are included as objectives spirits should be retained, or would you prefer strong es are made every year in stores. Proof of age checks in Systembolaget’s Owner’s Directive. See Finance, beer, wines and spirits to be sold in other stores? are carried out daily and are reported every month. ­pages 70 –72, for further information. Systembolaget engages Kantar Sifo to conduct the TOTAL SICK LEAVE The alternative key performance indicators are not survey. A total of 750 randomly selected individuals The total sick leave is measured using the Swedish always comparable with metrics used by other compa­ aged 15and above are interviewed every month with National Financial Management Authority’s definition nies as they may be calculated in different ways. These the exception of July (no interviews) and August (1,500 and measures hours lost to sick leave in relation to the financial metrics should, therefore, be regarded as a interviews). The Opinion Index is reported quarterly. total number of available working hours during the complement to metrics defined in accordance with same period. IFRS. See calculations below for reconciliation of the OWNER’S GOAL alternative key performance indicators that cannot be The owner’s goal comprises the mandate-related and YEARLY EMPLOYEES directly derived from the financial reports. economic goals specified in the Owner’s Directive, The term, yearly employees, corresponds to the time which was adopted at the Annual General Meeting held worked, including holidays, divided by the number of RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY on 24 April 2017. hours for a full-time position during the relevant peri­ The operating profit/loss for the period (rolling, 12 od. The “yearly employees” parameter was introduced months) of SEK 179.7 m, as a percentage of the aver­ PERFORMANCE CULTURE in 2018 and replaces the previous concept, “average age adjusted shareholders’ equity of SEK 1,576.1 m = Performance culture measures the extent to which number of employees”. 11.4 per cent. Shareholders’ equity is adjusted for the employees feel that their job provides the conditions standard tax rate, 21.4 per cent, on untaxed reserves. that enable them to perform (want, know, can, may The average is calculated on the basis of the adjust­ and should) and the individual’s perception of the way ed shareholders’ equity on 31 December 2017 of SEK in which their basic requirements are met. Measured 1,630.1 m, and on 31 December 2018 of SEK 1,522.1 m. once a year by means of a company-wide employee This key performance indicator is an objective set in survey. the Owner’s Directive for Systembolaget. 140 CONTENTS COST EFFECTIVENESS Cost-effectiveness is calculated from the ratio be­ tween total overheads (adjusted for non-recurrent items), SEK 3,690 m, relative to quantities sold (num­ ber of packagings sold weighted for the respective product groups’ estimated processing time), 1,603 million pcs = 2.3. This key performance indicator is an objective set in the Owner’s Directive for System­ bolaget. STOCK TURNOVER RATE Purchase value of drinks, SEK 26,761 m, divided by the average stock value of drinks, SEK 1,193 m, = a multiple of 22.4. OPERATING MARGIN The operating margin is calculated from the oper­ ating profit/loss, SEK 227 m, as a percentage of net sales, SEK 30,907 m, = 0.7 per cent. OPERATING PROFIT The operating profit is calculated from the gross prof­ it, SEK 3,903 m, plus other operating income, SEK 6 m, less other operating expenses, -SEK 2 m, and less operating expenses, -SEK 3,680 m, = SEK 227 m. EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO Adjusted equity, SEK 1,522.1 m, as a percentage of the Balance Sheet total, SEK 5,931.3 m = 25.7 per cent. The equity is adjusted for the standard tax rate, 21.4 per cent, on untaxed reserves. This key performance indicator is an objective set in the Owner’s Directive for Systembolaget. 141 List of references S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS List of references No. Reference name 1 Alkoholkonsumtionen i Sverige 2017/Alcohol con­ 11 What are the public health and safety benefits of 24 Swedish Government Inquiry, SOU 2017:59 sumption in Sweden, CAN the Swedish government alcohol monopoly? Reglering av alkoglass m.fl. produkter/Regulation (Monitormätningen/Monitor Survey) T Stockwell et al of alcoholic ice cream and other products 2 Alkoholrapporten 2018/2018 Alcohol Report, 12 The Swedish Alcohol Act 25 Föräldrar i missbruksoch beroendevård och Systembolaget AB deras barn/Parents in abuse and addiction treat­ 13 Alkoholen som samhällsproblem/Alcohol as a ment and their children, 2014, CAN 3 Förtroendebarometern/Confidence Barometer, social problem, SOM Institute, 2015 Medieakademin 14 Sustainable Brand Index 2017 4 ServiceScore 15 amfori BSCI Code of Conduct 5 Evimetrix Swedish Brand Award 16 Global status report on noncommunicable dis­ 6 Global status report on alcohol and health 2018, eases, World Health Organisation World Health Organisation 17 Age at Drinking Onset and Alcohol Dependence, 7 Skolelevers drogvanor 2017/School students’ R. W. Hingson et al drug habits in 2017, CAN 18 Article on alcohol debuts https://polisen.se/Arkiv/ 8 Trender i dryckesmönster – befolkningens Nyhetsarkiv/Gavleborg/Du-trafffar-mig-pa-Val­ självrapporterade alkoholvanor under 2000-talet/ borg/ Trends in drinking patterns – the population’s 19 Alkoholrapporten 2017/2017 Alcohol Report, self-reported alcohol habits in the 21st century, ­Systembolaget AB CAN 20 Tonårsparlören/The Teenage Phrasebook, 9 https://www.theguardian.com/business/2018/ IQ-initiativet AB aug/12/heatwave-brings-early-harvest-ger­ man-french-winemakers 21 Discrimination legislation 10 OIV Statistical Report on World Vitiviniculture, 22 Swedish Government Inquiry, SOU 2010:98 2018 World Vitiviniculture Situation, International Gårdsförsäljning/Farm Sales Organisation of Vine and Wine (http://www.oiv. 23 Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, DS 2016:33 int/public/medias/6371/oiv-statistical-report-on­ Reglering av distanshandel med alkoholdrycker/­ world-vitiviniculture-2018.pdf) Regulation of distance selling of alcoholic drinks 142 Financial calendar and contacts S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S 2 018 R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS Financial calendar Contacts 11 April 2019 2018 Annual General Meeting Contact person at Systembolaget: Press Manager, Lennart Agén, tel (switchboard) +46 8 503 300 00 18 April 2019 Interim Report, January–March 2019 Street address 15 July 2019 Interim Report, January–June 2019 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 14, Stockholm, Sweden 28 October 2019 Interim Report, January–September 2019 Postal address Systembolaget AB SE-103 84 Stockholm Sweden 143
