The United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) Name of Organization: SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd Sector: Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Website: www.squarepharma.com.bd Country of Headquarter: Dhaka, Bangladesh Reporting Period: January 2018 to December 2018. Page 1 of 17 Our Statement of Continued Support for UN Global Compact SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is one of the pioneer signatories of the UN Global Compact in Bangladesh. UNGC principles are aligned with the company’s culture from the very outset. So, signing UNGC was a public endorsement of what SQUARE had already been practicing. We strongly agree to increase the momentum to meet our commitment to UNGC. Our professionals are accountable in identifying sustainable ways and creating shared value to life, environment and society at large. We run our business with transparency and maintain high ethical standard with zero tolerance to corruption and discrimination. We will continue to add more and diversify our efforts in going forward. Page 2 of 17 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results Human Rights We at SQUARE strive to  Informing Physician Community on Latest  These clinical meetings and seminars have the following ensure that our activities Development in Medical Science impacts: Businesses should support the fundamental Being in the pharmaceutical sector, the Company  A wealth of knowledge is shared among medical support and human rights, set out by maintains a very close relation with the physician professionals. respect the the United Nation’s Bill community. The management believes a better  A close relation with the physician community is protection of of Rights. informed and educated doctor community creates a maintained internationally win-win situation for all the stakeholders. For this  Knowledge of products is increased significantly. proclaimed purpose, SQUARE takes multiple initiatives under its  Medical professionals receive updated information human rights and Continual Medical Education (CME) programs. on different drugs and other relevant information. make sure they  Better informed and educated community of doctors are not complicit Our AgroVet Division also conducts seminar and clinical have been created through the Continual Medical in human rights meeting across Bangladesh for Veterinary Doctors, Education (CME) programs of SQUARE. abuses. Farmers and Quacks regularly disseminate the updated  These meetings are organized aiming to upgrade the information about different drugs. These meetings are day-to-day developments in the medical sector. (UNGC Principles organized by Veterinary Graduates of Veterinary These meetings act as a forum for training and 1-2) Services Department (VSD). knowledge-sharing among the medical professionals and often attended by experts on the respective  The number of Continual Medical Education subject as key-note speakers. (CME) programs conducted in 2018 by Medical Services Department was 750 and the number of plant visit was 26 and total number of participants were 58220.  In 2018 we have conducted many overseas CME (Continual Medical Education) program.  SQUARE conducts so many CME programs in different corner of the world to maintain a close relationship with the global 1. 22 CME at some major hospitals in Uganda, physician community. where total participants were 350. 2. 635 CME programs conducted in Kenya and participants were 2032 persons. Page 3 of 17 3. Total 40 CME programs conducted in Tanzania and participants were 320. 4. 12 CME programs In Cambodia, where total participants were 576. 5. In Myanmar, total 22 Continual Medical Education (CME) programs were conducted where participants were 1440. 6. 9 CME programs In Tajikistan, where total participants were 136.  The number of seminars and clinical meetings Human Rights with quacks & village doctors were conducted in 2018 by the Veterinary Services Department (UNGC Principles and Aqua Services of AgroVet Division was 593 1-2) & the numbers of participants were 19,635 approximately. We have also conducted around 16 special seminars by veterinary doctors  These meetings are organized aiming to upgrade the day-to(Private & Govt.), intern doctors and farmers day developments in Agrovet & Aqua sectors. These (Aqua, Dairy & Poultry) and the numbers of meetings act as a forum for training and knowledge-sharing participants were 6,091. among the professionals.  SQUARE Publications: SQUARE publishes bulletins on a quarterly & half-yearly basis,  As a result of this initiative, the physician community is which are distributed among the physicians of supported with contemporary and critical issues related to Bangladesh. These are Product Guide, Oshudh medicine, disease, medical innovation, etc. Nirdeshika, The SQUARE, Diabetes Newsletter, American Family Physician Journal, Women's Health, Neurotale, Insight Heart, GI café, Dermatological Newsletter etc. In 2018, SQUARE published 16 journals & provided different Journals/News Letters to the doctors. “The SQUARE”-journal has published 3 English (102000 copies) & 1 Bengali (18000 copies) languages and also published 12 e-SQUARE (30000copies). Page 4 of 17  SQUARE arranged Free “Diabetes screening & awareness program” on 7 April 2018 for internal employees of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd t Dhaka Sales Office, Tejgaon. In these events, different medical tests have been conducted e.g., Blood Glucose Level (Fasting/Random), Blood Pressure & BMI (Body Mass Index). We have also arranged ths program for the students of Independent  This initiative has been taken to increase awareness about University of Bangladesh (IUB) on 25 Diabetes, Blood Pressure. September 2018 at the occasion of World Human Rights Pharmacist Day. On World Diabetes Day we conducted the program at Uttara Sector 7 (UNGC Principles Kollyan Samity Park, Uttara Sector 4 Kollyan 1-2) Samity Park, Dr. Shaheed Fazle Rabbi Park (Gulshan Niketon), Mirpur Indoor Stadium, Manik Mia Avenue, Mohammadpur Thana Road, Ramna Park Gate, Azimpur Colony, Lalbagh Fort.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has introduced  Employees can take a home loan at a nominal service charge Housing Scheme for the employees with a fund of BDT 1 Billion. Till now, 22 persons are & with longer repay time to fulfill their dream of owning a enjoying this facility. sweet home.  The employees of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. are enjoying health benefits on treatment  Employees and their families are getting quality treatment for self, spouse, parents & children at SQUARE from world class standard hospital in Bangladesh and Hospitals Ltd. where employees are charging reputed doctors at affordable cost. In 2018, 2483 50% and the rest 50% is being paid by the employees have been benefitted and management paid management of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals ltd. $136095.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. organized  This program was arranged to entertain the special children Children Fun Day for Autistic children at Dhaka and make them equally important like other children. Shishu Park on 7 April 2018. Page 5 of 17  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. organized Fitness campaign for in-house colleagues &  This initiative has been taken to increase the awareness field colleagues. This campaign included about fitness for healthy life among colleagues. preparation & distribution of leaflets on exercise with BMI chart. Nationwide distribution of bathroom scales with weight monitoring chart for recording the weight of its colleagues on April 2018.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. arranged “Dengue & Chikungunya Awareness campaign” on August 2018-where several  This program was arranged to create awareness among Bangla banners on Dengue fever are displayed colleagues about Dengue & Chikungunya. Human Rights for our in-house colleagues during the monsoon season. We have also published a (UNGC Principles YouTube video on “Dengue & Chikungunya 1-2) fever” at Square’s You Tube channel for raising public awareness.  SQUARE arranged Anti-smoking campaign to make people aware of the harmful effect of Smoking on the heart. We prepared an ‘Awareness creating Leaflet’ & ‘Banner’ highlighting the harmful effect of smoking and to maintain Healthy Heart (in Bangla) at the  This campaign has been organized to increase the awareness patients’ waiting rooms & doctors’ chambers about the harmful effect of smoking and risks of diabetes, at different clinics & hospitals on World Heart hypertension due to overweight / obesity for maintaining a Day (29 September 2018). healthy life.  In October 2018, SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. organized Anti-Obesity campaign to make our people conscious about proper fitness. We have developed a special Stand banner (Obese people shaped) highlighting the risk of Diabetes & Hypertension due to Overweight & Obesity for our colleagues. Page 6 of 17  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides pick & drop  Boosts the morale of the student. services with school buses for the children of Creates future customers for SQUARE. factory employees. Currently, total 190 The service generates employee satisfaction. students are enjoying this service. The children enjoy a hassle free journey.  SQUARE HOSPITALS LTD. has launched a corporate office based health awareness program “SQUARE HEALTH TALK”. In 2018, this  SQUARE HEALTH TALK helps to create awareness as well as health awareness program conducted in the practical knowledge on “HOW TO LEAD A PRODUCTIVE AND corporate office of Brac Bank, Bangalink, EBL, HEALTHY LIFE”. British Council. This is a health awareness Human Rights program conducted by a team of reputed physicians of SQUARE HOSPITAL. (UNGC Principles 1-2)  SQUARE Kindergarten, High School & College provides educational facilities for the boys & girls of the employees as well as to the children  This initiative enables the children of the employees to of the local community. As of 2018, there are receive quality education at a subsidized rate and creates 562 students in SQUARE Kindergarten, High employee satisfaction. The children of the local School & College out of which 271 are female community are equally benefitted with standard and 291 are male. Total 59 teachers out of education. which 16 are male and 43 are female and 27 staffs are there to provide adequate services.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals arranged a paid teacher for Abdul Hamid Dorji Govt. Primary &  This initiative enables the children of Abdul Hamid Darji High School, mohakhali as they don’t have Govt. Primary & High School to receive quality education adequate numbers of teachers for the quality as well as better learning environment. education of the students. SQUARE will provide salary to that teacher for next three years. SQUARE will also help them by repairing their toilet to ensure the health & hygiene of the students and constructing a teacher’s room, study room. Page 7 of 17  SQUARE established Dishari Computer Training Institute in Pabna to train the underprivileged  This initiative offers an alternative training solution to the community and enable them to build their community who are unable to afford costly training future with contemporary knowledge in programs. Trainees are empowered as prospective users of computer science. . In 2018, a total of 482 future technology enabling them to build their future with students received training out of which 288 are contemporary knowledge in computer operations. This also female and 194 are male. 20 students trained helps to get them a better job and to become self-employed. from Dishari Training Institute are working at the SQUARE group at present.  SQUARE operates a fuel station named Eakub Filling Station, which is run by women  The station generates employment opportunities to rural employees. women allowing them to be self-sufficient. Women are Human Rights empowered so that they are able to have their own source  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. is partnering one of the of income. (UNGC Principles projects of CARE by empowering women of 1-2) JITA and BRAC. JITA, a sister concern of CARE Bangladesh and BRAC are humanitarian  This ensures product awareness and demand increases in organizations committed to helping families in rural areas and helps the poor rural women to experience poor communities improve their lives and the better & a safer way of living. alleviate poverty. The project enables rural women to purchase our products from hubs at Trade Price (TP) and sell it to households at Maximum Retail Price (MRP), keeping the margin (not less than 10%) for themselves. At present, 600 JITA women in 216 Hubs and 90000 BRAC women are empowered as they are able to have their own source of income.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. provides health & hygiene information for adolescent girls under  This campaign educates them about menstruation facts and the brand “Senora” & “Femina”. This is a free made them ready for a healthier future. It also introduced campaign in association with “Campaign for our products to them. Popular Education (CAMPE)” that creates awareness among High School girls. Female garment workers are also covered under the Page 8 of 17 campaign. This awareness program covered 3.9million girls till 2018 (over the last 5years).  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has introduced a  This initiative provided a great opportunity for pool pool table & gymnasium in our residential enthusiast and for those who want to maintain a good facility as the recreational facilities for our health. Regular physical activity is one of the best things a employees living in our residential building. person can do for his/her health that significantly lowers the risk of multiple health diseases, increase stamina, reduce stress and improve physical & mental health.  “Meril Baby” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries Ltd.) takes initiatives to make life better for Bangladeshi mothers by informing them of  Mothers are benefitted with adequate knowledge about breastfeeding benefits and by helping them breastfeeding, helping them guide their babies to a healthy guide their babies to a healthy future. SQUARE future. Human Rights Toiletries Ltd. also disseminates vaccination information for Polio elimination from (UNGC Principles Bangladesh. 3.7 million mothers were 1-2) benefitted under this program. SQUARE also arranged breast feeding & a diaper changing room at International Trade Fairs and Bus station & Rail station of Dhaka and helped at least 75 thousand mothers with infants over last 4 years.  Mothers took advice for their babies’ health problems  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. along with ‘Save the through this helpline. Children and ‘Bill & Melinda Gates foundation’ initiated a 24/7 helpline system for young mothers named ‘Supermom’. More than 2 Lac mothers took advice through this helpline in 2017-2018.  This initiative creates health awareness among the mass  Maasranga Television (a sister concern of population. Valuable information and advice on various SQUARE Group) broadcasts live “SQUARE important topics related to diseases & treatment are Hospital Doctor’s Chamber” every Friday. This is a program where Doctors and senior provided through the program. consultants communicate directly with patients over the telephone, providing valuable Page 9 of 17 information and advice on various important topics related to diseases & treatment. In 2018, some important topics were World Cancer Day and Awareness, Dental Disease Preventation & Treatment, Pregnancy Jaundice, Uses & Misuses of Antibiotics, Diabetes & Ramadan, Breast Cancer, Youth and Mental Healthetc.  Maasranga Television also on airs some TVC regularly to make awareness among people.  These TVCs creates awareness among mass people. For example, maintain Traffic Law, Public Place Cleanliness, Sexual Harassment, Domestic Worker Violence, Food Poisoning and Safe Driving. Human Rights  Some women are facing domestic violence in  This initiative creates awareness among the mass (UNGC Principles their life. SQUARE take the initiative to stand population against domestic violence of the women. 1-2) strong beside those victim. Jui – the shining Womens are now using this helpline number hair care brand of SQUARE Toiletries Ltd., (08000888000) for assistance regarding domestic promotes the uncompromising spirit of women violence & psychological counseling. through the helpline number (08000888000) for assistance & psychological counseling.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. started 'Hashun Pran Khule' campaign in last December’17 as the  This campaign educates them about the reasons behind lip, joint initiative of Merill Lip Care and Smile Train cleft and palates while pregnancy and its treatment. Also USA to create awareness among the common free treatment helps the poor patients for a healthier future. people regarding the reasons behind lip cleft and palates while pregnancy and its treatment. Under this campaign, free lip or palate treatment is being provided through specialist doctors. Meril Lip Care’s helpline is 08000888000 and provide detailed information about the child with this problem. More than 5000 children got the treatment under this campaign in last one year. Page 10 of 17  “Meril Splash” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  There are a limited number of psychiatrists against a huge number of patients (10 million). As a result, everyone does Ltd.) engaged Dr. Mehtab Khanom, an eminent not get easy access to this few psychiatrists. Through this educationist and an activist in the field of initiative, SQUARE made it easier for people to receive psycho-social counseling for psychological psycho-social counseling. counseling through Supermom number (08000888000& websitesupermombd.com) regarding various complexities and problems related to health and psychology of babies that parents face during rearing them. She and her associates advice not only about baby’s mental health, but also about mental health of elders.  This initiative creates health awareness among the mass  SQUARE Toiletries provide free blood pressure population. check-up & more than 8 Lac Zerocal sachets (free) to the morning walkers, in community gatherings, events in the last couple of years.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. took initiative to educate children about germ cleaning of hands through “Hand Sanitization Program” in  This program is helping children to make a habit of washing different schools. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also their hands when they are exposed to dirt and germs. placed Sepnil Hand Sanitizer & Sepnil Hand Wash for free in the washroom of 5 schools in Dhaka city. In association with “Young Social Activism Bangladesh (YSAB)” we have provided total 2000 pc Meril Petroliam Jelly which was distributed among the under privileged children at the premises of 4 different schools in CTG. The program included awareness of health issues that are required for growing child, free consultations of common diseases and also free medicine distributions. Page 11 of 17  This fellowship program is very much helpful &  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. and Dhaka University jointly started a 3 year fellowship program encouraging for the meritorious students. named “CGS (Center for Genocide Studies) SQUARE Fellowship 2015-2017”. This fellowship is provided to the meritorious students who studied genocide. In the year 2018, 18 students were awarded this fellowship.  These festivals encourage the teenage girls & boys to listen  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. arranged Folk Fest 2018 which was completely free for the audience. and practice classical as well as folk music so they can have Around 65000 thousand audiences enjoyed this the essence of the richness of our traditional culture. It also 3 days long event. brings the spotlight on our folk singers.  SQUARE Food & Beverage arranged an award program to celebrate International Women’s  This award is provided to those females who achieve Day. In 2018, 4 women got “Radhuni Kirtimoti success in their relevant field. It’s a recognition to Shommanona 2017”. The award is given under show respect to their work. the areas of journalism, entrepreneurship, social welfare and sports.  This initiative helps the child having Neuro  SQUARE HOSPITALS LTD. has extended” Development Disorder to get better treatment for SQUARE Child Development Center” with the leading a healthy life. aim of working for those children who have Neuro Development Disorder. In the preliminary stage the children having autism, epilepsy, speaking problem etc will be under supervision of pediatric Consultant and gradually there will be dedicated CDC doctors, Developmental Therapist, Child Psychologists, Speech & Vision Therapist and Child Counselor will be taking care of those special child. Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established  Now workers can share their feelings and views with the Labor Standards We respect the right of Workers’ Trade Union named “SQUARE management without hesitation. Combined decision of workers to join an Kormochari Samity” (Registration No: 1322). There workers and management give the employees proper job association and engage in are around 1581members of the Trade Union. satisfaction. Page 12 of 17 Businesses should constructive dialogue with uphold the the workers’  Gratuity policy for the employees has been  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law. freedom of representatives. We implemented as per the recent amendment in the association, the follow ethical practices Labor Law. effective and labor standards at the  This initiative helps to eliminate the risks of hiring child recognition of the workplace. At SQUARE,  Provident Fund (PF) has been with our practice for labor. right to collective we do no recruit any child the benefit of the employees as per the labor law. bargaining, the labor and do not have any elimination of all forced/bonded labor forms of forced engagement policy. We  Detailed background and reference verification is  Any possibility of discrimination based on gender, race or and compulsory also provide safe working done as a part of recruitment & selection process religion at the time of recruitment & selection is eliminated. labor, the conditions for all. We to ensure no child is employed. effective appreciate the abolition of child individuality of our  In SQUARE, recruitment system is carried out  All unionized employees can take a loan to purchase labor and the workers and treat them based on the comparative study. Employees are necessary home appliances to improve their standard of elimination of fairly, equally and selected based on their skills and competence. Last living. discrimination in respectfully regardless of year a total of 769 employees were recruited respect of personal characteristics under the system. employment and such as nationality, occupation. gender, age, ethnicity,  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. runs the program  This ensures security and work-life balance of the female religion, or disability. “Shohoj Kisti Reen Prokalpa” under which all employees. (UNGC Principles unionized employees can take a loan to purchase 3-6) necessary home appliances with a small service  This initiative provides the female colleagues proper job charge. In 2018, a total of 544 employees were security while enjoying Maternity Benefit and also can take benefitted by this scheme. good care of the newly born babies.  Female employees do not work during night shift  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee operations. satisfaction.  Female employees are enjoying maternity benefits  This initiative helps the employees to maintain workas per the Bangladesh Labor Law. life balance.  All of our employees are covered under mandatory  This practice helps the employees to lead a tension Group Life Insurance. free family life. Page 13 of 17  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. strictly maintains  The policy has been implemented as per the recent Labor Standards the labor law in terms of working hour & over amendment in the Labor Law. (UNGC Principles time. 3-6)  Disbursement of salary & wages of the employees  This ensures primary medical help to the employees in case has been done on the first day of the month of emergency & regular health check-up helps the without delay. employees to lead a healthy life.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. allows festival leave, sick leave, casual leave & annual leave for the employees.  The plan promotes healthy employer-employee relationship.  Factory employees get free medical & medicine The plan is an additional earning for employees as it is paid facilities for sudden sickness in the workplace & in addition to salary and bonuses. also maintain regular health check-up through the medical center by dedicated plant physicians for the betterment of the employees.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing profit sharing through WPPF (Workers’ Profit Participation Fund) which is a direct payment & equally distributed to the employees depending on the company's profitability.  Ensures compliance with the Labor Law and its amendments.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established “Safety “Safety Committee” helps to maintain proper safety of Committee” & “Participation Committee” in which employees and “Participation Committee” create ownership the number and responsibilities of Owner & among the workers. Worker Representatives are equal.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides day care & Breast  Employees are satisfied and give proper concentration at feeding center facilities to the children of female work, as they feel tension-free about their children’s safety. workers. There are 3 babysitters taking care of 20 children from 8 am to 5 pm. There is a breast feeding center, where near about 20 female workers are availing this facility right now. Page 14 of 17 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  We utilize Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) in our  Our stakeholders are satisfied and there are no formal We strive to be a leader in manufacturing plants. Purified water through ETP complaints regarding the environment. ETP’s treated water Environment all aspects of is used to maintain Green belt around plants. is re-used for gardening & car washing purpose. It is reducing environmental protection SQUARE’s Environmental license has been updated the use of underground water consumption. Businesses should and systematically identify on a continuous basis. Chemical Oxygen Demand support a and manage (COD) of our ETP Square Pharmaceuticals ltd. is 63 precautionary environmental risks in our mg/L and Square Formulation Unit is 53 mg/L approach to activities and over the (International Standard for COD has to be less than environmental entire value chain of our 400 mg/L for the efficacy of ETP). challenges and products and services. We undertake make efficient use of  We use incinerators for disposing solid wastes to  The cooling of exhaust temperature prevents the initiatives to natural resources and protect the environment from pollution. The atmosphere from warming. promote greater minimize the exhaust temperature is cooled down to 200 deg C environmental environmental impact of from 1100 deg C during operation using a cyclonic responsibility. our activities and products  Soil erosion is prevented. water scrubber. In 2018, a total of 90483 kilograms Businesses should over their life cycle. Increases aesthetics around the compounds. waste was disposed through incinerator. also encourage Helps to protect from global warming. the development  The successful establishment of large greeneries and diffusion of  In recognition of outstanding achievement in keeping around SQUARE premises has been accomplished. environmentally healthy environment and protecting environment from Landscaping & rooftop garden have been friendly pollution Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has been awarded developed on different floors, levels and also in technologies. “National Environment Award-2017”. The award was different units. Nearly 102,000 sq ft area has been received by Mr. Tapan Chowdhury, Managing Director of developed in 2018 for the purpose of landscaping. (UNGC Principles Square Pharmaceuticals Ltd. from Sheikh Hasina, the Approximately 41, 252 plants have been planted 7-9) Honorable Prime Minister of Bangladesh. around the premise including Inspection building.  A large Inspection Building has been developed  It Increases aesthetics around the compounds & also with full of architectural landscaping. Around 6000 maintain diversity among and within plant and animal plants have been introduced in Inspection species in the environment. building.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has been awarded “President  Allocated 3, 30,000 sq ft area used for the purpose Award” from Ministry Of Environment for both Pabna Plant of creating lake and reservation of natural water & Kaliakoir Plant. This Prestigious award is a recognition to helps to maintain biodiversity at the plant. show respect to our efforts. Page 15 of 17  Some rare medicinal species as well as some  In 2018, more than 5000 plants of different types have been indoor plants have been planted in amenity planted all over the premises. Among this 5000 plants ther building, cafeteria, and reception and also in the are 1500 rare medicinal species has been planted in order to rooftop area. In the office areas, canteen, café & have more variety inside the premises. It also ensures reception areaslarge glass wall panels have been daylight in those areas. placed  02 artificial lakes have been created for getting a more diversified atmosphere. Establishment of this  It will be used as a reservoir of fire water and also to increase lake has some other benefits also. Such asthe aesthetic beauty of the plant. It plays a vital role of Environment  Servers as a reservoir of fire water diversity. (UNGC Principles  Enhance the aesthetic beauty of the plant Allocated 1, 00,000 sft area for reservation of natural water will help to keep biodiversity at plant premises. 7-9)  Energy saving & motion sensors for lights have been introduced in big corridors of the building & other places where there is less personnel movement.  Reduced the power consumption and saves energy.  All exhausts from the production buildings during the production process are HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) filtered and water scrubber controlled.  No environmental pollution is being taken place from the production process since all airborne particles are arrested in  All generator & boiler exhausts are made as per HEPA (High-Efficiency Particulate Air) filter & in water standard height. Exhaust is being released at a scrubber. high level (24 m) from ground level.  Environmentally friendly practices ensure the protection of  At Sabazpur Tea Co. Ltd. (a sister concern of the environment. SQUARE Group), we use organic fertilizer to  Environmentally friendly practices ensure protection of produce tea. The tea garden uses natural pest & wildlife and maintenance of biodiversity. Soil fertility is controls weed manually. It uses only renewable increased. Use of the toilets is ensuring the proper sanitation resources and maintains the soil’s fertility. Our & hygiene of the garden workers as well as protecting the garden established 6 toilets (Men & Women) in environment from being polluted. the garden field. Labor quarter has 210 toilets and it accommodates 1030 garden workers. Page 16 of 17  Sabazpur Tea Company Ltd. has been received Organic  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established a Certificate (EU & NOP) from Lacon GmbH Germany in 2017. recreation zone including indoor playing zone and This is the first time green tea (along with black tea) has library for the children of Sabazpur Tea garden been incorporated & certified as well in the certification. workers. The employees of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals donated books and toys for the children of Sabazpur Tea Garden. Presently, there  This initiative will help the children to play with more than are approximately 30 children who are enjoying 250 toys & 210 books that can increase their knowledge the Playing zone and library facility. which will also help them in educational and psychological development. Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results At SQUARE, we do not  Transparency in the transactions of the company is ensured. Anti-Corruption tolerate any forms of  SAP ERP Systems integrate the core business bribery and corruption. functions/processes  Company assets are safeguarded against misappropriation Businesses should Our employee code of and fraud. work against conduct describes various  We follow & ensure “Zero Tolerance” against all  Operations of the company run effectively and efficiently. corruption in all policies and practices kinds of corruption & we have an “Internal Audit” its forms, regarding appropriate department which specifically deals with this issue.  The cost of the company is optimized. including conduct that are aimed to The head of “Internal Audit” directly report to the  Built awareness among newly joined employees. extortion and promote acceptable Managing Director to ensure better control. bribery standards of the business  Fair and legal transactions are processed end-to-end and and provides the  Regular external and regulatory audits (both local data inconsistencies are eliminated. (UNGC employees a professional & foreign) are conducted in SQUARE.  Every transaction is monitored. Principle 10) work environment. We  In recognition of corporate transparency & accountability, observe the highest  All newly joined employees went through an SQUARE pharmaceuticals Ltd. got the “National Corporate standards of orientation program on business ethics & antiGovernance Excellence Award” in 2017 from ICSB (Institute professionalism in daily corruption. of Chartered Secretaries of Bangladesh). business activities Page 17 of 17
