SEEDS OF GROWTH Nurturing the future of sustainability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd CONTENTS 1 About This Report 2 Chairman’s Statement 4 Key Targets and Progress 9 Our Approach 9 About GAR 15 Responsible Palm Oil at GAR 22 Our Materiality Assessment 26 Stakeholder Engagement 27 Our Environmental Management 39 Engaging and Empowering the Community 43 Our People 50 Transforming our Supply Chain 57 Caring for our Consumers 60 United Nations Global Compact COP Glossary Feedback and Contact The cover photo shows workers planting germinated high-yielding and improved seeds which will eventually be replanted across our plantations. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ABOUT THIS REPORT [102-50] [102-54] [102-55] This is the 8th edition of the GAR Assurance Sustainability Report. It provides a [102-56] summary of our progress and challenges We have not engaged a third party to Sustainability Report 2018 in managing our most critical sustainability provide assurance on our sustainability issues in FY2018. Unless otherwise report. However, the information related to stated, this report does not include the our material topics like High Carbon Stock Company’s activities outside of Indonesia. (HCS), High Conservation Value (HCV) and Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) is We have prepared this report in reviewed by certification bodies such as the accordance with Global Reporting Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Initiative Standards – Core option. The GRI This provides verification and credibility to content index can be found online on the the information and data submitted in this GAR website. report. Furthermore, the calculations of our 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for our Golden Agri-Resources Ltd subsidiary in Indonesia, PT SMART Tbk, have been independently verified by EY. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT [102-14] Sustainability at Golden Agri-Resources its strong fundamentals and its importance As of end 2018, over 50 (GAR) has always been about balancing for businesses and consumers worldwide. conservation and development. The issues faced by the palm oil industry Indonesia has fully implemented its B20 are complex and involve engaging biodiesel policy and the significant new multiple stakeholders. With no immediate demand created is supporting the recent third-party suppliers Seeds of Growth quick fixes, cultivating and embedding rebound. Biodiesel was the star performer responsible practices requires dedication, in FY2018 for both our export and long-term commitment and patience. To Indonesia domestic markets. had reported full TTP. guide our approach, we enhanced our sustainability commitments in the GAR GAR is moving forward in 2019 with Together with Social and Environmental Policy (GSEP) greater optimism, leveraging our worldGAR-owned mills, over 2 60% in 2015. We believe that as we maintain class palm oil upstream capability and the course laid out in our sustainability our expanding downstream presence in Golden Agri-Resources Ltd roadmap, the GSEP, we will transform producing and merchandising a broad ourselves and our industry. This year, we range of value-added products globally. continued to make progress but still have more work ahead as we continue to face Industry transformation on track We continued to make headway on of our palm challenges in some areas. the transformation of our supply chain. supply chain Record palm output in 2018 More third-party suppliers joined us in Our plantations delivered 3.05 million carrying out Traceability to the Plantation is fully traceable. tonnes of palm product output, a record (TTP) exercises. As of end 2018, over 50 high in GAR’s history. Fruits harvested third-party suppliers had reported full from GAR’s plantation area increased by TTP. Together with GAR-owned mills, this practices. This helps us reduce supply ten percent, resulting in an average yield means that over 60 percent of our palm chain risks while making our industry more of 22.5 tonnes per hectare, one of the supply chain is fully traceable. responsible and resilient. A key part of highest in the industry. our engagement is actively assessing our Traceability means we can guarantee suppliers for compliance with our policies Franky Oesman Our operational performance was the provenance of our raw materials. and we continued these efforts in 2018, Widjaja however overshadowed by the impact Crucially, it is also key to our wider efforts completing supplier site visits in all our Chairman and Chief of low crude palm oil (CPO) prices as the to help our suppliers change for the downstream locations. Executive Officer industry experienced a declining trend better. Through deeper engagement, throughout the year. We believe CPO we are supporting and training our We also recognise the importance of prices will gradually improve supported by suppliers to improve and adopt better supporting independent small farmers. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers We actively participate in the Indonesian is normal and allows us to reassess and Positive developments for the industry government programme of Perkebunan adjust our approaches to solving complex Looking ahead, with the successful Sawit Rakyat (PSR). The programme aims matters. One area where we will be doing implementation of the B20 biodiesel to encourage independent smallholders this is our implementation of long-term programme in Indonesia, we see to replant with better quality, high-yielding fire prevention with local communities growing enthusiasm from the seeds by giving access to financing and in our Desa Makmur Peduli Api (DMPA) Indonesian Government to achieve a helping them sustain their livelihoods until programme. Early success encouraged us higher target of B30. This would be the trees mature. to expand the programme to more villages an important catalyst to the Indonesia in 2018. However, we also note that fire palm oil industry in the near-term, We continue to maintain an area the size incidents increased in some DMPA villages creating additional demand on top of of Singapore as our conservation area. last year and we will be looking into the the consumption for food and other We are bolstering our forest conservation causes and ways to address this. sectors. Likewise, we note the increasing efforts through community outreach and biodiesel demand from large countries consultation on Participatory Mapping Strengthening Operational Health and such as China, considering the higher and Participatory Conservation Planning. Safety (OHS) awareness and practices crude oil prices compared to biodiesel These innovative approaches have now throughout our operations is another prices. We are cautiously optimistic that matured into long-term processes with priority, as we note with regret an increase this positive atmosphere will promote local communities as we incrementally in fatal incidents taking place in our tighter supply and demand for palm implement our goals and commitments to operations. We intend to create renewed oil that eventually will have a positive responsible palm oil. energy behind the message that every impact on CPO prices. Furthermore, worker deserves to return home safely at palm oil will continue to play a key We are also strategically aligned with the end of each day. role in addressing mounting global the UN Sustainable Development Goals food demand amidst the limited (SDGs) which aim to achieve a better, Ultimately, we remain committed to this availability of arable land. GAR is eager more sustainable future for the world. We long-term effort because we believe that it to contribute to the sustainable and are supporting the achievement of targets helps our business thrive and create value responsible feeding and fueling of set out in UN SDGs 2, 12 and 15 through for shareholders, our employees and the future generations through palm oil. our initiatives in yield improvement; supply community. Our Environmental, Social and chain transformation; landscape forest Governance (ESG) performance continues conservation which includes Participatory to be recognised and we debuted on Conservation Planning; long-term fire the FTSE4Good Asean 5 and Developed prevention; and biodiversity protection. indices last year. The NUS Centre for Governance, Institutions and Organizations Strengthening other areas has also ranked GAR amongst the top 10 Franky Oesman Widjaja In any long-term transformation process listed companies in Singapore in terms of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer there will be occasional setbacks. This transparency and sustainability reporting. 28 June 2019 Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers KEY TARGETS AND PROGRESS [103-2] [103-3] [406-1] Our Most Material Sustainability Issues 2018 Progress Targets Status • Participatory Conservation Planning (PCP) rolled out to • Continue rollout of PCP with communities. ON 22 villages as of end 2018 See schedule on GAR website TRACK CO2 Seeds of Growth • Physical rehabilitation of 2,600 hectare Peat Ecosystem • Continue with physical rehabilitation ON at PT AMNL, West Kalimantan: replanted/revegetated • Continue implementing Integrated Ecological TRACK CONSERVATION OF HIGH CARBON 356 hectares and maintained area’s water levels Farming projects for communities STOCK (HCS) AND PEATLANDS; 4 CONSERVATION OF BIODIVERSITY AND HIGH CONSERVATION VALUE • Renewed partnership with Orangutan Foundation • Release another 60 orangutans by 2021 ON (HCV) AREAS; PREVENTING FIRE International (OFI) to rehabilitate wild TRACK Golden Agri-Resources Ltd AND HAZE ex-captive orangutans Contributing to UN SDGs • 0.03% of GAR area affected by fire • Continue to strengthen fire mitigation procedures NEEDS • Desa Makmur Peduli Api (DMPA) programme focusing on preparedness; early warning systems; WORK expanded to 15 more villages and quick response team. • Some DMPA villages showed an increase in fire incidents in 2018 • GAR has rolled out Participatory Mapping (PM) which • Continue with PM programme. See schedule on ON aims to respect and safeguard community FPIC rights GAR website TRACK in 85 villages • No incidents of FPIC violations or violations of rights of RIGHTS OF COMMUNITIES indigenous peoples in 2018 AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES SDG Targets • By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international agreements • By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests and substantially increase afforestation and reforestation globally • By 2030, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including land affected by desertification, drought and floods, and strive to achieve a land degradation-neutral world • Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and prevent the extinction of threatened species • Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilise and share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Our Most Material Sustainability Issues 2018 Progress Targets Status Sustainability Report 2018 • No significant incidents of discrimination or abuse • Continue to maintain peaceful and productive industrial ON reported in 2018 relations through open dialogue, fair labour practices, TRACK • Lower employee turnover rate and respectful communication in the workplace • 195 labour unions representing over 68,600 employees LABOUR RELATIONS AND HUMAN • Number of fatalities increased • Reinstill awareness of OHS and safe practices NEEDS RIGHTS; OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH • Conducted thorough investigations of each accident to WORK AND SAFETY AND EMPLOYEE uncover underlying causes, using expert investigators WELLBEING; TALENT RETENTION, to help develop additional safety measures 5 DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING • Added safety measures and training for employees Golden Agri-Resources Ltd • 62% of palm supply chain fully traceable – 54 • 100% TTP for third-party mills by 2020 ON (out of 403) third-party mills reported 100% TTP • Continue with capacity building events to assist and TRACK • Systematic site visits to all GAR downstream support suppliers to improve practices locations completed • Extend engagement and sustainability support • Since 2015, we stopped procuring from 7% of efforts beyond the mill to suppliers at plantation level suppliers due to non-compliance with the GSEP including agents and smallholder farmers and GAR policies • Facilitate collaborations on a landscape level between TRACEABILITY AND SUPPLY • Annual SMART Seed and SMART Sustainable Palm Oil GAR, independent suppliers, farmers, government, and CHAIN TRANSFORMATION; Training (SPOT) workshops for suppliers on issues like civil society to improve responsible practices SUPPLIER INCLUSIVENESS AND labour and human rights • Continue to promote Innovative Financing and SMALLHOLDER LIVELIHOODS • Supporting conservation of 65,000 hectares of forests smallholder support schemes by third-party suppliers Contributing to UN SDGs • Support for 100% of plasma smallholders • Innovative Financing and other support schemes for 4,200 independent smallholders to date SDG Targets • Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle • Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilise and share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers KEY TARGETS AND PROGRESS Our Most Material Sustainability Issues 2018 Progress Targets Status • Bribery case involving three executives • Reinforce Code of Conduct amongst all employees NEEDS of GAR subsidiary PT BAP through e-learning and signed acknowledgements WORK • Continue to comply with the principles and guidelines Seeds of Growth required by regulators and in line with GAR’s policies and commitment to UNGC principles CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND INTEGRITY • New clonals, Eka 1 and Eka 2 capable of producing • Continue R&D into other aspects of yield improvement ON 6 more than 10 tonnes/ha/year of CPO being cloned for including climate change resilience/adaptation TRACK roll out in plantations over the next few years Golden Agri-Resources Ltd YIELD IMPROVEMENT Contributing to UN SDGs SDG Targets • By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment • By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and that progressively improve land and soil quality Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Our Most Material Sustainability Issues 2018 Progress Targets Status Sustainability Report 2018 • Continued reformulation of consumer products • Aim to be trans-fat-free in all margarine, ON to eliminate all trans fatty acids shortening and specialty products in 2019 TRACK • Continued with mitigation processes to eliminate • Continue to research best methods to eliminate co-contaminants (for e.g, 3-MCPD) co-contaminants PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY • 100% of estates have social and community • Continue to empower communities and multiply ON programmes (see p 41) the positive impacts of our business through a TRACK 7 range of education, healthcare, social and economic empowerment programmes Golden Agri-Resources Ltd COMMUNITY RELATIONS AND EMPOWERMENT • No significant incidents of discrimination • Continue to ensure equal opportunities regardless NEEDS or harassment of race, colour of skin, religion, gender, national WORK • Little progress in increasing female representation origin or any other class in Senior Management and Board WOMEN, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers KEY TARGETS AND PROGRESS Our Most Material Sustainability Issues 2018 Progress Targets Status • Reduced 40-55% of methane emissions through • Set short, medium and long term reduction targets by NEEDS methane capture at mills (see p 33) end 2019 WORK • Finalised calculations of GHG emissions and started • Explore expansion of methane capture activities from Seeds of Growth work on GHG reduction strategy now till 2020 • Water consumption is not decreasing • Carry out water footprint assessment to better manage NEEDS OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT: water consumption WORK • Exploring use of advanced technology such as AI to GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) maximise efficient use of water and fertiliser 8 EMISSIONS; WATER; USE OF FERTILISERS, PESTICIDES • Continued with Intergated Pest Management to • Intensify efforts to develop practices that reduce ON AND CHEMICALS; WASTE minimise use of herbicides and pesticides (see p 33) pesticide use TRACK Golden Agri-Resources Ltd • Continue to use Integrated Pest Management to Contributing to UN SDGs minimise herbicide and pesticide use • 100 percent of liquid and solid waste from CPO • Maintain 100 percent reuse of solid and liquid waste ON production process reused and recycled generated from CPO production process. TRACK • Explore further reduction/recycling of waste in downstream ops • SMARTRI continued R&D efforts to produce more • Continue R&D on adaptive planting materials and ON drought and disease resistant seeds agronomic practices TRACK • SMARTRI continued R&D on adaptive agronomic practices to for climate change CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION SDG Targets • By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources • By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimise their adverse impacts on human health and the environment • By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ABOUT GAR [102-1] [102-2] [102-3] [102-4] [102-5] Listed on the Singapore Exchange since 1999, GAR and its subsidiaries form one of the leading integrated palm oil plantation Sustainability Report 2018 companies in the world. GAR’s primary activities are located in Indonesia and range from cultivating and harvesting oil palm trees, through processing fresh fruit bunches (FFB) into crude palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel (PK), to refining CPO into industrial and consumer products. GAR’s shares are 49.65 percent publicly owned and 50.35 percent owned by 9 Flambo International Ltd, an investment Golden Agri-Resources Ltd company owned by the Widjaja family. A simplified corporate structure including principal operating subsidiaries can be found on our website. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ABOUT GAR [102-7] VALUE CHAIN OF OUR BUSINESS IN INDONESIA 8 manages more than 500,000 403 T ORE HAN M 30 third-party supplier mills across Indonesia downstream hectares of palm oil locations in Seeds of Growth CONSUMER estate — 4% of Indonesia: bulking BRANDS Indonesia’s planted stations, crushing estates plants and refineries Products 21% sold in Operates more than 70 10 of our managed estates 46 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd are owned by our countries plasma smallholders palm oil mills world-wide Research and Plantation and Milling Processed Basic Product Processing Development Harvesting Product Seedling Crude Palm Oil Refining Branded and Unbranded Cooking Oil Margarine and Specialty Fats Biodiesel Palm Kernel Kernel Crushing Palm Kernel Meal Palm Kernel Oil Oleochemicals Fatty Acids Glycerine Upstream Downstream Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONAL CAPACITIES IN INDONESIA OUR JOB CREATION IN INDONESIA Revenue USD 7.2 Sustainability Report 2018 Sumatra Kalimantan 168,453 ha 213,523 ha billion 76,498 ha 6.4 million tpa 26,981 ha 6.6 million tpa Papua 9,400 tpd 3,000 tpd 12,940 ha EBITDA1, 3 3,600 tpd 2,250 tpd 300,000 tpa USD 573 440,000 tpa 1,000 tpd 171,700 11 million jobs in Indonesia Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Underlying profit2, 3 62,128 permanent USD 181 Java 4,200 tpd employees million 1,000 tpd 1 Earnings before tax, non-controlling interests, Nucleus planted area (in hectares) 40,175 fixed-term interest on borrowings, depreciation and Plasma planted area (in hectares) amortisation, net loss from changes in fair value CPO mills capacity (in tonnes per annum) employees of biological assets, foreign exchange loss and exceptional items Refinery (in tonnes per day) 2 Net profit attributable to owners of the Company Kernel crushing plant (in tonnes per day) excluding net effect of net loss from changes 69,400 Oleo-chemicals plant (in tonnes per annum) including operations under JV in fair value of biological assets, depreciation Biodiesel plant (in tonnes per day) of bearer plants, exceptional items and other non-operating items (foreign exchange loss and deferred tax expense) plasma 3 Include fair value gain on financial instruments smallholders following the adoption of IFRS9. See GAR Annual Report 2018 p 4 & 23 Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ABOUT GAR PALM OIL’S IMPACT ON INDONESIAN ECONOMY PALM OIL – A COMMODITY THAT POSES BOTH CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Palm oil is one of the most misunderstood commodities today. On the one hand, it has Seeds of Growth 16 million Jobs (direct/indirect) the highest yield of any oil crop and makes more efficient use of land in its production than any other vegetable oils. It is also highly versatile and can be processed to form a wide range of products with different melting points, consistencies and characteristics. 12 In Indonesia, palm oil production has helped to lift millions of rural farmers out of USD17.8 billion absolute poverty. It is estimated that a palm oil farmer can earn up to seven times more than a subsistence farmer. Palm oil estates also provide critical infrastructure and facilities Golden Agri-Resources Ltd palm oil exports for rural populations and gives them access to healthcare and education. from Indonesia in 20181 On the other hand, the growth in palm oil production due to increasing demand has led to unsustainable practices in parts of the industry, that if unchecked, pose serious environmental and social challenges. palm oil farmer earns at least As a leader in the responsible and sustainable production of palm oil, GAR recognises these challenges and opportunities and is committed to working collaboratively with all 7x more than stakeholders along our value chain to create a sustainable palm oil industry. We believe that if done right, palm oil can take the lead, amongst agribusinesses of all subsistence farmer types, to delink production from deforestation and contribute to a more sustainable future which is focused on conserving the environment, ending poverty, providing decent work and economic growth, reducing inequalities, and championing responsible production and consumption. 1 Source: Bloomberg Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers PALM OIL CAN LAND REQUIRED TO PRODUCE 1 TONNE OF MAJOR TYPES OF OIL: Sustainability Report 2018 CONTINUE TO Oil palm FEED AND FUEL produces 38% 38% THE WORLD of all vegetable SUSTAINABLY 1T Palm Oil = 0.28 ha oil on less than 10% of the land 13 Global demand allocated to oil Golden Agri-Resources Ltd for vegetable oils crops 307 MT 1T Rapeseed Oil = 1.20 ha 165 MT Other 1T Sunflower Oil = 1.29 ha Oil Crop Palm Oil NOW 2050 1T Soybean = 1.96 ha 10% Oil Source: IUCN and Oilworld Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ABOUT GAR Our achievements in 2018 • Runner up of Most Transparent • GAR ranked sixth by NUS-CGIO President Director, Mr Jo Daud • GAR debuted on FTSE4 Good Company Award in Agribusiness for best practices in sustainability Dharsono was awarded Green CEO ASEAN 5 and Developed Indices in category at the SIAS 19th Investors’ reporting amongst Singapore-listed 2018 in the Plantation category for mid 2018, recognising our efforts Choice Awards companies the second year in a row in continuously improving ESG • Winner of ASEAN Business Awards • GAR subsidiary, PT SMART Tbk • PT SMART Tbk awarded Indonesia’s performance 2018 in the Priority Integration Sector received Indonesia Most Admired Best Employer Award 2018 from Seeds of Growth • GAR named as one of the companies – Agribusiness Companies in 2018 Award in Employer Branding Institute with highest disclosure rate in • Winner of Singapore APEX Agribusiness category from Warta business integrity across ASEAN, Corporate Sustainability Award 2018 Ekonomi magazine, while its a study by ASEAN CSR Network and NUS-CGIO 14 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL AT GAR [102-11] [102-12] [103-2] As an agribusiness operating in Indonesia, GAR understands that the long-term success of our business relies on adopting sustainable business practices. We recognise the value of conserving the natural environment, which houses rich biodiversity and provides vital ecosystem services that are crucial to our wellbeing. We also recognise that the palm oil industry supports millions of livelihoods in Indonesia. Progress therefore requires a balanced and thoughtful approach. At the heart of our approach to sustainability is the GAR Social and Environmental Policy or the GSEP. The GSEP embodies our belief that economic growth, social progress and environmental protection can go hand-in-hand. The GSEP establishes firm commitments that support these beliefs and we have set stretching targets to drive progress against these commitments. Over time we will continuously update our approach to keep up with emerging concerns and trends both globally and locally. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL AT GAR GAR and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In September 2015, the 193 member EXAMPLES OF HOW GAR IS CONTRIBUTING: states of the United Nations came together to adopt a new agenda for sustainable development. The SDGs Seeds of Growth represent an interrelated and holistic framework of the most pressing challenges facing humanity and which The world population is estimated Achieving responsible consumption Tropical forests provide important To achieve sustainable require urgent action to ensure a to reach 10 billion by 2050. With and production is essential to ecosystem services, host a large development, partnerships sustainable future. limited land and resources, as ensure that the natural resources amount of biodiversity and support between governments, the private well as the impacts of climate we depend on are not depleted the livelihood of indigenous sector and civil society is required. 16 GAR has a role to play in supporting change, ensuring sustainable food and used efficiently, while peoples. As a palm oil company, All of our efforts are underpinned production systems is crucial. GAR minimising the impact to human we have an important role to by local and global partnerships. all 17 SDGs. As a palm oil business is committed to the sustainable health and the environment. play in ensuring the protection of These range from collaborations Golden Agri-Resources Ltd operating in Indonesia, we have chosen production of palm oil as a key For GAR, this means minimising forest areas. GAR has identified with communities and suppliers to focus our efforts on the goals where food ingredient, to meet growing waste through recycling and and set aside 72,000 hectares on conservation; working with top we can make the most strategic and demand while addressing these reuse, as well as phasing out of HCS and HCV areas for research facilities and universities meaningful contributions. challenges. We have invested in harmful chemical substances in conservation. In addition, we on improving biodiversity; developing higher-yielding seeds our operations. Since 2015, we have taken a landscape approach and with customers to help Following an assessment of the goals and planting materials which have recycled 100 percent of to conservation, working with smallholders improve livelihoods and their underlying targets, we have reduce pressure on the need for waste from the production of CPO local communities around and and sustainability. (Relates to SDG identified four SDGs, which we believe agricultural land expansion. We are in our upstream operations. We beyond our concession areas, Targets 17.16) align best with our strengths and our also investing in R&D to produce have stopped using the herbicide which includes Participatory seeds that are more resilient to the paraquat, while continuing to use Mapping (PM) and Participatory areas of impact as a company. They also increasing threat of droughts and a combination of natural solutions Conservation Planning (PCP). represent the greatest opportunity to diseases from climate change. Our and biological controls for pests. We are also supporting the partner with others to drive progress focus on productivity and improving These commitments which are in conservation of 65,000 hectares towards sustainable development. agronomic practices also extends our GSEP also apply to our supply of forests by our suppliers. And to our plasma and independent chain. (Relates to SDG Targets we continue to maintain our smallholders, supporting them to 12.2;12.4;12.5) vigilance on fire prevention and generate decent incomes, while For more information please see management. (Relates to SDG adopting practices that protect p 34-36 Targets 15.1;15.2;15.3;15.5) the environment. (Relates to SDG For more information please see Targets: 2.3; 2.4) p 28-32 & p 52 For more information please see p 36 & p 55-56 Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES 1997 January 2005 February 2010 February 2011 April 2011 May 2011 November 2011 February 2012 March 2013 Sustainability Report 2018 First Indonesian SMART joins Zero development GAR launches GAR joins RSPO GAR GAR launches GAR and SMART GAR and SMART palm producer RSPO on peatland pioneering Forest publishes first Social and launch Yield implement to establish Zero regardless of Conservation Sustainability Community Improvement HCS Forest Burning Policy depth Policy (FCP) Report Engagement Policy (YIP) Conservation Policy (SCEP) Pilot 17 February 2014 May 2014 September 2014 March 2015 April 2015 September 2015 November 2015 November 2015 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd GAR’s FCP GAR launches GAR endorses GAR implements GAR and HCS GAR rolls out GAR launches GAR launches extends to Sustainability New York Participatory Approach Steering updated Social peat rehabilitation Community downstream Dashboard Declaration Mapping as part Group publish HCS and Environmental project in Conservation operations on Forests of FPIC Approach Toolkit Policy (GSEP) PT AMNL Partnerships December 2015 February 2016 April 2016 January 2017 April 2017 September 2017 December 2017 June 2018 GAR completes GAR launches GAR announces GAR expands Launch of super GAR debuts GAR-owned mills GAR debuts 100% mapping Desa Siaga Api Traceability fire-free programme high-yielding on Dow Jones complete 100% on FTSE4Good of supply chain to help villages to the Plantation into Desa Makmur non-GMO clonals Sustainability TTP Index to mills (Traceability stay fire-free (TTP) Plan Peduli Api Eka 1 & Eka 2 Indices to the Mill) Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL AT GAR Governance at GAR directly to Mr Franky O. Widjaja and meets [102-18] [102-19] [102-20] [102-21] [102-22] regularly to oversee the development, [102-23] [102-26] [103-2] implementation and monitoring of the We are committed to the highest GSEP and our performance across all our standards of corporate governance, and business operations. to complying with the principles of the Code of Corporate Governance. Over the years we have continued to invest additional resources with the aim The composition of our board is an of embedding responsible palm practices important part of our approach to in our day-to-day operations. The corporate governance. Currently, the Sustainability and Strategic Stakeholder Board has eight members, including five Engagement Department has over 400 independent directors, who exercise staff in Jakarta and in the field. objective judgment in our corporate affairs. The board is headed by GAR’s As detailed in the Organisation Charts, we Chairman and CEO, Mr Franky O. Widjaja employ specialists to oversee and handle and is responsible for overseeing all key areas such as conflict resolution, aspects of our business. A full list of our HCS/HCV management, fire prevention, board of directors and their profiles can community consent (FPIC), grievance be found on our website and in the management and health and safety. The GAR Annual Report. department also works with colleagues in Human Resources on labour issues to The board and senior management ensure free and fair labour practices in line are fully involved in and support GAR’s with the GSEP. sustainability efforts and commitments under the GSEP. A Sustainability GAR provides ongoing training for Committee (SC), which is chaired by Ms employees on the GSEP. In 2018, 7,600 Jesslyne Widjaja, Corporate Strategy and employees received GSEP training. Business Development Director, oversees all matters related to responsible palm oil. The SC comprises the senior leadership team from the upstream, downstream and corporate business units as well as the head and other staff members of the Sustainability Directorate. It reports Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR SUSTAINABILITY AND STRATEGIC STAKEHOLDER DIRECTORATE MD Sustainability and Strategic Sustainability Report 2018 Stakeholder Engagement MD Support Specialist Sustainability Sustainability National Policy and Implementation Sustainability Compliance Head Head Stakeholders 19 Engagement, Project Management Grievance Handling Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Officer and Social Conflict Sustainability Occupational Health Supply Chain Sustainable Sustainability Compliance and and Safety Head Sustainability Head Plantation Resolution Head Strategic Policy Certification Head Landscape Head Planning Head Sustainability Supplier Complier Sustainable Procedure Head Regional Development and FPIC Head CSR Head Sustainability Palm Oil Certification Head Improvement Head Grievance Stakeholders Handling Head Social Baseline Mill and Refinery Engagement Sustainability Head Head Specialist Environmental Performance and Capacity Building Head Traceability Head Grievance Handling Monitoring Head Environmental Head Baseline and Sustainability 3rd-party Landscape Management Head Database and Head Social Conflict Reporting Head Resolution Head Monitoring Reporting Verification and Remote Sensing Head Fire Prevention and Response Head Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers RESPONSIBLE PALM OIL AT GAR OUR GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Develop an approach for handling the specific Grievance. Identification of If required, commence Prepare action plan to Implement and monitor the action plan Potential Grievance Initial Engagement field verification resolve Grievance until the Grievance is resolved External Grievance The Grievance Unit engages with the Grievance Raiser1 Potential Grievance Communicate Raiser. If field verification is necessary, and when Seeds of Growth (NGO, Media, reported to GAR, found outcomes to external relevant and appropriate, the Grievance Raiser Stakeholders etc.) by GAR or published stakeholders Implement action will be invited to participate plan and monitor in consultation with external parties Grievance Unit until the Grievance (GAR) Confirm the issue is a Record in the (publicly Prepare Grievance Grievance using the available) Grievance Memo setting out is resolved simple Decision Tree List & engage with key details and 20 relevant parties recommendations Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Grievance Committee Prepare action Monitor progress Decide against action plan (GAR & TFT) response plan to resolve Grievance and communicate Refer for Enact with relevant parties Assess action immediate recommenplan implementation Grievance resolved Internal action dation after agreed and closed Stakeholders Progress on Action Target of Grievance Discuss Grievance action plan plan (GAR-owned unit or and obtain further warrants implemented Third Party Supplier) information Request extension verification Verification Team No progress Commence field Prepare verification on action (GAR, TFT & optional verification report plan third party) Suspension If immediate action is If the action plan is Committee required but not being not agreed to or (GAR) taken (e.g. stopping executed as intended, forest clearance), consider suspension/ consider suspension termination 1 week 2 weeks 4 weeks Agreed time period2 1 The Grievance Raiser may nominate a third party to act on their behalf. 2 Action plans will work to agreed timelines of no more than three months to reach resolution. However, where circumstances prevent resolution within that time – for example, where legal proceedings are involved – progress at three months will be reviewed to assess whether there is clear evidence of a resolution process being actively implemented. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Responsible handling of complaints We expect all our employees, contractors, required to complete an e-learning Partnerships for responsible palm oil and grievances suppliers and business partners to course on the Code of Conduct, which All these endeavours require us to [103-2] [103-3] adhere to GAR Code of Conduct which included testing and mandatory signed work closely and engage with multiple Sustainability Report 2018 In 2015, GAR established a Grievance is communicated to all our existing acknowledgements. Executives were stakeholders. Partnership (UN SDG 17) Procedure to ensure that as a company, and new employees. The Code is also required to sign an Integrity Pact is the cornerstone of our approach we are responsive to any grievances raised purposefully designed to be practically committing them to behave ethically to achieving our goals. We do this in by external parties which may involve our applicable to our day-to-day business, and comply with prevailing laws and recognition of our limits as a private third-party suppliers. It helps us to address with definite guidelines on acceptable regulations. company and we seek to learn and gain a wide range of concerns, including those and unacceptable behaviour and also valuable input from our stakeholders related to our most material issues, and applies to the Board members. It also Monitoring, evaluation and reporting such as local communities, smallholders, covers our worldwide operations. The full details avenues for raising concerns and [103-3] government, Civil Society Organisations Grievance List can be viewed on our whistleblowing procedures, encouraging Under the GSEP we are committed to (CSOs), suppliers, the Roundtable on Sustainability Dashboard. employees to report any possible monitoring, evaluating and reporting our Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), our industry 21 improprieties in confidence and without performance. peers and implementation partners. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd fear of retaliation. Grievances raised in 2018 17 We maintain and regularly update our In several instances, we have worked with Grievances closed in 2018 7 We take seriously the bribery case in 2018 Sustainability Dashboard which is freely CSO stakeholders like Greenpeace to Pre-2018 grievances closed in 2018 10 involving three officers of PT Binasawit accessible on our website without a develop new guidelines and standards Abadipratama (PT BAP), a subsidiary separate login. We regularly report our such as the High Carbon Stock Approach of GAR. The Jakarta Corruption court progress on several key initiatives such (HCSA) to address deforestation concerns. We also have a grievance mechanism has ruled that this incident reflects the as our Traceability to the Plantation (TTP) This approach is increasingly being in place for stakeholders including actions of a few individuals in breach of exercise, our progress in resolving social adopted not only in our industry but also employees to raise grievances involving the state regulations as well as GAR’s conflicts and handling grievances, fire in other sectors such as forestry. our own operations as well as social own Code of Conduct, which also applies incidents and wider sustainability efforts conflict handling procedures. to GAR subsidiaries. As a result of the on the GAR website and Sustainability The GSEP was developed with feedback court decision, PT BAP will now take Dashboard as well as reports such as and input from key stakeholders including Ethics and compliance appropriate action in relation to the the GAR Annual Report and the GAR CSOs such as Greenpeace, Rainforest [102-16] [102-17] [205-3] [415-1] employment of those individuals involved Sustainability Report. We also participate Action Network (RAN), Forest Peoples At GAR, we are committed to pursuing in the case in line with the Indonesian in several disclosure platforms including Programme (FPP) and our implementation our business objectives with integrity and employment law. CDP (which incorporates the Task Force partner, Earthworm Foundation (formerly in compliance with the law. We comply on Climate-related Financial Disclosures The Forest Trust). We also continue with applicable laws in all the countries Additionally, GAR took immediate steps (TCFD) recommendations and elements of to improve our Standard Operating in which we do business, including all to internally reinforce the principles of the the Accountability Framework Initiative), Procedures for carrying out FPIC, handling anti-bribery and corruption regulations. Company’s Code of Conduct. Employees SPOTT, FTSE4Good and DJSI. grievances, conflict resolution and Additionally, GAR does not make any were reminded of the Company’s stance participatory mapping, often with input corporate political contributions. against corruption and bribery and from external stakeholders such as CSOs. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT [102-46] [102-47] Key to our approach in responsible palm oil is our identification and management of material issues. This ensures that we are prioritising and focusing on the most significant economic, environmental, social and governance issues that shape our success and that are of greatest importance to our stakeholders. In 2017, we worked with specialist sustainability consulting firm Corporate Citizenship to update and refresh our understanding of our material sustainability issues. Our approach followed the principle of materiality as set out in the GRI Standards and included the assessment of sustainability issues across our entire value chain. We gathered a balance of internal and external stakeholder perspectives, through a mix of qualitative and quantitative methods. This included desk research, surveys and interviews. The detailed process can be seen on the GAR website. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR MATERIALITY MATRIX Environmental Management Matrix Key Fire and haze Sustainability Report 2018 Marketplace and Supply Chain • Priority issues are the most material High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests and peatlands Work Environment and Industrial sustainability issues with high impact on Relations society and the environment, and of high Rights of communities and Biodiversity and Labour Social and Community Engagement concern to stakeholders. These form indigenous peoples High Conservation Relations and Importance to external stakeholders Governance the focus of GAR’s sustainability policy, Value (HCV) areas Human Rights strategic approach to responsible palm Traceability and supply oil, and sustainability reporting. Reporting chain transformation Corporate on priority issues aims to fully meet the Supplier inclusiveness and governance, ethics Occupational requirements of the GRI Standards: smallholder livelihoods and integrity Health and Core Option. Safety and • Significant issues are of ongoing 23 Community relations Employee and empowerment Yield improvement wellbeing Issues that have grown in importance to GAR and typically of medium importance since our last Golden Agri-Resources Ltd concern to stakeholders. They are actively Greenhouse Gas materiality assessment managed by the business. Updates on Use of fertilisers, (GHG) Emissions Women, diversity Talent retention, management and performance in relation to pesticides and and inclusion chemicals development and training these issues is included in external reporting Climate Product quality change adaption and safety Labour relations and as relevant, based on sustainability context Water human rights and stakeholder interest. Women, diversity and • Moderate issues are of lower relative Talent retention, inclusion importance to both GAR and external development stakeholders. However, these issues are still Waste and training Occupational health & safety and employee part of GAR’s responsible business practices wellbeing and are managed as part of the company’s Moderate Significant Priority sustainability agenda. These are reported Current or potential impact on business where relevant, based on sustainability context and stakeholder interest. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Understanding where impacts (actual or potential) occur in our value chain [102-47] Value Chain Plantation Processing Distribution & consumption Seeds of Growth Material Issues Description Fire and haze No burning in our operations, working with the community to prevent forest fires 24 and responding to any fires that occur in order to minimise the harmful effects on the environment and people. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests Identifying, protecting and restoring HCS forests, as well as protecting and managing and peatlands peatlands storing high levels of carbon. Biodiversity and High Preventing deforestation or development of HCV areas with high biological, ecological, Conservation Value (HCV) areas social or cultural values; to protect habitats and maintain biodiversity. Labour Relations and Promoting fair, ethical, and positive relations with our workforce, respecting human and Human Rights labour rights, ensuring no child or forced labour. Rights of communities and Respecting community rights through the Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) indigenous peoples approach. Maintaining community dialogue and engagement, and promoting peaceful resolution of any conflicts. Occupational health & safety Fostering a safe and healthy work environment, preventing any work-related illness, and employee wellbeing injury and accidents, and promoting the wellbeing of employees. Traceability and supply chain Achieving traceability of palm oil products to mill and to plantation, and engaging with transformation suppliers to ensure compliance with our policy to promote responsible and ethical practices. Corporate governance, Conducting all business activities with integrity and in accordance with the highest ethics and integrity ethical and governance standards, in line with the Company Code of Conduct. Supplier inclusiveness and Supporting the socio-economic development and inclusiveness of smallholder suppliers. smallholder livelihoods Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Value Chain Plantation Processing Distribution & consumption Sustainability Report 2018 Material Issues Description Yield improvement Investing in research and development to improve yield and reduce pressure on opening new land. Community relations and Empowering the community and supporting livelihoods by employing locals, empowerment implementing community programmes in education, healthcare, and building and 25 providing public infrastructure, housing and facilities, etc. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Women, diversity and inclusion Empowering women across the business and promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion in our workforce and operations. Product quality and safety Adherence to best practice product quality and safety standards, as well as safeguarding consumers' health. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions The measurement, monitoring and reduction of GHG emissions across our operations. Climate change adaptation Developing crops resilient to the effects of climate change (e.g. extreme weather events such as drought, flooding). Building community resilience to climate change. Use of fertilisers, pesticides Minimising contamination and pollution from fertiliser, pesticide and chemical use, and chemicals while maintaining soil fertility and high crop yield. Water Reducing water use, recycling and re-using water, management of effluents, and preventing water pollution. Talent, retention, development Managing current and future talent needs through attraction, retention, training and and training development. Waste Managing our waste by reducing, reusing and recycling waste generated, as well as the safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Key (actual or potential impact): Significant impact Moderate impact Little to no impact Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT [102-40] [102-42] [102-43] The issues facing palm oil production OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS are complex and multi-faceted. This is Some key outcomes of our why a key element of our approach to stakeholder engagement: responsible palm oil relies on engagement and close collaboration with stakeholders. • Participatory Conservation Certification Planning with the community Seeds of Growth Our stakeholder engagement focuses on Customers bodies: RSPO, (see p 28-29) trying to better understand stakeholders’ and consumers ISPO, ISCC • Long-term fire prevention needs and concerns. At the same time, programme with the community we want to build our stakeholders’ (see p 31-32) understanding of our business and the • Supply chain transformation realities of the palm oil industry on the Suppliers Employees 26 ground. (see p 50-56) • Smallholder support programmes (see p 55-56) Golden Agri-Resources Ltd We believe that enhanced mutual • Active participation in the RSPO understanding will support the (see p 58) development of more effective solutions Financial and partnerships, which can better Civil Society community balance environmental protection with Organisations (investors, the economic and social needs of our (CSOs) banks, financial stakeholders. analysts) For more details on our stakeholder engagement, see our website. Media Governments and regulatory bodies Local Industry bodies communities and trade associations Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT [103-2] [103-3] Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental management has been a key focus for us for many decades as we strive to optimise productivity and long-term sustainability. Over the years, we have implemented a number of pioneering initiatives aimed at forest conservation, protecting biodiversity and minimising harmful impacts on the environment. Our efforts in this area help contribute to UN SDG 15 which aims to protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 27 ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Forest and biodiversity conservation Forest protection and biodiversity The mapping lays the foundation for [304-1] [304-2] conservation have been a major focus further dialogue on conservation through of our environmental efforts for many our Participatory Conservation Planning years. We have identified and continue to process. Our intensive consultative conserve 72,000 hectares of land made up approach takes into account local of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests and community concerns, needs and aspirations Seeds of Growth High Conservation Value (HCV) areas. Our including food security requirements and conservation areas are roughly equivalent continued ability to earn a decent living to the size of Singapore and can be and maintain stable quality of life. viewed on the Sustainability Dashboard. 72,000 ha Community conservation GAR’s CDP disclosure on forests also We have rolled out mapping in 85 villages planning rolled out in provides further information on our across our concessions to date. As part 22 villages 28 forest-related issues. of our landscape approach to forest conservation area (HCV/HCS) conservation, we continued to roll out Golden Agri-Resources Ltd We have taken a landscape approach to our conservation planning programmes conservation (beyond the boundaries of with local communities. By end 2018, 22 our concessions), through our community villages have taken part in participatory conservation partnerships. These began conservation consultations for joint in 2015, when we started to formally HCS forest conservation projects with Forest conservation map their villages through Participatory Mapping – a process for helping villages communities. We have secured agreement with local communities in 13 villages to set helps store large amounts of carbon; map out critical areas such as customary aside over 7,700 hectares of HCS forests also helps maintain boundaries and land necessary for food for conservation. This is in addition to the fresh water resources security. This map is then lodged with and 72,000 hectares of conservation area in formally recognised by the authorities, our concessions. Furthermore, through serving amongst other things to clarify our efforts to transform our supply chain, land tenure rights and enabling villages to we are supporting the conservation of gain access to government development 65,000 hectares of HCS and HCV areas funds for the first time. by our suppliers. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Protection-production partnerships support conservation As part of our community conservation partnerships, we have initiated Sustainability Report 2018 development programmes for the local communities which participate in the conservation partnerships. Integrated Ecological Farming projects have been Protection-production launched in 19 villages in West Kalimantan partnerships: and Central Kalimantan and are an 13 villages integral part of programmes like the Peat Ecosystem Rehabilitation project and the Desa Makmur Peduli Api programme. 29 in community conservation The farming projects aim to help the partnerships to protect Golden Agri-Resources Ltd local community achieve food self>7,700 ha sufficiency, earn extra income as well as raise awareness about alternative farming methods without the use of fire. Each participating family can save up to IDR 300,000 per month through planting and harvesting their own vegetables. In “Learning how to grow organically was life changing – addition, they receive about IDR 500,000 the workshops changed how I farm and feed my family per month from selling the surplus produce to surrounding villages. and my community. With the extra income, I’m able to Integrated Ecological support my children and my grandchildren. So I’m paying Farming in it forward. I’m teaching other farmers how to fertilise and 19 villages: increases community income, grow healthier crops. I’m still learning from the workshops and this time on how to make organic pesticide and use it properly.”, Yatimin, farmer improves food self-sufficiency & supports conservation goals See more of Yatimin’s story at: https://goldenagri.com.sg/extraordinaryeveryday/#farmer and https://goldenagri.com.sg/farming-for-families/ Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Peat rehabilitation Riparian zone rehabilitation specific recommendations on the and surrounding areas. For our full list [304-3] most appropriate options for restoring of threatened species under Indonesia’s Peat Ecosystem Rehabilitation Project in West Kalimantan: 2,700 ha riparian zone rehabilitated riparian margins in established oil palm areas, and an evidence base to improve sustainability in tropical agricultural National Law of Protected Species (Indonesian Government Regulation No. 7 of 1999) or on the IUCN Red list, please >350 ha landscapes. Data will be collected on see the Sustainability Dashboard. Seeds of Growth biodiversity, ecosystem functions, and crop yield before, during, and after We continue to work to preserve and re-vegetated; water levels maintained riparian restoration. Outputs will be protect HCV areas and operate a strict published in high-impact peer-reviewed Zero Tolerance Policy towards hunting, academic and industry journals, presented injuring, possessing and killing of rare and 30 SMARTRI at conferences, and delivered as policy guidance for the industry. For more endangered wildlife. and Cambridge information see the RERTA Project. We continuously educate our employees, Golden Agri-Resources Ltd University research Protecting biodiversity local communities and related stakeholders on the importance of protecting rare and riparian zone restoration [304-4] endangered species. GAR also continues Our management of HCV areas also to work on orangutan conservation as a We have also used this model of involves the rehabilitation of riparian special focus area. We have renewed our 100 community partnership in our efforts to zones that have previously been cleared partnership with Orangutan Foundation rehabilitate 2,600 hectares of degraded or planted. These riparian buffer zones International (OFI) to rehabilitate and peatland in the PT Agrolestari Mandiri have particular ecological importance, release wild-born, formerly captive (AMNL) concession in West Kalimantan. This project was launched at the end providing specific wildlife habitats and playing a key role in water systems. wild-born primates. We aim to release another 60 orangutans by 2021 back into the wild, of 2015. By end 2018, 350 hectares of orangutans specifically back to the Seruyan Forest in Central Kalimantan. In addition, the the area has been re-vegetated and we Since 2015, GAR has been implementing rehabilitated & released since 2011; new partnership agreement focuses on 60 continue to monitor and maintain optimum a riparian rehabilitation programme in its water levels. Read more about our peat 18 concessions. As of end 2018, we have more to be released local community and school education management practices on our website. rehabilitated over 2,700 hectares and the by 2021 programmes on orangutan conservation. riparian zones have been replanted with Read more about our orangutan native trees and vegetation. Operating in Indonesia places us in or near rehabilitation efforts on our website. areas of rich biodiversity. Through HCV We are also participating in research assessments carried out by licensed HCV with Cambridge University on riparian assessors, we have identified the rare and zone rehabilitation. Results will provide endangered species within our concessions Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Long-term prevention of fire and haze “I am very pleased that [103-2] [103-3] 32 villages we can continue the third Sustainability Report 2018 phase of collaboration with GAR which will include in Desa Makmur Peduli Api providing training to the community programme to company employees, reduce fires counselling to the community Zero Burning Policy: nearly We continue to maintain our vigilance on and school students, and ZERO fire prevention and management. We have releasing orangutans. 31 more than 10,000 fire fighters on standby Since the beginning of our across all our plantations. Our estates Golden Agri-Resources Ltd are also equipped with fire-fighting collaboration in 2011, I have fire incidents in 2018 equipment. seen the seriousness of GAR in protecting the environment In 2018, there were virtually zero and conserving orangutans,” Fire monitoring fires in GAR areas. Fire incidents for GAR concessions (including plasma Prof. Dr. Birute Galdikas, OFI and reporting smallholders’ area) are reported weekly on our Sustainability Dashboard. Outside our own concessions, we continue Insect biodiversity in palm oil plantations the implementation of our community collaboration programme on long-term Recent studies have shown that key insects which help pollinate crops such as bees, fire prevention – Desa Makmur Peduli Api butterflies and beetles could disappear in the next 25 – 30 years. (DMPA). In 2018, DMPA was rolled out to 15 more villages. Aside from training But it is not widely known that established palm oil plantations can still house a and equipping local community members surprisingly diverse and abundant insect population. Maintaining and enhancing 10,000 to suppress fires rapidly, we also work biodiversity especially of insects, arachnids and other small creatures is a particular with schools to educate the younger focus of R&D being carried out by GAR’s SMART Research Institute (SMARTRI) in generation and drive long-term change collaboration with Cambridge and Southampton universities. Read more in our blog Emergency Response personnel in the community. and on the BEFTA website. to suppress fires Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT We note that in 2018, there was an Reducing GHG emissions increase in fire incidents involving some of [103-2] [103-3] Life Cycle Assessment for GHG EMISSION SOURCE FROM the original pilot villages. To address this, We are committed to reducing GHG emissions LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT 2018 we are strengthening mitigation plans and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from focusing on: our operations. OF CRUDE PALM OIL In 2018, we supplemented our • Prevention: raise fire prevention baseline study by conducting a 15% 1% Seeds of Growth awareness, community empowerment We recognise that emissions resulting lifecycle assessment of our CPO, PK, Diesel Other and improve water management from land-use change and cultivation and PKO products in Indonesia. The Fuel system is naturally one of the most significant • Preparedness: have well-trained impacts for any agribusiness. Our aim of this was to better understand, where the most significant impacts and 45 % and well-equipped personnel and conservation of HCS forests which retain POME opportunities for reduction are in our improve infrastructure large stores of carbon is one way we are 32 • Early warning systems: hot spot contributing to avoidance of emissions. upstream operations. It is based on five years of operational data from maps; effective and efficient fire We also carry out methane capture at 45 mills and 129 supplying estate, Golden Agri-Resources Ltd patrol systems; implementation of some of our mills. 26 nurseries and one seed production rating system for potential for fires • Quick response teams To better understand our footprint and plant and excludes land use change calculations. Life Cycle Assessment 39 % the opportunities to reduce it, we have Fertiliser software was used in the calculation. For more details on our fire management conducted a baseline study of our GHG Based on the assessment, Palm Oil Mill efforts, see our website. emissions in our mills and plantations. Effluent (POME) contributes the most CH4 and N2O. The calculations are EY was commissioned to review and verify GHG emissions (45%), followed by being verified by EY. Following the final how we calculate our carbon footprint, fertiliser (39%) and diesel fuel (15%). verification, we expect to have a GHG identify viable opportunities to reduce Emissions measured included CO2, reduction strategy by the end of 2019. emissions and set short, medium and long-term reduction targets for the business. Having completed the baseline, we are in the process of designing an Emission intensity by product* emission reduction strategy. Please refer [305-4] to SR2017 for information on the baseline Product Unit GHG Emission calculations. Crude Palm Oil (CPO) kg CO2eq / t-CPO 675 Palm Kernel (PK) kg CO2eq / t-PK 517 Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) kg CO2eq / t-PKO 1,109 * Based on the average calculation of 30 mills which are ISCC-certified. GHG emission intensity calculations based on emissions from plantation, POME, CPO processed, transportation and excludes land use change. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Emission reduction from methane Meanwhile, we continued to reduce GHG We also reduced GHG emissions through composting: capture and composting emissions in our operations through our [305-5] facilities to capture methane gas at seven Emission reduction from composting 2018* Sustainability Report 2018 Methane capture mills in Central Kalimantan, Jambi and Composting Plant Emission Reduction (tCO2eq) facilities reduce Riau. The facilities capture methane gas which is then used as an alternative energy Jelatang Composting 9,089 40-55% GHG emissions source, generating electricity for our palm oil mills. These facilities can reduce between 40 – 55 percent of operational Sako Composting Kuayan Composting 77,571 84,028 emissions on site. Total 170,688 on site * Methodology for composting: CDM AMS III.F ver 12 Emission reduction from methane capture 2018* 33 Please see our CDP disclosure on climate change for more information on our Biogas Plant Emission Reduction (tCO2eq) GHG emissions. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Pelakar Biogas Plant (PLKF) 25,217 Libo Biogas Plant (LIBF) 46,746 Waste recycling and reuse The waste includes solid and liquid Ramarama Biogas Plant (RRMF) 73,025 [103-2] [103-3] waste. Solid waste consists of empty fruit bunches (EFB) of oil palm, fibre and shells. 100% Sungai Rungau Biogas Plant (SRUF) 91,305 Liquid waste or Palm Oil Mill Effluent Semilar Biogas Plant (SMLF) 88,413 (POME) is generated from the processing of FFB to CPO. We use both types of Perdana Biogas Plant (PRDF) 120,993 organic CPO production waste as organic fertiliser and fuel. Belian Biogas Plant (BLNF) 13,288 waste reused/recycled as fuel & fertiliser Our downstream waste is disposed of Total 458,987 through municipal landfills or incinerators. * Methodology for methane capture: CDM AMS III.H ver 18 Under our Zero Waste Policy we aim to Hazardous waste is collected for proper reuse, recover and recycle. Since 2015, disposal by authorised third-parties. we have achieved 100 percent recycling of waste from the CPO production process in our upstream operations. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RECYCLING WASTE AT EACH CPO PRODUCTION Fresh fruit bunches are sent to the mills within 24 hours of harvest After extracting the CPO and PK we are left with 4 by-products Seeds of Growth STAGE Palm fruit is harvested from 34 oil palm trees in the form of fresh Golden Agri-Resources Ltd fruit bunches Mulch Fibre Shells Empty fruit bunch Palm Oil Mill Old stems & leaves are (Solid Waste) (Solid Waste) (Solid Waste) Effluent (POME) made into mulch (Liquid Waste) At the time of replanting, old stems & leaves are chopped or pruned & placed in the soil to become organic fertiliser. They also help Fuel POME is treated at our waste water treatment pond to maintain soil moisture Fibre & shells are used to reduce acidity, Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) as boiler fuel in the mills & Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) levels so that it becomes safe for use as an organic land fertiliser. A specific application permit is obtained for each location, with close monitoring of environmental impact as required by the authorities Organic Fertiliser Fertiliser produced from Biogas composted empty fruit bunches and the treated POME is used for POME can also be processed with a methane capture technique the oil palm trees in our plantations where the end result is biogas which can be used as energy Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Managing our water footprint to the environmental agencies at least [103-2] [103-3] twice yearly. R&D on soil fertility Water is a vital resource for our operations Sustainability Report 2018 and the communities where we operate. We have noted the increasing occurrence Our upstream R&D facility, SMARTRI, is increasing research and monitoring We recognise that water availability is of extreme weather phenomena like El related to the physical fertility of soils. This is important in light of the current becoming an increasingly important issue Niño which can lead to severe draught. trend to develop mechanisation of several field practices, especially regarding in the face of climate change and we are We are now exploring ways to optimise relatively heavy jobs such as moving and applying fertiliser and removing FFB looking at ways to minimise our water water use in our plantations through the from the fields. Mechanisation can lead to risk of soil compaction due to repeated footprint. use of advanced technology including AI. runs of tractors with a potential risk of damaging the physical fertility of soils. We strive to meet all our water needs For more information on our water footprint SMARTRI is measuring several indicators of soil biological activities and studying through surface water that is processed please see our CDP disclosure on water. the links between agricultural practices and biological fertility components. to meet the quality standards required for 35 Biological activities in soil are widely recognised as playing a vital part in nutrient the production process and use ground Maintaining soil fertility cycling and availability to plants and in developing and maintaining soil structure, Golden Agri-Resources Ltd water only in very limited quantities [103-2] [103-3] and contributing to soil health. in locations where no surface water is GAR implements best agricultural available. We continue to improve our management practices to maintain An example of such a measurement would be looking at how a good soil water efficiency by recycling and reusing and enhance soil fertility through vegetation cover that reduces run-off and erosion results in a higher biological where appropriate. a comprehensive mineral nutrition activity as measured through the population of insects as well as measurements of management plan. We aim to minimise soil feeding activities of soil micro and meso fauna. Oil palm trees require adequate amounts the quantity of fertiliser applied while of water in order to grow. As such we maximising yields. This reduces the Over the years, SMARTRI’s recommended practice of spreading cut oil palm have not developed plantations in waterpressure to open more land and minimises fronds on the soil surface has resulted in the presence of more insects and it also stressed areas and our plantations are the risk of soil degradation from oil palm facilitates their feeding activities. Similarly, recycling empty fruit bunches, fresh rain-fed and not irrigated. cultivation. or after composting, also enhances soil feeding activities of insects, a good indicator of soil health. We also take steps to minimise any We have SOPs which specify that the risk of pollution of surface and ground use of fertilisers should be tailored to water, following strict land management the texture of the soil and its capacity for practices that are designed to reduce retaining nutrients; that fertilisers should these risks. In particular, we do not apply not be applied during periods of heavy herbicides, chemicals or POME (which is rain; and that there should always be an treated and used as organic fertiliser) near appropriate interval between applications. and around rivers and riparian zones; and We also recycle palm fronds and other we plant vetiver grass to minimise soil organic products to increase the fixing erosion. We submit water sample analyses capacity of soils. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IPM and selective weed control are the In parallel to minimising the use of basis of the utilisation of pesticides in chemical pesticides, GAR is promoting GAR plantations: the use of biopesticides, to enhance the • Insecticides and rodenticides are health condition of the soils and the used only as a final resort, when the palm trees. population of herbivories and rat are Seeds of Growth above an acceptable level and are no Yield improvement longer controllable through natural or biological solutions. • The utilisation of herbicides is mainly Super high-yielding to maintain an appropriate access to non-GMO clonals the palms, for their maintenance and Eka 1 and Eka 2 can 36 for harvesting. A selective strategy potentially produce >10 is implemented in order to minimise Golden Agri-Resources Ltd the use of herbicides. • In addition, SMARTRI is continuously tonnes/ looking for alternative solutions in order to reduce the utilisation of ha/year CPO herbicides, through the utilisation of more efficient and less environmental Improving yields of oil palm is a key part Integrated Pest Management Examples of this include barn owls, which damaging new molecules, or through of our long-term strategy for responsible [103-2] [103-3] are bred on our estates, to control the innovative products. and sustainable agriculture. The ability We have adopted an Integrated Pest rat population; leaf-eating caterpillars to obtain higher yields from existing Management (IPM) approach which are controlled through diversity of flora Due to this approach we recorded a agricultural land through better seed combines cultural, mechanical, biological and encouraging beneficial plants; significant reduction of 23 percent of the stock means higher revenue for farmers, and chemical means to control pests while and pheromones are used to control total pesticides used in 2018 compared to lessening the need to open new land for minimising economic, public health and rhinoceros beetles. the previous years. agriculture. environmental risks. Monitoring and minimising the use In 2016, GAR stopped using paraquat. In Following the development and launch Natural solutions and biological controls are of pesticides addition, pesticides that are categorised of the super high-yielding clonals Eka 1 our preferred method for controlling pests as World Health Organization Class 1A and Eka 2 capable of producing over No across all our plantations, including beneficial or 1B, or that are listed by the Stockholm 10 tonnes/hectare/year of CPO in 2017, plants that attract parasitoids to control or Rotterdam Conventions are not used, SMARTRI and SMART Biotechnology pests, pathogens or bacteria, and natural except in specific situations identified in Centre are now working on creating predators. We supplement this approach paraquat national best practice guidelines, such as sufficient clonal stock to be planted in using handpicking and mechanical traps. during an extreme pest infestation. the estates in the next few years. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers In light of climate change, SMARTRI is In 2018, there were no violations of PROPER rating system also continuing to work on developing environmental regulations, and GAR did Gold For businesses/activities that have successfully displayed more climate-resilient seed stocks such as not incur any fines or penalties. environmental management effort and achieved excellent results. Sustainability Report 2018 seeds which are more drought-resistant as well as looking at strains which can PROPER achievement Green For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental better adapt to high CO2 content in the Since 2007, GAR has participated in the management effort and achieved results better than those required atmosphere. Indonesian Ministry of Environment’s by regulation. national public environmental reporting Blue For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental Monitoring environmental impact initiative known as the Programme for management effort, and have achieved the minimum standard [103-3] [307-1] Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating required by regulation. We manage and regularly monitor (PROPER). The programme uses a colour-coded rating to assess water and Red For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental every aspect of our operations in order to minimise adverse impact air pollution control, hazardous waste management effort, but have achieved only part of the minimum 37 management and environmental impact. standard required by regulation. on the natural environment. The Golden Agri-Resources Ltd monitoring is in accordance with the PROPER also considers other indicators, Black For businesses/activities that do not display significant Environment Management Plan (Rencana including the impact of a company’s environmental management effort. Pengelolaan Lingkungan) and the community development programmers; Environment Monitoring Plan (Rencana progress of biodiversity conservation Pemantauan Lingkungan), as set out in efforts; efficiency of water management; the Environmental Impact Assessment and innovations in emissions reduction, (Analisa Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan) waste management and energy efficiency. documents submitted to the Government of Indonesia. In 2018, 30 of our mills passed the PROPER assessment with Blue rating. Assessment of the environmental Four of our downstream facilities have parameters is conducted by SMARTRI, also achieved Blue rating. our ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 17025 accredited internal laboratory, as well To ensure that we are aligned with PROPER as external laboratories referred by the requirements, internal audits and training Indonesian authorities. are carried out in the company’s mills. Our regular internal monitoring and assessments are guided by the ISO 14001:2004 Environment Management Systems and ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Systems. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Data summary Upstream non-hazardous waste (tonnes or m3) Scope 1 GHG emissions (kgCO2eq)1 [306-2] [305-1] Unit Total waste Total waste 2016 2017 2018 produced in 2018 reused 2018 Gross direct Scope 1 GHG emissions – – 19,457.15 Fibre5 Tonnes 1,376,860.16 1,357,033.87 Seeds of Growth Biogenic CO2 emissions separately – – 7,303.67 Shell5 Tonnes 628,438.81 543,312.87 from the gross direct Scope 1 GHG EFB Tonnes 2,374,910.80 2,334,861.75 emissions (kgCO2eq) POME m 3 5,526,485.78 7,504,286.70 Water consumed and recycled (m3) Pesticides and herbicides used (kg or litre/ha) [303-5] 38 Type 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Acaricides < 0.001 < 0.001 < 0.001 Upstream water consumption2 – 12,799,740 13,396,056 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd (flowmeters) Fungicides6 0.015 0.025 0.003 Downstream water consumption – 3,187,089 5,436,157 Herbicides 7 0.433 0.484 0.414 (flowmeters) Insecticides 0.035 0.034 0.004 Water consumption per metric 3.39 3.39 3.46 Rodenticides 0.008 0.007 0.004 ton of CPO Total 0.491 0.551 0.424 Upstream water recycled – – 1,428,601 Downstream water recycled – 182,426 284,800 Biopesticides used Type of biopesticides 2016 2017 2018 Hazardous waste (tonnes) [306-2] Bacillus thuringiensis 2,527 385 0 2016 2017 2018 Cordyceps 156 1 100 Upstream hazardous waste3 – – 558 Mycorhyza 281,282 238,548 404,291 Downstream hazardous waste4 – 80,684 107,340 Trichoderma 131,148 206,266 287,236 Virus 0 1 0 1 GHG emissions are calculated using the ISCC methodology and includes data from 30 mills under ISCC Total 415,113 445,201 691,627 certification 2 Based on water use in the palm oil mills operated (46 mills) 5 Some fibre and shell is sold to other organisations to be reused 3 80 percent disposed by authorised third party 6 Used only in nurseries 4 100 percent disposed by authorised third party 7 Zero paraquat since January 2016 Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING THE COMMUNITY [413-1] 100% 100% Sustainability Report 2018 plantations have Social Impact plantations have social and Assessments & Environmental community development Impact Assessments programmes Providing public infrastructure: roads, bridges, places of worship, community halls 39 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd In the past few decades, the palm oil and SIA). The results are shared with the sector has played a critical role in helping local communities. All our plantations to raise incomes and improve livelihoods also have social community engagement of small farmers in tropical developing and development plans. This has helped countries like Indonesia and Malaysia. advance the aims of UN SDGs especially Communities living in rural remote areas in terms of tackling poverty, improving in particular have benefitted from palm oil infrastructure and reducing inequalities. development. At the same time, we recognise that As one of the largest palm oil companies the establishment of plantations creates in Indonesia, we have created thousands changes for local communities and of jobs in rural and remote areas. We have indigenous people. As stated in the also helped provide public infrastructure GSEP, we are committed to respecting such as roads, bridges, community halls human rights and fulfilling Free, Prior and and places of worship. Prior to developing Informed Consent (FPIC) requirements an estate, we carry out Environmental before any operations begin. GAR is also and Social Impact Assessments (EIA committed to improving its processes and Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING THE COMMUNITY procedures with regards to respecting the properly. See the section on Environmental and customary groups to access multiply the positive impacts of the palm customary rights of local and indigenous Management for further details. Further independent legal and technical advice, oil business through a range of education, communities. information about PM can also be viewed the ability for complainants to choose healthcare, social and economic on our website. individuals or groups to support them or programmes. Respecting human rights and Free, act as observers, as well as the option of Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) We continue to carry out FPIC remediation a third party mediator. We categorically Aside from government agencies and Seeds of Growth [103-2] [103-3] [411-1] in our concessions in Central and West reject the use of violence in any dispute. local communities, we work with the Eka Kalimantan following feedback that initial Tjipta Foundation (a non-profit social Participatory Mapping: FPIC requirements were not fully met Our SOP for conflict resolution can be organisation founded by the family of the with local CSO, LINKS and Ekologika viewed on our Sustainability Dashboard. late Eka Tjipta Widjaja in 2006) and the 40 85 villages since 2015 consultants. It involves fresh consultations with local communities and conducting PM to ensure that the community’s land rights are fully respected. Investing in communities [103-2] [103-3] GAR aims to help communities and Tzu Chi Foundation in Indonesia (affiliated with the non-denominational global Tzu Chi organisation established in Taiwan) on some of these programmes. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd FPIC is a central tenet of the GSEP and In 2018, there were no incidents of FPIC part of our commitment to upholding violations or violations of the rights of human and community rights. We indigenous peoples. implement FPIC in all our plantations. Respecting FPIC means we ensure that See our SOP on FPIC on our Sustainability decision-making by indigenous peoples Dashboard. and local communities regarding the presence of our operations is done Responsible conflict resolution without pressure and intimidation (free), Our policies and practices are designed performed before an activity that has to minimise the likelihood of any impact on the surrounding communities conflicts arising from our operations. is carried out (prior), and with sufficient However, when these conflicts do arise, knowledge about the activity and its we are committed to working towards a impact on the surrounding communities responsible resolution. (informed), so they may express agreement or disagreement to such Our conflict management system maps activity (consent). all conflicts related to our operations and develops action plans to address them. It Our rollout of Participatory Mapping (PM) incorporates transparent monitoring and seeks to ensure FPIC is implemented reporting, the option for local community Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Ensuring access to education and healthcare Free US$ 1.9 mil >2,200 Donation of books, learning Aid for Sustainability Report 2018 materials and facilities to 6,100 recipients bus service for school children for scholarships victims of natural disasters 41 >250 36 240 medical Golden Agri-Resources Ltd schools personnel treat Rumah Pintar >2,100 (Smart Houses) 300 patients Visits to 4,000 teachers for community daily at training >36,000 students >150 clinics people in orphanages and nursing homes GAR believes education is a powerful Free surgery, medical service & dental for Mother & child health education for enabler which helps to break the cycle of poverty in rural areas and as such, 5,600 we strive to provide quality education 3,600 patients beneficiaries to children and young adults living in and around our concessions. Child health, vaccination All children of the workers living on & nutrition for our estates receive free education from 9,900 kindergarten to junior high school and heavily subsidised higher education. We beneficiaries also offer heavily subsidised education Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers ENGAGING AND EMPOWERING THE COMMUNITY [413-1] at all levels for children living near and We help improve the well-being of Our employees in the community Sale of around our estates. local communities by providing access >216,000 to healthcare in remote and rural areas In line with the nine years of compulsory and we currently mobilise 240 medical 4,200 education required by the Indonesian personnel at over 150 clinics which serve litres of branded government, we ensure that each estate approximately 300 patients daily. Our other Seeds of Growth cooking oil at below has educational facilities ranging from annual programmes include free medical market prices in kindergarten to sixth grade. Additionally, and dental services to 3,600 patients and people donated blood impoverished areas we make sure that every region has a other initiatives as illustrated above. junior high school for the children of We involve and mobilise our staff our employees and local communities. Promoting small and micro enterprises for various causes. For example, we Currently GAR supports over 250 schools Our operations and plantations play an urge employees and tenants at our 42 Planting with over 2,100 teachers for more than important role as an economic driver corporate headquarters in Jakarta and >21,000 36,000 students across our concessions. and multiplier and have helped in the our operations units in Bangka, Belitung, Golden Agri-Resources Ltd We also donated books and educational development of various businesses in the Central Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, materials to over 6,000 students. remote areas of Indonesia. East Kalimantan, Lampung, Riau and beneficial, medicinal West Kalimantan to participate in regular and fruit trees In 2018, we also provided around We actively help promote small and micro blood donation drives for the Indonesian USD $1.9 million in scholarships for higher enterprises that contribute to increased Red Cross. Some 4,200 blood donors education at Indonesian and international income for the community. One such comprising employees and members of universities and institutes. programme is our ongoing goat breeding local community participated in 2018. programme in eight villages around PT Ivo We also encourage our employees to We have also constructed 36 Rumah Pintar Mas Tunggal in Riau. The company has contribute funds regularly to the Tzu Chi or Smart Houses since 2011 to support donated 160 goats to the villages to date. Foundation. A dedicated team oversees community training programmes. Each Local communities are able to earn extra the distribution and responsible use of Rumah Pintar has a library and play room income through the sale of milk and meat. these donations. and is equipped with computers. There is As the villagers breed more goats, these a particular focus on early childhood and will then be given to a Farmers Group in women’s education. another village to grow and expand the scheme. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR PEOPLE The palm oil industry supports economic growth, especially in rural areas, helping to lift incomes and living standards of farming communities. We create employment for about 171,700 people in Indonesia including 69,400 plasma scheme smallholders. Improving employment opportunities Traditionally, the sector employed a large portion of workers on a fixed-term basis due to the seasonal nature of oil palm cultivation. To improve workers’ conditions and opportunities, GAR is progressively transitioning fixed-term workers, who meet hiring requirements, to permanent staff status, based on their skills and qualifications. By becoming permanent staff, employees will have more stable incomes and improved job opportunities. This process is in line with our GSEP commitment to improve workers’ rights and conditions and various NGOs demands to improve workers’ job security in the sector. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR PEOPLE [102-7] [102-8] [401-1] law enforcement actions are needed. including During the investigation, the committee also provides assistance and support to 69,400 plasma smallholders the victim. In 2018, no significant cases of harassment or abuse were reported. Seeds of Growth Paying fair wages and employee We created benefits 171,700 [103-2] [103-3] [401-2] [403-6] We are committed to ensuring that all employees of GAR receive a wage that is equal to or above the minimum wage set 44 jobs in Indonesia for their respective province, in addition to a range of additional benefits. Golden Agri-Resources Ltd In the impacted areas, GAR welcomes Diversity and gender equality responsibilities such as childcare; looking interested fixed-term workers who want to [103-2] [103-3] [406-1] after the household; tending family Minimum wages in Indonesia are set undergo the selection process to become We believe in promoting gender equality gardens and other income-earning by provincial and district authorities, permanent staff subject to meeting the in the workplace. However, the manual businesses. by taking into account the local prices required criteria for the job. The process nature of agricultural work means that of goods and services and the amount will include basic requirement assessment there is a clear division of tasks between We have zero tolerance for sexual therefore required for living. (good working performance, legal identity male and female workers in certain jobs. harassment and we conduct extensive document and passing health test) For instance, male workers perform training and socialisation for all estate and In terms of benefits, full-time workers followed by further assessment by the heavier physical tasks such as harvesting mill workers to ensure this is understood. receive free healthcare for themselves recruitment committee. FFB (which can weigh between 23 27 kg) Gender committees with representatives and their family, company housing, water, and carrying them to trucks for transport from labour unions and management electricity and free education for their GAR has complied with all labour to the mills. Women generally work on have been set up to promote female children from kindergarten to junior high. regulations during this exercise including weeding and collecting loose fruits that participation and advancement in the GAR also provides its full-time workers fulfilling severance payments for affected have fallen on the ground. workplace. These committees also with basic necessities such as rice. workers. GAR has also worked closely with handle sexual harassment complaints. the relevant government agencies during Traditional rural employment patterns When a case of harassment is reported Our part-time workers receive free medical this transition. This process has also been also mean that many women prefer either formally or informally, the relevant services at our polyclinics and their fully explained to the affected workers. to take on part-time jobs, as it gives committee investigates the situation to children have access to education at our them the flexibility and time for other determine whether further sanctions or estate schools. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Recognising, respecting and non-discrimination and the complete union membership and political affiliation. Freedom of association and trade strengthening workers’ rights elimination of child and forced labour. Employees enter into employment freely. union membership [103-2] [103-3] [409-1] Where legal frameworks are not yet in We do not require our employees to [102-41] [407-1] Sustainability Report 2018 We believe in the fair, equal and respectful place we defer to the International Labour deposit identity papers or money. treatment for all our employees. Through Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental 195 the GSEP, we have also reinforced our Principles and Rights at Work. We are also engaging our supply chain on commitment to ensuring that the rights our labour standards, including prohibiting of all people working in our operations Our commitment to fair labour practices child labour, as part of our efforts to are respected. The company also fully is also emphasised in our company Code help them comply with the GSEP and labour unions representing >68,000 complied with local, national and ratified of Conduct and employment practices. adopt responsible practices. For more international laws. We adhere to all We have an equal opportunities policy information on how we respect human Indonesian labour laws covering issues on employment, banning discrimination rights in our supply chain, see the section such as freedom of association for our based on race, national origin, religion, on Transforming our Supply Chain. employees 45 employees, decent pay and working hours, disability, gender, sexual orientation, Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Prohibiting child labour Freedom of association is mandated by [408-1] Indonesian Law and Regulation No. 21/ In accordance to the regulation, the 2000 on Trade/ Labour Unions and is in minimum age for employment in GAR line with International Labour Organization in any capacity is 18 years. We aim to Convention No. 98 on the freedom of prevent all forms of child labour, and we organisation and collective bargaining. rigorously enforce these principles at all our plantations, mills and other places of Each of our units has union representatives, work. Our recruitment officers verify all elected by members, who meet with required documents such as identification local management representatives cards and school diplomas, to ensure regularly in bipartite forums, to discuss that we do not employ children. We also and resolve issues. In 2018, there were provide schools and day care centres 195 labour unions in each operational for our workers’ children to ensure that unit representing over 68,600 employees parents have somewhere safe to send across our plantations in Indonesia. We their children and do not feel the need to seek to maintain peaceful and productive take their children to work with them. industrial relations through open dialogue, fair labour practices, and respectful communication in the workplace. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR PEOPLE Creating a safe and healthy workplace training for all employees in accordance meets monthly to review OHS data and Fatalities [103-2] [103-3] [403-1] [403-4] [403-5] [403-6] with national regulations. In 2018, more performance. Monthly safety briefings are [403-2] [403-9] [403-9] than 660 of our employees received OHS held for employees. This year we regret to report that we OHS training conducted and certified by Ministry recorded 11 fatalities including that of of Manpower of the Republic of Indonesia. Additionally, our Indonesian operations two contractors. (There are over 171,000 under SMART are certified under the people working for us in our Indonesian Seeds of Growth Each of our units has an OHS Supervisory SMK3 (Sistem Manajemen Keselamatan operations, not including contractors.) Committee, which promotes co-operation dan Kesehatan Kerja) OHS management We have unfortunately seen an upward between management and employees system, in recognition of good OHS trend of work-related fatalities. We take on OHS and complies with Law No. 1 of management and implementation. the health and safety of our employees 1970 on Occupational Safety. On average, Fifteen mills and one estate have been and contractors very seriously and to the committees for our plantations and reviewed and certified under SMK3. These address this, we have investigated each 46 With hundreds of thousands of mills have 40 members, with 60 percent certifications are valid for three years and a accident thoroughly and implemented employees across our operations, we worker representation. The committee fresh audit is carried out prior to renewal. various action plans to safeguard against Golden Agri-Resources Ltd take our responsibility in providing a safe future occurrences. We will work on and healthy workplace very seriously. instilling stronger OHS awareness and Our Occupational Health and Safety practices throughout our operations (OHS) management system is aimed at to create renewed energy behind the minimising workplace accidents, fatalities message that every worker deserves to and other negative health impacts and return home safely at the end of each day. covers all employees. The OHS systems that we implement are based on national The main types of work-related injuries and international frameworks. National include road accidents, being struck by requirements include Indonesian national falling FFB, falls and electrocutions. OHS standards (regulation no. 50 (2012)). We also base our OHS system on various We assess work-related hazards through certifications including ISO 14001, OHSAS Hazard Identification and Risk Analysis 18001 and ISO 45001. Sustainable palm and by conducting OHS Cross Inspection oil certification OHS requirements are also to record unsafe actions and conditions. taken into consideration including the Examples include no/inadequate covers Principles and Criteria of RSPO, ISCC and on rotating objects, lack of employee ISPO certification. awareness and knowledge. The Safety Committee meeting will consider these We currently have nearly 40 OHS experts hazards and risks and determine suitable within our workforce and conduct periodic action to address gaps such as additional Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers and approximately 240 medical personnel formal training curriculum taught at six providing medical services for our workers. regional training centres across Indonesia. Sustainability Report 2018 The medical care that our facilities provide Our training and development includes pre-employment medical checkprogrammes have two main objectives: ups for new recruits, and special medical equipping employees with the skills check-ups for workers who are exposed and capabilities they need to excel in to potential health and safety hazards. their roles at GAR, and ensuring that all The medical check-up programme is part employees embrace our corporate values. of our effort to prevent and treat workrelated illnesses through early detection. Our learning and development department works closely with our To promote employee wellness, talks on business leaders to identify training needs 47 various health topics are held regularly, for and develop high quality training materials Golden Agri-Resources Ltd example on the dangers of HIV and drug and programmes to meet those needs. addiction. Information is also disseminated regarding ergonomics and work fatigue. Training is compulsory for management employees at every level starting from training; reviewing/strengthening safety from the Indonesian National Police. The All our downstream facilities have the Basic Management Development SOPs; and ensuring Personal Protective programme covers human rights standards Occupational Health Service Centres. Programme for new hires to the Equipment is adequate and is worn. as well as professional ethics. The centres conduct Health Risk Supervisory Management Development Assessments (HRA) annually to identify programme, Middle Management Security guards Our security guards do not carry firearms occupational health hazards and establish Development Programme and Executive [410-1] but are equipped with standard defensive control measures to minimise such risks. Development Programme. The Individual The safety of our workers and their families security tools such as batons and handcuffs. Development Plan and Staff Development is of utmost importance, particularly in Training and developing our people’s skills Discussion provided by Talent Centre are isolated rural areas. We employ security Healthcare and well-being [103-2] [103-3] [404-2] [404-3] trainings that are offered regularly for guards for our operations in Indonesia [403-6] GAR sees training and development as an all employees, with public training also to ensure that the plantations and We are committed to providing our entire investment that delivers benefits to both available to those requiring additional, surrounding communities are secure. workforce with access to healthcare, employees and the employer. external training. Our security guards are required to including in remote rural areas where undergo a 21-day comprehensive training there is less incentive for healthcare We spent a total of USD 4.6 million in Other training programmes include programme by the Bhakti Manunggal Karya professionals to practice. All our estates 2018 on training and development in our sales training, managerial coaching as Centre of Education and Training (BMK). have polyclinics where workers can get Indonesian operations. We deliver training well as improving and ensuring product Upon completion, they receive a certificate free healthcare. We have over 150 clinics both formally and informally, with the knowledge through e-learning and training. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OUR PEOPLE To nurture our workforce, we seek to To strengthen our talent acquisition, we Diversity indicators identify high performing candidates for are launching the GAR Future Leader [405-1] leadership development and provide Programme, our signature management GAR workforce them with relevant training to help them trainee programme with the aim to prepare Age group Permanent Fixed-term progress in their careers. We are guided future leaders with strong leadership <30 21% 36% by ISO 10015 (Quality Management – capability driven by the Company’s values 30 – 50 73% 61% Seeds of Growth Guidelines for Training), for which we and culture. The programme is designed received certification in 2013. All GAR to equip the participants with knowledge >50 6% 3% employees undergo a career development and skills in upstream and downstream Total 100% 100% and Key Performance Indicator (KPI) business, complemented with strategic review at least once a year. agility, commercial acumen, innovative Gender of management mindset and leadership capability. Male Female 48 Data summary Senior management 83.5% 16.5% Profile of employees Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Middle management 83.4% 16.6% [102-8] [401-1] Junior management 82.2% 17.8% 2016 2017 2018 Male Female Male Female Male Female GAR Board of Directors [405-1] Permanent 40,660 5,640 44,382 6,600 45,897 16,231 Gender Ratio Age group Percentage Ratio (87.8%) (12.2%) (87.1%) (12.9%) (73.9%) (26.1%) Male 100% <30 0% 0% Fixed-term 30,400 25,400 28,196 25,452 23,788 16,387 (54.5%) (45.5%) (52.6%) (47.4%) (59.2%) (40.8%) Female 0% 30 50 0% 0% Full-time 58,020 11,740 64,300 17,167 64,735 25,749 >50 100% 100% (83.2%) (16.8%) (78.9%) (21.1%) (71.5%) (28.5%) Lowest wage rate and minimum legal wage1 Part-time 13,040 19,300 8,278 14,885 4,950 6,869 [202-1] (40.3%) (59.7%) (35.7%) (64.3%) (41.9%) (58.1%) Region GAR lowest Provincial Ratio of GAR’s New hires 773 257 2,646 1,014 1,937 502 monthly wage minimum wage lowest monthly New hire rate 1.9% 4.6% 6.0% 15.4% 4.2% 3.1% (IDR) (IDR) wage and provincial Turnover 5,247 1,117 3,387 669 1,821 470 minimum wage Turnover rate 12.9% 19.8% 7.6% 10.1% 4.0% 2.9% Sumatra 2,084,323 2,084,323 1:1 Kalimantan 2,490,000 2,460,000 1:0.99 Papua 3,118,007 3,118,007 1:1 1 This refers to the lowest legal minimum wage listed among the provinces where GAR has operations. Indonesia’s 2018 list of legal minimum wages in different provinces can be found at wageindicator.org Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers OHS (Upstream and Downstream) [403-9] 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Number of fatalities (US) 4 6 9 Number of recordable work-related 10 24 6 injuries (DS contractors) Rate of fatalities (US) – – 0.05 Rate of recordable work-related 66.6 51.06 1.36 Number of fatalities – – 0 injuries (DS contractors) (US contractors) Lost time injury frequency rate (US) 0.02 0.03 0.05 Rate of fatalities (US contractors) – – 0 Lost time injury frequency rate (DS) 0 0 0 Number of fatalities (DS) 0 0 0 Rate of fatalities (DS) 0 0 0 49 Number of fatalities 1 0 2 Average hours of training in 2018 Average hours of training in 2018 by employee level by gender Golden Agri-Resources Ltd (DS contractors) [404-1] [404-1] Rate of fatalities 6.6 0 0.45 (DS contractors) Category Hours Male 20.62 Number of recordable work-related 805 1,861 717 Staff 28.23 Female 86.99 injuries (US) Middle management 17.81 Rate of recordable work-related 4.67 9.97 4 Senior management 20.67 injuries (per 1,000,000 work hours) (US) Number of recordable work-related 15 47 25 injuries (DS) Rate of recordable work-related 0.88 4.81 2.8 injuries (per 1,000,000 work hours) (DS) Number of recordable work-related – – 0 injuries (US contractors) Rate of recordable work-related – – 0 injuries (US contractors) Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers TRANSFORMING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our commitment to responsible palm were sourced from 403 third-party mills oil requires us to work closely with and 46 GAR-owned mills in Indonesia. our supply chain to ensure they too The feedstock for the mills or fresh fruit operate responsibly and in line with our bunches (FFB) are in turn supplied by our commitments in the GSEP. This helps to own nucleus estates, third-party estates, minimise supply chain risks for GAR and thousands of individual farmers (plasma contributes to a palm industry that is more and independent), as well as brokers and responsible and resilient. Our supply chain agents who buy from farmers. Procurement transformation efforts also contribute to of CPO and PK, and procurement of FFB, targets under UN SDGs 12 and 15. accounts for around 74 and 10 percent respectively of our Indonesian subsidiaries’ Our palm supply chain procurement spend. [102-9] The bulk of our procurement comprises These producers of FFB, CPO and PK crude palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel make up GAR’s critical suppliers and we (PK) for our downstream business in are focused on helping them transform Indonesia. In 2018, these raw materials and operate more responsibly. SHARE OF PROCUREMENT SPEND ON CRITICAL RAW MATERIALS CPO and PK FFB 74 % 10 % Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers PALM SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainability Report 2018 GAR Estates FFB GAR Mill 100% TTP for GAR-owned mills Cooking Oil GAR Plasma Crude Palm Oil (CPO) Smallholders Palm 51 Kernel 62% palm supply chain is fully traceable Pharmaceutical Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Agents Kernel Crushing Plant Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) Biodiesel GAR Refinery Logistics Customers Independent 100% TTP for 54 3rd-party suppliers in 2018 Smallholders FFB 3rd-Party Mill Specialty Fats Estates Crude Palm Oil (CPO) 100% TTP in 2020 for all 3rd-party suppliers Palm Processed Product Kernel Agents Kernel Crushing Plant Oleochemicals Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) Smallholders Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers TRANSFORMING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Other suppliers Traceability to the Plantation Working closely with our critical tier [102-9] [204-1] [103-2] [103-3] one suppliers, represented by over 400 Aside from our palm supply chain, we third-party mills, we continued to make procure a number of other products and Full traceability progress on achieving full Traceability to services to run our business. Of our nonthe Plantation (TTP) or origin for our raw palm procurement, our most significant to the mill: materials. This is a notable achievement Seeds of Growth 403 46 spend for our upstream operations is on given that agricultural supply chains are fertilisers sourced from 33 Indonesian notoriously complex. companies. Other procurement spend categories include materials, spare parts third-party supplier mills; GAR-owned mills As at end 2018, we recorded full TTP for and services; chemicals; packaging; fuel 54 third-party suppliers. Together with and tires; food; tools and consumables. the TTP of GAR-owned mills, we achieved 52 62% The procurement of food such as rice, full traceability for 62 percent of our noodles and milk is for our employees and key supply chain, putting us on track to of palm Golden Agri-Resources Ltd forms part of their non-monetary benefits. achieve full TTP by 2020. In 2018, we spent about IDR 120 billion to oil supply chain fully procure over 12 Kilo tonnes of food. traceable (GAR-owned Traceability is a crucial first step for us in mills and third-party mills) relationship building with our third-party Over 55 percent of products and suppliers. Through engagement and services are purchased by our local and Target Supporting gaining their trust, we have been able to 100% representative offices from local vendors conservation of spearhead our supply chain transformation 65,000ha close to our operational sites. We also efforts. support many small businesses and suppliers with more 80 percent of our procurement sourced from small vendors. TTP for third-party of forests (HCS/HCV) Our efforts in this area are translating into tangible results. One such example can mills by 2020 by our suppliers be seen in forest conservation. Through our engagement with our suppliers and the sharing of best practices and commitments to no deforestation, we are currently supporting the conservation of 65,000 hectares of HCS and HCV areas by our suppliers. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Supplier assessment, support and training In 2018, aside from commercial any of the suppliers assessed. However, [308-1] [308-2] [414-1] [414-2] considerations, we also screened 60 suppliers deemed non-compliant will potential new supplier mills based on no longer form part of our supply chain. 7% Completed Sustainability Report 2018 environmental and social criteria through Since 2015 we have stopped procuring spatial analysis and desk research1. Out of from about seven percent of our suppliers suppliers dropped from site visits these, 16 mills qualified as GAR suppliers. due to non-compliance with our GSEP to all downstream We also assess existing suppliers for commitments. supply chain locations GSEP compliance and follow up with since 2015 engagement efforts as required. We have We operate a transparent and accountable completed site visits to all our downstream system where stakeholders can inform us processing locations and reports can be of issues within our supply chain using our viewed on the Sustainability Dashboard. grievance process. As part of this process, We also assessed all our 403 third-party we conduct ad-hoc site visits where an 53 mill suppliers through desk research and issue has been raised by an external Golden Agri-Resources Ltd visited 25 of them in 2018. stakeholder or discovered through our own monitoring. Our engagement is Dedicated Through our site visits and assessments reported in our updated Grievance List. Supplier Support Team since 2015, we have determined that 86 In 2018, 12 new grievances were raised SMART SPOT and suppliers are compliant with the GSEP. In 2018, the 25 mills we visited had related to our third-party suppliers with five resolved. We also closed another ten SMART significant impacts in the following areas: cases from previous years. Case studies which highlight action plans for our SEED • Environmental: waste management, potential for deforestation and GHG suppliers are published on our website and Sustainability Dashboard. workshops emissions • Social: labour practices, OHS and We continue to extend support and implementation of FPIC training to our suppliers through SMART SEED and SPOT (Sustainable Palm Oil All the assessed mills are working on their Training) workshops. Topics include remedial action plans with more than half current issues such as labour and human of these mills showing good progress2. rights and traceability. As part of our continuous support to our suppliers, a Suppliers who are participating in dedicated GAR Supplier Support Team 1 Spatial analysis refers to analysing the mill location relative to areas of sensitive eco-systems such as peat the assessment process are generally is available to respond to queries from areas, key biodiversity habitats and forest areas. Desk research involves looking for any publicly reported information on environmental and social issues linked to the potential supplier. receptive to proposals for improvement suppliers. They can be reached at supplier. 2 We have also stopped procuring from nine of the assessed mills due to commercial and other reasons. and we have not had to disengage from support@sinarmas-agri.com Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers TRANSFORMING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Insights from site visits to tier one and tier two suppliers around Lubuk Gaung Refinery Spotlight on SMART SPOT and Dumai Bulking Station: (Sustainable Palm Oil Training) Overarching issues faced by all suppliers Seeds of Growth We found that all 21 mills, 24 estates and 26 smallholders assessed had challenges in fulfilling most of the principles set forth in the GSEP. This is largely due to: • Lack of understanding of sustainability as a strategic asset Suppliers had yet to fully embrace sustainability as a key differentiator in the market 54 place and link their organisation’s values to triple bottom line concerns: social, environmental and financial. Push factors from market players related to socialising sustainability policies across suppliers as well as pull factors such as offering Golden Agri-Resources Ltd rewards for sustainable practices, have also not yet been optimally rolled out. • Absence of sustainability systems and policies While suppliers had developed some procedures related to sustainability, they were often developed merely to pursue compliance with regulation or other acceptable norms. Suppliers had not yet developed integrated sustainability policies that move beyond basic regulations or institutionalised them into their operational practices. Participants at Kutai National Park learning about High Conservation Value (HCV) management • Limited structural organisational support Lack of internal leadership to catalyse and integrate sustainability within “My hope in the long term, is for oil palm industry their organisation has prevented suppliers from adopting a clear vision and players in East Kutai to be able to add value to such the necessary focus to embrace sustainability. Suppliers demonstrated an conservation areas, and learn to coexist with these insular culture and an unwillingness to collaborate with their peers to find multi-stakeholder solutions. protected animals,” Nur Patria, Head of Kutai National Park In order for suppliers to close gaps in complying with the GSEP, embedding all three elements into their modus operandi is essential to ensure their transformation journey will Read more about GAR’s training programmes for the palm oil industry: not be shortlived and will continue to contribute long term and sustainability benefits. Learning to manage high conservation value areas through SMARTSPOT East Kutai Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Supporting smallholders clear more forests for agriculture in the More independent smallholders joined the [103-2] [103-3] hopes of boosting earnings. Innovative Financing scheme in 2018. Since the scheme began in 2014, GAR Support for Sustainability Report 2018 One of the ways in which we continue has helped independent farmers in Riau 69,400 plasma smallholders Helping to tackle this is through our support of the Innovative Financing scheme for independent smallholders. The programme aims to encourage more independent and Jambi secure loans of approximately IDR 240 billion from state-owned banks. As at end 2018, around 1,400 farmers had enrolled in the scheme. 4,200 smallholders to replant with better quality, higher-yielding seed by giving them access Concurrently we run other finance and to financing and helping them sustain their support programmes for independent independent smallholders livelihoods during the four years it takes for smallholders. Through the Smallholders with financing the new seedlings to mature. Development Programme, GAR has 55 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Smallholders form a large proportion of while adhering to the GSEP. In 2018, the palm oil industry and control more our smallholders achieved a CPO yield than 40 percent of palm oil estates of around 5.2 tonnes per hectare, which in Indonesia. There are an estimated is among the highest in the industry in two million small farmers in Indonesia Indonesia. alone. Helping smallholders improve their livelihoods as well as adopt more Through our partnership, we provide responsible practices is one of the major our plasma smallholders access to highchallenges in the industry. yielding seeds and good quality fertilisers. We also ensure knowledge transfer and We have been supporting and helping capacity building through regular training all our plasma smallholders achieve on Good Agricultural Practices. responsible palm oil for almost three decades. In 2018, around 69,400 plasma We are also extending support to smallholders supplied FFB to GAR, about independent smallholders. These farmers 22 percent of our total intake of FFB. usually have small plots and due to the lack of access to quality seeds and best While GAR does not own the plasma agronomic practices, generally produce plantations, they are closely integrated very low yields. Inefficient production into our management system and we negatively impacts a farmer’s livelihood take the lead in promoting their success which can lead to increased pressure to Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers TRANSFORMING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN provided technical assistance and long Participatory Mapping involving dealers, tenure interest-free credit to more than agents, independent smallholders, their 2,800 independent farmers in East families and their workers, the project Kalimantan since 2013. They also have seeks to understand the smallholders’ access to high-yielding seeds, fertiliser, farming systems, household economics, and herbicides and rent heavy equipment, challenges and needs. Over 140 farmers Seeds of Growth at below market rates. To date, we have took part in Land Tenure studies and disbursed more than IDR 25 billion in Participatory Mapping in 2018. The interest-free loans. project aims to help farmers achieve legality as well as ISPO certification. It also Our R&D division, SMARTRI runs regular seeks to help them improve their product training programmes for smallholders. Each marketing skills and to enhance their 56 year they train several hundred farmers in natural environment and key habitat areas. agronomic practices focusing especially Golden Agri-Resources Ltd on integrated pest management and We are also collaborating with BASF on fertiliser management. Beneficial plants Innovative Financing where BASF will are given to the farmers at the end of the provide the four-year stipend for farmers training session, to be planted in their field enrolled in the scheme. This collaboration to contribute to the biological control of will support two cooperatives and target herbivories. In addition, SMARTRI staff also nearly 400 hectares for replanting in Riau. visit smallholder farms when requested to help solve pest outbreak issues or nutrient Respecting human rights in our deficiency cases. supply chain [412-1] The training provided participants with Together with Nestle and Verité, we are Partnerships with customers to help As we continue to progress with our insights into the reform of various rules also carrying out an assessment of our smallholders palm supply chain mapping and develop and regulations related to employment suppliers on labour and human rights GAR is also partnering with customers deeper support for our key suppliers, we and occupational health and safety, as issues. Five mills have been chosen for the on projects aimed at helping the have started initial steps to address salient well as encouraged them to adopt and assessment. Amongst other things, the transformation of the palm oil industry. labour and human rights issues within our put key human rights principles into assessment aims to verify progress against supply chain. In 2018, we conducted a practice. In addition, participants used any corrective action plan developed and GAR, Nestlé and Earthworm Foundation special workshop for suppliers on human this platform to share their thoughts on monitored by GAR; determine risks of (formerly known as The Forest Trust) are rights together with the Indonesian the implementation of these human rights noncompliance with the GSEP, Nestlé’s collaborating on a project which seeks Commission for Human Rights (Komnas principles in their own companies. Responsible Sourcing Standard and provide to empower small farmers and improve HAM) and the International Labour concrete recommendations for remediation. their resilience. Using interviews and Organisation (ILO). We will report results in later reports. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers CARING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS Our customers [102-6] The bulk of our palm oil is distributed through our customers, which include traders, Sustainability Report 2018 distributors, wholesalers, retailers as well as other businesses in the food and manufacturing industries that use our oil as a raw material in the production of secondary goods. Palm oil is an extremely versatile raw material used to make many daily products ranging from cooking oil to household cleaners – view the wide range of products on our website. We sell our products across the world, deriving the bulk of our revenue from markets in Asia. REVENUE BASED ON GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF CUSTOMERS 57 2018 2017 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd US$’000 US$’000 Others China Others China 569,885 853,214 591,566 963,596 Europe Europe 1,015,425 1,026,435 Indonesia Indonesia 1,081,681 1,113,223 Consolidated Consolidated revenue revenue 7,167,428 7,507,599 Rest Rest of Asia India of Asia India 2,055,937 1,591,286 2,401,636 1,411,143 Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers CARING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS elected to the RSPO Board of Governors. He is also the Chair of Indonesian Growers Caucus (IGC) representing Indonesian Palm Oil Members within RSPO. GAR also participates in the RSPO working groups on peatland; biodiversity; Seeds of Growth human rights; and smallholders as well as the Principles and Criteria (P&C) Task Force and the Dispute Settlement Facility Advisory Group. International Sustainability and 58 Carbon (ISCC) certification GAR maintains ISCC certification, a Golden Agri-Resources Ltd global certification which aims to ensure sustainable production and use of all kinds of biomass in global supply chains. ISCC is based on the implementation of the highest sustainability requirements in ecological sustainability, social sustainability, We aim to offer an extensive range of Providing certified sustainable palm oil Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil compliance with laws and international products that meet the varying needs of [103-2] [103-3] [102-12] [102-13] (RSPO) certification treaties, monitoring of GHG emissions and our different customers. In recent years Our Indonesian operations were early To date, over 257,600 hectares of good management practices. this has involved extending our product adopters of certification of sustainably plantations including over 51,000 hectares range into high-value areas such as palmproduced palm oil SMART became a of smallholder estates, 29 mills, nine To date, over 288,500 hectares of based oleochemicals, which are used to member of the Roundtable on Sustainable kernel crushing plants, six refineries, seven plantations including smallholder manufacture soaps, detergents and other Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2005, shortly after it bulking stations and one oleo-chemicals plantations of over 54,200 hectares, personal care products. was founded. plant have received RSPO certification. 30 mills, five refineries and 15 bulking Our RSPO certification progress can be stations have received ISCC certification. GAR is also proactively responding to the Industry certification is part of GAR’s viewed on our website. growing market demand for traceable and on-going commitment to adopt best All biomass intended for biofuels in certified sustainable palm oil. practices and standards in responsible GAR continues to play an active role in the destinations like Europe are ISCC certified, production, while allowing us to meet RSPO. In 2017, Mr Agus Purnomo, GAR’s ensuring that our products meet the growing demand for certified sustainable Managing Director of Sustainability and highest responsible palm oil standards in palm oil. Strategic Stakeholder Engagement was the international market. Chairman’s Statement Targets and Progress Our Approach Environmental Management Community Relations Our People Our Supply Chain Consumers Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil For a full list of our products and brands, or HACCP food safety system across our We are also on track in our efforts (ISPO) certification please see our website. Please refer to operations. to remove trans fatty acids from our GAR also supports the ISPO Scheme the GAR Annual Report 2018 for more products. We aim to be trans-fat-free in all Sustainability Report 2018 developed by the Indonesian information on our consumer markets and We are aware of consumer concerns margarine and shortening and specialty Ministry of Agriculture to improve the future business strategy. about the health and safety aspects of our products in 2019. competitiveness of Indonesian palm oil end products and our Downstream R&D in world markets and to meet Indonesia’s Ensuring consumer safety, wellbeing department is actively addressing this area. Cooking oil fortification is also another commitment to reduce greenhouse gases and product quality In 2018, the European Food Standards focus area with the Government of and focus on environmental issues. [103-2] [103-3] [416-1] Authority (EFSA) revised 3-MCPD and Indonesia implementing mandatory Our consumers rely on GAR brands for GE ester levels and GAR continues to fortification using Vitamin A in cooking To date, over 205,700 hectares of safe and high quality products that they focus on minimising occurrence of MCPD oil. GAR meets this requirement in all our plantations and 32 mills have received can trust. We use international standards precursors. Our business is successfully products distributed in Indonesia and we ISPO certification. to ensure the quality of our products, bar tackling the 3MCPD/GE issue holistically, have also taken further steps to enhance 59 codes for traceability, and we systematically for example by minimising Free Fatty our impact on consumer health. Besides Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Developing a biofuel market for palm oil record expiry dates and batch data. Acids (FFA) in CPO and optimising refining Vitamin A, our Filma Margarine is also We have a biodiesel plant near Jakarta techniques. We are also continuing fortified with vitamins B1, B2 and B3. and another in South Kalimantan. All six palm oil refineries in Indonesia are to optimise identification methods for Biodiesel in Indonesia is a growing market accredited with ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 3-MCPD and GE esters. with the government’s commitment to certification, which recognises that they implement a larger biodiesel mixture adhere to strict international food safety mandate. Accordingly, we have received standards. The Marunda refinery also has a larger allocation from the government FSSC 22000 food safety certification. for 2019 delivery. Likewise, we note The six facilities also have OHSAS 18001, the increasing biodiesel demand from ISO 14001, Halal and Kosher certification. countries such as China. We are therefore In addition, the refineries in Lampung evaluating our long-term expansion plan and Belawan have FDA accreditation and in this industry. we have GMP+B2 certification for lauric products at the Belawan, Lampung, Our consumers Lubuk Gaung and Surabaya plants. [102-2] Lubuk Gaung also has CPPOB certification Aside from distributing palm oil to (Good Manufacturing Practices for industrial customers, we also sell edible Processed Food). oil and food products directly to the end consumer in large markets like Indonesia, We are also committed to rolling out the China and India. Hazards Analysis and Critical Control Point UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COP United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally p 3, 4, 7, 40, 55 [102-12] proclaimed human rights; and The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a call to companies everywhere Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective p 4, 7, 43-45, 52 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Seeds of Growth in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; to take action in support of UN goals and issues embodied in the Sustainable Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Development Goals. GAR, through its Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. subsidiary SMART has subscribed to the 60 UNGC principles since 2006. In 2018, Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental p 4, 6, 8, 15, GAR became a signatory of the UNGC challenges; 29-39 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd signifying our continuing commitment. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Progressively, we take appropriate Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly actions in line with the principles technologies. as fundamental guidelines for the sustainable development of our business. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including p 6, 21 We continue to support UNGC by extortion and bribery. incorporating the ten principles in the way we do business, which helps make us a better corporate citizen. Our sustainability efforts also support these specific UN SDGs: As an active participant of the UNGC, this report also serves as our Communication on Progress Report (COP) to the UNGC. In our opinion, we meet the requirements for the Global Compact Active reporting level. Please refer to the UNGC reference table below for our implementation of the ten principles of UNGC. GLOSSARY AR – GAR Annual Report ISPO – Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil CFA – Carbon Footprint Assessment PCP – Participatory Conservation Planning CPO – Crude Palm Oil PK – Palm Kernel CSO – Civil Society Organisation PM – Participatory Mapping CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility POME – Palm Oil Mill Effluent EFB – Empty Fruit Bunch PT – Perseroan Terbatas FFB – Fresh Fruit Bunch (Limited Liability Company) FPIC – Free, Prior and Informed Consent PT AMNL – PT Agrolestari Mandiri GAR – Golden Agri-Resources Ltd PT BAP – PT Binasawit Abadipratama GHG – Greenhouse Gas RSPO – Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil GRI – Global Reporting Initiative SDGs – Sustainable Development Goals GSEP – GAR Social and Environmental Policy SMART – PT SMART Tbk HCS – High Carbon Stock SMARTRI – SMART Research Institute HCV – High Conservation Value SOP – Standard Operating Procedure HGU – Hak Guna Usaha (Right to Cultivate) TTP – Traceability to the Plantation IPM – Integrated Pest Management UNGC – United Nations Global Compact ISCC – International Sustainability and Carbon Certification Feedback and Contact [102-53] We see our Sustainability Report as part of our continuous engagement with our stakeholders and would welcome your feedback. Please contact our Head of Sustainability Reporting and Disclosure, Lim Shu Ling, at shuling.lim@goldenagri.com.sg If you prefer, our mailing address is: GOLDEN AGRI-RESOURCES LTD c/o 108 Pasir Panjang Road, #06-00 Golden Agri Plaza, Singapore 118535 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd c/o 108 Pasir Panjang Road #06-00 Golden Agri Plaza Singapore 118535 Tel: (65) 6590 0800 Fax: (65) 6590 0887 Email: shuling.lim@goldenagri.com.sg www.goldenagri.com.sg golden-agri-resources-ltd @GAR_Sinarmas @sinarmas_agri Sinar Mas Agribusiness and Food This sustainability report has been printed on environmentally friendly paper.
