CSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 INDEX Index 2 CEO statement 3 Who we are 4 Our Mission 4 The Alfa Aqua Values 5 Our Business Model 6 Our Sustainability program 6 Providing a healthy and safe workplace 7 Employee Satisfaction and engagement 8 Promoting equal opportunities and diversity 9 Focusing on negative environment impact reduction 9 Human rights and abolition of child labour 10 Responsible business practice 11 The global UN compact communication on progress 12 2 CEO STATEMENT At Alpha Aqua, our mission is to contribute to the development of a more sustainable aquaculture production, thus making it possible to utilize the world´s aquaculture resources more effectively. As such we want to help facilitate a change towards consumption of more sustainably produced protein. As a leading provider of sustainable technological aquaculture production solutions, we are in a unique position to help achieve this. We strive to design innovative solutions based on a high degree of circular flows. Our technology enables customers to achieve a more sustainable production by reducing water consumption, utilizing excess nutrients, to have cleaner water and as a result no use of antibiotics which again leads to an increase in the quality of the end product. In addition to developing technological solutions that provide sustainable benefits, we also take action to integrate sustainability into our own operations. We are committed to supporting the UN Global Compact and embedding the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and business ethics into our business. This report is our Communication on Progress against the principles. Johan H. Højgaard, CEO Alpha Aqua A/S 3 WHO WE ARE • A 100% privately owned company • A young company based on extensive experience from the aquaculture industry • A global company with projects spread all over the world • A company with manufacturing, research and development facilities in Denmark and Spain OUR MISSION Is to rethink the entire value chain, by adding new methods, materials, best practices, and innovation in close cooperation with strategic partners. Is to design holistic concepts, creating what we call ‘life circle solutions’. We use recyclable materials and design our systems to fit the core living conditions of individual fish species by having the purest water quality at all operational stages of the system. 4 CREATIVE Because creating new technologies and ideas is motivating and rewarding OUR ALPHA VALUES Our three values are the core foundation TRUST from which Alpha Aqua has generated new The success of our innovative sustainable technologies and customers is the true ideas that provide value for our customers stamp of quality in our and meaning for our employees. business. Taking care of our planet is a core concern for us, as well as for our customers, and we PASSION hold ourselves to consistently high ethical Sharing a passion is the standards on all three accounts. fuel that drives our innovation and knowledge creation 5 uptime capabilities and flexibility features ”WE RETHINK THE USUAL that are second to none. All this combined AND PUSH THE LIMITS FOR with a service portfolio that will ensure the A BETTER AQUACULTURE…” best TCO (total cost of ownership) and best ROI (return on investment) in the market today. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM Being sustainable is a core ambition for Alpha Aqua. It is not “just” something we talk about it is what we are! As such our products and solutions are designed from a holistic view point, trying to create what we call “life cycle solutions”. The sustainable way of thinking is not only in order OUR BUSINESS MODEL to benefit ourselves and our customers, but also to benefit the employees and our Alpha Aqua A/S was founded in 2017 by two customer´s customers and the society in well-esteemed Danish companies, each with which they live. long track records in the aqua industry. They were determined to gather the best and most In 2018, we joined the UN Global Compact, innovative technicians, vets and biologists in the world’s largest corporate sustainability the international aquaculture industry in initiative. The goal of our participation is to order to design and build the next generation underline that we are constantly working to of RAS systems for the global market. align our sustainability principles and strategies with universal principles on human By rethinking the entire value chain, by adding rights, labour, the environment and antinew methods, materials, best practices, and corruption, as well as taking action that innovation in close cooperation with advance societal goals. strategic partners the aim has been to create a turnkey production platform. A production Based on the Global Compact’s framework, platform that will operate under very high biowe have chosen to focus on four key areas security standards, having industry-leading that is of importance to our way of thinking in 6 terms of product, customers and • SDG 8: stakeholders. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and • Health and Safety of employees productive employment and decent work for all • Abolition of child labour and labour rights particularly in relation to • SDG12: creating equal opportunities for both Ensure sustainable con-sumption and men and women production patterns • The Environment with a focus This report fulfils our Danish legislative and developing sustainable products that UN Global Compact reporting requirements, reduces the strain on the worlds and covers the 2018 financial year. resources • Business Ethics in the Sales and Service areas In order to address these key area´s we are developing, implementing and communicating our policies to our employees, customers and other stakeholders and report our progress in this report. We also support the UN Sustainable Development goals, the most relevant for our business are: PROVIDING A HEALTHY AND • SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and SAFE WORKPLACE improved nutrition and promote For a business, it’s always important to have sustainable aqua culture those who work for you to be fit, healthy and • SDG 3: happy. At Alpha Aqua this is done through Ensure healthy lives and promote wellcreating a work culture that promotes health being for all ages through all aspects of their lives. Since our employees spend a lot of their time at work, • SDG 6: it’s important for us that we help them stay Avoid wasting water safe and happy. 7 The primary risk when working at Alpha Aqua is travelling to our project sites in foreign EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION countries in unstable parts of the world. In order to overcome these risks Alpha Aqua AND ENGAGEMENT uses the company Guardian – Security Risk Other than the physical health a core concern Management in order to secure employee is the mental health of our employees. Being safety. In cooperation with Guardian SRM a start-up company often means a risk of training programs have been developed in calling “all hands on deck” at all hours of the order to educate our employees on how to day. This can create a stress high environment reduce risks when travelling abroad. that we have to be aware of. In order to reduce the risk of stressing our employees we When working at home our employees are try to create flexible workstations and let the exposed to minimum risks as they do not have employees design their own working to do any heavy production. However, we schedule. Other than that, we try to promote have dedicated a member of our team to a culture that respects the individual asses all work operations at our project sites employee´s need to have a well function in order to identify potential risks, develop private live that leaves room for family, policies and implement measures in order to friends and other interest. In order to support avoid accidents and their reoccurrence. this culture, we try to have at least one or two social events every year that is not only for employees but for their families as well. In 2018, we have had no working injuries. 8 • Improvement in efficiency of farmers and improved knowledge about aqua culture systems and transition towards more productive, shorter cycle and more diverse species, and increased transfer of adapted technologies. • Support value chain coordination between independent actors and promotion of products toward consumers. Our training programs involve as well local training of our costumer´s workers as well PROMOTING EQUAL exchange programs such as the EURASTIP Exchange program. In 2019 our first exchange OPPORTUNITIES AND specialist is scheduled for a stay at Alpha Aqua in Denmark. DIVERSITY Training and educating existing and potential customers and users of the Alpha Aqua FOCUSING ON NEGATIVE technology is not only a question of transferring knowledge, it is also a question of ENVIRONMENT IMPACT empowering workers in parts of the world where the level of education is low. Creating REDUCTION training programs for as well men as women The Alpha Aqua solutions is built in is key, in order to spot the best talent and sustainable plastic material approved for food brightest minds. production. Our training programs are designed to focus Using plastic as the main building material it on: becomes possible to reuse most of the materials, making it easy to dispose of in a • Improvements on technical knowledge sustainable way. Combining the and know-how of farmers, academic environmentally friendly production systems institutions, and technical support staff with new and innovative co-production methods also makes it possible to reduce the from private and public organizations. negative impacts of traditional aquaculture waste on surroundings. 9 As such the Alpha Aqua technology helps: the environmental impact of each unit that leaves our production hall. • Reduce water consumption from that of a regular RAS system (7-10%) down to as low as 2-4% in the Alpha Aqua system • Greatly improve circular economy and recycling of nutrients through coproduction system between fish and halophyte plants • Reduction on emissions of greenhouse gases (by bioenergy production and utilization) and increased CO2 sequestration. • Increased biosecurity as a result of the Alpha Aqua design that makes it possible to shot down parts of a plant HUMAN RIGHTS AND individually, thus reducing risk of ABOLITION OF CHILD contamination. • Reduce carbon footprint LABOUR We believe that children are our future and we are dedicated to the fight against child labour and to secure children the same human rights as adults. This is why we have set in motion the work of an anti-child labour statement that will become an important part of our due diligence of suppliers. As part of an awareness raising program targeted our suppliers and customers, as to how you can contribute to In order to document the performance of our the wellbeing of children and the protection technology an EU-ETV verification of our core of their rights, Alpha Aqua has chosen to technological component “The Alpha Line”, sponsor a children´s home in Vietnam. which is a water cleaning unit, is performed. This ETV verification will allow us to measure In addition to our anti-child labour statement we are working on a supplier code of conduct 10 we wish to review our monitoring process in order to identify possible areas of improvement. If any issues are registered they will be dealt with locally by our company representative and our CEO. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE At Alpha Aqua, our values and principles are not only meaningless words, it is the basis of the code of conduct that we try very hard to enforce so that all our employees act in a uniform manner, especially when it comes to the area of business ethics. This means that that will state how we expect our suppliers to engaging in bribery and corruption in strictly comply with basic human rights such as forced prohibited. Also, a set of guidelines are being labour, health and safety, child labour, developed and implemented in 2019 that salaries, freedom of association, and working provides guidance for our employees on areas hours. such as gift-giving, entertainment, conflict of interest, political and charitable donations. All suppliers must sign-off that they comply with our Code of Conduct, or produce In 2018 we have not registered any antidocumentation that demonstrates they have corruption issues. If any issues are registered comparable policies and procedures in place. they will be dealt with locally by our company representative and our CEO. Updating our code of conduct is a regular part of our managerial meetings and all changes or updates are communicated to all our employees. We are also working on the implementation of a training program for new employees to make sure that all our employees are aware of human rights issues. In 2018 we have not registered any human rights issues. In order to make sure that this is not a result of faulty performance monitoring, 11 The global UN compact communication on progress Alpha Aqua is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, an initiative by which companies can join UN agencies, labour leaders and civil society in supporting 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As a signatory, we are committed to advancing the Compact and reporting our progress against the ten principles. 12
