T h ank you to the c hildre n o f A k ç a n s a . AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 1 Contents Corporate Profile 6 Governance And Sustainability 11 Economic Value And Empowering Innovation 20 Reducing The Environmental Footprint 27 Excellence In Occupational Health And Safety 35 Work Life 39 Corporate Citizenship 44 2 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 ABOUT THE REPORT Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret This report has been prepared in accordance A.Ş. continues to generate value for its with GRI Standards: “core” option. The stakeholders with the vision of sustainable basic principles contained in the GRI growth beyond all limits and aims to set Standards were taken into account in the an example for the best in the social, determination of the main issues covered environmental, economic and ethical areas by the Report. Through the materiality besides financial and operational success in study carried out accordingly, internal and its activities. The achievements realized with external stakeholder opinions, publications the strategies followed and the future goals in of sectoral organizations, opinions obtained these areas are presented transparently to the at the stakeholder meetings, opinions considerations of all stakeholders through the and expectations expressed by various sustainability reports. stakeholders on previous reports were evaluated. In addition to the indicators in the The content of 2016-2017 Akçansa GRI Standards, the indicators used in the Sustainability Report, consists of the activities sector are also drawn upon in the disclosure conducted in Turkey under the brands of performance information related to the Akçansa, Akçansa Port, Agregasa and Betonsa issues covered in the content. in the business lines of cement, aggregate and ready-mixed concrete, during the two calendar Akçansa 2016-2017 Sustainability Report and years between 01.01.2016 and 31.12.2017. reports from previous years are available on Information on export activities of HC Trading, our corporate website a subsidiary of HeidelbergCement, one of the www.akcansa.com.tr. main shareholders of Akçansa, and Karçimsa, Akçansa’s subsidiary, are not included in this report. GRI-102-4, GRI-102-6, GRI-102-45, GRI-102-46, GRI-102-50, GRI-102-51, GRI-102-52, GRI-102-54 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRPERSON AND THE GENERAL MANAGER Dear Stakeholders, this environment where smart, sustainable Like all industrial organizations, the fight urbanization practices are emerging steadily, against climate change constitutes an We have left behind a reporting period during the understanding of circular economy and important place in Akçansa’s sustainability which we carried out our activities in line with industry 4.0 are becoming widespread in priorities. The use of alternative raw materials our vision of sustainable growth beyond all production and new life style expectations and fuels is also an important part of our limits in our sector. Once again, we are proud are developing, we consider it inevitable to practices to combat climate change. In to achieve being the most admired company keep pace with this development and focus addition, during the reporting period, our in the cement sector of Turkey in the years of our efforts on these areas. At this point, electricity production with wind turbines in 2016 and 2017, as for previous years. we are enriching our product portfolio Çanakkale Plant and the efficiency studies we Besides meeting the expectations and to meet new needs, especially with the undertook at all our facilities made significant needs of our industry with our products and efforts of our R&D teams. Products such as improvements in our emission values per providing our customers with innovative and Duocem and Soildcem, which we developed production. value-added products, our work culture that is during the reporting period, are the best sensitive to environment, people and society examples of value-added products with With the vision of being the most preferred underlies the success we achieved on behalf reduced environmental impact. Our use of employer in our sector, we offer a safe, of our company. The innovative work we alternative fuels and raw materials reduce our human-focused, entrepreneurial workplace carried out in line with our business model, environmental impact while creating a new for our employees, where entrepreneurship which centers on accountability, exemplifies and different economic hinterland around our and development are rewarded. We raised our the most advanced practices of the field both operations with a circular economy approach. working environment to international norms on a local and international scale. With these practices, Akçansa is not only a by reaching the Gold Standard in Investors In producer of cement and ready-mixed concrete People, which is the common quality standard Dr. Tamer SAKA In recent years, there has been a great that develops innovative products with of businesses that share this goal. Especially Chairperson transformation in the industry, social and environmental-friendly methods, but also in the field of occupational safety, we carry out economic life. This rapid transformation, among the most important business partners studies of which other industrial organizations especially in the production, materials and of local authorities and industry in the field of take example in all management factors from internet technologies indicates the birth of a waste management. policy to practice. new world that we need to keep up with. In GRI-102-14 4 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRPERSON AND THE GENERAL MANAGER Probably the most important study we fulfilled its duty in 2017 as it led us to undertake in the field of sustainability is our the point where we are today. Akçansa stakeholder engagement practices oriented 2030 Sustainability Ambitions, which we towards listening to all our stakeholders, will initiate its preparations next year, will learning their expectations and views, and constitute the roadmap of our success in the fully implementing them. We determine coming periods. UN Sustainable Development the strengths and weaknesses of our value Goals will be the main framework of chain, ways of preserving our integrity Akçansa 2030 Sustainability Ambitions, with society, our social, environmental and which we established its basis in line with economic impacts by turning obstacles HeidelbergCement 2030 Sustainability into opportunities and discussing them Ambitions. all together. In this way, we develop our sustainability performance of our activities As it is today, we believe that in the future, and respond to the expectations of local we will see Akçansa as a leading and pioneer communities through social investments. company of the sector in every aspect by In this context, My Neighborhood Project, way of extending these achievements in the through which we support provision of reporting period. We present our gratitude education in various fields for the children, to all of our stakeholders, especially our together with their families and teachers, who employees, customers and business partners, live in the locations where we operate. our main shareholders Sabancı Holding and HeidelbergCement, who supported us in Umut ZENAR All these achievements are the result of turning this goal into reality. General Manager a rational and systematic approach to the sustainability management. Akçansa 2020 Sustainability Ambitions, which we have been following in the past periods, GRI-102-14 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 5 CORPORATE PROFILE Vision Mission “Sustainable growth beyond all To be a leading building materials limits” company enhancing the quality of life of the society by means of our culture To ensure sustainable growth beyond committed to environmental, legal all limits in the building materials and ethical principles to generate sector as a company with the most further values, admired business model and as the for our customers with innovative most trusted company by all our products, services and solutions, stakeholders. for our shareholders with our superior financial performance, for our employees through our occupational health and safety oriented management approach and continuous development opportunities, for our environment through the emphasis placed on alternative fuel & raw material usage, recovery processes and biological diversity, and for all our other stakeholders. 6 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Citizenship Partnership Structure 39,72% Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 1.916,2 Total Assets (million TRY) 39,72% HeidelbergCement Mediterrannean 1.519,0 20,56% Net Sales (million TRY) Other-Publicly Traded Akçansa continues creating value for Production Capacity its stakeholders with its successful performance. 9,2 (million tons) Cement 7 (million tons) Clinker Total Sales (million tons) Cement 6,8 0,9 7,7 6,8 0,7 7,5 6,9 0,7 7,6 7,6 0,3 7,9 7,6 0,4 8,0 Clinker Total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 GRI-102-5, GRI-102-7 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 7 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship PLANT CAPACITIES Tons/Year Financial Operational Indicators Kocaeli Derince Operational Capacity İstanbul Ambarlı 500.000 Operational Capacity Sales (million tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 746.ooo İstanbul Samsun Ladik Büyükçekmece Cement Production Capacity Hopa Total Cement Clinker 7,7 7,5 7,6 7,9 8,0 Cement Production Capacity 1.014.000 Operational Capacity Tekirdağ M. Ereğlisi 6,8 6,8 6,9 7,5 7,6 Operational Capacity 2.527.776 Clinker Production Capacity 643.500 120.000 Cement-Total Clinker Production Capacity 500.000 1.943.000 Domestic 5,9 6,2 6,2 6,4 6,6 Samsun Trabzon Operational Capacity Operational Capacity Abroad 0,9 0,6 0,7 1,1 1,0 120.000 500.000 Clinker-Total 0,9 0,7 0,7 0,4 0,4 Domestic 0,0 0,1 0,0 0,0 0,1 Abroad 0,9 0,6 0,6 0,4 0,3 Ready-Mixed Concrete 4,8 4,7 4,4 3,9 3,4 (million m3) Million TRY Net Sales 1.202,2 1.410,9 1.468,5 1.461,1 1.519,0 EBITDA 270,2 389,8 429,8 407,9 308,5 EBITDA Margin (%) 22,48 27,6 29,3 27,9 20,3 EBIT 206,8 324,4 358,8 332,8 225,5 EBIT Margin (%) 17,2 23,0 24,4 22,8 14,8 Aliağa Operational Capacity 225.000 Yalova Yarımca Operational Capacity Operational Profitability 300.000 Capacity 700.000 Karçimsa Cement Production Net Profit (million TRY) 157,9 248,8 281,1 286,4 119,1 Çanakkale Capacity 200.000 Cement Production Capacity Earnings per Share 0,82 1,30 1,5 1,5 0,8 5.500.000 Clinker Production Capacity Dividend per Share (Gross) 75,43 118,2 134,6 123,9 66,9 4.450.000 (%) Net Financial Borrowing 163,5 85,0 91,1 185,1 332,7 (million TRY) Equity (million TRY) 987,6 1.143,0 1.187,2 1.215,0 1.096,9 Total Assets (million TRY) 1.477,2 1.602,5 1.705,1 1.843,2 1.916,2 GRI-102-6, GRI-102-7 8 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Achievements During the Reporting Period 2016 Rewarded as “The Most Admired which is an international standard for Company in the Turkish Cement management and development of human Sector” for the 15th time in the “The resources. Most Admired Companies of Turkey 2015” research organized by GFK and In 2015 Akçansa raised its score from 92D Capital Magazine. to B in CDP Climate Program which supports integration of climate change and Secured its cardinal position amongst energy efficiency in business and system cement companies achieving 61st position of thought. this year, in the “500 Largest Industrial Corporations of Turkey 2015” research Specially developed under Betonsa brand, conducted by Istanbul Chamber of 100+Beton product of Akçansa, recognized Industry. globally and received “Excellence Award” in Concrete Construction Named as “The Group Company Competition organized by American Creating the Most Value” by taking Concrete Institute (ACI). the first place amongst Sabancı Group Companies in “Golden Collar Awards”. Betonik City Project, which Akçansa Within the same competition, Akçansa integrated in globally popular 3D game awarded with the first place in “Equality enabling various designs with cubes, has at Workplace” category, the first place in received Felis Success Award. personal category for “Market Orientation” and mension award in “Investment in My Neighborhood Project received People”. Best CSR Project from JCI Culture Young Leaders and Entrepreneurs Akçansa, uluslararası insan yönetim ve Associations. Projects are evaluated gelişim standardı olan Investors In according to their conformity to UN People’a (IIP) ilk başvurusunda ve ilk Sustainable Development Goals. değerlendirme sonrasında Altın Standart aldı. Akçansa’s Microalgae Project, which aims at reducing carbon emissions, received Akçansa is entitled with Golden Low Carbon Heroes Award in 3rd Istanbul Standard after its first application and Carbon Summit. evaluation for Investors in People (IIP) GRI-102-14 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 9 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Raporlama Dönemİnde Kazanılan Başarılar & Ödüller Rewarded as “The Most Admired Prize in “Innovation and Corporate Company in the Turkish Cement Entrepreneurship” categories. Sector” for the 16th time in the “The Most Admired Companies of Turkey Akçansa’s social responsibility project 2016” research organized by GFK and My Neighborhood, received Silver Stevie Capital Magazine. Award in Best CSR Program of the Year in Europe category of the International Secured its cardinal position amongst Stevie Business Awards which is cement companies achieving 63rd position one of the most prestigious business this year, in the “500 Largest Industrial award competition in the world. My Corporations of Turkey 2016” research Neighborhood has also been rewarded in conducted by Istanbul Chamber of Quality Education category of Sustainable Industry. Development Academy Awards organized by CSR Association of Turkey. Akçansa Samsun Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility, which responds fully to the Since 2011, Akçansa voluntarily requirements of international best participates in Climate Change and practices, standards of occupational health Water Programs of CDP. By sharing its and safety and new Occupational Safety strategies, goals and roadmaps in climate Law, received the first place in “Safe change and water management, this year, Work Healthy Life Awards” conducted Akçansa received Bscore in climate by HeidelbergCement. As the result of change program, B score in water program. evaluations made for 75 facilities, Samsun Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility received Akçansa received 9 different awards the best score. with its 2016 Annual Report and 4th Sustainability Report from LACP, one of Akçansa received 5 awards from the most prestigious public relations and Golden Collar Awards organized for communication competitions. Sabancı Group Companies. Akçansa received 1st place in “Synergy” category and individual category of “Market Orientation”, mension award in “Digitalization” and “Investor in People” categories, Special Jury 10 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY Akçansa has a corporate governance structure based on the principles of transparency and accountability, aimed at full legal compliance and shaped in line with international standards. AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 11 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Management Structure and HeildebergCement Group companies. of ISO 9001 Quality Management System, The purpose of this model is to determine, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and The Board of Directors of Akçansa consists monitor and mitigate all probable risks Safety Management System, ISO 14001 of six members elected by the General that the company may face. Precautionary Environmental Management System and Assembly, two of which are independent approaches are developed through evaluating ISO 50001 Energy Management System. In members according to the CMB definitions. social, environmental and economic risks addition to the management systems, there There is no executive director in the Board. specified in sustainability management within are also production documents that comply All but one of the members of the Board of this model. with relevant standards for all the products. Directors have the qualifications of local More information on integrated management membership and there is one female member. The Early Detection of Risks Committee is the systems can be found at www.akcansa.com.tr/ The offices of Chairperson of the Board and highest-level body responsible for Akçansa en/our-integrated-management-systems. General Manager are performed by different risk management, and the risk management individuals. Akçansa General Manager, activities are carried out by a separate Business Ethics who has executive responsibilities chairs specialized unit. The current situation for the Executive Board composed of senior all identified risk factors is presented to the Akçansa defines its corporate principles, executives representing various fields of Board of Directors in two-month periods ethical values and standards within the expertise. with reports prepared in line with ISO 30001 framework of Code of Business Ethics. Standard. The rules laid out in this document guide The Audit Committee, the Corporate company’s managers and employees to fulfill Governance Committee, and the Early Akçansa Internal Audit Department their responsibilities on time, in full and Detection of Risks Committee have been periodically conducts programed and within the scope of legal regulations, internal established in order to ensure that the thematical audit studies in compliance norms and contracts, to bring the benefit of responsibilities of the Board of Directors are with the standards prepared by the the corporation at the forefront, and to avoid Paydaşlarımızla Güçlü carried out more efficiently. The Corporate International Internal Audit Institute. These any behavior that might harm the corporation. Governance Committee also fulfills the activities are conducted involving matters Various corporate policies were set out in duties of the Nomination Committee and the ranging from business ethics to processes the Code of Business Ethics that define the Remuneration Committee. yielding operational and financial results. methods to be followed when the principles Bağlar Kurarak As a member of the Corporate Governance Association of Turkey, Akçansa closely follows Improvement studies are carried out in line with the findings achieved. are carried out. It is the responsibility of the executives Excellence and Quality Bİrlİkte Katma Değer and adopts the developments in corporate to create a corporate culture and working governance promptly and supports works environment promoting ethical principles and conducted in this area. Akçansa follows national and international the Code of Business Ethics is binding for quality and management system standards all operations and business processes of the Üretİyoruz. Internal Audit and Risk in order to maintain internationally accepted company, members of the Board of Directors, level of excellence in business processes senior managers and all employees. All Management and products, as well as performs periodic suppliers, subcontractors, dealers and external audit and verification studies. business partners are also expected to act Akçansa follows a risk management model Within this scope, all Akçansa facilities are in accordance with these principles in order based on the risk management procedures operated in accordance with the requirements to ensure that the positive effect of ethical and mechanisms adopted by Sabancı Holding GRI-102-18 12 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship rules dominates the entire value chain. On the employees participated in the Fight Against other hand, the Supplier Code of Business Corruption and Bribery Training designed in Ethics is set out for suppliers to follow in their 2016. relationship with Akçansa. Akçansa Code of Business Ethics and Akçansa Code of Business Ethics describes Supplier Code of Business Ethics can be ways and strategies in decision-making and found at http://www.akcansa.com.tr/en/ management of business processes or how to sustainability/our-code-of-business-ethics/ report and resolve in case of non-compliance with business ethics. Within this context, Akçansa aims to comply with the legal Akçansa employees and stakeholders can regulations and international rules of law communicate their notifications regarding in all its operations. Being a publicly traded ethical principles confidentially to Human company, the communiqués issued by the Resources, Ethic Principle Consultant or Capital Markets Board constitute an important Sabancı Holding Ethics Board by phone or part of Akçansa’s legal compliance program. e-mail in secrecy. This contact information is It is aimed at following legal regulations that also included in the Code of Business Ethics effect company’s activities in timely manner document. and ensuring compliance before entering into force. In case of non-compliance, necessary It is important to equip employees and action plan is prepared, and the situation is managers with the right information to resolved immediately. actively employ the Code of Business Ethics. For this reason, newly recruited employees On the other hand, an important aspect of are provided primarily with a booklet of legal regulations and code of business ethics Akçansa Code of Business Ethics. Following is the prevention of unfair competition. In this, an e-learning training is conducted to addition to compliance studies conducted introduce ethical principles. Also, SA-Ethics for this purpose, competition training for yearend survey practice is implemented in company employees is also provided. In the order to keep current employees’ awareness 2-year period covering the reporting period, a of ethical principles alive. Besides business total of 75 employees were provided with 275 ethics, the aspect of human rights in business person*hour of competition training. life is also included in these practices. During the reporting period, 65 newly recruited employees were trained in ethical principles and 564 employees participated in the SAEthics yearend evaluation practice in 2016 and 512 employees participated in 2017. In 2017, the SA-Ethics yearend practice participation rate was above 96%. During the reporting period, a total of 247 Akçansa AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 13 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Committee Chair Member of the Executive Committee Coordinator Communication Occupational Sustainable Sustainable Climate and Biodiversity Stakeholder Health and Construction Supply Chain Environmental Engagement Safety Protection Akçansa adopts a sustainability management The Sustainability Ambitions put forward Akçansa Sustainability Committee continues approach that is the main element of its by HeidelbergCement also form the basis to work under six thematic workgroups. The corporate vision, covering all business of Akçansa’s sustainability policy and committee is composed of the members processes extending from the company to goal structure. In addition, Akçansa also of the thematic working groups formed in society, from raw material production and incorporates local agenda and stakeholder parallel with strategic targets, communication sales marketing to after-sales relations expectations into its sustainability goals. manager and coordinator, under the with end users. This approach is shaped presidency of Akçansa Executive Board by assessments regarding global trends Akçansa Sustainability Committee carries out representative. and outputs obtained from the works of annual practices and performance evaluations international initiatives. Within this context, determined by the company in line with its Akçansa is a participatory of the UN Global sustainability goals. The Committee, which Compact, UN Women’s Empowerment is chaired by a member of Akçansa Executive Principles, CDP Climate Change and CDP Board, also reports activities and the results Water programs. obtained to the senior management bodies. GRI-102-18, GRI-102-44 14 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Akçansa Sustainability Issues our previous reporting studies were taken into Consumption and Production”, Partnerships Material Issues in the Akçansa Raw Readymixed consideration during the materiality study. for the Goals” is adopted. Cement Aggregate Value Chain Material Concrete Akçansa establishes sustainability management based on HeidelbergCement Sustainable Development Goals Akçansa Sustainability Ambitions Occupational Health and * * * * Sustainability Ambitions 2030, which is the Safety common goal of partners around the world Akçansa supports UN Sustainable Akçansa evaluates the results of its Dust Emissions * * while local expectations and requirements are Development Goals (SDG), which was sustainability activities within the goal Greenhouse Gases and Other determined by the materiality study carried accepted in the United Nations General structure prepared in line with the Heidelberg * out in line with the principles set out by the Assembly in 2015 with the participation of Cement Sustainability Ambitions program. Pollutant Emissions GRI Standards. This creates a portfolio of 193 member countries. The Sustainable HeidelbergCement Sustainability Ambitions Energy Efficiency * * issues unique to Akçansa, in which both Development Goals, to put it shortly, consists 2020 program was launched in 2016-2017 global and local goals are addressed together. of 17 goals for 2030, aiming to end poverty covering the reporting period and the Biodiversity * and hunger worldwide, fight against inequality HeidelbergCement Sustainability Ambitions Employee Development * * * * As HeidelbergCement entered a new period and injustice worldwide and protect our planet 2030 program was launched to be effective by updating its sustainability ambitions, by 2030. from the next period onwards. Legal Compliance * * * * a materiality study was carried out during Alternative Fuel and Raw the reporting period to reevaluate the For Akçansa, supporting Sustainable * * * Materials sustainability issues of Akçansa. In the Development Goals is to act in accordance Business Ethics and Fight materiality study, several different sources with our responsibility to reduce social, * * * * Against Corruption were used and the results obtained were economic and environmental problems. In Social Development * * * * checked and approved by the senior this context, all 17 goals are valuable for management. The main component of the Akçansa, and priority is given to the goals Sustainable Buildings and * * materiality study is a screening study in that overlap with the field of operation and Urbanism which a group of 130 people composed of the expectations of stakeholders. So, in the external stakeholders such as suppliers, prioritization study, employees and external managers, NGOs and opinion leaders, as stakeholders were asked on which of these well as company employees and managers Sustainable Development Goals should be participate. In this study, social, environmental focused. As a result of these assessments, the and economic impacts of Akçansa activities idea that internal and external stakeholders and stakeholders’ expectations and opinions should focus on the goals of “Industry, were prioritized through the questions asked Innovation and Infrastructure”, “Decent Work to the participants. In addition to this, the and Economic Growth”, “Affordable and Clean comments of various external stakeholders on Energy”, “Climate Action”, “Responsible GRI-102-18, GRI-102-44, GRI-102-46, GRI-102-47, GRI-102-49 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 15 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Akçansa Sustainability Ambitions 2020 Progress Chart For more information or submitting your views and suggestions about this report, please contact with: Goal Definition KPIs Unit 2016 Realization 2017 Realization Target 2020 Accident severity rate 68,6 91 0 Cement Fatalities 1 0 0 Lost time accident frequency rate 3,3 4 0 Establishing best possible OHS Accident severity rate 68,38 68 0 RMC conditions for employees, contracFatalities 0 1 0 tors and 3rd parties Lost time accident frequency rate 5,01 4 0 Accident severity rate 285 729 0 Aggregate Fatalities 0 0 0 Lost time accident frequency rate 7,1 5 0 2. Sustainable Supply Chain Management Hedef Goal Definition KPIs 2016 Realization Gerçekleşme 2017 2020 Practices for increasing supply Alternative fuel supply 6,01% 8,41% 29% of alternative fuels In 2017, we got together with our business partners through “Sustainability RMC, Cement, Seminars” organized in our Büyükçekmece Factory. During the seminar, we shared Aggregate Raising awareness of stakeholders information on historical development of the sustainability, practices conducted Establishing KPIs Projects with stakeholders in the in the supply chain on sustainable in Turkey and abroad, as well as the pathwat that Akçansa follows in terms of for sustainability in supply chain business models sustainability. We finalized the event after receiving their views and recommendations. the supply chain we aim at organizing similar events at all other operation locations and establishing cooperations. 3. Positive Contribution to Biodiversity Goal Definition KPIs 2016 Realization 2017 Realization Target 2020 Preparation of rehabilitation plans Rate of quarries with rehabiliand their approval by public tation plan approved by public 100% 100% 100% Cement and authorities authorities Aggregate Decommissining of mine sites Areas rehabilitated (ha) ha 18,00 18,6 25,0 where the production is terminated 16 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Akçansa Sustainability Ambitions 2020 Progress Chart 4. Fight Against the Climate Change Goal Definition KPIs Unit 2016 Realization 2017 Realization Target 2020 Rate of fuel substituted by waste (as 6,01% 8,41% 29% thermal value) Reduction of fossil fuel use Rate of fuel substituted by biomass (as Cement 2,56% 3,23% 6,33% thermal value) Reduction of clinker use in the Clinker usage rate in the cement 89,10% 89,10% 79% cement Büyükçekmece Factory: 713 Büyükçekmece Factory: 680,66 NOx emissions Çanakkale Factory:734 Çanakkale Factory: 827 < 800 mg/m³ Ladik Factory: 720,4 Ladik Factory: 890,4 Büyükçekmece Factory: 29,35 Büyükçekmece Factory: 43,85 SOx emissions Çanakkale Factory: 7,51 Çanakkale Factory: 20,64 < 50 mg/m³ Continuous monitoring of Ladik Factory:11,2 Ladik Factory: 8 Cement emissions Büyükçekmece Factory: 15,8 Büyükçekmece Factory: 18,5 Dust emissions Çanakkale Factory: 16,42 Çanakkale Factory: 16,83 < 10 mg/m³ Ladik Factory: 10,93 Ladik Factory: 10,27 Specific CO2 emissions (kg CO2/ton 858 856 830 clinker) Online monitoring of NOx and SOx Rate of rotary kilns monitored online 100% 100% 100% values Covered stokehole rate 100% 100% 100% Cement Dedusting of factories Rate of covered clinker conveyor belts 100% 100% 100% and stokeholes Replacement of electrostatic filters Bagged filter rate in raw mills, kilns 99,00% 99% 100% with bagged filters and cement mills Rate of facilities where the aggregate is Storage of aggregate in closed units 75,00% 75,00% 100% stored in covered units Increasing usage of new mixer and Rate of mixers and pumps under 10 RMC 35,00% 35,00% 100% pumps years-old Reduction of environmental Number of Complaints / Year 1 0 0 complaints Installation of truck tire washing Rate of washing systems installed 25% 25% 100% Aggregate systems facilities Covering tops of the facilities Rate of top-covered facilities 100% 100% 100% Achieving 5% Cement, RMC, Establishing an efficient water Water saving rate and projects for reduction in water Water withdrawal has not been reduced during the reporting period. consumption Aggregate management efficient management of water compared to 2013. AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 17 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Akçansa Sustainability Ambitions 2020 Progress Chart 5. Sustainable Construction Solutions Goal Definition KPIs Unit 2016 Realization 2017 Realization Target 2020 Becoming solution provider in Rate of projects contributed in RMC % 23% 27% 30% green building projects Marmara market Akçansa R&D activities are focused on providing more energy efficiency, reduction of Obtaining environmental Developing products and solutions Reducing environmental footprint clinker/cement rate, sustainable production, value-added and environmentally friendly RMC and Cement product labels (EPD) for regarding sustainable construction of building products. We establish partnerships with various universities and institutions on cement and concrete solutions. these activities. Our examplary products are A+Beton, Solidcem, Duocem Recycled aggregate production Aggregate Production of recycled aggregate rate in total aggregate % 0% 0% 20% production 6. Stakeholder Engagement -Voluntary Reader and “Learning Kid, Responsible My Neighbourhood CSR project continued its trainings Individual” projects have been conducted Conducting corporate for the second year. Through these events aimed at 6-12 -In addition to the trainings for students and Contributing development of Corporate Citizenship citizenship projects in line with age group primary school students and their parents parents, teachers have been trainied through My 15.000 participants were trained. One third of children Neighbourhood CSR Project. Additonal 10.000 society and growth. sustainability strategy in Büyükçekmece received the training. participants to the number of individuals trained as of 2017 year-end have been trained. We have hosted various stakeholder groups with Open Door events organizaed in the factories. Neighbour Councils continued periodically in all Leaders of Future Meeting has been organized. Developing mechanisms which is Researches and mechanisms factories. We have organized various events aiming Various other types of meetings have been held directly channeled to Board of DiIncreasing stakeholder engagement regarding increase of different stakeholder groups such as Dealer Council such as Dealer Concils and analyst meetings. and analyst meetings. Stakeholder suggestions were rectors for responding stakeholder stakeholder engagement Öneriler değerlendiilerek uygulanabilir olanları reviewed and applicable examples were adopted. hayata geçirildi. Stakeholder suggestions were expectations. reviewed and applicable examples were adopted. In 2017, development areas in human focused processes defined through Employee Engagement In line with our corporate vision and “Human Focus Survey and focus groups meetings such as and Respect” as one of the 5 key corporate values, we “Coffee-Break” and “Listening to You”. monitor and continuously develop all our processes In 2017 we established Here You Are Equality Being Employer of Choice within with human interaction. In this vein, in 2016, Akçansa Place at employer of choice Network at Akçansa thought which supports the sector permenantly and being Being the employer of choice has been rewarded the Gold Standard, the highest level individual and professional development of female listing of IIP Investors In People which is the first and only amongst the first 50 company in employees of Akçansa as well as raising awareness international standard for development and manageintra and extra company. all sectors. ment of human resources. Diversity goals have been integrated to Corporate and executive level individual performance KPIs. In 2019 ÇHDA and IIP reviews will be reevaluated. 18 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Stakeholder Group Practice Type and Frequency Stakeholder Engagement Akçansa adopts a participatory management Employees Survey and Research (at various intervals); Training Activities, SA-ETHICS Principles, Akçansa Code of Business approach whereby it remains in dialogue with Ethics, Corporate Portal, Announcements and Posting (continuous); Suggestion and Rewarding System (instant); OHS Committees, Function Based Meetings (monthly); Working Groups and Committees (at least six times a year); Akçansa its the stakeholders. Different communication Harcı Magazine (three times a year); Performance Management and Career Development Meetings, Social Activities channels and processes have been (at least twice a year); Management Meetings, Communication Meetings, Annual Report, Environment Day (annually); determined according to the qualities of the Sustainability Report, Working Life Evaluation Survey (biannually); We Listen to You (periodic) stakeholder group contacted. Stakeholder Principal General Meetings, Annual Report (annually), Board of Directors Meetings, Financial Performance Meetings (quarterly); engagement practices are identified with short Sustainability Report (biannually); Material Disclosure (upon necessity) and long-term goals and performance followShareholders up is conducted. Minority Shareholders Investor Presentations, One on One Interviews (upon request); General Meetings, Annual Report, Financial Performance Meetings (quarterly); Sustainability Report (biannually); Material Disclosure (upon necessity) Dealers One on One Meetings (upon request); Overseas Dealer Meetings, Domestic Dealer Meetings, Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually); Akçansa Harcı Magazine (twice a year) Suppliers One on One Meetings (upon request); OHS Committees (monthly); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually); Supplier Business Ethics Principles (continuous); Akçansa Harcı Magazine, Business Ethics Briefings (twice a year) Product End Users Product Labels, Marketing Communication Studies (continuous); Participation in Fairs, Product Information Training (several times a year); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually) Local Communities Complaint System, Social Projects, Donations and Sponsorships (upon request); Information Meetings (upon necessity); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually); Neighbor Council (annually) Sectoral Actors Meetings and Discussions, Exemplary Projects and Initiatives (upon request); Participation in Fairs (several times a year); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually) Local Administrations Meetings and Discussions, Support for Infrastructure Investments, Festival and Social Event Sponsorships (upon request); Annual Report; Neighbor Council (annually) Sustainability Report (biannually) Neighboring Meetings and Discussions (upon request); Informative Reports (at various intervals); Public Audits (at various intervals/instant); Annual Report, Neighbor Council, Sustainability Report (biannually) Institutions NGOs Memberships (continuous); Working Groups, Committee and Board Memberships (periodic); Joint Projects and Initiatives, Meetings and Discussions (upon request); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually); Through stakeholder engagement practices, focus on occupational safety, sustainable Universities and Scholarship and Internship Opportunities, Participation in Academic Congresses and Seminars (continuous); R&D Akçansa learns the expectations, opinions and buildings and urbanism, legal compliance, Project Partnerships, Sponsorship and Supports; Support for Academic Research and Publications, Meetings and Academics Discussions (upon request); Annual Report; Concrete Ideas Project Competition (annually), Sustainability Report recommendations of its stakeholders. Each dust emissions and employee development (biannually) stakeholder group has different opinions and while the expectation of NGOs focus on expectations, and the evaluations are used to business ethics, alternative raw materials and Employee Families Informative Studies (continuous); Akçansa Harcı Magazine (three times a year); Social Events (at least twice a year); realize and plan further studies. A study as energy resources in addition to occupational Environment Day (annually) such was carried out to identify sustainability safety and legal compliance. The expectation Opinion Leaders Meetings and Discussion (upon request); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually) priorities and expectations of key stakeholder of dealers seems to concentrate on issues groups with the top priority were identified. such as occupational health and safety, legal Media Interviews and Talks, Neighbour Council (annually); Meetings and Discussions (upon request); Press Releases, For example, when suppliers are asked, it is compliance and employee development. Material Disclosure (upon necessity); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (biannually) seen that their expectations from Akçansa GRI-102-40, GRI-102-41, GRI-102-43 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 19 ECONOMIC VALUE AND EMPOWERING INNOVATION One of the main pillars of Akçansa’s sustainability approach is to generate sustainable economic value for its stakeholders through its business model. Sustainable economic value can be obtained by adapting quickly to ever-changing market conditions, achieving profitability and productivity in production and commercial activities in the economic system from supply to consumption and to produce ecological, operational and economical added value with functional and environmental products. Thus, on the one hand, profitability is ensured for the company and on the other hand, direct or indirect benefit is generated for the totality of the market in which the company operates. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to develop innovative products as well as to prioritize innovative thinking in production and service processes. 20 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Environmental Footprint Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Health And Safety Citizenship Cement and New Economy Trends inclusive with their physical armatures and a sustainable energy producer and a waste socioeconomic networks. In order to continue recycling center with very low transformations Cement and concrete have been used the historical role of cement and concrete in investments compared to their peers. throughout the history as a reliable, durable, development, new expectations and needs easily applicable and low-cost material must be met with a more innovative view For this reason, Akçansa carries out to create infrastructure for civilizations. supported by high technology. R&D activities for product and process Concrete structures such as buildings, roads, development, adding more environmentally bridges, tunnels and dams have always This transformation in urban life is similarly friendly, more reliable and value-added been regarded as symbols of development. observed in industrial life as well. The special products to its portfolio and Building technologies developed as cement facts that resources may fall behind to transforming its production organization to and concrete technologies evolved. As the meet the needs of growing population keep up this new industrial structure. building technologies developed, the level of and the consumption level is generating development increased. As one of the main environmental problems are the two main catalysts for the development, cement and reasons for this transformation. This situation concrete will perform an important task in the also reveals the need of a transformation future as in the past. in the industrial organization as well. In this context, one of the leading models is The world population is increasing at a rapid the circular economy. Circular economy pace, and it is seen that it has a larger share refers to re-evaluating industrial output of urban population than rural population. as an input for other industries and using Today, the problems that we face indicate waste as a raw material if possible without evidently that a different urban structure needs requiring a recycling operation, rather than to be developed in the future. It is obvious producing products and services using new that it should be considered together with resources. The cement and ready-mixed its social and economic dimensions besides concrete sector have the potential to offer its physical dimensions. This new urban significant opportunities in terms of circular planning model, which we call sustainable economy. Various waste groups have already urbanism, aims to build strong, safe, low-cost been easily recycled into energy sources or cities where everyone can sustain their lives products with this logic. Cement producers, in economic, cultural and social welfare. traditionally regarded as a source of high These new cities are expected to be smarter, environmental impact with their products more environmentally friendly and more and production technologies, have become AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 21 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Environmental Footprint Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Health And Safety Citizenship Special Cement and Ready-Mixed Concrete Products Akçansa develops new special cement Wintermix 100+ Beton and concrete solutions for recently Wintermix is a product that shortens mold100 + Beton is a concrete product that can emerging housing and infrastructure taking period on the days when mild frost maintain its strength for many years, involving expectations arising from growing and sudden temperature drops are likely to low alkali special cement and mineral additive population and developing construction occur. It has high level of strength, protects in its production. It is especially designed technologies. Special ready-mixed the concrete against frost and it does not for large scale infrastructure projects such concrete products of Akçansa attract harm the reinforcement. It also saves time by as bridges, undergrounds, motorways, that great attention in the market. The shortening the mold taking period. require hundred and more years of service sales of special products reached 300 life. thousand m³ by the end of 2017. As KratosBeton a result, the share of special product A+ Beton Produced in the cooperation with Akçansa groups in ready-mixed concrete and Kordsa Global, Kratosbeton with fiber A+ Beton, an environmentally-friendly products reached 9%. reinforcement, enables the construction of concrete product with low carbon emission, safer, stronger and sustainable structures. has been specially produced for certified It can be used in industrial-application green buildings and sustainable structures pavements, grouting and field-placed through the use of “Ground Blast Furnace concrete, shotcrete and tunnel linings. At Slag” at rates reaching up to 70%. the same time, it provides time and cost advantages with its easy applicability. Solidcem In recent years, in order to respond to the need of special quality products required for increasing infrastructure investments, Akçansa focused its R&D activities in this direction and developed products such as 100+Beton and 100+Çimento, which were awarded by the American Concrete Institute. Ensuring a competitive advantage with these products, Akçansa, the concrete supplier of Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, continued to work on product development for infrastructure investments with Solidcem. Thanks to its researches and project experiences, Akçansa developed the first special cement in the sector intended for the use in ground reinforcement works, responding to a great need in the infrastructure sector. Solidcem, a multi-functional cement product offering all the properties needed in infrastructure projects, stands out with its outstanding performance as well as by being environmentally-friendly. Akçansa ranked first in 2017 “Market Orientation” category with Solidcem product in the Sabancı Holding Golden Collar Awards. GRI-102-11 22 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Environmental Footprint Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Health And Safety Citizenship Yolbeton Viskokat Fiberbeton Yolbeton, a roller-compacted concrete (RCC), Designed for use in horizontal construction Fiberbeton is produced by the adding is a type of concrete road that is produced elements, Viskokat provides cost advantages polypropylene fibers to concrete in order to by blending finely-graded aggregate, binder and casting ease with its minimum 55 cm help prevent plastic shrinkage cracks and materials, water and additives with different spreading feature, eliminating the need for micro cracks likely to occur in field concretes grades. During its production, steel drum and surface correction labor. and high strength concretes. This feature also rubber wheeled cylinders are used to give its increases fire resistance in hardened concrete. final form. Viskobeton Viskobeton is a self-compacting concrete Fortabeton RRC roads are similar to traditional concrete product. Thanks to its low water and binder Produced by macro-synthetic fiber equipment, roads in terms of their qualities, and similar rate, it is used in buildings that require Fortabeton is able to achieve high bending, to asphalt linings in practice. With these high strength and resistance, reinforcement stretching, hitting and corrosion resistance features, Yolbeton can be used on city streets projects, compactly reinforced members especially in industrial floor concretes. and and country lanes as an alternative road and profile molds, areas where high quality surfacing by being applied in a fast and smooth surfaces are required, urban Viskoşap economical way. constructions sites, aesthetic mold designs Viskoşap has minimized cracking risk, has and places where it is not possible to use no grout, can be pumped, hardens quickly Viskotemel concrete vibrators. and has a pressure resistance of around 30 Viskotemel is designed for use in foundation MPa. As a self-compacting screed system, concrete. With its minimum of 50 cm Drabeton this product aims at minimizing the problems spreading feature, Viskotemel provides a cost Drabeton is a concrete product used in steel experienced in traditional concrete finishing. advantage and ease of application in projects wire reinforcements and industrial floors. that require non-permeability due to its low Drabeton, provides saving in labor during the İzoşap water/binder rate. stockings, placement and supervision stages Being light and supporting thermal insulation, at constructions sites. Areas of application İzoşap reduces unnecessary loads on Viskoperde are; floor concretes, concrete finishings and structures and can be applied with concrete Designed for use in vertical construction protection concretes, site concretes, factory finishing or concrete pump. elements, Viskoperde ensures an ease of floors, car parks, concrete roads, gas stations, application by moving quickly through close stocking areas, grout-free floor concretes, outfits without the need for a vibrator with cold air storage and floors, fitting concrete a minimum 65 cm spreading feature and finishings, topping concretes, port coverings increased fine aggregate percentage. and shipyards. GRI-102-11 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 23 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Environmental Footprint Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Health And Safety Citizenship Yeşilşap repairs of old floors that require filling but do roads, marinas and piers, shopping centers, Yeşilşap, an environmentally-friendly product, not have high resistance expectations. parking lots, gas stations. which reduces carbon dioxide emissions by up to 35% through the use of cement with Hazır Yaş Sıva Shotcrete special mineral additives in its production, is Hazır Yaş Sıva, which is produced in concrete The main feature of Shotcrete, which is 25% lighter than traditional screed products plants by using special chemical additives produced as dry mixture in ready-mixed and improves thermal insulation. and then delivered to the construction concrete plants, is to be sprayed with sites in transmixers, is suitable for use in pressurized pumps and special powdered Polarbeton constructions sites for up to 48 hours without chemical supplements. Shotcrete is used in Polarbeton is 80% lighter that traditional losing its consistency in suitable storage underwater insulation protective concretes screeds, and the spherical air pockets created conditions. Thanks to its lightweight, flexible and slope stabilization application of by special chemical additives used in its structure and perfect adhesion characteristics, structures such as galleries and tunnels. production makes the concrete much lighter the product can be used on bricks, gas and its insulation very effective. concrete, briquette surfaces, internal and Pratikbeton external plasters, walls and ceilings. Pratikbeton is a product that provides a İzobeton special solution on long distances with a Dekobeton flexible piping method. In the circulations İzobeton is produced for concrete finishing and filler concrete applications applied to Produced with press concrete technology, formed at the construction sites, it provides avoid unnecessary loads on the structure, Dekobeton is a decorative floor covering practical solutions in case the pump cannot inner walls and fixtures of prefabricated system designed for exterior spaces. approach the pouring location, providing structures where heat and sound insulations Decobeton’s main areas of use include advantages in terms convenience and speed. are required, onor underwater insulation landscaping, parks, pool sides, urban coating as leveling or protective concrete and recreation areas, environmental landscaping, DUO2CEM Duocem, a stable, highly thin and environmentally-friendly product, causes 10% less greenhouse gas emissions, while its strength and durability equivalent to the features of Portland cement. Duocem has a very wide range of application areas and it is aimed at producing less than 30 ktons of CO2 emission. GRI-102-11 24 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Environmental Footprint Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Health And Safety Citizenship R&D Studies Akçansa R&D Directorate continued to and another seminar on cement production, cooperate with universities, participate R&D, innovation, communication and human R&D activities at Akçansa focus primarily on in conferences and give presentations resources was held for the senior students of Industry 4.0 Workshops energy efficiency, reduction of clinker/cement during the reporting period. In 2016, in İTÜ Chemical Engineering. ratio, sustainable production, value-added cooperation with İMSAD and Yıldız Technical and environmentally friendly products. University, a course was offered to students At the Anatolian Meetings held by IMSAD The concept of Industry 4.0 is becoming increasingly important as Akçansa cooperates with various universities of architecture on the subjects of cement and hosted by Kayseri Chamber of Industry the traditional production methods are replaced by Internet supported and organizations while carrying out these and concrete as part of the production use in 2017, Akçansa presented its Mikroalgaes activities. cycle of construction products course. project. With this project, Çanakkale Plant smart production systems. Akçansa observes the potentials of Akçansa attended SBE2016 Congress in reduced greenhouse gas emissions in the industry 4.0 applications in the business processes of the company During the reporting period, together with Istanbul in 2016 with a presentation entitled furnace pipe by using microalgae as a CO2 in order to keep pace with this transformation in a short period Sabancı University, Akçansa continued its “A Sustainability Approach in Construction trap in the cement production process. This project of “Use of Activated Natural Materials Sustainability Management, Innovative and project, which is the first in the cement of time, performs studies to raise awareness among employees as a Substitute to Cement” as part of low EcoFriendly Products”. sector, was also supported by TUBITAK. in this direction. In this context, during the workshops held in carbon product design. In cooperation with Akçansa employees presented four papers Boğaziçi University and Kordsa, the project In 2017, within the scope of Cement in the areas of current concrete applications Büyükçekmece, Çanakkale and Ladik Plants in 2017, employees of “Concrete Road Design Compresses with Chemistry and Technology course opened and technologies in 2017 Concrete Istanbul exchanged views on the opportunities that Industry 4.0 will bring Macro Synthetic Fiber Cylinder” was started; in the cooperation with Akçansa, Çimsa and Congress organized by Turkey Ready-Mixed in cooperation with Kordsa, the project of a Sabancı University, Akçansa experts informed Concrete Association. for Akçansa and how these opportunities can be realized. Akçansa’s value-added product, “Bag Cement with Micro students about the cement and concrete raw Industry 4.0 roadmap was identified with team works by identifying Synthetic Fiber Content”, was introduced. materials, cement and concrete production, The works carried out by Akçansa were projects Akçansa can carry out in the short, medium and long term. In addition, Akçansa worked in cooperation the properties of cement and concrete. As part deemed worthy of awards by various with Vuruşkan and Ankaref companies for of the construction materials course launched organizations in the reporting period. Akçansa the project of “Registering and Monitoring with the support of IMSAD members for the received Low Carbon Heroes Award for the Concrete Samples with RFID Tag”. As an students of İzmir Yaşar University Faculty Microalgae Project at the Istanbul Carbon industrial consultant, Akçansa supported of Architecture, Akçansa employees gave Summit in 2016. The Microalgae Project also “Permeable Concrete Road” project, which presentations on the production of cement ranked first in the IMSAD Future Investment was carried out as part of TUBITAK 2209-B and ready-mixed concrete, raw materials, Awards in 2017. Undergraduate Graduation Thesis Support sustainability and reinforced concrete. A Program. In cooperation with Turkey Atomic seminar on R&D, innovation and innovative Energy Authority and ISTON, “Concrete products in cement and ready-mixed Design with Nuclear Shielding Performance” concrete sector was offered for about 200 project was started. students of engineering and architecture GRI-102-11 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 25 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Akçansa Loyalty Programs, Dialogue akçansafirsatlari.com Future Leaders Program In the production of direct economic value, with Dealers and Customers procurement operations have a significant As part of its customer satisfaction-oriented Since the past reporting period, Akçansa share. Suppliers are expected to adopt certain Akçansa conducts continuous communication approach, Akcansafirsatlari.com online organizes “Future Leaders” meetings labor norms, especially business ethics, studies to create added value for its dealers shopping site offers advantageous prices and trainings for its new generation environmental quality and human rights, as and customers as it positions them as to Akçansa dealers, internal and external representatives of dealers to carry their well as to meet specific product standards, business partners. In the scope of the customers, and puts up limited number of business to the future and to emphasize the quality, quantity and cost requirements. Customer Excellence Program, the company products on sale at reduced prices at 10:00 importance of institutionalization in family takes necessary actions by identifying on the 10th day of every month. companies. A supplier of local character is a reason for expectations and needs through various preference in procurement decisions. Within means such as customer satisfaction and Dealer Customer Support Line Works as part of the Future Leaders Program this scope, of the 1,2 billion TRY worth engagement surveys. In this direction, direct continued in the reporting period. Under Dealer Customer Support Program is a procurement expenditure made in 2016, 77% communication channels are established the roof of Akçansa Sales Academy, general consultancy and information service provided were procured from local suppliers whereas in order to build more effective and more drama workshop program and communication 7/24 by specialists of every field that can 73% of the procurement expenditures in comprehensive communication with dealers skills training were provided. As part of create stress for Akçansa business partners 2017, which amounted to 1.2 million TRY, and customers, and various workshops and the workshop, information on improving and family members who may feel the need were realized through local supply. trainings are organized. Works conducted as communication skills in business and social for research. part of Akçansa Loyalty Programs provide life was provided. solutions to meet the rapidly changing The aim of the program is to provide solutions needs of different customer groups, increase Contributions to Local Economy to life events that Akçansa customers face satisfaction and strengthen relationships. in their business and private lives that affect Cement and ready-mixed concrete are their performance and productivity and to the sectors of local character starting with Yapı Club Portal support them in creating added value for their raw material production until the end user Yapı Club Portal is the address of the digital companies in their business life. practices. There are direct and indirect platform where Akçansa’s bagged products Support Line includes services in the fields impacts of the sector on the local economy are sold and under which all sales channels such as psychological counseling, legal caused by the participation of a large number are collected. Business partners, participating information, financial information, medical of different stakeholder groups in production in the program can access the technical advice and information, waist neck back and service processes and the contribution documents they need and technical videos pain and office ergonomics, healthy nutrition of infrastructure and superstructure products. of the tutorials through this portal. Surveys counseling, newborn care information, social The fact that production and consumption are shared through the system allow learning and life and general information services, dental of local character generates indirect impact on quickly responding to customer opinions. care plan, road assistance package and the local economy through employment and locksmith services. manufactured construction stocks. GRI-102-9 26 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Faaliyetlerimizi Doğanın Hassas Dengesini Gözeterek Yürütüyoruz. AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 27 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Reducing The chain such as other sustainability aspects. in the reporting period. During this period, the Kyoto Protocol, International Climate regarding the combat against the climate Environmental Footprint In managing the environmental impacts, the investment expenditure for increasing the Summit decisions, local and international change and supports these efforts through globally approved management system efficiency of environmental management and regulations are the primary resources used in implementation of industrial best practices. Cement and ready-mixed concrete industry standards, primary of which is ISO 14001, are improving the performance was 38.4 million determining the policies and strategies and in Akçansa has attended to the 23rd Conference create environmental impact not only followed, and control and verification studies TRY, while management expenditure reached deciding performance-creating practices. of Parties to the UN Convention on the because of its product composition based continue through periodic and independent in 1.8 million TRY. Climate Change (COP 23) which took place in on natural raw materials, but also because audits. During the reporting period, transition Main subjects in which Akçansa aims to Bonn, Germany in November 2017. Akçansa’s of its dependence on energy intensive to 2015 version of ISO 14001 has been Employees receive environmental trainings create performance in the management of sector-leading bests practices such as use of production processes; moreover, it causes completed. ISO 14001:2015 focuses on for a continuous improvement in their impacts of climate change include increasing alternative fuels and materials, environmental various emissions. However, today, the sustainability strategy of companies; and environmental awareness. In this context, the energy efficiency, mitigation of greenhouse investments, energy efficiency, biodiversity, emerging approaches such as total footprint encompasses extremely critical aspects that employee trainings were 639 person*hour gases and other emissions, alternative fuel renewable energy investment, waste heat management and circular economy, the have not been found in previous version in 2016 and 1,487 person*hour in 2017. and raw material use, product development, energy generation, micro-algae pilot project expansion of environmental management such as leadership, scope of the institution, Contractor employees received 210 participation and support in local and have been presented to local and international models, and the development of technologies management of internal and external person*hour of training in 2016 and 69 international initiatives. attendees during the “Private Sector Best serving to the mitigation of environmental stakeholders, and management of risks and person*hour of training in 2017. Practices Session” organized by TUSİAD at impacts on production make it possible to opportunities. Due to its industrial qualifications, Akçansa One of the key tools in comba Pavillion of Turkey in COP 23. reduce environmental impacts of cement and has a sophisticated environmental impact tting climate change is the calculation of ready-mixed concrete industry substantially. The expectations and opinions of management model and focuses on producing greenhouse gas emissions caused by the Considering the value chain in general, stakeholders play an important role in performance at various fields. Based on the operations. In these studies, Akçansa adopts modern techniques available in cement and managing environmental impacts as systematics of sustainability goals, Akçansa the Energy and Carbon Dioxide Inventory ready-mixed concrete production are among well. Expectations and opinions obtained environmental impact management subjects Protocol developed by World Business good practices in reducing environmental through stakeholder engagement practices gather under the main titles: climate change Council for Sustainable Development Cement impacts in other industries as well. organized locally or through grievance and and biodiversity. Sustainability Initiative (WBCSD CSI) as opinion notification mechanisms which all basis. As a signatory of the Energy Efficiency The reduction of environmental impacts stakeholders have direct access to are replied Combatting Climate Change in Buildings Declaration published by the is one of the key components of Akçansa including the action plans. In the reporting Business World and Sustainable Development sustainability management. The management period, a total of 10 grievances Akçansa In climate change, cement industry comes Association; Akçansa has been offering of environmental impacts available in the received in regard to environmental impact forward not only for its impacts but also ceaseless support to Carbon Disclosure program of Akçansa Sustainability Goals, was solved during the same reporting period. for the opportunities it creates due to its Project (CDP)’s Turkey practice which is one which are based mainly on Heidelberg Akçansa operations are subject to the audits combatting methods. Akçansa manages of the globally recognized initiatives in climate Cement Sustainability Goals in addition to of central governmental organs and local its works in this area with the risk and change since 2011. Akçansa also attends the UN Sustainability Management Goals, is authorities, in addition to internal audits due opportunity-oriented approach it has water programme in addition to CDP’s climate conducted via a management approach that to their environmental management practices developed in line with its guiding policies and change programme. extends from senior management to on-site and performance. In this regard, Akçansa has business strategies, within the framework of employees revolving around the whole value not received any penalty from these audits its short and mid-term objectives. Especially Akçansa monitors international agenda GRI-102-11 28 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Energy Efficiency Energy Consumption Values As the production of clinker consists of energy intensive processes, it is a key element 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 not only of cost but also of greenhouse gas emission stock. Thus, energy efficiency is Cement Plants a fundamental tool used for reducing the impacts of the climate change. This primarily requires energy management through Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 23.201.433 23.355.074 23.997.446 24.539.458 24.663.906 systematic methods. Therefore, all cement plants of Akçansa follow ISO 50001 Energy Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) 2.802.805 2.754.554 2.793.382 2.507.877 2.871.144 Management System Standard. Waste Heat Energy Recovery (GJ) 354.713 361.349 345.838 365.928 338.942 The energy amount used in Wind Power Electric Generation (GJ) 6.763 24.161 producing 1 ton of clinker was 3.56 Clinker Specific Heat Consumption (GJ/ton of clinker) 3,51 3,56 3,53 3,56 3,57 GJ in 2016, and 3.57 GJ in 2017. Ready-Mixed Concrete Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) 32.120 31.702 30.908 28051 23964 Specific Heat Consumption (MJ/m3 6,91 7,13 7,38 7,56 7,20 concrete) Aggregate Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) 18.658 49.783 41.871 67.179 53.318 GRI-102-12 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 29 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Due to efficiency studies conducted during In 2016, the amount of leaked air was devices installed on stacks and reported to Waste Heat Energy Saving the reporting period, such as engine controller decreased through furnace exit impermeability be monitored instantly by the Ministry of modifications, flame tube modifications studies conducted in Çanakkale Factory. Environment and Urbanisation and Provincial In 2011, Akçansa initiated Waste Heat Energy Recovery project which pioneers for rotary kilns, installation of central Thanks to these projects, we saved Environmental Directorate. the industry in Çanakkale Factory. Saving amounts increased in years due to compressor units, LED illumination practices, approximately 36,000 GJ energy and 5,400 Indirect emission occurs in aggregate and improvement studies; 365,928 GJ energy saved in 2016, while 338,94 2GJ saved ECOFOR device applications, furnace exit tons of CO2e. ready-mixed production processes due in 2017. impermeability practices and waste heat In the reporting period, Replacement of Raw to electricity use. But, this amount is very recovery practice energy consumption Meal System Fans with Efficient Fans which insignificant compared to the emission decreased 483,820 GJ in 2016 and 350,633 was conducted in Büyükçekmece Plant occurred during cement production. GJ in 2017. As a result of energy efficiency received incentive approval from the Ministry Waste Heat Energy Recovery (GJ/Year) achieved 67,185 tons CO2e greenhouse of Energy’s efficiency increasing project Carbon Dioxide Emission gas emission was prevented in 2016, while incentives (VAP). This project results in over 365.928 51,640 tons CO2e was prevented in 2017. 1 million Kwh energy saving annually. CO2 emissions occur both due to the energy consumption and the calcination of limestone 361.349 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Emission Management during the process of cement production. 354.713 Energy Investments Akçansa adopts the best practices that are Akçansa calculates and takes mitigative the use of alternative fuels instead of fossil 345.838 Thanks to the project executed in Çanakkale precautions for its Scope 1 and Scope 2 fuels and the use of alternative raw materials Factory, 2.35 MW turbine capacity wind carbon dioxide emissions occurred due to to replace the clinker in the composition of 338.942 turbine investment with a potential of annually its operations in accordance with the Energy cement, in addition to energy efficiency in 7,844 MWh power generation at average and Carbon Dioxide Inventory Protocol which emission mitigation studies. was conducted in the reporting period. This has become an industry standard, prepared resulted in annually 28,000 GJ electricity by WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 production at average in two years and 4,200 (CSI). Other contaminating emissions are ton of CO2e emission was saved annually. recorded through continuous measurement Gross Carbon Dioxide Emissions (ton) CO2 Emission from Cement CO2 Emission from Clinker production (kg CO2e/ton cement) Production (kg CO2e/ton clinker) 775 765 763 759 5.838.681 5.730.924 5.974.717 6.026.654 6.052.352 871 873 318.496 313.919 269.197 272.025 272.269 752 858 858 856 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 Scope 2 Gross Emissions Gross Emissions 30 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Dust Emission NOx, SO2 and Other Pollutants First initiated in Büyükçekmece, Çanakkale Specific UOB Emission (gr/ton clinker) ve Ladik Plants during the reporting period, Akçansa initiated bag filtering and covered uring the cement production process, we aim at completing Non-selective Catalytic 30,82 16,76 27,53 clinker conveyors and stokeholes practices pollutants such as nitro oxides (NOx), volatile Reduction System investments until the end 9,75 in order to reduce dust emissions which are organic compounds, metals, hydrogen of June 2018. This system aims at reducing among basic emission types that occur during fluoride (HF), hydrogen chloride (HCI), NOx gases that occur during incineration raw material and production processes in dioxin, and furan are generated. All these process. At the facility installed within the 2014 2015 2016 2017 cement industry. emissions are calculated through continuous plants, we use 25% diluted ammoniacmonitoring devices and reported to authorities water solution. Through the sensors Specific VOC Emissions (gr/ton clinker) as required by the relevant regulations. working in line with stack gas continuous measurement devices, ammoniac solution is injected at certain points during the process automatically. Thus, ammoniac reacting with stack gases reduces levels of NOx emitted to the atmosphere. Dust Emission SO2 Emission Other Emissions NOx Emisyonu 414 0,068 0,062 0,052 336 217 235 0,035 288 293 242 274 11.743 11.402 10.803 0,026 6.587 61 0,033 0,018 43,8 43,0 35,0 40,0 51 34 31 1.748 1.680 1.556 948 0,018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 Dust Emissions (ton) Total SO2 Emissions (ton) Total NOx Emission (ton) Specific Metal Emissions (gr/ton clinker) Specific Dust Emission (gr/ton clinker) Specific SO2 Emissions (gr/ton clinker) Specific Dioxin and Furan Emissions (u gr/ Specific NOx Emission (gr/ton clinker) ton clinker) AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 31 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Alternative Fuel Use The most important obstacle for the Alternative Raw Material Use in regards to circular economy as well. Cement and Mineral Additive possibility of using wastes as alternative fuel Alternative raw material use is among best Ratio on 1 m3 Binder (%) lternative fuel use which is currently among sources is the challenge of access to readyMain raw material of cement is a clinker practices in combating climate change in the best practices in combating the climate to-use wastes. Thus, Akçansa has launched carbon-dense intermediate material. It has cement industry. Thus, Akçansa attaches change in cement industry is mostly about the first and private specially designed waste the largest share in greenhouse gas emission importance to alternative raw material use and 17 16 14 20 19 supplying the energy demand from materials preparation and feeding system in Akçansa levels of cement and ready-mixed concrete increases its performance it manages through carbon dioxide emission levels of which Büyükçekmece Plant working to develop products. Sustainability Goals program. are lower than conventional fuels in general collaborations with several stakeholder 83 84 86 80 81 by using the wastes as fuels. It is possible groups including local authorities and The substitution of clinker with alternative The traditional demand on CEMI-type high with this practice to create circular economy industrial groups. On the other hand, Akçansa raw materials within the product in today’s clinker products in Turkish market is the examples by working together with other received operating permissions in order cement and ready-mixed concrete product greatest market challenge in developing this 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 industries. Alternative fuel use offers an to enable the use of wastes as fuels in our technologies not only decreases the practice. The greatest tool in combating this is environmentally friendlier option to city plants. Büyükçekmece Plant’s access to environmental impacts of products but also to develop functional and innovative products Cement managements for the disposal of wastes alternative fuels is higher than other Plant increases the product quality through high and to change the perception of consumers Mineral Additive which is generally the source of methane as it is situated in an area populated with durability it offers. The use of alternative raw via custom products required by large-scale emissions. the industry. The aim is to increase this materials, the main source of which consists infrastructure projects. In this concept, in practice in other Plant as well through the of the wastes of other production branches addition to R&D studies on cement and collaborations done. or by-products, creates opportunities ready-mixed products, Akçansa conducts Clinker / Cement Ratio (%) information and awareness studies for its dealers and customers. 89,1 89,1 Alternative Fuel Use Rate Alternative Raw Material Use 88,3 Akçansa used 196,000 ton of alternative 87,6 Rate (%) 87,1 raw materials in 2016 and 211,000 ton in 15,5 1,80 2017, improving its performance compared 1,65 to previous years. According to this, 1.65% 1,30 1,40 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 8,7 9,1 9,8 1,25 alternative raw materials were used in 2016, 7,5 6,0 8,4 5,0 while 1.8% were used in 2017. 6,6 9,0 3,4 6,2 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Büyükçekmece Plant (%) Çanakkale Plant (%) Akçansa Average (%) 32 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Biodiversity Biodiversity Project Competition hygrometrica algea. Project also planned to Quarry Life Award concurrently release of Paxillus involutus Impact on biodiversity may potentially occur fungus which can mutualistically survive due to land use and water consumption Quarry Life Awards Biodiversity Project together with these algae. during cement production processes, Competition that aims to enrich the primarily the raw material production. biodiversity levels of mine sites after use To be organized in 2018 for the third time Although both hazardous and non-hazardous and to rehabilitate lands in accordance with in the partnership with HeidelbergCement, wastes are formed during operational local ecological character has also been preparation and project collection processes processes, these do no reach significant organized in the reporting period. In 2016, of this competition were initiated in 2017. 16 amounts among environmental impacts advertisement practices over social media project proposals have been collected and Akçansa may cause as they are recycled as gained importance in order to reach larger quality, content, innovative-edge and scientific alternative fuels. masses of society; and we reached hundreds background of proposals increase every year. of thousands of users. Out of these proposals, a total of six projects The principle of avoiding any permanent made them to the finals; three of them in negative impacts on environment and in 23 projects were included in this competition social benefit category, three in scientific fact making positive contributions shapes in 2016. As a result of jury evaluation, the research category. Local and international Akçansa’s perspective on biodiversity first prize was given to the project “Bare Reef winners will be announced according to the management which is a part of UN Rehabilitation using Mutual Life Systems” results obtained following the execution of Sustainable Development Goals as well. prepared by a group of students studying at finalist projects in mine sites in 2018. Performance level achieved in biodiversity Molecular Biology and Genetics Department which is also a part of corporate performance of Istanbul Technical University, the second In 2017, Biodiversity Project Competition system is used in evaluating the personal prize was given to the project “From Stone which is the first one in Turkish mining performances of employees. Pit to the Arms of Nature” prepared by a industry was selected as “one of the 5 Legal compliance has critical importance in group of academicians and students studying inspiring stories of sustainability” by TUSIAD. biodiversity management. Various related at Biology Teaching Department of Gazi subjects, primarily the management of mine University, and finally, the third prize was sites, have been the subject of laws and legal given to the project “Phytoremedation of regulations. The leading regulation is the Ruined Mine“ prepared by the academicians Mining Law and Implementation Regulation. of Biology Department of Çanakkale On Sekiz High level importance is given to legal Mart University. The project which won the compliance in regards to mine sites, and all first prize, aimed at coverage of rock surfaces, licenses and permits are renewed within the where mining activities were completed periods specified by laws. at schist field in Çatalca, with Funaria AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 33 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Environmental Management and in the biodiversity project competition use in its operations through underground Rehabilitation at Raw Material Sites organized in Istanbul Büyükçekmece water and municipal water. Akçansa aims Muratbey Limestone Site is conducted in at efficiency and reclamation in the use of Environmental impacts emerge at raw almost 0.5 ha area. Among 100 saplings water resources. Thus, it establishes closed material sites are managed with a risk planted, there are Leyland Cypress, Castanea loop systems to obtain the highest amount opportunity oriented approach applied to Sativa, Lavender and Wild Strawberry with of recovery. Water used in dedusting and corporate operations in general according high level of adaptation and durability; and flushing is also reclaimed and reused in to environmental policy with a target of full germination occurred. In the same site, aggregate production. compliance to legal regulations. Akçansa conducted insemination studies using hydroseeding technique in an area of The total amount of water consumption in Environmental impact management in raw 5.000 m2 with completed mining activities. Akçansa cement plants in two years that material processes begins at site assessment Rehabilitation studies in the regions where encompass the reporting period was 3.7 process. License and permission operations the production completed in Ladik Limestone million m3. The wastewater that cannot be begin when raw material site is assessed. Site continue; and in 2017, 500 pine saplings reclaimed after consumption is processed Before starting work at mine sites, we conduct planted in an area of 0.5 ha to celebrate World at wastewater treatment facilities and an Environmental Impact Evaluation study Environment Day, on 5th of June. Rocky discharged to natural receiving environments to evaluate environmental and social risks. surfaces where mining activities completed in accordance with the quality parameters and As required by the relevant law, biodiversity in a schist site in Çatalca are covered with limit values specified in discharge licenses. impacts are also addressed. Akçansa prepares a moss called Funaria hygrometrica via The discharged wastewater does not have a a rehabilitation plan which will take effect with a completely natural method. We plan to pollution load that might negatively impact the approval of public authorities; this plan release the moss called Paxillus involutus the biodiversity qualities of the receiving involves the usage of the site with minimal which lives mutually with this type of moss environments. environmental impact during operations, together with other mosses. The aim is to Within the context of the Water Management subsequent rehabilitation and reclamation establish an ecosystem in which the moss Project conducted by HeidelbergCement Water Withdrawal by Source at Cement Plants (m3) criteria, and a time plan. type is responsible for adherent surface on a global scale, the water performance and nutrient production, whereas the fungi of Akçansa is also evaluated according to 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mine sites, economic life of which has type is responsible for producing enzymes the Water Reporting Protocol published by expired are rehabilitated according to and chemical materials that speed up soil WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative Underground 1.677.491 1.448.455 1.647.783 1.687.210 provisions stated in rehabilitation plans and formation. This mutual system will speed up (CSI), it is also being reported to CSI. Water to its original natural tissue. This is also the formation of soil by slowly breaking down Akçansa participates in Carbon Disclosure Municipal obligatory in Akçansa Sustainability Goals, in the rock structure and will give the bare rocks Project CDP’s Water Program thanks to its 240.964 209.456 204.058 188.040 addition to legal provisions. a green scene resembling to a garden. policies, strategies and practices in water Water management. As of the end of 2017, a total of 18.56 ha area Water Resources and Wastewater Total 1.918.455 1.657.911 1.851.841 1.875.250 is rehabilitated and approximately 8,000 trees Management and saplings were planted in the rehabilitation studies conducted in Akçansa mine sites. Akçansa supplies water required for cooling, Site practice of the project that ranked 2nd dedusting, flushing, watering and domestic 34 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 EXCELLENCE IN OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Reaching excellence in occupational health and safety is a common priority for all the links in the value chain of Akçansa. Akçansa carries out technological and physical investments required to cultivate health and safety culture, create safe working environments and excel in this OHS management, promoting behavior-oriented transformation. AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 35 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Excellence In Occupational Health And Adopting a precautionary approach to Safety occupational health and safety, Akçansa conducts training activities, behaviorAkçansa OHS Academy Occupational Health and Safety Directorate oriented audits and field audits in order to is responsible for the management of OHS increase awareness of occupational health Akçansa OHS Academy is a training center where Akçansa Golden Rules issues and the performance results achieved and safety among employees and thus to which encompass best practices in the area of Occupational Health and are reported to the senior management. ensure minimization of risks. Employees Safety around the world, national and international standards as well as Besides managers taking office at and suppliers, alongside customers are the requirements of the new Occupational Safety Law, are theoretically and Headquarters, experts working at production reached to raise awareness in the entire practically explained. Akçansa OHS Academy aims to create a community facilities also take part in the management value chain through occupational health that is aware of risks not only at workplaces but also in every sphere of of OHS policies. The performance regarding and safety awareness programs. Within this life, and exhibits safe and at the same time sensitive behaviors towards the issue is being evaluated within the scope scope, employees were provided with 50,260 nature. During the reporting period, health and safety trainings continued to of Akçansa Performance Evaluation System person*hour of OHS training in 2016 and be provided for employees in all the working fields under the roof of OHS and it has a weight of 25% in individual 51,799 person*hour in 2017. On the other Academy. It aims to provide 80,000 person*hour training annually for 5,000 performance targets of employees. OHS hand, in 2016, 2,442 behavior oriented employees across Akçansa by OHS experts, technical staff and medical processes are managed in accordance audits, 1,266 field audits were conducted and personnel. with Quality, Environment and Energy 3,227 behavior oriented audits and 2,335 field Policies within the framework of Integrated audits in 2017. Management System. The OHS Policy complies with the requirements of the OHS Law no. 6331, OHSAS 18001 Standard and Meeting the requirements of international best ILO Conventions. practices, standards and new Occupational Akçansa has Occupational Health and Safety law in the field of OHS, Akçansa received Safety Committees established in line with legal regulations. OHS committees, where the first prize with the Samsun Ready-Mixed Akçansa employees takes part, contribute to Concrete Plant in Safe Work Healthy Life Awards the widespread development of OHS culture throughout the company. By the end of 2017, organized by HeidelbergCement in 2016. there were a total of 56 members in the 4 different OHS committees in Akçansa, of which 7 were employee representatives. 36 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Occupational Safety the context of the Work Permission System, are also encouraged to report misses, safe work in site activities of Akçansa and dangerous situations and behaviors. As part Akçansa fulfills its responsibility that its subcontactor employees are monitored by the of Occupational Safety Management System, employees work in a safe environment at Site Supervisors. each senior executive supports visible the highest level by taking all the necessary leadership by implementing 6 behaviorprecautions. Akçansa provides its employees In order to prevent possible accidents caused oriented audit practices per year and raises with a working environment where they feel by energy in the working sites, “Tag, Lock, employee awareness about safety behavior safe and valued. The emphasis placed on Secure and Test” system is applied. In and culture. With all these applications, the issue of OHS is reflected by its inclusion addition, periodic exercises are carried out it is aimed that employees should take in the collective agreements signed with in order to facilitate the implementation of responsibility without being indifferent to the unions. For example, safety regulations, the procedures to be conducted in a possible an inappropriate situation and behavior and disease and accident reports, accidents and emergency incident. These exercises and adopt a role modeling approach. occupational diseases and occupational safety safety warnings help the OHS practices to be rules are included in the collective bargaining conducted in daily workflow. agreements. With the belief that employee awareness During the reporting period, the most and taking responsibility will impact OHS frequently encountered types of accident were performance, it is aimed at ensuring active equipment accidents and falls from high and individual participation in OHS activities. preventive measures were taken. In 2017, “I Besides OHS principles and practices, Am Safe At Height Project”, which was about subjects such as driving vehicles, personal working at height, one of Ten Golden Rules protective equipment, rules of conduct for of Akçansa in occupational health and safety, emergencies and first aid are also included was carried out. within the scope of trainings provided to employees. In addition, within the scope Akçansa continues its preventive efforts in of R5 practice, employees are encouraged cooperation with its stakeholders in order to perform their work with high awareness to improve its OHS performance. One of according to the principle of “think, plan, the procedures developed in light of these take safety precautions, check and work”. studies is that stakeholders have the authority In this way, it is aimed for employees to to stop working that they feel unsafe. This determine hazards related to the work procedure aims to develop OHS culture and before each operation and to take necessary increase participation in practices. Within measures to minimize the risks. Employees AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 37 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Accident Severity Rate Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate Employee Health 729 7.3 7.1 In order to ensure that employees are 5.8 6.8 protected from occupational diseases and 5 4.6 illness in general, health risks are determined 4.6 4.4 by performing analyses at all sites where 2.9 241.7 208 285 3.3 3.54 raw material production, raw material 163.9 221.5 68.4 68.3 transportation and production and similar 30.3 91.1 1.7 67.6 0 0 0 operations are carried out. Follow-up health 0 checks are conducted periodically in relation 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 to the identified risks. Cement Ready-Mixed Concrete Cement Ready-Mixed Concrete Akçansa employees are offered training in Aggregate Aggregate health issues throughout their work lives. The trainings are designed considering the During the reporting period, in our cement and ready-mixed concrete business segments we quality of the cement, ready-mixed concrete experienced a parallel trend compared to the previous period for the accident severity rate, and and aggregate sector and include topics such a significant performance improvement in the lost time accident frequency rate. In the aggregate as ergonomics, musculoskeletal disorders, business segment, a single incident in a subcontractor business process, which was never been hearing losses, lung diseases, fighting ticks. experienced before, caused an enormous increase in number due to a much smaller number of During the reporting period, there were no working hours compared to other segments. Measures have been taken to prevent the accident occupational disease cases in company from happening again. operations. Absentee Rate 1.326 1.382 1.214 1.039 3.195 4.090 4.599 4.029 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cement Ready-Mixed Concrete 38 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 WORK LIFE Acting with a vision of being “The Most Preferred Employer” of the industry, Akçansa values its employees as they lay the foundation of its activities and believes that the key role in achieving success is the value attached to human resources. The mission of Akçansa is to constitute a climate where a visionary leadership understanding is in place, which is corporate and personal development oriented, distinguished from its competitors through effective management systems and its managers, offering a “meaningful work” and “happy working environment” to all its employees. AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 39 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Work Life Our Human Resources Strategic Focus is Investors in People At Akçansa, Human Resources processes are carried out under the guidance of agreements • To support the reinforcement of a positive Based on its “Human Focus and Respect” vision, Akçansa measures and continually and decisions such as ILO Conventions, organizational climate, develops all of its processes that touch on human via different tools. Thus, in 2016, UN Universal Human Rights Declaration, • To accelerate leadership development, Akçansa has been awarded with the Golden Standard, the highest level of “IIP in addition to the provisions of the Labour • To enhance the learning and development Investors in People” which is the first and only international Human Resources Law. Akçansa also adopts the principles experience of employees, Development and Management Standard. determined by the UN Global Compact, of • To promote the engagement of employees which it became a signatory, in relation to in management and its improvement, working life. • To guide the acquisition and retention of talents by the company, Akçansa considers the environment created • To ensure the engagement and By By Educational 2016 2017 2016 2017 By Gender 2016 2017 by the national and global economy in satisfaction of stakeholders, Category Level addition to company’s business targets and Covered by Female 91 80 sector-based conditions in which it operates by designing efficient, lean, extendable Collective Primary School 141 114 while defining its Human Resources strategies processes and practices, and leading 584 501 Male 1.139 1.055 Bargaining and primary targets. Human Resources change. High School 539 520 Agreement Deputy General Management, reporting to the Executive Board, is responsible for monitoring Not University 459 421 performance indicators and the dissemination Covered by of work life objectives to employees Collective 555 554 beginning from the senior management. Bargaining Human Resources also assumes an active Agreement role in the Sustainability Committee, ensuring the integration of sustainability in human resources processes. 40 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Fair Work Environment Akçansa employees such as their religion, regulatory provisions about environmental language, race, sect, gender, physical standards, workforce and human rights Akçansa considers offering a fair and attributes and life choices are not questioned standards and it is annually observed engaging work environment based on mutual under any conditions and any practice that whether they provide product and services trust and respect to its employees as one of might be perceived as discrimination is in compliance with these criteria through its basic principles. According to its Business prohibited. Forced, compulsory labour and periodical controls. Ethics Principles, Akçansa adopts the child labour are not tolerated in Akçansa principle of creating a work environment that operations and its subcontractors. Akçansa regards its employees right supports equality and diversity where human to organization as a basic right; and its rights of employees are taken into granted. In order to ensure that sustainability impacts, employees are free to take place in union Akçansa participates in the “Equality at Work” primarily the principle of respect for human organizations and exercise their rights. In platform, established under the aegis of the rights, are kept under control across the accordance with this constructive approach, World Economic Forum and Ministry of supply chain, the working principles that all Akçansa employees covered by the Family and Social Policies. Having signed the product and service suppliers are required Collective Labour Agreement are union Equality at Work Declaration in 2013, Akçansa to follow have been determined. Compliance members. The Group Collective Labour commits to voluntarily adopt the principles with the norms determined in Akçansa Agreements signed between the Cement, to demolish gender-based discrimination Supplier Business Ethics Principles is the Ceramic, Soil and Glass Industry Workers’ in work life, to establish reliable systems to responsibility of all suppliers and also a part Union of Turkey (Çimse-İş) and the Cement generalize these principles and to report in a of subcontractor service contracts. Child Industry Employers’ Association (ÇEİS) for transparent manner. Furthermore, Akçansa labour, forced and compulsory labour are the period from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2017 became a signatory party to Women’s prevented in supply operations by means of continues to be in force. Empowerment Principles – (WEPs), one of Business Ethics Principles, issues such as the major global private sector initiatives respecting the union rights of employees, aiming women empowerment for enabling complying with occupational health and You at Work Equality Network at Akçansa them to participate in economic life, in all safety principles, acting in compliance sectors and every level. with norms, ILO Conventions and legal In 2017, Akçansa has formed “You at Work Equality Network” to support both personal and regulations regarding operations, preventing professional development of female employees with an aim to create awareness in equality Akçansa adopts justice and equity principles discrimination, bribery and corruption are both inside and outside the company. In this concept, personal targets of managerial-level in all HR processes. The characteristics of ensured. Purchasing agreements include employees include objectives related to equality at work. AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 41 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Employee Development support the development of employees. Employees can also benefit from trainings Employee Trainings (person x hour) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Akçansa offers the required opportunities for held by HeidelbergCement, Sabancı Holding, the corporate culture it aims at, the realization and Sabancı University, besides trainings Covered by Collective Bargaining 19.072 20.608 27.391 31.299 30.526 of business targets, corporate strategy and organized within the company. Akçansa Agreement bringing out the potentials of employees encourages and supports the academic Not Covered by Collective Bargaining 10.370 13.492 14.100 11.576 13.082 under the motto of “My Development is My trainings and foreign language studies of its Agreement Primary Responsibility” to help employees employees in order for them to acquire the Female 1.700 2.546 2.367 3.001 2.617 develop on their own responsibility. In skills required by their current positions. addition to the support given to trainings Male 27.743 31.553 39.123 39.874 40.991 and professional development of employees through personal development plans, Akçansa establishes new areas of interaction and Training and Development Activities at Akçansa conducts applications to increase motivation among employees. GENERAL COMPANY PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT FUNCTIONAL TRAININGS TRAININGS TRAININGS Annual organization of Leadership Meetings, Leadership Style Surveys, Organizational Climate Survey, Leadership Development Activities and trainings to be planned Job-specific activities and trainings Activities and trainings planned in Programmes aim at continuous development in accordance with competences aimed at developing the knowledge line with individual development of managers in their journey to leadership. designated as prioritized and skills of employees in their areas (Individual trainings, Coaching “Akçansa Crusing Academy” put into practice development areas of company areas of expertise (Technical and practices) in 2016 aims to expand the leadership (Company specific group trainings, expert trainings, congresses and development to managers at different levels of OHS trainings) conferences) the organization. Akçansa conducts continuous development plans differentiated according to the requirements. Practices such as “Career Oak”, “A New Leader Program”, development and evaluation centre and 360-degree 42 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Work Life Balance Employee Engagement offices. In addition, Akçansa continues to improve HR Portal application which includes Practices that help Akçansa employees Akçansa organizes motivational and work relations processes, talent management establish a work life balance are executed conversational meetings where employees and succession modules. under Akçansa Happiness Workshop. Akçansa get together with the senior management, increases the motivation of its employees and information, ideas and suggestions are through social, cultural and sportive events shared. Akçansa promotes mutual sharing and and Family Workshops organized based employee engagement through practices such The First Accredited Mentoring on the demands and expectations of the as “Communication Meetings”, “We Listen Program in Cement Industry: employees. to You.” The satisfaction and engagement Career Oak In addition to high number of clubs levels of employees are measured and areas Chunks and Chunks of Project Competition operating under Akçansa World of Clubs, “A of development are identified through Work In 2017, Akçansa Internal Mentoring Sparkle Club” which strengthens employee Life Evaluation Survey. Akçansa learns In 2016, another appreciation and recognition practice has Program Career Oak has been volunteering and social awareness continues about the innovative ideas of employees via been added. “Chunks and Chunks of Project Competition” accredited on its 3rd year according to add value to the society thanks to the Suggestion System and makes organizational which aims to enable Akçansa employees present their to international standards by European initiative of Akçansa employees. improvements based on these ideas. innovative ideas and to offer a climate which enriches their Mentoring and Coaching Council “Mom, Bring Me Milk” project launched “Employee Ambassadors Council”, where experiences has been organized. Employees exhibited their (EMCC). Akçansa is the first company for supporting the work-life balance of employees participate voluntarily, constitutes creativity via 23 projects at different categories. to receive EMCC accreditation in working mothers with infant and “Ladik Glass a bridge for the dissemination of plans and cement industry, and has become Workshop” practices where the spouses practices regarding employees within the an exemplary to all institutions and of Ladik plant employees and housewives organization, and works to facilitate reciprocal organizations. Akçansa is appreciated in Ladik are trained in glass production, communication and to create strong, reliable Fringe Benefits of Employees globally for breaking grounds in transforming their labour into value, were also and open channel in this regard. mentoring which is one of the most continued in the reporting period. Through the cloud technology application Akçansa offers its employees with various vested benefits such as personal pension effective development tools focusing In 2016, an employee support program “Don’t “MozaİK”, used to enhance the effectiveness, plans, private health insurance, and life insurance, and provides personal accident on establishing company culture. Worry, Make a Call” which offers 7 days 24 efficiency, and integration with other HR insurance for all its employees. Fringe benefits of employees have become more hours access for all employees and their practices of performance, development and flexible via Bflex application to offer maximum benefit depending on the requirements families has been initiated to support work learning processes participated by employees of employees. Besides, Akçansa also offers the opportunity of personal retirement life balance. not covered by the CLA, the different insurance for its employees not covered by the Collective Labour Agreement in expectations of employees are met with a accordance with their levels of responsibility. Akçansa contributes to the retirement user-friendly structure, access is provided account, to which employees contribute by 3% of their gross base wages, at the same to modules everywhere independently from rate. 63.3% of employees not covered by the Collective Labour Agreement benefit from the personal retirement fund. AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 43 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Akçansa embraces a social and environmental corporate culture that is loyal to legal and ethical principles. In this regard, Akçansa conducts studies that enhance the quality of life of the society in which it exists and contribute to the creation of a more secure and prosperous future. Based on its corporate citizenship approach, Akçansa establishes platforms to routinely monitor the ideas and suggestions of its stakeholders that substantially contribute to its success. 44 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship Akçansa My Neighbourhood Project Concrete Ideas Project Competition In 2015, Akçansa implemented “My In the reporting period, Akçansa has Neighborhood Social Responsibility Project” organized the 7th and 8th of Concrete Ideas with the cooperation of Büyükçekmece District Project Competition in order to introduce National Education Directorate and Tüvana university students to the industry and to give Foundation for the Education of Children them the opportunity to exhibit their creativity. Eager to Read (TOCEV) in order to help create In 2016, 880 students from 104 different the concepts of happy child, happy family universities applied to this competition; and happy neighbourhood and to lay concrete whereas, in 2017, the record was broken foundations for future by offering the required with 1,340 applications from 117 different Akçansa undertakes trainings to future generations and their universities. This project emphasizes the parents. Within this project, both parents and importance of cement and concrete for a projects aimed at creating children receive trainings in a custom-design sustainable future and supports the education social value in areas such mobile training centre in closed groups. This of the youth, the architects of future. as health, culture, arts, project teaches children how to communicate better at school, at home and with each other, Biodiversity Project Competition education, sports and and supports parents by giving information CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS environment. In 2016, for the required subjects that they find Biodiversity Project Competition which is challenging when raising children in need of organized biennially with an aim to help Türkiye Sanayici ve İş Adamları Derneği İnşaat Malzemeleri Sanayicileri Derneği 7.7 million TL worth of an expert consultation. Since the beginning of college students create projects to enhance (TÜSİAD) (İMSAD) resources were allocated this project, Akçansa provided approximately biological value of mine sites and to increase Türkiye Çimento Müstahsilleri Birliği Çevre Koruma Vakfı (ÇEVKO) 15,000 hours of training. In addition to the awareness of college students was held to social projects that these programs, Akçansa organizes first-aid in 2016 with the cooperation of Akçansa and (TÇMB) employees voluntarily awareness seminars for teachers as well. Heidelberg. First prize of this competition Türkiye Hazır Beton Birliği (THBB) Özel Sektör Gönüllüleri Derneği (ÖSGD) 2,500 teachers received first-aid training in which almost 30 projects from all around participated in, and in in this project; and the target by the end of Turkey competed is extended to Istanbul Çevre Dostu Yeşil Binalar Derneği (ÇEDBİK) Tuvana Okuma İstekli Çocuklar Vakfı (TOÇEV) 2017, this amount rose to 2017-2018 academic year is to raise this Technical University, the second prize is 10.5 million TL. number to 35,000. extended to Gazi University, and the third prize TURMEPA Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma Derneği (SKD) is extended to the students and academicians Türkiye Kurumsal Yönetim Derneği (TKYD) Çimento Endüstrisi İşveren Sendikası (ÇEİS) of Çanakkale 18 Mart University. Agrega Üreticileri Birliği (AGÜB) Türkiye İşveren Sendikaları Konfederasyonu (TİSK) Türkiye Madenciler Derneği (TMD) Investors in People (IIP) Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) Çanakkale Sanayici İş Adamları Derneği Türkiye Çimse-İş Sendikası Türkiye Yatırımcı İlişkileri Derneği BM Kalkınma Programı Türkiye Liman İşletmecileri Derneği GRI-102-12, GRI-102-13 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 45 Governance Economic Value And Reducing The Excellence In Occupational Corporate Corporate Profile Work Life And ustainability Empowering Innovation Environmental Footprint Health And Safety Citizenship The World of Volunteers coach vocational high school students for university lecture participation, work groups, partners, suppliers, dealers and customers, two years. Sabancı Communication Group, İMSAD local communities and other stakeholder Taking responsible action against employees, Akçansa Volunteers support Volunteer Reader Communication Committee, Sustainability groups; and aims to produce creative customers, investors, society, environment, Project that is conducted by The Assistive Committees, TÇMB Professional Committees, solutions with its stakeholders who contribute legal regulations and ethical principles for Technology and Education Laboratory for My Neighborhood trainings, communication substantially to the foundation of its success, a sustainable success is among Akçansa’s Individuals with Visual Disabilities (in short meetings, board meetings, and meetings with to benefit from its powerful aspects and to fundamental values. In this regard, Akçansa GETEM), and they established a library to NGOs. discover the areas of improvement together. World of Volunteers continues to work read books for the individuals with visual ceaselessly to add value to the society. disabilities. Open Door Days In regards to “Children Transforming the As of 2017-2018 academic year, 6 Akçansa Based on stakeholder engagement studies, Future” which is one of the volunteer-based Volunteers who completed the trainings Akçansa organizes “Open Door Days” events projects of Akçansa that aims to protect the in Learning Child: Responsible Individual in Büyükçekmece Plant. Akçansa shares the environment and the world and to leave a Program which aims to help children, the recent studies and information on cement liveable world to future generations, Akçansa leaders of today and tomorrow gain awareness production process with its stakeholders volunteers conduct studies to help children in responsible thinking, self-expression, in these events. District governors and perceive their position in the society and to communication, empathy and equality administrator chiefs working in the district, teach them how to take personal responsibility support the project in two schools where this Büyükçekmece Municipality managers, for a sustainable future. Thus, fourth-grade application has begun. shareholders in addition to students and primary school students learn to separate lecturers in My Neighborhood project attend wastes at its source and the methods of using Stakeholder Engagement Studies to Open Door Days. resources consciously in order to contribute to a sustainable world to obtain energy from Akçansa considers stakeholder dialogue Neighbor Councils recycling and wastes. Akçansa puts recycling and participatory communication models boxes in schools to help students learn to as a dispensable part of its sustainability Stakeholders are informed about Akçansa’s practice their theoretical information. strategy. Thus, Akçansa organizes events current and planned studies, mutual opinions which offer direct contact with stakeholders. and suggestions are obtained based on this In 2016, Akçansa was included to Vocational These events transfer information to information, all developments in the company High School Coaches Program in order to stakeholders and take feedback from them. are shared with stakeholders in a transparent broaden the visions of vocational high school Main channels for stakeholder engagement manner and investments on energy and students and to help them become successful include Neighbor Councils, Dealer Councils, environment are explained in these Neighbor in future. Akçansa volunteers who complete Open-Door Days, analyst meetings, Councils organized in Akçansa Büyükçekmece their education according to this program will investment meetings, Concrete Ideas, Plant. Akçansa comes together with business 46 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 PERFORMANCE DATA Operational Performance 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Financial Performance 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of Plants Tesis Sayıları Cement Factories 3 3 3 3 3 Net Sales (TL million) 1.202,20 1.410,90 1.468,50 1.461,10 1.519,00 Aggregate Facilities 4 4 4 4 4 EBITDA (TL million) 270,2 389,8 429,8 407,9 308,5 RMC Facilities 41 38 36 36 30 EBITDA (%) 22,5 27,6 29,3 27,9 20,3 Production Capacity (million ton) Net Profit (TL million) 157,9 248,8 281,1 286,4 148,7 Cement 9 9 9,3 9 9 Earnings per Share 0,82 1,3 1,5 1,5 0,8 Clinker 6,5 7 7 7 7 Dividend per Share 75,43 118,2 134,6 123,9 66,9 Capacity Utilization Rate (%) Net Financial Dept (TL million) 163,5 85 91,1 185,1 332,7 Cement 76 76 76 81 81 Equity Capital (TL million) 987,6 1.143,00 1.187,20 1.215,00 1.096,90 Clinker 95 95 97 98 99 Total Assets (TL million) 1.477,20 1.602,50 1.705,10 1.843,20 1.916,20 Sales (million ton) Procurement Operations (TL million) 1.000 1.010 1.100 1.200 1.200 Cement 6,8 6,8 6,9 7,5 7,6 Local Procurement Rate (%) 88 84 86 77 73 Domestic 5,9 6,2 6,2 6,4 6,6 International 0,9 0,6 0,7 1,1 1,0 Clinker 0,9 0,7 0,7 0,4 0,4 Domestic 0,0 0,1 0,0 0,0 0,1 International 0,9 0,6 0,6 0,4 0,3 Ready Mixed Concrete (million m3) 4,8 4,7 4,4 3,9 3,4 Aggregate 3,0 2,5 2,5 2,8 2,5 GRI-102-8 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 47 Environmental 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Performance Specific Gross CO2 Emission in Cement 769 766 781 774 776 Production (kg CO2 /ton cement) Alternative Raw Material Consumption 203.413,81 203.930,00 189.997,00 196.264,45 210.591,95 (ton) Specific Net CO2 Emission in Cement 759 752 775 765 763 Production (kg CO2 /ton cement) Alternative Raw Materials 1,32 1,41 1,25 1,65 1,80 Utilization Rate (%) Energy Saving by Waste Heat Recovery 354.713 361.349 345.838 365.928 338.942 Practices in Cement Production (GJ) Clinker Rate (%) 87,1% 87,6% 88,3% 89,1% 89,1% Mineral Additive Ratio in 20 19 17 16,4 14,3 Emissiona Saving by Waste Heat 7.341 11.473,10 11.401,60 10.802,68 6.586,71 1m3 Binder (%) Recovery Practices in Cement Production Conventional Fuel Amount (ton) 671.123,41 663.672,24 699.589,90 700.078,68 708.909,64 (Ton CO2) Alternative Fuel Amount (ton) 101.322,15 130.474,86 91.062,20 90.018,33 120.509,76 NOx Emissions (ton) 1.184 1.747,76 1.679,68 1.555,78 947,51 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 26.081.764 26.222.803 26.790.828 27.047.335 27.535.050 Spesific NOx Emissions (g/ton clinker) 324 335,84 413,92 234,98 217,39 Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 23.201.433 23.355.074 23.997.446 24.539.458 24.663.906 SO2 Emissions (ton) 49 51,16 60,98 33,84 31,27 Indirect Energy Consumption 2.880.331 2.867.729 2.793.382 2.507.877 2.871.144 Spesific SO2 Emmissions (g/ton clinker) 0,01 0,06 0,04 0,05 0,03 Electricity (GJ) Specific Energy Consumption in Clinker 3,51 3,56 3,53 3,56 3,57 Spesific Metal Emmissions (g/ton 26 16,76 9,75 30,82 27,53 Production (GJ/ton clinker) clinker) Thermal Energy Substitution Rate by 6,66 8,68 5,00 6,00 8,41 Spesific VOC Emmissions (g/ton clinker) 0,02 0,07 0,03 0,02 0,02 Using Alternative Fuels (%) Total water withdrawal (million m3) 1,77 1,93 1,65 1,85 1,88 Specific Dioxin and Furan Emmissions 140 287,78 293 242 274 (μg ton klinker) Underground Water 1,60 1,67 1,45 1,65 1,68 Dust Emission (ton) 36 43,84 43,00 35,00 40,00 Municipal Water 0,18 0,25 0,20 0,20 0,19 Spesific Dust Emissions (g/ton clinker) 23.150.101 22.590.623 16.019.386 30.307.000 8.111.904 Other 0,01 Environmental Management Expenditure 989.486 916.171 432.834 1.341.361 CO2 Emission in Cement Production 6,16 6,04 6,24 6,30 6,32 (TL) (million ton) Direct (Scope1) CO2 Emissions (million ton) 5,84 5,73 5,97 6,03 6,05 Indirect (Scope2) CO2 Emissions (million ton) 0,32 0,31 0,27 0,27 0,27 Specific Gross CO2 Emission in Clinker 883 873 880 868 871 Production (kg CO2 /ton clinker) Specific Net CO2 Emission in Clinker 871 858 873 858 856 Production (kg CO2 /ton clinker) 48 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Employee Demographics 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Direct Employment 1.129 1.139 1.055 New Hires (number) Female 83 91 80 by Gender 77 105 45 Male 1.046 1.048 975 Female 14 13 7 Contractor Employees 1.537 1.490 1.473 Male 63 92 38 Female 41 35 43 Employees Left (number) Male 1.496 1.455 1.430 by Gender 110 96 127 Employees by Contract Type 1129 1139 1055 Female 7 6 16 Indefinite Term Contract 1.124 1.138 1.055 Male 103 90 111 Female 81 91 80 Employees Covered by Collective 575 584 554 Agreements (number) Male 1.043 1.047 975 Employees Left for Parental Leave Temporary Contract 5 1 0 Female 2 3 6 Female 2 0 0 Male 0 0 0 Male 3 1 0 Employees Returned From Parental Employees by Education Level 1124 1139 1055 Leave Primary School 145 141 114 Female 3 3 5 Secondary School 537 539 520 Male 0 0 0 University and Above 442 459 421 Employees Working For the Last 12 Months After Returning From Parental Senior Executives (number) Leave by Gender 7 5 7 Female 3 3 5 Female 0 0 0 Male 0 0 0 Male 7 5 7 Mid-level Executives (number) by Gender 39 45 45 Female 4 5 6 Male 35 40 39 GRI-102-41 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 49 Social Performance 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Employee Trainings (person x hours) 41.491 42.876 43.608 Total Attandace to Environmental Trainings (persons) Female 27.391 28.298 28.781 Direct Employees 521 639 716 Male 14.100 14.578 14.827 Contractor Employees 60 210 69 Accident Frequency Rate Total Hours of Environmental Trainings Cement Factories 7,3 3,3 3,54 (person x hours) Aggregate Production Facilities 0 7,1 4,64 Direct Employees 909 639 1487 RMC Production Facilities 6,8 5,01 4,43 Contractor Employees 60 210 69 Accident Severity Rate Investment Contracts and Agreements 40% 100% 100% with Human Rights Clauses (%) Cement Factories 67,6 68,6 91,12 Training and Communication Studies on Aggregate Production Facilities 0 285 729 Corruption Risks Number of Participants 13 30 45 RMC Production Facilities 163,9 68,38 68,26 Training Hours (personx x hours) 104 286 89 Occupational Disease Rate Number of Corruption Cases 1 0 0 Cement Factories 0 0 0 Legal Cases of Corruption Against 1 0 0 Aggregate Production Facilities 0 0 0 Company or Employees RMC Production Facilities 0 0 0 Total Attandace to OHS Trainings 2.666 2.629 2.528 Financial Fines Due to Non-Compliance 597.013 0 574.854 (persons) (TL) Employees Covered by Collective Agreements 1.129 1139 1055 Financial Fines Due to Non-Compliance 44.055 0 0 Employees Not Covered by Collective 1.537 1490 1473 to the Regulations Regarding Provision of Agreements Products and Services (TL) Total Hours of OHS Trainings (person x 32.990 92.358 71.674 hours) Employees Covered by Collective Agreements 21.901 57.614 41.355 Employees Not Covered by Collective 11.089 34.744 30.319 Agreements 50 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 GRI CONTENT INDEX Indicators Descriptions and Page Numbers Omissions Indicators Descriptions and Page Numbers Omissions GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-18 Governance and Sustainability (p.12-15) Corporate Profile Stakeholder Engagement 102-1 Contacts (p.XX) 102-40 Governance and Sustainability (p.19) 102-2 www.akcansa.com.tr/en/product-family/bagged-cements/ 102-41 Performance Data (p.XX) 102-3 Contacts (p.XX) 102-42 Governance and Sustainability (p.19) 102-4 About the Report (p.3) 102-43 Governance and Sustainability (p.19) 102-5 Corporate Profile (p.7-8) 102-44 Governance and Sustainability (p.15) 102-6 About the Report (p.3); Corporate Profile (p.7-8) Reporting Practices 102-7 Corporate Profile (p.7-8), Work Life (p.40) 102-45 About the Report (p.3) 102-8 Performance Data (p.XX) 102-46 About the Report (p.3); Governance and Sustainability (p.15) 102-9 Empowering Economic Value and Innovation (p.26) 102-47 Governance and Sustainability (p.15) 102-10 No significant change has been occured neither in company's 102-48 No significant restatements made in information given in operational or financial structure nor supply chain previous reports. 102-11 Empowering Economic Value and Innovation (p.22-24), 102-49 Governance and Sustainability (p.15) Reducing the Environmental Footprint (p.28) 102-50 About the Report (p.3) 102-12 Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28), Corporate Memberships (p.XX) 102-51 About the Report (p.3) 102-13 Corporate Memberships (p.XX) 102-52 About the Report (p.3) Strategy 102-53 Contacts (p.XX) 102-14 Message From the Chairperson and the General Manager 102-54 About the Report (p.3) (p.4-5) 102-55 GRI Content Index (p.XX) Ethics and Integrity 102-56 Legal Diclaimer (p.XX) 102-16 www.akcansa.com.tr/en/sustainability/our-codes-of-conduct/ GRI-102-55 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 51 Material Issues Standards Indicators Descriptions and Page Numbers Omissions Greenhouse Gases and Other Pollutant Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28-31) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28-31) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28-31) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.30); Performance Data (p.XX) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.30); Performance Data (p.XX) GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.30); Performance Data (p.XX) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.30) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.31); Perforsignificant air emissions mance Data (p.XX) Dust Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28, 31) 103-2 The management approach and its components Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28, 31) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28, 31) GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.31); significant air emissions Performance Data (p.XX) Energy Efficiency 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28-30) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28-30) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28-30) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.29-30); Performance Data (p.XX) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.29-30); Performance Data (p.XX) GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.29-30); Performance Data (p.XX) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.30); Performance Data (p.XX) GRI-102-55 52 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Standards Indicators Descriptions and Page Numbers Omissions Biodiversity Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Reducing the 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental Footprint(p.28, 33-34) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.33-34) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.33-34) GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.33-34) Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Business 103-1 Öncelikli Konunun Açıklaması ve Bağlayıcılığı Ethics (p.12-13) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Yönetim Yaklaşımı ve Bileşenleri Business Ethics (p.12-13) 103-3 Yönetim Yaklaşımı Değerlendirmesi Business Ethics (p.12-13) GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 205-3 Kesinleşmiş yolsuzluk vakaları ve alınan önlemler Business Ethics (p.12-13) Community Development Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Empowering 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Economic Value and Innovation (p.21-26); Corporate Citizenship (p.45-46) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Empowering Economic Value and Innovation (p.21103-2 The management approach and its components 26); Corporate Citizenship (p.45-46) Empowering Economic Value and Innovation (p.21103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26); Corporate Citizenship (p.45-46) Empowering Economic Value and Innovation (p.21GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 26); Corporate Citizenship (p.45-46) Employee Development Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Work Life 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary (p.40, 42-43) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Work Life (p.40, 42-43) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Work Life (p.40, 42-43) GRI 401: Em ployment2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Performance Data (p.XX) GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Work Life (p.40, 42-43); Performance Data (p.XX) GRI-102-55 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 53 Standards Indicators Descriptions and Page Numbers Omissions Occupational Health and Safety Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Excellence in 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Operational Health and Safety (p.36-38) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Excellence in Operational Health and Safety (p.36-38) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Excellence in Operational Health and Safety (p.36-38) 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– Excellence in Operational Health and Safety (p.38) worker health and safety committees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Excellence in Operational Health and Safety (p.38); diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Performance Data (p.XX) work-related fatalities Legal Compliance Governance and Sustainability (p.12-15); Reducing the 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental Footprint(p.28) Governance and Sustainability (p.12); Reducing the GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Footprint(p.28) Governance and Sustainability (p.12); Reducing the 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Footprint(p.28) 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 No such case has occured during the reporting period. social and economic area 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.28) regulations Alternative Fuel and Raw Materials Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Reducing the 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental Footprint(p.33) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.33) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.33) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.33) GRI 301: Malzeme Tüketimi 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used Reducing the Environmental Footprint(p.33) Sürdürülebilir Binalar ve Şehircilik Governance and Sustainability (p.14-15); Empowering 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Economic Value and Innovation (p.21, 26) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Empowering Economic Value and Innovation (p.21, 26) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Empowering Economic Value and Innovation (p.21, 26) GRI-102-55 54 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 Contacts LEGAL DISCLAIMER: Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Akçansa Sustainability Report 2016-2017 (Report) has been prepared by Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş (Akçansa). Kısıklı Caddesi No:38 34662 Altunizade ÜSKÜDAR/İSTANBUL All information, views and considerations, which do not purpot to be complete, have been provided by Akçansa; have not been independently assured for these purposes. For more information or submitting your views and suggestions about this report, please contact with: This Report has been prepared for information purposes only and does not intend to form a basis for any investment ozgur.ozturk@akcansa.com.tr decision. Information disclosed in this “Report” does not constitute an offer or form a part of an offer to sell or issue, or solicitation of an offer to purchase or subscribe for, any securities or other interests in Akçansa and no legal relations shall T: +90(216) 571 30 00 be created by its issue. F: +90(216) 571 30 91 All information contained in this Report and associated documents were believed to be accurate for the time period it covers, Raporlama Danışmanı expressed in good faith and based on sources believed to be reliable. However, this does not constitute a representation, Kıymet-i Harbiye guarantee, warranty or undertaking of any nature on Akçansa. Accordingly, none of Akçansa, Akçansa shareholders, Akçansa T: +90(212) 279 13 13 subsidiaries or their BoD members, or their respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect info@kiymetiharbiye.com or consequential loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report or in any other information or communications in connection with this Report. Tasarım Ünite İletişim ve Tanıtım Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti. GRI-102-1, GRI-102-3, GRI-102-53, GRI-102-56 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017 55 56 AKÇANSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016-2017
