Communication On Progress (COP) Report United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Our Story Our journey towards sustainability was initiated not as a response to social trends, but because we truly believe it is the right thing to do. Our commitment to become a signatory to the UN Global Compact helps cement this commitment. The Thinking Works story began in 1984, when we arrived on the scene as the first designer and manufacturer of heightadjustable desks in Australia. We quickly established ourselves as the commercial furniture company who combined exceptional quality with ingenious creativity. From height-adjustable workstations and smart table systems, to acoustic furniture, quirky seating solutions, and convenient add-ons like power-boxes and monitor arms, our furniture is designed to solve problems in the most beautiful, practical and sustainable of ways. With a head office and main manufacturing site in Moorebank and showrooms in Sydney, Melbourne and London­­— Thinking Works products are sold to office furniture and workstations suppliers, and marketed to the architectural and design industry across the world. Dean Kuch Managing Director 2 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 1 To Our Stakeholders Thinking Works by Thinking Ergonomix Pty Ltd Period Of Communication: March 2018 March 2019 ABN 63 095 989 638 +61 (0)2 9726 7177 sales@thinkingw.com I am pleased to confirm that Thinking Works www.thinkingw.com 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the NSW 2170, Australia United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dean Kuch Managing Director March 2019 2 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 3 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Our third year as a signatory of the UN Global Compact is now complete and we would like to take this opportunity to report on our progress. Human Rights Principles Human Rights Implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the In addtion to our Human Rights policy, we have an employee protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and handbook which we fondly call ‘Life at Thinking Works’. All employees are inducted using the employee handbook which Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human outlines all our human and labour rights, environmental and antirights abuses. corruption polices. Along with mechanisms and procedures to report any grievances. Our staff are important to us, so we want to ensure they have a Our Commitment And Policy safe and healthy work environmnent. We continue to conduct Thinking Works continues to support and respect the protection monthly WHS and EMS toolbox meetings and have introduced of internationally proclaimed human rights and the International a mandatory forklift and vehicle safety policy. We aslo engaged Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental the professional services of Chub Fire and Security Group to Principles and Rights at Work. assist Thinking Works in improving our emergency preparedness plan and response. We’ve invested in upgrades of equipment and Our purpose is to ensure human rights are implemented within improvements in our procedures. our company and the companies in which we conduct business and have influence on. In November 2018, nine Thinking Works employees, across a number of business units and sites attended an onsite First Aid We remain committed to engaging with our suppliers both locally Training course. The participants obtained qualifications in and internationally to express the importance of honouring Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation, basic emergency life support human rights at work. We continue to conduct human rights due and first aid. diligence within our supply chain. As part of the onsite training Automated External Defibrillators (AED’s) were used and at the conclusion of the training the decision was made by management to purchase an AED to be Implementation located at the Moorebank facility. We have a Human Rights policy which is our overarching We have issued key suppliers with a Suppliers Code of Conduct policy on human and labour rights. This policy demonstrates a and continue to engage and support our suppliers to help them commitment to: understand the requirements around the code of conduct. — ­ a safe and healthy workplace In November 2018 the senior management team visited —anti-discrimination eight factories in the Asia Pacific region and conducted site —zero tolerance to bullying inspections, providing feedback on improvements in safety gear —freedom of association and collective bargaining and processes. —no forced, child or bonded labour In 2018 we conducted due diligence on our labour hire company —allows staff to report any grievance or harassment. to confirm they had processes in place to ensure casual staff have the ‘right to work in Australia’ and employment is ‘freely chosen’. They reported that they complete a VEVO/DIMIA check for every Workplace Health Safety (WHS) candidate that does not provide proof of Australian citizenship and their Human Rights policy includes the right for candidates Our new forklifts are fitted with auto safety checks and impact to ‘freely choose employment’. detection sensors. These machines are connected using a pin code system to eliminate unauthorised usage. All these factors The labour hire company ensures all the casual staff that come have significantly contributed to increased workplace safety. onto site are inducted for Workplace Health and Safety and have the appropriate PPE. 4 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 5 Our ongoing commitment to our Human Rights Policy is managed through a management system to ensure procedures, training, Measurement of outcomes products that are fit for purpose, sustainable and healthy for indoor environments. Measurement Of Outcomes responsibilities and monitoring are in place. Thinking Works has had no reports of investigations, legal cases, Thinking Works has had no reports of investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related to any breaches to labour, We’ve developed more efficient methods of recycling our rulings, fines or other events related to any breaches in Anticardboard packaging and we’re eliminating all coloured plastics Measurement Of Outcomes anti-discrimination and or safety regulations in the last 12 months. from our supply chain to ensure it doesn’t end up in landfill. Corruption and Bribery in the last 12 months. We will continue to engage with our sales and procurement teams to ensure the Thinking Works has had no reports or investigations, legal cases, Thinking Works has a diverse workforce with at least 15 different highest level of integrity with all business dealings. cultural and ethnic backgrounds. We employ staff of various age In addition to our certifications, Thinking Works offsets the rulings, fines or other events related to any breaches to human carbon emissions from our business operations by purchasing and rights in the last 12 months. We remain committed to educating, groups from 18 years to 62. We have a 50/50 male/female ratio in Anti-Corruption and Bribery has been included in our Suppliers management positions. retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified Carbon code of conduct which we have issued to 4 of our top suppliers training and bringing awareness to our Human Rights Policy. Standard (VCS). and will continue to monitor over the next 12 months. We continue to engage with our suppliers both locally and Thinking Works has processes in place to address principles 4, internationally and where possible influence to ensure minimum 5 and 6 to ensure compliance, for example all overtime is freely We plan to conduct further training with new sales staff and our human rights are met. chosen and monitored. Measurement Of Outcomes procurement department. Though we do acknowledge freedom of association and the Thinking Works has been monitoring, measuring and analysing right to collective bargaining, discrimination, compulsory and data associated with our environmental impacts since 2009. Labour Principles child labour could be pertinent to our suppliers and have included these principles in our Suppliers Code of Conduct. Please review our 2018 Sustainability Report on the company website for further details. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association We will continue to engage with our suppliers and monitor and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; http://www.thinkingw.com/about-us/sustainability/ the labour principles against our Suppliers Code of Conduct Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory in the coming 12 months. We plan to extend the code to other We’ve seen a 67% reduction in waste over a 7 year period labour; key suppliers. (based on production figures). Though we’ve had a steady increase in energy and carbon emissions by 67% (based on Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and production figures). We’ve seen a steady increase in energy and carbon emissions due to the company expanding into a larger Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environmental Principles manufacturing facility and expending into overseas markets. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to We continue to offset these emissions by purchasing and We have polices to address all of these labour principles and seek environmental challenges; retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified Carbon to influence our suppliers with regards to upholding labour rights Standard (VCS), along with offsetting other business activities within their organisations. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental which includes freight, flights, employee commute, waste responsibility; and disposal etc. Our commitment and Goals Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Thinking Works purchases 100% GreenPower for the UK Operations, 10% GreenPower for our Sydney manufacturing site Thinking Works is committed to upholding the rights of our and the remaining GHG emissions for all other sites are offset by employees in relation to freedom of association and collective purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits. bargaining, forced, compulsory or child labour and understands the importance of having a diverse workforce. We have polices Our Commitment and Goals In 2018 we increased our number of Type 1 Ecolabelled products to address all of these labour principles and seek to influence and will continue to grow our sustainable product range in 2019. Thinking Works has been certified to ISO14001:EMS since 2009. our suppliers with regards to upholding labour rights within their In 2018 we continued our commitment and recertified to the organisations. AS/NZS ISO14001: 2016 Environmental management system Standard. The scope of the certification also includes our UK operations. Anti-Corruption Principles Implementation In addition to the ISO14001 certification, a number of products Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its have Type 1 Ecolabelling certification, Good Environmental forms, including extortion and bribery. Our employee handbook (Life At Thinking Works) includes all Choice Australia (GECA) and AFRDI GreenTick. Both of these polices relevant to principles three, four, five and six. Staff are certification schemes are recognised by the Green Building aware that they have the support of management should they Council of Australia (GBCA). wish to join a union or are free to collective bargain. Our Commitment and Goals We have developed an extensive grievance mechanism to ensure The Managing Director of Thinking Works, Dean Kuch, is committed to ensuring that all business activities are conducted the staff are aware of how to communicate grievances relating to Implementation ethically and according to all relevant Australian and overseas human and labour rights and what the course of action will be. Thinking Works understands the importance of environmental standards and legislation. We understand the importance of AntiIn 2016 we conducted a human and labour rights risk assessment sustainability, using various technologies to assist us in lowering Corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery to our of our key suppliers. We’ve mapped our supply chain and focus our environmental impacts. business and our stakeholders. our efforts on suppliers where we have influence and in countries that could be considered higher risk. We’ve had a number of products undergo a life cycle assessment (LCA) to assist us in understanding the environmental impacts, Our expectations on labour rights are included in our Suppliers emissions and embodied energy in the materials, coatings and Implementation Code of Conduct . We continue to engage and work with our finishes we use on our table bases. In 2016 we developed an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy suppliers around labour rights on our overseas site visits, which sets out the requirements for all staff to comply with. so we have consistent monitoring. In addition to the LCA technology, we use Finite Element Analysis (FEA), a computer program that assists our design team in Employees are expected to act with the highest standards of Our suppliers understand the UN Global Compacts Labour assessing the minimal material input for greater strength integrity in all business dealings. rights principles. and durability. The policy directive reinforces bribery and corruption, political Our new Purchasing Manager has been undergoing training by As part of ISO14001 certification we continue to educate our staff, and charitable contributions, gifts and entertainment expenses an external sustainability consultant who is experienced in suppliers and the market of the importance of environmental and substance-based due diligence. The policy sets gift limits supply chain due diligence and labour rights, this helps build protection. In 2016 we initiated a Suppliers Code of Conduct and thresholds. our internal capacity to understand and address human and which includes environmental compliance and management We have introduced and conducted training on the Antilabour rights impacts. of environmental impacts. Policies and procedures assist Corruption Policy with our sales and marketing team. Our ongoing commitment to our labour rights is managed our organisation to set our commitment, and manage our through a management and due diligence system to ensure environmental impacts. policies, procedures, training, responsibility and monitoring In 2017 we developed and implemented the Sustainable Product are in place. Guidelines and checklist to ensure the design and procurement departments are on track for designing and procuring sustainable products and materials. We continue to use this to help us build 6 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 7 Sustainable Reduced Inequalities Development Goals Goal 10 Thinking Works has policies in place to demonstrate our commitment to equal opportunities, prohibiting discrimination in all its forms. Anti-discrimination is one of the key requirements which is included in our Suppliers Code of Conduct. Reduce inequality within and among countries Sustainable Development goals Responsible Consumption and Production 17 goals to transform our world Thinking Works understands the Goal 12 Thinking Works has in place a number of processes and initiatives that support sustainable consumption and production patterns, these include: Ensure sustainable importance of businesses, individuals Ecolabelling Type 1 certification – for 6 of our product ranges consumption and The undertaking of a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to better understand the environmental and countries to take action against production patterns impacts of materials and coatings to ensure a more sustainable outcome. The design team uses Finite Element Analysis (FEA) to identify environmentally preferable the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. materials along with minimal material input for greater strength. Our recycling and reuse program includes recycling of cardboard, paper, metals and soft We have outlined our participation, plastics. We’ve developed more efficient methods of recycling our cardboard packaging and we’ve eliminated all coloured plastics in our supply chain to ensure it doesn’t end up commitment and action for 6 of the in landfill. We also recycle our printer cartridges. We have a Product stewardship policy in place for a number of our ranges for our Sustainable Development goals. Australian customers. We have developed Sustainable Product Guidelines to ensure all new products are developed to be Fit for Purpose, sustainable and healthy for indoor environments. Climate Action Goal 13 Thinking Works evaluates climate change risks such as resource scarcity, resource price Affordable and Clean Energy volatility and takes appropriate mitigation and adaptive action. Take urgent action Thinking Works monitors, measures and offsets carbon emissions from our business operations by purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits under the global Verified to combat climate Goal 7 In addition to the 10% Green Power, Thinking Works offsets the carbon emissions from Carbon Standard (VCS). The carbon footprint of our business is offset by supporting a our business operations by purchasing and retiring certified carbon credits under the change and its impacts hydropower project in China. global Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). The carbon footprint of our business is offset by Ensure access to supporting a HYDROPOWER project in China. The below business operations are included in the carbon offsetting affordable, reliable, This project supports the Chinese governments objective to reduce the dependence on —paper and cardboard sustainable and exhaustible fossil fuels by: —flights modern energy for all —Reducing the need for power generation; —waste and recycling —Reducing air pollution by displacing coal-fired power plants with clean, —hotel accommodation renewable power; —advertising —Reducing the adverse health impacts from air pollution; —taxis —Reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases, to combat global climate change; —freight —Contributing to local economic development through employment creation. We believe in transparency and have released our annual Sustainability Report (2018) which documents our progress on actions and initiatives for waste and energy. Decent Work and Economic Growth Life On The Land Goal 8 Thinking Works sources materials and components from a global supply chain. Some of our manufacturing partners are in low and middle income countries. We have a growing Goal 15 Thinking Works conducts due diligence on all sourced timbers to ensure we are not procuring illegally harvested timbers. business and with this growth comes the growth of our suppliers, this in turn helps their Promote inclusive and local communities. Sustainably manage sustainable economic We invest time and energy by assisting our suppliers and promoting high standards of forests, combat growth, employment health and safety in their manufacturing facilities. We encourage our suppliers and make desertification, halt and recommendations to help them create a safe working environment. and decent work for all reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss 8 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 9 Thinking Works © Copyright 2018 All Rights Reserved Head Office 25 Helles Avenue, Moorebank New South Wales 2170, Australia P: +61 (0)2 9726 7177 F: +61 (0)2 9726 7188 Sydney Showroom 120 Bourke Street, Woolloomooloo New South Wales 2011, Australia P: +61 (0)2 9002 0250 F: +61 (0)2 9726 7188 sales@thinkingw.com Melbourne Showroom 53 Victoria Parade, Collingwood Victoria 3066, Australia P: +61 (0)3 8526 4460 sales@thinkingw.com London Showroom 32 Clerkenwell Road London, United Kingdom EC1M 5PS P: +44 (0) 203 397 4878 F: +44 (0) 845 862 4201 uksales@thinkingw.com New Zealand Sold exclusively through FORZA LTD P: +64 (0)9 921 3393 F: +64 (0)9 523 6801 info@forzaltd.co.nz www.thinkingw.com 10 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19 Furniture for the Curious thinkingw.com 11 Communication on Progress (COP) Report — 03/18 to 03/19
