CSR REPORT 2019 + 2020 Randers + Radius A/S Tolsagervej 9 DK 8370 Hadsten Tlf. +45 70 30 05 15 info@randersradius.dk randersradius.dk CSR REPORT 2019 + 2020 Randers + Radius A/S Tolsagervej 9 DK 8370 Hadsten Tlf. +45 70 30 05 15 Info@randersradius.dk randersradius.dk CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS C ONT E NTS CONTENTS CONTENTS A natural step 4 Profile Randers+Radius 7 Mission 7 Certifications 8 Sustainable range 10 Tono chair: rom water bottles to felt 11 Mood chair: upcycled PP plastic from the car industry 12 Upcycled leather: fish skin 13 Memberships 14 UN Global Compact 14 The UN Sustainable Development Goals 15 Other partnerships 15 Code of conduct 16 Status so far 18 The EU Ecolabel 18 Well-being in our organisation 18 Other initiatives 18 Going forward 19 2 3 A N AT U R A L S T E P CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS Since our first piece of furniture was launched in 1957, we have taken social CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS responsibility very seriously and worked with sustainability continuously throughout the years. This is our first official CSR report, and we look forward to, for the first time, officially put into words our efforts regarding this important topic. Until 2011, the production of our furniture took place at our own production unit, but since then we have increasingly outsourced production to subcontractors. We buy 95% of our semi-manufactured products in Denmark and Western Europe, while a small part of cast aluminium parts is purchased in Asia. The actual finishing and assembly of the final piece of furniture take place at our own factory in Hadsten, Denmark. We have achieved our strong market position because of 60 years of experience and attention to trends and customer demands, enabling us to follow trends and maintaining our high standards within craftmanship. We support the increased focus on safeguarding our planet, and it comes natural to us to document our efforts. Randers+Radius has been a member of UN Global Compact since May 2018, which is a global and highly recognised organisation with more than 9900 A N ATURAL STEP A N ATURAL STEP companies in 161 countries. We support the ten principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and within our own organisation we remain committed to integrating the UN Global Compact guiding principles as part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We recognise that the key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual communication on progress (COP). Lars Andersen, Chairman of the Board 4 5 CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS P ROF ILE, RANDERS+RADIUS Randers+Radius’ business foundation is the development and production of high-quality furniture for the contract market, always with focus on sustainability and social responsibility. We work in collaboration with the most skilled and talented designers and architects, who understand the needs of our customer segment. We primarily deliver furniture for public and private companies in Denmark and abroad for PROFILE PROFILE canteens, conference and meeting facilities, accommodation facilities and for the educational system. Randers+Radius has won several awards including Danish Design Award and the international AZ award. In 2019, we won the prestigious German Design Award for excellent product design. We are honoured to announce that we in 2020 once again are nominated. Our head office is located in Hadsten, Denmark, in a 3,000 m2 climatefriendly building from 2005. Randers+Radius currently employs approximately 20 people. MISSION Randers+Radius has an ambition to deliver timeless, high-quality design made to last and produced with respect for people and the environment. All our furniture is tested to ensure that it meets the highest physical requirements regarding durability, according to applicable EN standards. We want to reach the highest possible level of sustainable initiatives and focus on circular economy. We want to create innovative products and designs within the framework that is possible with today’s sustainable materials and technologies in order to reduce our carbon footprint. 6 7 CERTIFI C ATI ONS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS EN standard certificates EN standard, security All furniture from Randers+Radius These are several standards are tested according to the highest regarding furniture in order to level of EN standards to ensure eliminate the risk of accidents during products with a long lifetime. use. This mainly concerns children’s furniture, dressers and cupboards REACH as well as special construction on European chemicals legislation specific chairs to prevent them from ensuring that no toxic, problematic turning over. chemicals are used in the production of our furniture. At Randers+Radius, EN standard, strength test we have implemented even higher This is a physical test conducted standards than EU legislation by The Technological Institute in prescribes. Denmark. It concerns furniture and CERTIFICATION CERTIFICATIONS classifies them into groupings: for FSC general use and for very physically FSC is a global forest certificastressful environments. tion system working to protect the world’s forests for future generaEPD tions. FSC provides the greatest EPD is an environmental product At Randers+Radius, we work continuously with focus on the regulations and assurance that the certified forests declaration on a piece of furniture standards established by the following certifications. are managed responsibly. that puts all discharges and consumption together to calculate a The EU Ecolabel European Union Timber Regulation. total CO2 consumption of a given The strongest official EU Ecolabel helping customers to choose among the EUTR is a law that prohibits the piece of furniture at the factory. most environmentally friendly products. The environmental requirements are import of illegally harvested timber. created from a life-cycle perspective and designed to ensure low environIn addition, companies are required CARB2 mental impact during production, while the product is being used and during to introduce a due diligence system CARB2 is a certification process the disposal phase. The first approval of products will take place at the end to minimise the risk of trading illegal instituted by the California Air of 2019 through Miljømærkning Danmark. timber. Companies should be able to Resources Board (CARB) to reduce document traceability to the origin of formaldehyde emissions and protect Req u irem en ts in c lu d e: the tree. the public from airborne toxic + The use of certified sustainable wood in raw materials contaminants. + And/or a high degree of recycled masse in raw materials CE mark + Reduced level of formaldehyde emission from plates The CE mark is a set of safety compared to the legislation requirements for contract furniture, + Minimal impact by environmentally harmful substances which primarily concerns electrical + Reduced climate and energy impact installations, for instance height+ Possibility of recycling materials adjustable tables and cabling in + High quality products tables. 8 9 CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS S US TA I N A BL E TONO CH AIR RA NGE From water bottles to felt W E A RE C ONSTA NTLY SUSTAIN ABLE RANGE T ESTI N G NEW, S U S TAI N A B L E M ATERI A L S TO E N S URE TH AT WE A RE AT THE FOREFRONT OF I N NOVATI VE DESI G N AN D I M PL EM ENTI N G T H E L AT EST TEC HN OLOG I ES I NTO OUR PRODUCTS. + The felt cover of the Tono chair is made from 60% upcycled PET from water bottles. + The felt is 100% reusable when disposing of the chair after use. + The aluminium frame is made from 90% reused aluminium. + The aluminium is 100% reusable when disposing of the chair after use. + The wood in the wooden frame comes from FSC certificated forests. + The wooden frame is 100% reusable when disposing of the chair after use. + The Tono chair can easily be separated into each material making it easy to change spare parts. + A take-back solution is possible. + The product is tested for highest demand regarding strength and has a very long life expectancy. + We aim to achieve the EU Ecolabel for the Tono chair. 10 11 + In our Tono chair, we have experimented with using fish skin instead of CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS leather for the upholstery of the seat of the chair. This project is part of our innovation lab. + Upcycling the fish skin gives an exclusive and beautiful material. + We have entered into a partnership with the company Atlantic Leather + Fish skin is a biproduct from the fishing industry, which would otherwise have been thrown out or made into animal feed. + The production process makes use of renewable hydro and geothermal energy. MOOD C H A I R 100% u p c yc led P P p last ic f ro m th e c a r in d ust r y SUSTAIN ABLE RANGE SUSTAIN ABLE RANGE UP CYCLED LEAT HER Ton o ch a ir with fish skin u ph olster y + The black Mood shell is made from 100% upcycled polypropylene from the European car industry, door panels and dashboards from cars. + Polypropylene is 100% reusable when disposing of the chair after use. + The aluminium frame is made from 90% reused aluminium from various sources. + Aluminium is 100% reusable when disposing of the chair after use. + The metal frame is made from 45% scrap-based steel from Finland and Sweden. + The metal frame is 100% reusable when disposing of the chair after use. + The Mood chair can easily be separated in each material making it easy to change spare parts. + A take-back solution is possible. + The product is tested for highest demand regarding strength and has a very long life expectancy. + We aim to achieve the EU Ecolabel for the Mood chair. 12 13 MEMBE R SHI PS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS UN GLOBAL COMPACT As a member of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to working with and implementing 10 principles for responsible business operations. Focus areas are human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We report our annual initiatives. MEMBERSHIPS T H E 10 P R I N C I P L ES A RE: MEMBERSHIPS Human Rights Environment T HE UN SUSTAIN ABLE DEVELOP MENT GOA L S Principle 1: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should support and respect the protection support a precautionary approach to of internationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; Working with the 10 principles also means to take responsibility regarding rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives the fulfilment of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. Principle 2: make sure that they to promote greater environmental are not complicit in human rights responsibility; and At Randers+Radius, we have selected 3 focus areas: abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentalSDG 3 / Good Health and Well-Being Labour ly friendly technologies. SDG12 / Responsible Consumption and Production Principle 3: Businesses should upSDG 13 / Climate Action hold the freedom of association and Anti-Corruption the effective recognition of the right Principle 10: Businesses should work to collective bargaining; against corruption in all its forms, OT HER PART NERSHIP S Principle 4: the elimination of all including extortion and bribery. forms of forced and compulsory labour; Randers+Radius is a member of several Danish organisations, where CSR Principle 5: the effective abolition of has received a great deal of attention such as TMI (association of the Danish child labour; and wood and furniture industry) and Danish Furniture Control (quality Principle 6: the elimination of assurance). In addition, we are a dialogue member of Lifestyle and Design discrimination in respect of employClusters, which is the most influential operator in Denmark when it comes to ment and occupation. the transition to a sustainable furniture company. 14 15 CODE OF CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS CONDUCT 4. Legal Requirements freedom of speech, privacy, health, We expect our business suppliers to life, liberty and security, as well be law abiding as individuals and to as an adequate standard of living. comply with legal requirements Rights to form and join organizarelevant to the conduct of all their tions of their choice and to bargain All Randers+Radius suppliers must accept and comply with our Code of businesses. We believe in the concollectively. Conduct in order to do business with us. Our code of Conduct sets the minicept of “Rule of Law” to ensure legal We expect our suppliers to respect mum requirement our suppliers should live up to and urge them to continue rights, accountability, stability, the right to free association and the to improve in all areas covered by this Code of Conduct. equality and access to justice for all. right to organize and bargain collectively without unlawful interference. Our suppliers must take all relevant and necessary initiatives and measures 5. Ethical Standards to ensure compliance. To prove their compliance, suppliers must provide us We will seek to identify and utilize Business suppliers should ensure with information on issues mentioned in this Code of Conduct. business suppliers who aspire as that workers who make such individuals and in the conduct of all decisions or participate in such orSuppliers must act according to the rules of the country in which they their businesses to a set of ethical ganizations are not the object of disoperate, and support and respect internationally declared human rights. standards not incompatible with our crimination or punitive disciplinary Suppliers are committed to act with honesty, integrity and reliability. own. Anti-corruption in all forms actions and that the representatives including extortion and bribery as a of such organizations have access Violation of COC may end cooperation. We recommend that the supplier use norm. to their members under conditions this Code of Conduct as the basis for their cooperation with their subestablished either by local laws or suppliers and ensure that local laws, legislation, regulations and industry 6. Working Hours mutual agreement between the emstandards are complied with. CODE OF CONDUCT CODE OF CONDUCT While permitting flexibility in scheployer and the worker organizations. duling, we will identify local legal limits on work hours and seek busi9. Discrimination ness suppliers who do not exceed While we recognize and respect them except for appropriately cultural differences, we believe that compensated overtime. While we faworkers should be employed on the vour suppliers, who utilize less than basis of their ability to do the job, sixty-hour work weeks, we will not rather than on the basis of personal use contractors who, on a regular bacharacteristics or beliefs. We will sis, require in excess of a sixty-hour favour business suppliers who share week. Employees should be allowed the value of providing sustainability at least one day off in seven. for indigenous people in terms of employment, business partnership, 1. Child Labour 2. Prison Labour/Forced Labour 7. Wages and Benefits etc. Use of child labour is not permissiWe will not utilize prison or forced We will only do business with supplible. Workers can be no less than 15 labour in contracting relationships ers who provide wages and benefits 10. Health & Safety years of age and not younger than in the manufacture and finishing of that comply with any applicable We will only utilize business the compulsory age to be in school. our products. We will not utilize or law and match the prevailing local suppliers who provide workers with a purchase materials from a business manufacturing or finishing industry safe and healthy work environment. We will not utilize suppliers and partner utilizing prison or forced practices. contractors who use child labour in labour. 11. Environment any of their facilities. We support the 8. General Labour Practices & We will only do business with development of legitimate workplace 3. Disciplinary Practices Freedom of Association suppliers who share our commitapprenticeship programs for the We will not utilize business suppliWe respect workers human rights ment to the environment and who educational benefit of younger ers who use corporal punishment or and gender equality; all workers conduct their business in a way that people. Education to be provided to other forms of mental or physical deserve to be treated with dignity is consistent with UNGP Guiding young workers coercion. and equality. Basic rights include Principles. 16 17 STATUS SO FAR CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS CS R R AN DE R S + R ADIUS From 2018 to 2019, our main focus area has been sustainability and circular economy in relation to our product development. As it is important to us that our work with sustainability is based on facts, we aim to achieve independant third-party certifications such as the EU Ecolabel. The EU Ecolabel + Employees attend first aid In our efforts to achieve the courses EU Ecolabel, we have deselected and + We have defibrillator at the changed components that do not factory, and our employees are match requirements: trained in how to use it. + Replaced glue + Changed upholstery to Other initiatives CertiPUR foam + We work innovatively with + Only sourcing wood from recycled products such as FSC approved forests upholstery for chair shells, for + Packaging replaced with instance felt made from recycled cardboard or recycled plastic bottles, hemp FSC paper or alternative leather such as + 50-100% PP recycled fish skin. STATUS SO FAR STATUS SO FAR G OI N G plastic used + We have a 100% focus on + Increased focus on chemicals waste, and how we can reduce F ORWA RD used it in every part of our organisation. Our goal is to Well-being in our organisation reduce pollution to a great The foundation of our existence rests extent. to a great extent on our employees. + We label all plastics according Therefore, we value creating a healthy to ISO 1043 for fragmentation. Our work with sustainability, and Furthermore, we will continue our workplace where the well-being of our + We aim to reduce our the process of achieving certificawork with the general well-being of employees is important. We want to internal energy consumption. tions for our products will continue our employees in order to reduce prevent accidents and create a We have changed our light in 2020, where our focus on human sick leave and improve work satispsychically sound work environment. sources to LED that rights and working conditions will faction. automatically switch on and off also receive attention. We have taken the following initiain several rooms. Finally, we will increase our focus on tives regarding the well-being + Our Code of Conduct is sent to We aim to achieve the EU Ecolabel diversity in the organisation. As of of our employees: all suppliers and partners by the end of 2019 and continue the now, we employ 10 women and 11 + Free fruit + We have shifted to eco labelled process of getting other products men in the company. As we are an + Health Insurance hygiene and cleaning products certified. We want to continue our SME, our Board is constituted by the + We have the Danish Working + We have found more suppliers sustainability work and increase the circle of owners and CEO, and subEnvironment Authority’s green from closer geographically number of environmentally friendly sequently consists of 3 male memsmiley for a good working proximity to reduce transport projects. bers. If possible, we would like more environment and emit less Co2. diversity in this area in the future. + We have a collective agreement + We have minimised the physical Through our code of conduct, we will with Danish Industry load at the assembly section. ensure that our subcontractors act in (The Confederation of Danish We have invested in vacuum accordance with UN Global Compact Industry) suction and packing machines. principles. 18 19
