GLOBAL INVESTMENT GLOBAL INVESTMENT PARTNER 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT DIGITALIZATION PENSION About this report The 2019 Mirae Asset Daewoo Integrated Report was created with an aim of reviewing CONTENTS our sustainability management activities and our achievements, and thus providing stakeholders with information in a transparent manner. Reporting Status This report is the eighth sustainability report since we published sustainability reports for the first time in the industry in 2006 and is the third after the merger with Mirae Asset Securities in December 2016. In addition, this report has been developed as an Integrated Report which consolidates an annual report and a sustainability report since 2018. Reporting Method and Period Introduction Governance Financial Review This report is compiled in accordance with the Core option of the Global Reporting 04 Mirae Asset Daewoo 20 Corporate Governance 79  Independent Auditors’ Report Initiative (GRI) Standards, a global standard for sustainability reports, and the framework of at a Glance (Consolidated Financial the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). It is also aligned to the 10 principles 24 Ethical Management Statements) of the UN Global Compact, which the company has been upholding since 2006. 28 Risk Management 82 Consolidated Financial The reporting period of this report is from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and some Company Overview 31 Stakeholder Engagement Statements topics disclose three-year data from 2016 for trend comparison. Both financial information and non-financial information are reported according to the company’s fiscal years 06 CEO Message 32 Materiality Test 89 Independent Auditors’ Report following our disclosure policy, and information that do not fit such criteria have footnotes 08 Company Profile (Separate Financial Statements) added. This report also includes information on major activities executed in the first half 12 G.I.D.P Innovation Sustainability Issue 92 Separate Financial Statements of 2019. 14 Business Segment 36 Pursuing Sustainable Finance Reporting Scope 40 Building a Strong Appendix I The scope of information in this report encompasses the company headquarters, Customer Support Center, IT Center, domestic branch network, and overseas subsidiaries and offices Information Protection System 100 Mirae Asset Financial Group and other areas where Mirae Asset Daewoo performs business activities. The reporting 44 Strengthening Digital Finance 102 Independent Assurance scope of the data provided in this report satisfies at least 75% of the company’s sales on 48 Protecting Financial Consumers Statement a consolidated basis. However, as for overseas business sites, such as overseas subsidiaries and offices, the scope of reporting includes business performance only for data collection is 104 Verification of GHG Emissions difficult due to physical limitations in terms of material management and assessment. Data Reports Management Discussion & Analysis 105 GRI Index Independent Assurance To enhance the internal and external credibility of this report, the company commissioned 109 UNGC & UN SDGs 54 Business Performance an independent assurance statement from the DNV GL, which is a professional assurance 110 Social Performance organization. Also, credibility and fairness in the compilation process, disclosure data 56 Performance Review & Plan by Business 112 Environmental Performance and other content have been ensured by VeriSustain™, which is an assurance protocol of DNV GL in accordance with international standards including International Standard on 64 Human Resources 113 Tax Policy Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. Management 114 Organization Chart 70 Customer Satisfaction 115 Membership & Awards Management Contact Information 72 Social Contributions Address Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea Appendix II 77 Environmental Management Phone +82-2-3774-6755 117 Notes to the Consolidated Fax +82-2-3774-1343 Financial Statements E-mail irteam@miraeasset.com Mirae Asset Daewoo CEO Message Company Profile G.I.D.P Innovation Business Segment at a Glance Mirae Asset Daewoo at a Glance Mirae Asset Investment Advisory (BEIJING) Co. Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK LLC Beijing Representative Office (USA) Inc. HQ in South Korea Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) Inc. Global Network (As of the end of March, 2019) DOMESTIC NETWORK 111 REPRESENTATIVE OFFICES 3 OVERSEAS SUBSIDIARIES 11 (Number of corporations in operating activities) Mirae Asset Securities Shanghai Representative Office (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Mirae Asset Wealth Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Capital Markets Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. Management (Brazil) CCTVM Securities (UK) Ltd. (India) Private Limited Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia Ho Chi Minh Representative Office Shareholder Composition Global Investment Partner Mirae Asset Daewoo is making relentless endeavor to make a leap forward into Credit Ratings becoming a global top-tier investment bank by expanding our global business. Number of Ownership — Mirae Asset Daewoo Shareholder Name shares (%) Bonds Commercial paper Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. 126,980,000 19.29 Total Assets Equity Capital Total Client Assets Market Share in Brokerage Commissions for Equity Securities AA A1 Korea Ratings, Korea Investors Service, NICE Investors Service National Pension Service Naver Employee Stock Ownership Plan 65,769,075 47,393,364 1,703,912 9.99 7.20 0.26 118.1 8.4 234.4 10.5 Treasury Stock 109,581,643 16.65 Foreign bonds Baa2 BBB Others 306,888,414 46.62 % KRW trillion KRW trillion KRW trillion (Stable) (Stable) Total 658,316,408 100.00 Moody’s S&P (As of December 31, 2018; Consolidated figures basis) (As of December 31, 2018; Ordinary shares basis) 04 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT INTRODUCTION 05 Mirae Asset Daewoo CEO Message Company Profile G.I.D.P Innovation Business Segment at a Glance CEO Message Dear clients, shareholders and other stakeholders of Mirae Asset Daewoo, I would like to extend my utmost gratitude for your Our client assets are the foundation and reason for our in IB and PI by making full use of our extensive overseas The reason that Mirae Asset Daewoo is aiming to become unwavering support and encouragement which has been business, so that we have proactively protected them network. We have also started to use advanced digital a global investment bank is so that we can provide vital to our continued success. from the impact of the market downturn. In particular, technologies, including big data, to introduce a new our individual and corporate clients, both in Korea and we expanded long-term assets in pension products from market forecast methodology into our WM business. These overseas, with differentiated content, products, and It is my great pleasure to have the opportunity to share just over KRW 10 trillion to almost KRW 12 trillion, and efforts will lead to the development of differentiated global services that they need to achieve optimal asset allocation our achievements in 2018 in creating economic, social, overseas stock consignments, which are emerging as products and services, enabling our clients to benefit from and profitability, and thus ensure a secure retirement. and environmental value, as well as our vision for the a new destination for investments, rose from just over higher quality financial investments. We are also continuously striving to uncover diverse and future through this Integrated Report. KRW 3 trillion to KRW 5 trillion. We have thus successfully profitable new opportunities for generating income, so created an investment portfolio which both meets our Above all, we are striving to transform the fundamentals of that we can improve our return on equity and create For most financial institutions, including Mirae Asset clients’ requirements and safeguards their assets. We our business so that we can become a global investment greater returns for our shareholders. Daewoo, 2018 was a challenging year. The year began have also increased the number of our high net worth bank. We will further increase our investment assets in with high hopes, triggered by exponential growth of individual customers (those with investments of KRW 100 Korea and overseas, which stand at KRW 6 trillion. We Mirae Asset Daewoo will strive through ‘Permanent the companies leading the Fourth Industrial Revolution. million or more) to 150,000. will also continue to improve our investment organization, Innovation and Investment’ to open new roads towards However, there was dramatic volatility in the second half and hire the best professionals so that we can sharpen our national and international prosperity. These efforts will of the year, caused by the US-China trade conflict and As such, 2018 was a significant year for Mirae Asset competitive edge in IB and trading. be supported by our complete commitment to being interest rate hikes by the US Federal Reserve, which in turn Daewoo, in which we laid the foundation for achieving a company which is based on ethics and transparency, led to a marked economic decline in Korea and overseas. our mid-to long-term vision of becoming a global Last but not least, Mirae Asset Daewoo is fully committed dedicated to the principles of sharing and volunteering. investment bank. to fulfilling our social responsibilities. We are establishing Throughout 2018, however, Mirae Asset Daewoo has a model for sustainable growth so that we can create Your continued support and encouragement would be maintained our focus on overcoming the challenges Dear client, shareholders and stakeholders, good jobs, offer high-quality products and services for most appreciated. we faced, and has continued to lay the foundation for the prosperity of society, and continue to make heartfelt In 2019, we will reflect on the achievements and challenges becoming a global investment bank. contributions to people in need. Our activities relating to Thank you. of 2018, and build on them to achieve sustainable growth. corporate social responsibilities are focused on three main We solidified our position as a major mega IB through a areas–nurturing talent, social welfare, and a culture of First of all, we are establishing a flexible organizational capital increase of KRW 70 million in early 2018, which sharing in partnership with the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon structure which is able to respond swiftly to the changing expanded our equity capital to KRW 8.4 trillion. At the Joo Foundation. These activities reflect our commitment competitive landscape. We are setting up large WM same time, we have leveraged our investment capabilities to sharing our profits with the socially marginalized and centers suited to the fast-changing mobile era, while also to secure over KRW 6 trillion investment assets in Korean wider society, and building a better tomorrow. putting in place independent management structures Choi Hyun Man and overseas. We have thus created a series of strong, needed for IB, trading, and wealth management (WM), differentiated engines for growth in investment banking Mirae Asset Daewoo firmly believes that we can make Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, in order to establish responsible management and speed (IB), principal investment (PI), and trading. In addition, we a contribution to the world through investment. Based Mirae Asset Daewoo management. have established our overseas business as a new revenue on this, all of our business activities revolve around our source by strengthening the capital of our overseas core principles of ‘customer alliance’ and ‘enhancing In addition, we will upgrade the G.I.D.P (Global, Investment, subsidiaries, and issued U.S. dollar-denominated bond shareholder value’. Digitalization, and Pension) strategy formulated last year worth USD 300 million for the first time among Korean to a strategy of ‘creating synergy through convergence’. securities companies, in order to secure an additional We will double our execution capacity for overseas deals source of funding. 06 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 07 Mirae Asset Daewoo CEO Message Company Profile G.I.D.P Innovation Business Segment at a Glance Company Profile BUSINESS PHILOSOPHY Mirae Asset Daewoo has been taking a step forward with sincerity to grow into a global IB. As a global investment expert and based on its global network, Mirae Asset Daewoo has been We value our people and embrace the future with an open mind. taking the lead in providing products with distinctive values by proactively identifying assets of Putting our clients’ needs first, we aspire to be a consistent partner. Business philosophy is what high quality all around the world and actively pursuing overseas investment opportunities. guides us and is a never-changing value of Mirae Asset. VISION As a global financial group, we pursue excellence in investment management to help our clients achieve their long-term objectives. We strive for our clients’ lifetime well-being. Our Group vision presents Mirae Asset’s evolving role and strategy as a global investment company working towards our clients’ lifetime well-being. CORE VALUES Our four core values – Clients First, Objectivity, Team Play and Citizenship – should be the key decision-making criteria for all Mirae Asset employees. Clients First Objectivity Team Play Citizenship We grow through Profoundly aware of Our clients’ success is respect for each our responsibilities We assess opportunity our success. We will individual and belief as a good corporate impartially. Our nurture long-term in team spirit. We aim citizen, we give back to independence helps relationships by helping to create an ethical the communities that ensure our decisions are our clients build wealth meritocracy in which nurture us and pledge aligned with the needs for life with proven talent is rewarded and to continue to support of our clients. investment strategies. opportunity is equally a range of community available to all. initiatives. Company Subsidiaries Overview Company name Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Company name Location Capital stock Main business Ownership Headquarters Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul 04539, Korea Mirae Asset Venture Investments Co., Ltd. Korea KRW 26.5 billion SME start-up investments 72.6% Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Korea KRW 990.7 billion Insurance business 17.1% CEOs Choi Hyun Man, Cho Ung Kee Mirae Asset Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong USD 634.3 million Brokerage and investment 100% Business type Financial investment Brokerage, investment Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. UK USD 607.7 million 100% Global network U.S., UK, Brazil, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Indonesia, Vietnam, etc. and investment advisory (As of December 31, 2018) Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. U.S. USD 232.45 million Brokerage and investment 100% Real estate investment Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) Pte. Singapore USD 61.04 million 100% and leasing (As of December 31, 2018) 08 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 09 Mirae Asset Daewoo CEO Message Company Profile G.I.D.P Innovation Business Segment at a Glance Investment As Korea’s leading financial institution, our investment activities are firmly based on solid Value Chain Mirae Asset Daewoo is committed to doing our business in a sustainable way throughout the investment principles and know-how accumulated with our professional experiences. Furthermore, entire business lifecycle from product development to sales, customer care, investment, and asset Principles we strive to provide our clients with greater value and contribute to creating a vibrant society management. This enables us to maximize our business performance, while providing clients with through investment. long-term and systematic asset management services. Approach Major issues ▪ C ompanies with “sustainable competitiveness” refer to those companies with a competitive advantage in market share, business model, corporate governance and earnings growth. It is Mirae Asset’s We develop products from a long-term belief that share prices eventually converge with earnings growth and ▪ Develop products to meet subsequent cash flow. perspective aimed at protecting financial societal needs and changes Mirae Asset identifies consumers. In particular, we take such as aging society ▪ Thus, our effort to identify companies with sustainable competitiveness the sustainable competitiveness a comprehensive approach encompassing of companies. is a search for high quality factors in a company that will lead to stable customer, product, and channel, and thus ▪ Develop eco-friendly products earnings growth. such as a product responding develop products that meet customer Product development to climate change needs. ▪ A long-term perspective is needed when determining whether a company’s competitiveness is sustainable. Though share prices may be volatile over the short-term, earnings growth is the main driver behind We make sure that clients can enjoy our long-term price movements. products and services more conveniently ▪ Operate diverse sales channel Mirae Asset invests ▪ Investing in individual company’s intrinsic competitiveness and and access our diversified sales channels platforms with a long-term generating stable cash flow is the very essence of long-term more easily. In particular, we are compliant ▪ Comply with ethics and perspective. investment. with our sales practices and pursue compliance Sales complete selling. ▪ Investment risks should always be simultaneously assessed with expected return. Key factors such as valuation, corporate governance ▪ Provide customers with We offer customized wealth management customized products and liquidity should be continuously monitored for any potential services as well as a variety of services damage on the long-term competitiveness of a company. ▪ Promote communication with specific to online and mobile channels, Mirae Asset assesses ▪ E xposure to assets that may incur too much risk should be limited customers which in turn, lead to differentiated investment risks with while the Risk Management Division should constantly monitor Customer management ▪ Protect private and financial customer experiences. expected return. whether actual investment adheres to our investment principles. information of customers ▪ Successful investment management at Mirae Asset is not based on an We enhance the value of client assets individual’s decision-making but rather on a team’s decision to firmly through successful asset management ▪ Generate stable cash flow adhere to our investment principles and processes. from a long-term perspective. In particular, ▪ Pursue sound asset management ▪ Mirae Asset does not rely on star managers. Portfolios in accordance we are committed to fulfilling our social Investment and Mirae Asset values with our investment principles are created through extensive responsibility by engaging in socially asset management ▪ Expand socially responsible a team-based approach discussions and teamwork among division members. responsible investments such as new and investments in decision-making. renewable energy. 10 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 11 Mirae Asset Daewoo CEO Message Company Profile G.I.D.P Innovation Business Segment at a Glance G.I.D.P Innovation The Permanent We are forward-looking and never stop innovating – this is the core of our strengths. We are taking a leap forward to being a global top-tier IB by 2020 through innovation in the four areas of Global, Innovator Investment, Digitalization, and Pension. GLOBAL Pursue globalization of business structure DIGITALIZATION Establish a foundation for future growth Generate 30% of profits from global business by 2020 through digitalization Achievements in 2018 Plans for 2019 Achievements in 2018 Plans for 2019 ∙ Successfully launched the ‘Mirae ∙ We aim to become an integrated Asset Permanent Innovation financial investment company ∙ Became the first in the industry to ∙ We will pursue globalization of System (MAPIS)’ to proactively to offer all types of financial exceed KRW 5 trillion in overseas our business structure by going respond to the Fourth Industrial transactions anytime, anywhere, stock asset beyond global network expansion Revolution with ease and convenience and sourcing global IB deals and ∙ Became the first in the industry allocating customer assets and ∙ Opened the Digital Innovation ∙ We will expand the scope of to enter the capital market in proprietary assets globally Platform homepage to collaborate digitalization to include not only India by establishing an Indian D with fintech companies customer services but also our subsidiary ∙ We aim to achieve global G way of work business to bring balance back ∙ Became the first in the industry to ∙ Became the first in the industry to the domestic-dependent release an authentication service to issue U.S. dollar-denominated profit structure and enhance the which connects a PC and mobile bonds of USD 300 million company’s profit stability devices INVESTMENT Achieve growth through investment PENSION Strengthen pension-based integrated marketing Achievements in 2018 Plans for 2019 Achievements in 2018 Plans for 2019 ∙ Discovered and invested in unicorn ∙ We will identify and invest in ∙ Became the first in the industry to ∙ We will run our pension business companies in Korea and overseas, sound investment assets and achieve KRW 11 trillion in pension in a consistent manner, from such as Didi Chuxing, Grab, and companies with growth potential, assets a long-term perspective, with DJI driven by a dedication to the goal of helping our customers ∙ Expanded non-face-to-face contribute to customers and enjoy a comfortable retirement ∙ Made investment in Alphadom customer services and carried society City in Pangyo to support out infrastructure innovation to ∙ We aim to provide optimum nurturing a cluster for the Industry ∙ We will productize our improve customer convenience pension solutions based 4.0 and convergence among highdifferentiated investment to allow on the largest collection of P ∙ Established an ‘Open Pension I tech industries Korean investors an opportunity pension products in Korea and Asset Management Center’ to to invest in outstanding global differentiated profitability ∙ Made investment in corporateoffer accessibility not only for our assets management systems style public housing initiatives to customers but also for others improve the housing environment and supply public housing in Korea 12 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 13 Mirae Asset Daewoo CEO Message Company Profile G.I.D.P Innovation Business Segment at a Glance Business Segment Wealth Management Pension IB Trading We provide top-tier wealth management services that are well We help our customers manage their assets to prepare for a We will establish a business model where growth of the company Mirae Asset Daewoo is an independent investment specialist, suited for customer’s purpose and propensity of investment, stable post-retirement life through the efficient management of is translated into benefits for investors and share them with our equipped with a globally competitive human network and backed by our global network – the largest among Korean their retirement and individual pensions based on our distinctive clients. financial infrastructure. We strive to increase profitability in a securities companies. global market asset allocation capabilities. stable and consistent manner through product-linked trading and principal investments. OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OVERVIEW Customized integrated consulting service Differentiated pension consulting service IB Division1 Product-linked trading Mirae Asset Daewoo provides comprehensive consulting We support all business operations necessary to make It provides full services for corporate initial public offerings We offer diverse investment opportunities with our inservices for complicated issues by leveraging our expertise in decisions on the introduction of a retirement pension system (IPO) and various corporate financing solutions, such as pre-IPO house developed equity-linked securities (ELS), derivativetax, real estate, legal, investment, and insurance. Furthermore, and our highly-experienced consultants and other dedicated investments, paid-in capital increase and issuance of equitylinked securities (DLS) and exchange-traded notes (ETN) with we create and deliver timely contents with the financial and professionals provide specialized consulting services on linked notes and corporate bonds. It also offers such diverse such various underlying assets as stocks, indices, foreign non-financial market evolvement. the adoption of a retirement pension system and stable financial services as finance for publicly-traded REITs, structured currencies, credit and commodities, to meet client needs management of pension assets. We are the only one in the finance and credit exposure. for medium-risk medium-return investments in the current VIP service industry to operate a dedicated administrative organization for low interest rate environment. These financial products are IB Division2 Mirae Asset Daewoo has launched ‘Oblige Club’, an exclusive seamless support and own a leading retirement pension system. linked to our hedging investments as well. Furthermore, we It undertakes real estate projects in Korea and overseas in wealth management brand for VIP customers who pursue operate repurchase agreements (RP) in a stable manner, and Wrap account for global asset allocation various forms that require large-scale financing. In addition, it values beyond wealth and honor, to provide not only financial provide our clients with short-term fixed interest through cash We are the first securities firm in Korea to launch a global asset conducts diverse alternative investments including aviation and services but also greater values. Our VIP services include Global management accounts (CMA). allocation wrap account which provides a one-stop service ship finances, and also provides financial advisory and funding Vacation Club, which provides leisurely time with dignity and across the entire process from investment strategy (Plan) to services for power & energy and infrastructure projects. Principal investments ideal services, private culture and art programs with diverse product selection (Do) and monitoring (See). Our investment We are making investments in global companies with high and in-depth themes, and premium lifestyle services to ensure IB Division3 experts provide systematic services, ranging from product competitiveness from mid-to long-term perspectives, based relaxing and graceful life for VIP customers. The Oblige Club It leverages its domestic and overseas networks to participate selection to investment execution and after-sales management, on our global network, the largest among Korean securities will stand by our customers to help them enjoy their postin the acquisition finance market and provides M&A advisory thereby assisting the successful management of customer’s firms. A thorough risk management system has been in place retirement life. services. It invests in overseas real estate and SOC financings pension assets. to pursue stable profitability and generate return on capital. through global investments, and also provides top-tier private A number of advanced trading methodologies are applied to Affiliation with SEMA to support its pension business equity fund (PEF) management services as a general partner the management of bond, foreign exchange and derivatives Scientists and Engineers Mutual-aid Association (SEMA) (GP). products, pursuing proprietary trading which generates a consigned Mirae Asset Daewoo to conduct its pension stable and consistent return on capital. operations in 2010. We were designated as the sole consignment operator of SEMA’s pension management through a fair competition, and have conducted IT system development and asset management operations, including management (recording) of SEMA pension, asset management services, and order transaction services. As of the end of 2018, there are 21,199 subscribers with KRW 1,740 billion assets under management. FEATURES FEATURES Total financial solutions Mirae Asset Daewoo offers customized Organization with expertise and capabilities Mirae Asset services of various nature, such as corporate financing, real estate, Daewoo has categorized its trading organization into two divisions, FEATURES FEATURES alternative investment, and acquisition financing, and thus presents in order to ensure responsible management, professionalism, and Global asset allocation In a bid to provide high quality financial A wide range of products We provide well-diversified products comprehensive solutions based on experiences accumulated both in distinctive competitiveness. Accordingly, Trading Division1 is in charge of services to our customers, Mirae Asset Daewoo has launched a by leveraging our outstanding global asset allocation capabilities. We Korea and overseas. derivatives trading, while Trading Division2 is dedicated to fixed income global expertise development program to nurture talents with global also pursue both stability and profitability, with the goal of helping trading. business competences from a long-term perspective. Furthermore, our customers create and manage pension assets that will ensure their ■ Derivatives trading: On the back of the state-of-the-art financial engineering we have a top-tier research center and global network through which comfortable retirement. methodologies and expertise accumulated for over a decade, we develop our customers can receive differentiated investment information and in-house models, and monitor and analyze derivatives-related positions. Services based on well-structured organizations Mirae Asset advanced and stable financial products. In particular, we are seeing In addition, we provide full support for the derivative product system and Daewoo is reaching out to its pension customers through nationinternal IT system to upgrade product offerings and trading process. innovative products with combined IB and trading further expand the wide WM branches, Investment Wealth-Management Center (IWC), horizon for customer’s asset management. ■ Fixed income trading: Based on a distinguished management process, and Corporate RM Center at its headquarters. We have established we carry out product-linked trading for bonds denominated in KRW Customer services at mega-sized branches We have taken a step internal teams of dedicated pension experts, such as Pension Asset and foreign currencies along with proprietary trading. We also supply in 2018 to create mega-sized branches by consolidating and merging 28 Management Team, Pension Information Team, Mirae Asset Retirement bonds denominated in KRW and foreign currencies to retail customers. branches. This was in line with our goal of providing a more streamlined Institute, and Pension Consulting Department, providing competitive Furthermore, we offer bond brokerage services for both domestic and customer service and enhancing the quality of customer consulting services. services. overseas institutional investors, while providing clear guidance on global As of the end of March 2019, there are 111 branches in operation. and local interest rates aimed at diversifying bond investment and improving profitability. 14 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 15 Mirae Asset Daewoo CEO Message Company Profile G.I.D.P Innovation Business Segment at a Glance Wholesale PBS Global Digital We provide institutional investors and corporations in Korea We contribute to vibrant investment activities in hedge Mirae Asset Daewoo is leveraging its industry know-how built Equipped with competitive investment solution platforms such as with a series of products and solutions, including equity, funds while also helping our customers increase their assets through long-standing business operations both at home and the home trading system (HTS) and mobile trading system (MTS), derivatives-linked securities (DLS), alternative investment by providing services for hedge fund management, such overseas and a highly-competitive global network to discover and we provide differentiated customer services by analyzing big data. products and financial products from home and abroad, suited as securities lending and borrowing, leverage, marketing, invest in prime assets around the globe. In particular, by establishing to their institution-level financial management. consignment, and swap. specialized business models through localization, we are committed to establishing a successful overseas business model. OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OVERVIEW OVERVIEW Securities brokerage service Hedge fund service Most extensive global network among Non-face-to-face online business For Korean institutional investors covering both Korean and We support the effective execution of hedge fund management Korean securities firms We have launched online and mobile transaction services to foreign corporations, rich research contents and services are strategies by making investments in domestic and overseas We have built a global network which is the largest in the enable 24/7 account opening through automated identity card provided to optimize their decision-making and investment assets. We also offer incubation services through seeding industry with 11 overseas subsidiaries and three representative authentication and immediate transactions. In particular, we execution processes. In addition, we offer various investment and marketing, brokerage services for domestic and overseas offices in ten countries across Europe, U.S., South America, have adopted fintech solutions such as simple authentication solutions, such as unlisted securities brokerage and overseas securities and bonds, funding through broker loans, and and Asia. There are around 850 professionals fully engaged in and video calls to expand services that can enhance customer pre-IPO services, in order to satisfy the demand of institutional consignments for investment. business areas including IB, global brokerage, trading, WM, convenience. investors for new types of investment. and prime brokerage. Securities lending and borrowing service Customized financial services Customized investment products This refers to a securities lending service to support short Proactive overseas market expansion and Mirae Asset Daewoo is leveraging big data and AI technologies For Korean institutional investors and corporations, we offer covering and arbitrage trading strategies. We are expanding strategies to predominate the market to offer customized financial services in various areas, such as customized investment solutions including trusts, wrap the service scope to allow retail customers to leverage this Mirae Asset Daewoo is the only Korean securities company global investment, financial products, and pensions. accounts, collective investment securities, derivatives-linked service. that has entered Brazil, Mongolia, and India, and we are an securities, such as ELS and DLS, and alternative investment established market participant in the local markets. In particular, Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives service our New York subsidiary launched PBS business for the first time products, such as domestic and overseas real estate and Based on our global network, we are offering hedge funds among overseas subsidiaries of Korean securities companies, overseas blind funds. with investment accessibility for multiple countries. We are demonstrating our pioneering position not only in terms of pursuing financing and fund expansion through total return countries where we operate but also the businesses we carry out. swap, while endeavoring to maximize the profit. Establishing overseas business model tailored to a local market We focus on building our own business models, tailored to each region based on long-standing overseas expansion experiences, instead of following typical overseas expansion models. This contributed to all overseas subsidiaries recording profits in 2018, creating a successful overseas expansion model. FEATURES FEATURES FEATURES FEATURES Providing distinctive services We are devoted to developing One-stop business platform This division reports directly to the Strategy for developed markets In developed markets, we are Distinctive investment solutions We offer such differentiated competitive products by joining hands with relevant teams and major CEO and offers adequate services in a timely and efficient manner. The vigorously establishing an efficient investment ecosystem by identifying financial services as Global Portfolio Solution (GPS) and m.Club asset managers both in Korea and overseas to launch products that division itself operates an integrated organization to provide all services and investing in prime assets and taking a step further in productizing through multiple channels including the industry’s first MTS, HTS with cater to varying needs of institutional customers including Korea’s on its own and also offers professional services and feedback that are investment assets for WM clients. In addition, we focus on developing proven strengths, websites, and blogs. major pension funds, public institutions, insurers, and commercial suited to customer demands in a fast and accurate manner. a sustainable business model by penetrating niche markets that reflect corporations. To proactively respond to growing demand for overseas each region’s characteristics to create stable sources of revenue. Digital finance innovation Amid fast-changing financial alternative investment products, we have expanded our product environment, we are offering customers a new financial experience Strategy for emerging markets In emerging markets, we are backed by innovative digital financial solutions. In particular, portfolio to incorporate hedge funds, PEF, debt funds, infrastructure expanding our business to include IB and trading based on brokerage partnership with fintech companies and ICT companies allow us to funds, and real estate funds. services for retail and institutional investors, while earning a stature pioneer into discovering innovative digital finance technologies and as a full-service local securities firm through a customized localization develop differentiated financial services, such as our digital advisory strategy that takes local circumstances into consideration. As a service. specialist in the emerging market, we continue to make investments in overseas business from a long-term perspective. 16 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW 17 GOVERNANCE 20 Corporate Governance 24 Ethical Management 28 Risk Management 31 Stakeholder Engagement 32 Materiality Test 18 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 19 Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Corporate Governance Role and Status of BOD Appointment and Expertise of Directors Efficient Operation of BOD Mirae Asset Daewoo has built a sound and transparent corporate In constituting our Board of Directors, Mirae Asset Daewoo The BOD and subcommittees under the Board are Mirae Asset Audit Committee governance structure, in order to promote long-term growth takes diversity into consideration, such as race, gender, religion, Daewoo’s key decision-making entities and are fully executing The Audit Committee supervises the propriety and legitimacy of and protect the interest of shareholders, financial consumers birthplace, and nationality in accordance with our Internal their roles and responsibilities. Five committees are in place, the management’s actions to help deliver rational management and other stakeholders. In addition, we have made continued Corporate Governance rules. In terms of expertise, we eliminate such as the Committee for Recommendation of Candidates decisions. Comprised of three independent directors qualified efforts to improve transparency in management and build a biases, such as having a specific common background or for Executive Officers, Audit Committee, Risk Management in terms of independence, the Committee members have robust framework for responsible business management. The representing the interest of certain job positions and groups. Committee, Compensation Committee and Steering Committee. professional backgrounds in financial investment, financial Board of Directors (BOD) consists of seven directors – three Furthermore, the BOD consists of directors with a proper level of In particular, the Steering Committee has been established supervisory, and accounting and finance. There are grounds to executive directors and four independent directors. We maintain experience and knowledge from diverse areas to fulfill directors’ within the BOD to deliberate and decide key management leverage advisory from external experts, if necessary. To reinforce the independence of the BOD from management by composing duties. As of April 2019, the BOD consists of five members with and operational affairs. This is to ensure that major decisions independence and fairness, of particular note, the Committee a majority of directors with qualified independent directors. expertise in financial investment, one in law/administration and of the company go through internal deliberation of the members are appointed and dismissed by an annual general taxation, and one in economics and business administration. Steering Committee, established based on the Commercial Act meeting (AGM), and they execute duties in a stance independent Our independent directors are required to meet independence and Articles of Incorporation, to enhance the adequacy and from the BOD or execution bodies. Resolutions made by the criteria in addition to diversity and expertise and independent legitimacy of managerial decisions as well as transparency and Audit Committee cannot be objected to by the BOD. director candidates are managed on an ongoing basis. fairness of the decision-making process. This also allows us to deliver values of sound corporate governance and responsible management. Board of Directors (As of May 2019) In 2018, a total of 17 board meetings were held, with an average Classification Name Expertise Key Profile Tenure attendance rate of 100%. Meeting agenda was distributed ∙ Financial investment ∙ Executive Vice Chairman, Mirae Asset Life Insurance prior to the meetings, allowing the directors to review items in Choi 14 years ∙ Economics and business advance and if necessary, obtain details from working-level staff Hyun Man ∙ Currently Executive Vice Chairman & CEO, Mirae Asset Daewoo 11 months administration to enhance their understanding of the issues at hand. Directors Executive ∙ Financial investment Cho ∙ President & CEO, Mirae Asset Securities 7 years from various professional backgrounds have actively taken part directors ∙ Economics and business Ung Kee ∙ Currently Vice Chairman & CEO, Mirae Asset Daewoo 11 months in the BOD meetings last year. As a result, all of the agenda items administration have been approved without modified votes, deferrals or other Kim ∙ Head of IB Division1, Executive Vice President, Mirae Asset Daewoo 1 year ∙ Financial investment abnormalities. Sang Tae ∙ Currently President/Head of Investment Banking, Mirae Asset Daewoo 1 month ∙ Financial investment Hwang ∙ Chairman, Korea Financial Investment Association 4 years Committees under the BOD ∙ Economics and business Kun Ho* ∙ Currently Visiting Professor, Sogang Business School 1 month administration Number of Kim ∙ Law and administration ∙ Administrative Chief Official & Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economy 3 years Classification Roles & Responsibilities Composition Meetings Held in 2018 Byeong Il ∙ Accounting and tax ∙ Currently Professor, Tax Economics Department, Kangnam University 2 months (Handled Agenda) Independent directors ∙ Economics and business Committee for Kwon ∙ Deputy Minister of Trade Investment, Ministry of Knowledge Economy 2 years administration Recommendation of • Recommend candidates for independent directors, Executive director: 1 1 time Tae Kyun ∙ Currently Advisor, Yulchon LLC 1 month ∙ Government authority Candidates for Executive members of the Audit Committee and CEO Independent directors: 2 (3 agenda) Officers Park ∙ Financial investment ∙ Assistant Superintendent, Financial Supervisory Service 1 year Chan Soo ∙ Government authority ∙ Currently CEO, Pinestone 1 month • Build propriety of the overall internal control system * Chairman of BOD 11 times Audit Committee • Establish and execute internal audit plans to evaluate and Independent directors: 3 (22 agenda) improve the company’s business performance Independent Director Appointment Process • Supervise comprehensively and create a controlled environment to enable efficient risk management and Risk Management Executive director: 1 16 times build internal control framework Committee Independent directors: 2 (35 agenda) • Build integrated risk management policies, and assign roles and responsibilities for supervising • Determine compensation amount and payment method Recommended by the Executive director: 1 4 times Compensation Committee • Develop and disclose an annual report on compensation Expert pool for committee for recommendation Independent directors: 2 (4 agenda) payment independent of candidates for executive Expertise, directors officers Put to vote • Deliberate and vote on matters delegated by the BOD, 16 times independence, and at an annual Steering Committee Executive directors: 3 including overall corporate affairs and related matters (19 agenda) industry and work general experiences Persons that do not Require the attendance of meeting violate independent a majority of the Committee ineligibility or members, and the concurrence of stakeholder conflicts a majority of the members present Directors with special interests are not eligible to exercise voting rights 20 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 21 Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Independence and Diversity of BOD Evaluation and Compensation of BOD Mirae Asset Daewoo adheres to the principle of appointing In addition, we leverage strategic decision-making to review Mirae Asset Daewoo reviews the composition and operation of in place under the BOD to build and run a fair compensation independent and professional independent directors to build candidates from various fields to contribute to flexible and the BOD and its internal committees prior to an AGM every year. framework. The Committee is responsible for reviewing whether a sound corporate governance system. We comply with the efficient management. A comprehensive evaluation is carried out, assessing whether the compensation framework for management and specific appointment procedures and principles, and thus secure the BOD has adequately performed its roles to contribute to positions are reasonably developed against risk structure, and independence. Qualifications for appointing competent the interests of internal and external stakeholders, as well monitors the connection among the compensation framework, candidates are as follows: as their expertise, understanding of work duties, ethical and the company’s financial position and risks on a regular basis. I. Appoint a person with relevant experience with social responsibilities and demonstrated fairness in conflict of The Committee also runs an independent probe to monitor business management, law, administration and interests. This is initiated by the BOD, but specific duties are whether governance best practices of a financial company are other fields that may comprehensively contribute to commissioned and independently performed by supporting adequately complied with, thereby strengthening the objectivity I. Person with sufficient job experience or professional the business, despite lack of direct relevance in the divisions. In addition, the Compensation Committee has set of evaluation. expertise in such fields as finance, economy, business financial and securities industries management, accounting and law, required to perform duties as the company’s independent director Employee Compensation against Highest Paid Director II. Constitute the BOD by appointing experts with a or audit committee member proper level of experience and knowledge from diverse areas to fulfill directors’ duties; and eliminate biases, II. Person capable of performing duties without being such as having a specific common background or restricted by certain interests for the interests of all representing the interest of certain job positions and shareholders or financial consumers as the company’s groups Compensation of the highest paid independent director or audit committee member director to average employee Highest paid director Average employee compensation compensation III. Build a dedicated team that consistently provides 2,290 106 21.6 III. Person with appropriate sense of ethics and training and business support to independent directors responsibility to perform duties as the company’s to support expertise in financial industry, and hold independent director or audit committee member regular and irregular meetings to encourage and KRW million KRW million times complement individual expertise Compensation of Directors Headcount1) Total amount paid2) Per capita Preventing Conflict of Interest Classification (Person) (KRW million) (KRW million) Directors who wish to leverage business opportunities that or conglomerates banned from doing cross-investment among Executive Director 3 4,462 1,487 benefit or may benefit the company’s interests are required to affiliates engage in transactions exceeding KRW 5 billion or 5% Independent Director 1 59 59 obtain prior approval. Activities related to conflict of interest of the larger between total capital and capital with a person Audit Committee Member 3 186 62 are managed and monitored in compliance with Articles 397 with a special relationship. In line with the regulation, we have and 398 of the Commercial Act. Accordingly, the 7th and obtained approval from the 2nd, 5th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, Total 7 4,708 673 16th board meetings in 2018 deliberated on the fairness of 12th, 14th, 15th, 16th, and 17th board meetings in 2018 on 1) Number of registered directors as of December 31, 2018 transactions and unanimously voted on the ‘Comprehensive large-scale internal transactions of affiliates in accordance with 2) Total compensation amount paid to directors of the BOD during 2018 Approval of the Transactions with Key Shareholders, etc.’ The the Fair Trade Act. Fair Trade Act mandates prior approval from the BOD if affiliates Criteria for Determining Independency of Independent Directors (Disqualification of Independence, Article 382 of the Commercial Act) 1. Directors, executive directors and employees who are engaged in the regular business of the relevant company; or directors, auditors, executive directors and employees who have engaged in the regular business of the relevant company within the latest two years 2. The largest shareholder, his or her spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal descendants 3. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of the corporation, in cases where the largest shareholder is a corporation 4. Spouse, lineal ascendants and lineal descendants of directors, auditors and executive directors 5. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a parent company or a subsidiary company of the relevant company 6. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of a corporation which has a significant interest in the relevant company, such as business transactional relationship 7. Directors, auditors, executive directors and employees of another company where directors, executive directors and employees of the relevant company serve as directors and executive directors 22 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 23 Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Ethical Management Ethical Management System Rules of Ethics on Sales Practices Organization for Ethical Management Policies and Regulations on Ethical Management Mirae Asset Daewoo upholds ethical management as the first A Compliance Officer has been appointed to independently and foremost priority of the financial industry and pursues ethical supervise corporate-wide ethics and compliance. The practices to take a firm root in employees’ business activities Compliance Department is in charge of ethical management of through the Code of Ethics. In 2018, we established the Rules the company, and it manages rules on ethics and compliance, of Ethics on Sales Practices to further enhance the rights and policies and conformity with procedures. In 2018, we have benefits of investors by preventing illegal practices and financial newly set up the Financial Consumer Dispute Settlement Team incidents that may arise in the course of the company’s sales in addition to existing Compliance Advisory Team, Compliance activities. The Rules stipulate fair and accurate business processes Team, and Financial Consumer Protection Team. The Financial and prevention of financial incidents, establishment of a system Consumer Dispute Settlement Team is in charge of handling Code of Ethics Code of Conduct Rules of Ethics on Sales Practices to prevent conflicts of interest, building of a faithful information consumer complaints, conducting training for complaints provisioning process, efficient handling of complaints, prevention, and planning and operating a voice of customer We have overhauled our Code of Ethics We have newly enacted the Code of We have established the Rules of Ethics and protection of investor information. Various efforts are (VOC) system. to emphasize our ethical responsibilities Conduct to present detailed guidelines on Sales Practices to stipulate the underway to spread the new Rules of Ethics through internal and obligations we hold for our to practice ethical management, such as company’s internal rules and regulations communication and employee training. customers, shareholders and investors, fair execution of job duties, prohibition on on such matters as fair and accurate work employees and the company, as well obtaining unfair benefits and fostering execution, prevention of financial incidents, as the nation and society as a socially a healthy corporate culture. establishment of a system to prevent responsible corporation. conflicts of interest, building of a faithful Ethical Management Organization information provisioning process, efficient handling of complaints, and protection of investor information. Board of Directors Ethics and Compliance Report Mirae Asset Daewoo manages internal matters of ethics and Financial Irregularities Report Center CEO Audit Committee compliance violations through a system to protect the whistleWe operate various channels, such as the Voice of Customer blower’s anonymity. Diverse ethics and compliance reporting (VOC) system at our Customer Center, the Financial Consumer Compliance Officer Audit Department channels have been established, including company intranet, Dispute Settlement Team, and the complaints section on our Compliance Department telephone and emails through which an employee’s ethics website, in order to ensure safe financial transactions for our violation and compliance failure can be reported. Any kind of customers. In addition, the Compliance Department operates disadvantageous treatment and discrimination in the form of the internal reporting system. Through these methods, we are working condition against whistle-blowers is strictly banned in striving to prevent financial irregularities and to contribute to accordance with the company’s internal control standards and eradicating corruption. In particular, the internal reporting system Financial Financial Consumer Continuous Compliance Compliance rules of operation. In addition, whistle-blowers are entitled to has several measures in place such as whistle-blower protection Consumer Protection Dispute Settlement Consulting Team Advisory Team Team Team Team an incentive program to encourage employees’ participation, and incentives. Audit Team 1 thereby creating a culture of ethics which is trusted across the • Establish and operate • Conduct monitoring • Establish and support • Handle customer the internal control on regulation the consumer complaints and enterprise. Audit Team 2 system compliance protection system provide education to • Review compliance in • Operate non• Review investment prevent them Audit Team 3 advance electronic information advertising • Plan and operate protection policies VOCs Ethics and Compliance Reporting and Handling Status • Establish and operate • Conduct field a system to prevent • Operate an antiinspections Classification 2018 Note conflict of interest money laundering • Manage standard • Operate a system to system sales processes No. of reports 7 4 on unethical behavior, 2 on prohibition of fair business execution, 1 on information leakage prevent errors in trade • Operate the FATCA/ orders CRS system No. of effective reports 3 3 complaints were submitted and handled internally • Provide employees • Take measures against with education on illegal and unfair No. of punishments 0 None of the reports were identified to be of non-compliance and illegal nature compliance and ethics activities • Run ethical management programs • Operate the internal reporting system 24 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 25 Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Culture of Ethics and Compliance Internal Control System Ethical Management for Partner Companies Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to enhance the value of employees’ Online Compliance Training We have established a corporate-wide internal control system Ethics Training for Partner Companies integrity and spread a culture of ethics and compliance through We have been running an online training program for compliance in order to manage the ethical and compliance process, as part Mirae Asset Daewoo provides ethics trainings to employees of its continuous training and self-evaluation. in order to establish a culture of ethics. This program takes place of our endeavor to create value of fairness and transparency. partner companies in order to foster ethical practices within the each year for the entire workforce on compliance basics, and a Employees are banned from engaging in political activities during supply chain. In particular, we have included a language in the Ethics and Compliance Campaign Video total of 4,277 employees attended and completed the course business hours, and all company premises are assessed for agreement to consign handling of personal (credit) information Mirae Asset Daewoo has created videos as part of its ethics and in 2018. Furthermore, those subject to mandatory training on exposure to corruption to further grow the company into one that the partner company shall conduct privacy training more compliance promotion campaign with the goal of increasing the anti-money laundering (AML) — 236 executives and 3,993 that fulfills its ethical responsibilities. than once a year. awareness of ethics and compliance among its employees. The staff — are to attend an annual online training course on antivideo includes contents of employees’ basic obligations such Internal Control Committee Support for Developing Partners Companies’ Code of Ethics money laundering so as to enhance the company’s overall as employees’ investment products transaction, provision and Following the legislation of the Governance Act, Mirae Asset We have announced details of our Code of Ethics to help partner understanding of the AML system. reception of property interest, obligations with the firm, and Daewoo convenes Internal Control Committee meetings in a companies develop a proper understanding of our Code of cautionary details when receiving orders. Such campaign videos semi-annual basis. The CEO presides over the Internal Control Ethics. Upon request, we are providing our policies and standards are regularly broadcast through the internal IPTV channels. Committee meetings to discuss matters pertaining to internal on ethical management to them for reference purpose. control assessment results and response measures for key In addition, we have stipulated an article in the Code of Ethics internal control issues. The Committee consists of eight members to ban receiving entertainment, gift, or monetary goods from Activities to Spread a Culture of Ethics and Compliance including the CEO who is also the Chairman of the Committee, stakeholders outside the company to prohibit our employees Compliance Officer, and heads of core business lines. The from receiving any undue gifts, entertainment, and monetary roles and responsibilities of the Committee include sharing the goods from external stakeholders with regards to business. internal control assessment results; review of improvement plans Furthermore, when it comes to partner cooperation, a clause which reflect employee evaluation; overhauling and planning for contracting with integrity is mandated into the partner to respond to internal control vulnerabilities such as financial agreement to ensure all business practices, such as bidding, incidents; deliberation on key matters related to internal control; contracts, and execution of contracts, shall abide by procedures and reviewing ideas to enhance our employees’ sense of ethics set forth by relevant company regulations and be made in a fair Review of the fairness on affiliates’ transaction and compliance. Ethics and compliance training for products and services and transparent manner and our employees shall not exploit one’s superior position to solicit money and goods, coerce unfair • Provide trainings on the company’s ethics and compliance • Conduct evaluation whether any transactions among transaction conditions, and make unlawful demands to intervene system, basic obligations for employees, hands-on affiliates are made in a fair manner in order to eliminate with partner’s own business execution. compliance monitoring, and ethics and compliance issues unfair transactions in products and services • Training program: Visiting training to sales offices on • Prevent discriminatory actions between affiliated ethics and compliance; collective training for compliance companies and non-affiliated companies by reviewing Internal Control System Performance and Plan managers; collective training on ethics and compliance whether fair transaction conditions are met, whether for major sales activities, such as IB, trading, wholesale, business opportunities were provided for affiliated Performance in 2018 Plans for 2019 and research; and training on unfair transactions at the companies, and reasonable comparison of transaction headquarters and branches conditions Revamped and reinforced compliance system Establish field-based ethics and compliance system • Revised four company policies including the internal control standards • Operate a dedicated team for field training and inspection and newly established Rules of Ethics for Sales Practices • Ease regulations on sales activities • Conducted preliminary review on 252 compliance matters and suggested 24 ideas to improve regulations on sales activities to FSS Upgrade internal control system • Enhanced the existing AML system and implemented risk-based • Review domestic and global stock trading systems, and re-establish approach (RBA) system work processes for securities lending and borrowing and covered Written oath on ethical management practice Self-evaluation on ethics and compliance short selling. • Incorporated improvement measures for our stock trading system into the business procedures and IT system (strengthened the criteria to • Each year, the entire workforce at Mirae Asset Daewoo • The entire workforce is required to conduct selfprevent order mistakes, established a system to block employees’ stock Reinforced self-assessment functions shall submit a written oath to practice ethical management evaluation on their ethics and compliance practice on trading, and formulated manuals for order mistakes) • Strengthen monitoring for wrap account/consignment cross trading which stipulates that employees ought to ‘conduct fair a regular basis, in order to establish a culture of ethics and started monitoring for adequacy in covered short selling • Reviewed mandatory vacations (19 employees) to prevent financial and transparent ethical management to contribute to and compliance culture incidents enhancing the corporate value and developing a healthy • Evaluate whether such ethical behavior criteria are met financial industry and to fulfill the corporate’s social as the fair execution of duties and ban on receipt of responsibilities’ unlawful goods and gifts. • New hires and newly appointed independent directors • A monthly ‘Ethics and Compliance Day’ is designated are required to submit the oath, in a bid to promote when departments and branches meet to share and the ethics and compliance mindset across the entire discuss key issues on ethics and compliance workforce 26 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 27 Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Risk Management Risk Management System Establishment of the Financial Instrument Subcommittee Mirae Integrated Crisis Management System Mirae Asset Daewoo Asset Daewoo has established the Financial Instrument has established an integrated crisis management system for Risk Management Governance Subcommittee under the Risk Management Steering Committee preemptive and timely response to crisis situations, including Mirae Asset Daewoo has set the Risk Management Committee loss limits and approving excess limits; approving and monitoring in accordance with Article 23 of our Risk Management Policy in increasing market volatility in Korea and overseas. We have in place under the Board of Directors. The Committee, consisting stress tests; and handling other significant issues related to the order to make quick and professional decisions, such as approval classified crisis situations into three categories – attention, of more than three directors of which a majority are independent company’s risk management system. The Committee members and limitation of sales of financial products to customers, and caution, and emergency – based on ‘financial market stability directors, is the prime decision-making entity on the company’s are appointed and dismissed by the BOD, with one independent development of standards for sales. The Subcommittee had two indicators’ and ‘internal soundness indicators,’ and set risks and is in charge of formulating a risk management strategy director chairing the Committee. meetings in 2018 after its establishment, where standards and detailed execution plans for each level, in order to thoroughly in line with the company’s management strategy and supervising In addition, we have established two steering committees approval for handling of various financial products; and prime prepare ourselves against all crisis situations. In addition, we whether risk management operations are properly carried out. – the Investment Review Steering Committee and the Risk brokerage transactions of OTC derivatives (portfolio swap), have ensured regular and practical monitoring by diversifying Major matters deliberated and decided by the Committee include Management Steering Committee – in order to assist the requested by individual investors and listed companies, were monitoring of domestic and foreign markets and selecting establishing a basic risk management direction and strategies effective operation of the Risk Management Committee. We discussed and resolved, respectively. In 2019, the Subcommittee specific risk indicators that reflect the characteristics of each and inspecting implemented matters; establishing, amending, have also established the Subcommittee to make quick decisions aims to reinforce preliminary risk assessment for sales of department and product, and report monitoring results to senior and abolishing general regulations related to risk management; and conduct specialized risk management in various fields new high-risk financial products, and contribute to investors’ management. To prevent risks that arise from natural disasters setting the company’s risk-adjusted capital and minimum line of within the authority granted to the Risk Management Steering successful asset operation by building a well-structured risk such as fire, floods and earthquakes, as well as risks that are asset soundness; establishing the company-wide risk appetite and Committee and the Investment Review Steering Committee. management process through after-sales monitoring. caused by IT system failures, we have developed and operated a business continuity plan (BCP) at the company level. We also Risk Management Organization have created an emergency manual to ensure continuity and Risk Management Committee Risk Management System stability of business operations by providing seamless business services in case of system failures. Integrated Risk Management System Mirae Asset Daewoo has established an integrated risk management system to meet ‘Minimal Requirements for Risk Management at Brokerage Firms’ recommended by the financial supervisory authorities, Risk Management Framework and to strengthen the total risk management system. By doing We have categorized risks to be managed into market risk, credit so, we have built a foundation for calculating total capital at risk, liquidity risk, and operation risk in order to ensure systematic risk, managing risk, the risk adjusted performance measurement management of risks we face. In addition, management system Investment Review Risk Management Financial Instrument (RAPM) and stress test. We improved our overall risk management and guidelines are established that are appropriate for the Subcommittee Steering Committee Steering Committee Subcommittee competencies in 2018 by increasing efficiencies in collaboration characteristics of each risk to execute appropriate recognition, between business departments and Risk Management analysis, evaluation, and control of risks. ROLES ROLES ROLES ROLES Department personnel. In addition, we strive to further strengthen Deal with material issues Deal with working-level issues and Develop standards and the Make quick decisions and our risk management competencies to ensure more accurate and and items delegated by the items delegated by the Committee procedure for the handling of conduct specialized risk Committee concerning the review concerning risk management of financial products management in various fields prompt responses through the risk management system. of investments, and report the proprietary and client assets, within the authority granted to outcome and the progress of and report the outcome and the Risk Management Steering major activities to the Committee progress of major activities to Committee and Investment the Committee Review Steering Committee • We use standardized methods set in the Financial Investment Industry Regulations to measure market risks. Market Risk MAJOR TASKS MAJOR TASKS MAJOR TASKS COMPOSITION • We calculate market value at risk (VaR) by using an internal model based on the market risk-measuring system of SAS. Establish, amend, and abolish Establish, amend, and abolish detailed Set standards for sales of financial Consisting of the Valuation detailed rules related to rules related to risk management products delegated by the Risk Subcommittee and Investment assessment and follow-up Assign risk profiles to divisions and Management Steering Committee Evaluation Subcommittee • We set acceptable exposure limits by counterparty type or credit rating. We also maintain an appropriate level of management business sectors that fall within Make decisions on related affairs capital adequacy by controlling credit VaR limits based on standard models. Credit Risk Handle matters related to financial the risk appetite approved by the including approval and limitation • We identify and closely manage counterparties in the high risk category through regular monitoring of credit risk status. investments of a certain size and Committee of sales, and review individual key their follow-up management Set and change risk limits products with high risk commissioned by the Committee and • We use liquidity gaps and ratios as key indicators to measure liquidity risks. Also, departments related to risk approve cases that exceed risk limits management or funds regularly monitor risks and report them to senior management. Approve and monitor the • In addition to general liquidity risk management, we formulate contingency plans to deal with any liquidity crises that appropriateness of company-wide Liquidity Risk may arise. We classify crisis situations into four levels – attention, caution, and emergency – depending on the condition risk measurements of the company’s liquidity and the level of stability in financial markets. Specific action plans are established for each Check temporary changes to and level to prepare for crisis situations. the status of the risk management system • We manage and control operational risks through risk & control self assessment (RCSA), key risk indicator (KRI) Develop guidelines for risk-adjusted evaluation on the performance management, loss data management, establishment of countermeasures, and calculation of operational VaR based on results of departments in charge of Operational Risk internal models. transactions • Regular RCSAs are carried out to gauge the level of risks of concern each department faces. If an indication of risk is Set the risk appetite for client asset found, countermeasures are established to control it preemptively. management 28 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 29 Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Stakeholder Engagement BUSINESS CASE Managing Emerging Risks Stakeholder Management System Stakeholder Communication Definition of Stakeholders Stakeholder Communication Channel Mirae Asset Daewoo defines its key stakeholders as the individuals Mirae Asset Daewoo has established various communication Mirae Asset Daewoo analyzes social and environmental changes on a regular or groups that have a direct or indirect influence on the company channels to listen to stakeholder opinions and expectations, and basis, and thus establishes and executes measures that allow us to effectively and vice versa. This also includes shareholders, group institutions operates them year-round or on a regular basis. In particular, respond to long-term risk factors that influence our overall business. with legal, financial and operational responsibilities, the media, the company undertakes stakeholder interviews and surveys to labor union, NGOs, social organizations, local community, identify core issues, and discloses them in its integrated reports as competitors, opinion leaders, and academia. a way to actively communicate with its stakeholders. Classification of Stakeholders Stakeholders of Mirae Asset Daewoo are categorized based on Potential their role, level of impact, and relations. We have designated Risk customers, shareholders & investors, employees, and the local Expanding investment into overseas assets community as four key stakeholders, and then manage them in Change of risk responses resulting from and venture capital digitalization a systematic manner. We identify key issues and events for each stakeholder group and these are reflected in our business activities. • L imited growth potential of traditional • E ver increasing growth potentials of investment assets (domestic stock, low interest a full-service investment company, thanks to Stakeholder Communication Channels and Key Issues rates, etc.) the development and polarization of digital technology • N  eed to continuously expand investments into Business new growth industries, such as the Industry •  full-service investment company which A and Social 4.0, and overseas assets including stock, is behind the curve of financial services Environment Customers bonds, and alternative assets innovation will lose new investment opportunities as well as investors (Retail Customers, Consumer Organizations) • Increasing IT risks and data security risks due to These stakeholders purchase and use Mirae Asset Daewoo’s financial the adoption of new technology products and services through transactions with the company. We make efforts to leverage our expertise in which financial consumers can undertake convenient and safe transactions. COMMUNICATION CHANNEL Customer panel, Customer Service Improvement • O  verseas assets and new growth industries can • T he business process of a full-service Council, Voice of Customers (VOC), Website, Investment forums present attractive opportunities to generate investment company has rapidly evolved profits. However, they also involve such risks due to digitalization, leading to rapid market as sovereign risk, exchange risk, individual dominance, stable adoption of digital Shareholders & Investors Impact from company’s default risk, etc. technology, and development of new business (Stockholders, Evaluation Organizations) Risk opportunities, products and services These stakeholders own shares of Mirae Asset Daewoo and take part • P  ossible risks, such as increased investment loss caused by expanding investment asset in the company’s decision-making process. We strive to maximize exposure and deteriorating capital adequacy shareholder and investor value by generating competitive financial returns. ratio COMMUNICATION CHANNEL AGM, Public disclosure, Company forums, Investor relations • F ollow a deliberation process prior to •  Strengthen internal competencies in products Employees investment according to the policies and investments by applying digital technology Earning trust from customers requires complete integrity and expertise •  Follow-up monitoring and formulation of exit •  Develop a risk management system as a global from our employees. Mirae Asset Daewoo is therefore strengthening Countermeasures plans to maximize risk-adjusted profit ratio investment firm beyond the No. 1 securities employee competencies, and engages in diverse activities to build company in Korea a healthy corporate culture. •  Strengthen competencies of investment COMMUNICATION CHANNEL Labor-management Council, WM Community analysts and risk management personnel •  Untiring risk management efforts to improve the quality of profit Local Communities Mirae Asset Daewoo conducts its social contributions by collaborating • Improve internal processes and expertise to •  isk management to respond to market R with various organizations, including NGOs, and thus strives to fulfill its expand investments into overseas assets and diversification and increasing volatility role as a member of local communities and deliver positive social impacts. Future Plans venture capital COMMUNICATION CHANNEL Social contribution activities, Partner institutions, Website 30 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 31 Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Materiality Test Conducting the Materiality Test Selecting Core Sustainability Issues Mirae Asset Daewoo selects issues of keen interest to our We analyzed our corporate vision and strategies, global IB and We conducted the materiality test in comprehensive consideration were selected as having materiality and our business activities business and stakeholders through the materiality test, and other industry issues, global standards, and media exposure in a of business relevance and impact on the company’s direct and related to such issues are outlined in pages marked in the table reports them in a balanced manner. The materiality test was comprehensive manner. In addition, a survey was conducted of indirect stakeholders. As a result of the test, 10 out of 43 issues below. carried out based on various methods, such as the methodology internal and external stakeholders, with an aim to listen to their of AccountAbility and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. voices. Materiality Map Materiality Test Process 1 Develop eco-friendly Stakeholder products to respond to Interest climate change Step 1 Forming a major issue pool Step 2 Collecting stakeholder opinions 8 Minimize mis-selling A total of 43 issues with a strong relevance to Mirae Asset Daewoo were identified as a result of analysis into Collect opinions of internal and external stakeholders Develop products and international standards, global benchmark studies, review ▪Conducted surveys of employees, customers, partner 4 Lead digital finance services customized to 5 on internal materials, stakeholder survey, and media companies and CSR experts customer’s requirements research. Protect personal and ▪Took an interview with 15 relevant teams 3 financial information of customers Identify internal issues ▪Analyzed the existing pool of issues on sustainable The survey revealed stakeholders have shown high level of interest in such areas as developing products and services Expand the management of Mirae Asset Daewoo, and collected internal Increase financial support development of issues customized to the customer’s requirements, expanding 9 2 for the financially marginalized Ethics and socially responsible environment-related investments, protection of personal ▪Reviewed business strategies and risk issues 7 compliance investment (SRI) and financial information of customers and development ▪Reviewed the webzine of the company of eco products including products for climate change Ensure the soundness of 10 corporate governance response. Identify external issues Foster global talents 6 ▪Analyzed major issues and activities found in leading companies in the industry in terms of sustainable management ▪Analyzed new issues raised under international standards and latest trends Business ▪Conducted media research Impact No Core Issues Major Stakeholders Impact Evaluation Page Step 4 Selecting and approving final reporting issues Step 3 Conducting the materiality test Develop eco-friendly products to respond Customer, Shareholder/Investor, 1 Finance 36-38 to climate change Local Community ▪Level of impact from financial, operational, and reputational perspectives were evaluated and weighted Evidence of Relevance Expand the development of socially Customer, Shareholder/Investor, 2 Finance 36-38 ▪Reviewed internal materials, such as strategies of Mirae Asset responsible investment (SRI) Local Community ▪Prioritized the materiality level to separately highlight key issues and categorized issues to be managed on a continuous basis Daewoo, company magazine, and accomplishment letters Protect personal and financial information ▪According to a benchmark study of seven global IBs, it was 3 Customer, Shareholder/Investor Operation 40-43 of customers identified that the industry had common issues, such as expanding socially responsible investment (SRI), increasing Customer, Shareholder/Investor, 4 Lead digital finance Finance 44-47 financial support for the financially marginalized, securing Local Community soundness of governance, and integrated risk management in terms of economic, social and environmental matters Develop products and services customized 5 Customer Finance 70 to customer’s requirements ▪Reviewed the UN Global Compact, GRI Standards, SASB, DJSI, and ISO 26000 6 Foster global talents Employee Operation 64-65 Evidence of Impact 7 Ethics and compliance Shareholder/Investor, Employee Operation 24-27 ▪Analyzed the results of the survey of major stakeholders, such as customers, partner companies, local community, NGOs, 8 Minimize mis-selling Customer, Local Community Operation 48-51 shareholders and the government ▪According to an analysis of 557 media articles published from Increase financial support for the financially 9 Local Community Reputation 72-76 January to December 2018, the areas most covered included marginalized reinforcement of market dominance, creation of economic Ensure the soundness of corporate values, activation of communication with customers and 10 Shareholder/Investor, Employee Operation 20-23 governance building the foundation for future growth, such as overseas businesses 32 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT GOVERNANCE 33 SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 36 Pursuing Sustainable Finance Building a Strong Information Protection System 40  Strengthening Digital Finance 44  Protecting Financial Consumers 48  34 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 35 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Pursuing Sustainable Finance Expanding Socially Responsible Investment OUR PERFORMANCE Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Financial Products Amount of socially responsible Mirae Asset Daewoo selects and offers eco-friendly financial investment products developed to support social enterprises and respond 57.5 to climate changes in its effort to pursue a sustainable society and environment. We have built a portfolio of various SRI fund products, such as the Mirae Asset Green Index, Mirae Asset KRW billion Green Energy, Mirae Asset Natural Gas, Multi Asset Global Clean Energy, KIAMCO Green Finance Infra, Midas Responsible Financial education for Investment, ABL Active SRI, and Franklin Sustainable Growth, financial minorities thereby fulfilling our social responsibility. We have launched the 10 Dongbu Econation Fund, a private equity fund (PEF) developed through donations from high net worth individuals (HNWIs), to transfer a certain portion of the income as a scholarship fund, times (920 persons) and we also offer financial services tailored to SMEs to fulfill social values through finance. We have also established the Mirae Asset New Growth Venture Investment Corp. Trust to make co-investments with Mirae Asset Venture Investment and Mirae Asset Group under the purpose of providing individual customers opportunities to make investments in SMEs or startups with growth potential while opening up financing opportunities for SMEs. Why it matters? Investment, Advisory, and Arrangement Our society is faced with a multitude of problems, such as marginalization due to the information gap, for Eco-Friendly Projects low birth rate and aging population, and environmental pollution. Social issues call for corporates’ In addition to selecting and selling financial products aimed for greater responsibility, and at the same time, present new opportunities. In particular, socially responsible SRI, we are making direct investments and providing financial investment (SRI) has emerged as a global keyword and is a major means of fulfilling the social responsibility advisory and arrangement services for eco-friendly projects. of corporates and financial institutions, an area highlighted by the current Korean government. In particular, we consider not only investment returns but also environmental impacts when making investment decisions. In a bid to better respond to the global climate change, we are Major issues offering a financing solution for renewable energy projects. ▪ Various investment risks There are risks against eco-friendly investment due to issues caused Furthermore, we have provided advisory and arrangement by licensing and national risks, credit uncertainty of business counterparts, and expanding market services for a 105 MW solar power project in Chile and 25MW volatility, while investment opportunities are decreasing owing to the reduced number of large-scale SOC solar power project in Geogeum-do in Korea. businesses. ▪ Reinforced legislations and systems The stewardship code, which is focused on active participation Sustainable Value Investment in SRI by public pension funds and corporate involvement, has been developed and adopted; and the government has been increasing its financial support to ease the burden of the financially marginalized. Our responses Mirae Asset Daewoo pursues investments that not only lead to high returns but also make positive impacts on society with the goal of realizing sustainable finance. It is in this regard that we are committed to Socially Responsible Investment Fund Investment in eco-friendly industry making eco-friendly investments, such as new and renewable energy, developing products and services to cater to such social issue as aging population, and providing funding to SMEs. In addition, there are many We offer SRI funds, such as the Mirae Asset We strive to create new values by activities intended to improve financial accessibility of financial minorities, and we also provide financial Green Index Fund and Allianz Corporate enhancing society’s capability to respond to education programs for easy understanding of financial services. Value-up Fund, and thus strive to fulfill environmental risks and climate change and our social responsibilities. invigorating green businesses. 36 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 37 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Joint Growth through Finance Exclusive Finance Mirae Asset New Growth Venture Investment Corp. Trust Providing Financial Products Customized for SMEs Financial Education for the Financial Minorities Increasing Accessibility to Our Website for and Small Giants the Visually Impaired In collaboration with Mirae Asset Venture Investments, we One of our core values lies at acknowledging and fulfilling have released a series of the Mirae Asset New Growth Venture We are offering financial services that are specialized for SMEs the company’s social responsibility. Fraudulent practices have Mirae Asset Daewoo is the first in the Korean financial investment Investment Corp. Trust since 2016. Mirae Asset Group makes and small giants, thereby making contributions to the nation’s become increasingly sophisticated and diversified. We therefore industry to apply the web standards and web accessibility to its joint investments with customers backed by the strong reliability economic development based on mutual growth. In particular, offer education programs to the financial minorities, such web trading system (WTS) and all of the company’s websites, of Mirae Asset Venture Investment, with over 350 accumulated through Partners Club, a collaborative business model between as the disabled, homeless, low-income class, and seniors, which entitled the company to the ‘Web Accessibility (WA)’ investment experiences in innovative SMEs for 21 years as a SMEs and Mirae Asset Daewoo, we are providing total financial to raise their financial understanding and prevent financial certification. The websites have a screen reader for the visually dedicated investment house, has tolerated losses to a certain services that are specialized for SMEs so that senior management fraud. Furthermore, we are providing guides on how to make impaired, and are also designed to help investors with color extent. This trust is designed to lead the sound and joint at SMEs can focus more on strategic and efficient business use of financial services reasonably to enhance their right to blindness or weakness easily check the web contents. Since growth of our society by providing investors with investment management. Various seminars and programs of the Partners knowledge. There are special trainings provided to the youth, gaining the initial certification, we have managed to renew the opportunities in venture capital while providing innovative SMEs Club will equip SMEs with new knowledge that helps their financial consumers of tomorrow, to help them build right certification consecutively, and renewed the certification for the with venture capital funds for the purpose of innovative finance. respective business and takes advantage of opportunities to understanding and make better career decisions. To this end, our company website and our recruitment website in 2018. In early 2019, we released a trust product for the fourth time broaden their network by industry and region. Financial Consumer Protection Team visited nine welfare facilities Offering Fee Discounts for the Visually Impaired following the high returns of our previous performance. We plan around the nation in 2018 to deliver information sessions on to expand the products included in the Mirae Asset New Growth how to prevent financial fraud by introducing various types Customers who are financially marginalized, such as the visually Venture Investment Association Trust along with KOSDAQ of fraud such as voice phishing, smishing, and farming, and impaired, are experiencing inconveniences when trading via venture funds and will actively communicate the investment providing information on how to prevent and respond to them. online channels. To eliminate such difficulties, we are offering result of the trust with customers. a special service to allow online commission fees when they Increasing Accessibility to Finance are making Korean stock purchases in offline channels, such as We are exerting our best efforts to ensure financial minorities, branch offices or customer centers. including the disabled and seniors, can receive financial services in any circumstance by obtaining web accessibility certification for our website, and by offering a voice recognition service and a chatting service for the visually impaired. In addition, Mirae Asset Daewoo provides education guidelines on protecting financial consumers were developed for programs for those with poor accessibility the visually impaired and distributed to sales branches. We also to financial information, in order to operate an ARS service for the visually impaired and published minimize damage caused by financial braille code instruction materials. We also have located Englishfraud and thus establish a healthy financial speaking employees in the customer center, to provide services environment. dedicated to foreign consumers. Our plan for 2019 is to diversify financial accessibility by rolling out a ‘Visual ARS Service’. BUSINESS CASE BUSINESS CASE Issuing sustainability bonds Raising Social Awareness on Protecting the Financial Minorities Education on Financial Fraud Prevention Mirae Asset Daewoo issued sustainability bonds for the first We are actively carrying out financial education programs on topics, such time among securities companies in the world, with the goal as how to prevent new types of financial fraud, so that those financially GREEN BOND SOCIAL BOND of fulfilling our social responsibility including environmental marginalized including seniors can be better prepared and protected. As of New and Funding for SMEs responsibility. This is an iconic case that symbolizes our 2018, we have offered financial fraud prevention training to 920 attendees renewable energy and micro finance dedication to CSR. The total issued amount of USD 300 million in nine social welfare facilities including the Jinhae Center for the Disabled. Green buildings Affordable will be used for investing in eco-friendly buildings, supporting housing SMEs, and improving housing environment, and investment Financial Education for Military Forces Sustainable water and wastewater details will be disclosed on our website on an annual basis. We participate in the Finance Lounge Bus program, operated by the management Financial Supervisory Service, and visit 15 military bases around the nation to provide financial information sessions and counselling services, thereby helping military personnel become more informed financial consumers. 38 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 39 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Building a Strong Information Protection System Protecting Customer Information OUR PERFORMANCE Strengthening information protection infrastructure Customers’ personal information is more than a means to identify a customer Information leakage in that it is a part of customer assets that companies should protect with a sense of responsibility. To strengthen the safety Zero of customer information protection, we received ISO 27001 certification, which is an international information protection management system standard, and Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification, which is a domestic certification system. We also encrypt resident registration numbers Information security in accordance with the Personal Information Protection Act, and certifications make various efforts to protect information and prevent leakage of personal information. ISMS, Information Protection Committee We have established the Information Protection Committee in order to bolster our level ISO 27001 of information protection status. The Committee is in charge of formulating strategies and plans to ensure security in financial transactions and protect service users; confirming vulnerability analysis and evaluation of online financial infrastructure and action plans for improvement measures; and deliberation and resolution of disciplinary measures for those involved in IT security breaches and related regulation violations. Why it matters? The business landscape is evolving rapidly due to digital innovation, and the number of customers using ROLES Deliberate and resolve matters critical to information protection and report the Committee activities to the CEO financial services via digital channels is rapidly increasing. As a result, many organizations are realizing the growing importance of cyber security and information protection to better prepare themselves against • Formulate strategies and plans • Confirm vulnerability analysis • Deliberate and resolve disciplinary potential customer data leakage and financial incidents. Massive customer data leakage or disruptions to MAJOR TASKS to ensure security in financial and evaluation online financial measures for those involved in the transaction systems caused by digital financial incidents or data leakage will hamper the reputation of transactions and protect financial infrastructure and action plans IT security breaches and related consumers for improvement measures regulation violations the financial institutions. Moreover, it will bring negative financial impact due to customer compensation, system restoration cost, and litigation cost. Major issues Information Protection Strategy and System ▪ Strengthening cyber security management system As the financial services industry is adopting Information Protection Strategy many emerging IT technologies, customers are increasingly demanding high accountability of the way As an endeavor to deliver online financial services in a secure and convenient manner, Mirae Asset Daewoo has established information their data is managed. Companies therefore should establish a strong management system to respond protection strategy and is carrying out information protection activities based on three key action items. to such demand. ▪ Importance of privacy protection As the use of personal data in digital devices is increasing, VISION Provide safe and convenient digital financial services monitoring and regulations on companies storing such data are intensified as shown in the General MISSION Establish an in-house security system Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) legislation in the EU. Enhance hacking and intrusion Establish intelligent information Achieve proactive Our responses prevention system protection system security governance Mirae Asset Daewoo is engaged in various activities to deliver online financial services in a secure and • Upgrade anti-hacking system for • Establish an internal fraud • Establish an enterprise-wide convenient manner. We have upgraded our anti-hacking and intrusion protection systems for physical secure online financial services detection system by using big data, security assessment process security, and have also established a system to prevent sophisticated data theft schemes. Furthermore, we • Run security operation service AI, and other new technologies through risk management have set up cyber security governance system led by the Information Protection Committee in order to 3 MAJOR 24/7 to bolster real-time response • Prevent falsification and leakage • Raise employee security awareness TASKS internalize a culture of information protection and bolster such information protection system. system of critical data by blocking through continuous security • Conduct security drills and ransomware and malicious codes check-ups and information penetration testing to continuously • Enhance security and protection training improve weaknesses confidentiality through customer • Continue to improve the level data encryption and access controls of information protection management system 40 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 41 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Spreading a Culture of Information Protection Raising the Awareness of Information Protection Mirae Asset Daewoo carries out diverse activities to spread a culture of information protection at the corporate-wide level, including protecting information and preventing risks of leakage incidents. Information protection training Share security issues Raise security awareness Customized information protection training Build a system for quick review and sharing Help employees independently enhance is provided for each type of trainee, of the latest security issues through 24/7 their awareness of the importance including general staff, IT staff, information internal control by an information protectionof security by designating a ‘Day of protection managers, executives, and specializing company and external control Information Security Inspection’ to have all Customers partner companies through the Financial Security Institute staff members conduct a security inspection Encourage •  customers to change into OPT tokens to prevent Activities to Manage Stakeholder Information the exposure and leakage of security cards Mirae Asset Daewoo Detect and analyze customers’ login information in real time •  by establishing the FDS for e-financial transactions. Establish • Operate prevention measures against DDOS attacks and a system to contact customers immediately if deemed intrusion detection systems to safeguard our internal IT system fraudulent, identify the situation, and register the incident against intrusion and hacking attacks, and adopt a high level through an integrated system where internal information of data encryption to prevent data leakage protection unit, Customer Support Center, and other financial institutions are linked • Strengthen countermeasures against external hacking and internal information leakage incidents by separating the entire Inform •  and publicize precautions against online financial work network of the IT Center, headquarters, and branches fraud to protect customers’ financial assets from the Internet network • Establish a data loss prevention (DLP) system to prevent external breaches of any document containing personal information, and encrypt documents automatically through digital rights management (DRM) in case of document leakage, in order to block external viewing of information • Categorize trainees into general staff, IT staff, information protection managers, executives, and partner companies, and conduct information protection training that is adequate for each group • Make an annual contract with an information protection specialist for security consulting, and improve the level of Partner Companies information protection on a regular basis Provide •  training on information protection for staff as well as • Obtain and maintain both international standard (ISO 27001) major partner company employees to enhance awareness of and domestic standard (ISMS) for information protection and information protection management system as part of our continued endeavor for data protection Set •  a guideline for outsourced companies entrusted with personal information, and take actions against companies • Operate an anti-APT system to block malicious attacks, such as failing to meet minimum standards for correction or their ransomware, and to prevent subsequent loss of data replacement • Implement more stringent authority management schemes on Expand •  field check-ups for external resources to minimize personal computers to control installation and implementation risks associated with outsourcing of unauthorized programs which may contain malicious codes • Continuously monitor security incident status to perform preventive activities against abnormal symptoms and behavior 42 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 43 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Strengthening Digital Finance Implementing Digital Finance Strategy OUR PERFORMANCE Digital Finance Organizations 1) Number of new non-face-to-face accounts In 2017, Mirae Asset Daewoo became the first securities firm 367,000 in Korea to operate a digital finance unit, and since then has continuously expanded the organization. The unit consists of accounts three departments — Digital Innovation Department which pursues digital innovation by identifying new business, adopting new fintech solutions and big data and building platforms; Total client assets of non-face-to-face channels2) Digital Biz Department which promotes existing businesses in an online front, such as domestic and overseas stocks, financial 10.5 KRW trillion products, and asset management as well as providing customer services; and Client Care Department which is responsible for identifying customer needs and fulfilling communication through customer contact points. Number of digital finance specialists2) 92 Digital Finance Strategy We are implementing three execution strategies to fulfill the persons vision of becoming the leading player in digital finance. This 1) As of 2018 will help us become better equipped to changes in the digital 2) As of May 2019 (Excluding the Client Care Department) environment and ensure continuity and consistency in promoting digital finance. Why it matters? Mirae Asset Daewoo will become a “finance platform” itself, Fintech, big data, AI, and other digital technologies are anticipated to shape financial institutions’ core not just a company that owns one competitiveness and survival strategy for the future in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Financial institutions in Korea and overseas therefore are fast achieving digital transformation in such areas as Digital for Retail Platform Biz customer services and digital platforms. Furthermore, many financial institutions are recently eager to We will transcend the concept of O2O We will redefine existing platforms to create new enhance enterprise-wide capabilities to plan and execute digital transformation by discovering and (Online to Offline), which seeks to overcome strategy and value, and thus create new platforms nurturing startups to build a digital ecosystem. the limitations of offline-based retail business by affiliating with domestic companies to lead through digital channels, and will achieve O4O Accelerating the financial platform business, discovering (Offline for Online) to complement and support innovation through a new revenue model. Major issues the ecosystem of offline channels through digitalization ▪ Intensifying competition in digital finance Changes in the business landscape are accelerating, digitalization. Digital DNA such as digital finance technologies emerging as key competitiveness. The convergence of industries We will not stay complacent with where we are has been further intensifying competition in the digital financial market. today. Instead, we will nurture digital DNA and share it across the company to relentlessly improve ▪ Positive changes in the external environment The development of advanced digital technology and enhance ourselves via digital technologies and and deregulation is creating an environment conducive to promoting diverse innovation in terms of platforms. products, channels and services. BUSINESS CASE Platform V, an Electronic Our responses Voting System Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to lead the fast-evolving digital finance by exerting all our competencies. In Mirae Asset Daewoo has released Platform V, an electronic voting system, for the particular, we have established a digital-based platform to provide easy and fast online transaction services, first time among Korean securities companies. Platform V enables shareholders anytime and anywhere, to serve our stature as Korea’s largest securities company. In addition, efforts are to exercise their voting right through an online platform, which was previously being made to sharpen our competitive edge in the digital finance market by developing talents with only available on paper, and the result can be shared in real time. Any listed digital expertise. companies or shareholders who wish to access Platform V can register for the system by using their official certificate. Platform V offers online vote and voting right delegation service and shareholder notification service as well as publishing agenda and materials for shareholders meetings and IR materials so that listed companies can communicate with their shareholders via Platform V. Furthermore, as shareholders’ meeting details and e-voting notification can be delivered via text messages and Kakao Talk, Platform V is expected to encourage minority shareholders to exercise their voting rights. 44 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 45 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Digital Finance Activities Collaboration on Digital Finance Mirae Asset Digital Innovation Platform Big Data Festival Mirae Asset Daewoo is committed to taking the lead in digital We hosted a big data algorithm contest together with Naver, for In •  2018, Mirae Asset Daewoo introduced the 24/7 account opening and immediate transaction finance innovation together with fintech companies, global the first time in the Korean financial industry, thereby creating initiation service by adopting automated ID card authentication and mobile one time password financial institutions, fintech hubs, and our customers. Mirae a good example of a financial company’s cooperation with an (OTP) systems, and we also started non-face-to-face CMA account opening service by Asset Fintech Hub connects global financial institutions on ICT company. The second contest took place in 2018 where 176 partnering with Naver. As a result, a total of 370,000 new accounts were created via online the Hub’s platform through which ideas for digital innovation teams from 69 universities participated in intensive competition channels in 2018. are discovered and fintech companies can receive support in such diverse areas as financial analysis, including stock price In •  2019, the company plans to introduce no-ID and simple authentication process for all for overseas expansion. In 2018, the first Fintech Partnership prediction, and development of financial services. In 2019, Upgraded the opening channels, enable mobile accounting opening on web browsers without application installation, Program was launched to present open innovation initiatives and our goal is to provide opportunities to jointly research creative process for non-face-to-face accounting and allow name and identity authentication through video calls, in our continuous efforts to co-developed solutions with fintech companies for digital finance ideas on a mentorship with financial analysts and to offer more enhance customer convenience. innovation. Our plan for 2019 is to further expand Mirae Asset benefits such as overseas financial industry visits, as part of our Fintech Hub operation and run the second Fintech Partnership continued efforts to create an environment fostering digital Program to continue our journey towards digital innovation. talents. In •  2018 we launched AI-based mobile-only services — Robo-Port, a robo-advisor service, and Industry-Academia Cooperation PyCon Sponsorship Robo-Pick, a stock recommendation service. In particular, Robo-Port has added an advisory In 2017, we signed an agreement on big data cooperation Mirae Asset Daewoo is a sponsor for PyCon, Korea’s largest service for IRP products, seamlessly integrating portfolio recommendation with stock purchase with Seoul National University and have since been delivering non-profit conference for Python and machine learning. By services and enabling customers to manage their pension assets more conveniently personalized product recommendation services via online sponsoring and supporting Python and other non-profit online In •  2019, the company plans to boost the competitiveness of online financial products and channels. Through this cooperation, we have developed communities, we are contributing to expanding a base for improve the transaction convenience. In addition, the portfolio recommendation algorithm a product recommendation model for various products machine learning and facilitating related communities. Expanded digital asset in the Global Portfolio Solution (GPS), which has constantly garnered a good reputation, will including domestic and overseas stocks, funds, and pensions management services be further sophisticated by embedding big data and AI technologies in order to offer more where recommendations are tailored based on customer’s diversified portfolio and products. investment propensity and prime product selection. In 2019, we are developing a customer behavior prediction model and conducting research under the topic of making contributions to digital asset management through machine learning technology. MAPIS •  ODS is a system that supports efficient sales activities of all sales workforce including account opening, customer care, and product information. The service is available via tablet PCs to enable financial services, anytime and anywhere. In 2018, we completed the development and adoption of account opening, customer care, and product information services, and plan Developed the MAPIS ODS to add more functionalities in 2019 including product transaction service and back-office for branch digitalization processing service. BUSINESS CASE Expanded m.Club, FN •  Ginii is a blog featuring financial contents which creates and offers fun and easy-toan online financial service platform understand financial information in Korea and overseas. The blog, recording 2.1 million hits in 2018, is fast responding to customers’ investment needs by introducing not only various Mirae Asset Daewoo launched our own online financial service platform, Run the financial blog, financial products but also tips on overseas stock investment. m.Club, in November 2017, and has since attracted more than 100,000 FN Ginii subscribers as of March 2019. By using big data and AI, the m.Club offers various, customized investment information to customers who find it hard to make right investment decisions. Of nine contents currently being offered, Choice of Chogosu 1) shares information on stocks traded among We •  released the Mirae Asset Daewoo-Npay CMA account opening service in 2018 in high-yield individual investors, and My Trading Pattern compares individual partnership with Naver, Korea’s largest portal service provider. This service enables online customer’s monthly investment patterns. opening of CMA account on the Naver mobile website and connects to Npay, Naver’s simple payment platform as a demonstration of our commitment to synergy generation with fintech In March 2019, a new service named Dr. Big’s Investment Diagnostics was companies. added to the service which diagnoses and analyzes MY Trading Pattern Launched the Mirae Asset and stocks based on big data algorithms. Going forward, we will continue Daewoo–Npay CMA account In •  2019, we will continue strengthening our ties with Naver while seeking other fintech to expand the scope of our products and contents by reflecting customer opening service companies to form a partnership. opinions. 1) Korean word meaning a master; Refers to a group of Mirae Asset Daewoo clients with top 1% rate of return 46 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 47 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Protecting Financial Consumers and monitoring on our products and suggested ideas for OUR PERFORMANCE improvement. More than 86% of their opinions were actually reflected or considered of great importance in our decisionCustomer suggestion making process. As such, our customer panel is playing an adoption rate important role as a major customer participation channel which 51 extends well beyond a simple communication channel. In 2019, we will enlarge the panel to 45 members, the largest in the industry, and expand the panel to the regional areas to boost % their role in generating customer-centric values that Mirae Asset Daewoo aspires to achieve. VOC handling rate Independent Expert Panel 100 In 2019, Mirae Asset Daewoo has formed an independent expert panel consisting of three outside experts, for the first time in the % industry, in an attempt to timely reflect the voices of the field and society on consumer protection and rapidly-changing consumer protection policies. The expert panel will provide various counseling services to protect the rights of financial consumers and, in particular, is expected to bring up various ideas to rectify practices unfair to financial consumers and improve their rights. Reinforcing Financial Consumer Why it matters? Protection System There have been inappropriate sales practices of financial institutions, which in turn bring about financial Financial Consumer Protection Governance Overhaul Financial Consumer Protection System consumers’ damage and privacy infringement, such as leakage of personal data. In response, financial Governance to Protect Financial Consumers Mirae Asset Daewoo has revamped relevant protection systems authorities are expanding measures to protect consumers’ interest by strengthening regulations aimed at ‘Clients first’ is one of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s core values, and it and strengthened its functionality in order to protect financial reinforcing customer value and reducing complaints. Against this backdrop, financial institutions ought also serves as the guiding principle of the company’s financial consumers. to establish a healthy business environment based on autonomous regulations and execute business consumer protection policy. Chief Customer Officer (CCO) is Activities Achievements operations with a consumer-centric mindset which focuses on principles and foundations. appointed directly under the CEO and is commissioned to lead a Implement and operate recording team dedicated to planning, training, assessing, and monitoring system for derivatives-linked ∙ Completed the establishment securities (DLS), etc. Major issues policies related to financial consumers. Dedicated personnel are Strengthen field inspection and ▪ Strengthen policies to protect financial consumers Financial authorities are bolstering measures guaranteed to perform their duties in an independent manner, KPI evaluation for sales process ∙ 119 branches and systems to protect consumer rights in order to stabilize financial systems and protect financial in a bid to ensure effective operation of the financial consumer Award employees with outstanding protection system. performance in terms of financial ∙ 21 employees consumers. consumer protection In 2018, we established a team in charge of handling customer ▪ Ensure customer trust Prevent mis-selling, provide services for the financial minority, and expand a Tighten the criteria to transfer and ∙ Completed the process complaints directly under the CCO in order to ensure professional handle confirmation call after sales culture of financial consumer protection in order to solidify customers’ trust, thus improving corporate and timely handing of customer complaints. We also transferred Share supervision authorities’ sustainability. policies via quarterly meeting of Happy Call staff to the financial consumer protection ∙ Quarterly the Financial Consumer Protection organization to improve effectiveness of complete selling Council Our responses monitoring and proactive consumer protection. Furthermore, FSS evaluation on the status of The fundamentals and principles of the financial industry are to sell financial products in accordance with the Financial Consumer Protection Council was established for financial consumer protection ∙ Evaluation result: Good and mystery shopping system for a fair set of procedures and thus assist customers in making right investment decisions. For Mirae Asset a cohesive, enterprise-wide alignment of consumer protection complete selling Daewoo, the key focus area lies at enhancing consumers rights across the entire lifecycle from product activities. Council meetings are convened on a quarterly basis ∙ One Company One School financial development to sales and after-sales customer care for the purpose of a sustainable financial industry. To to review issues related to consumer protection and discuss education: 12,939 persons Run the One Company One School ∙ Financial experiences: 1,597 persons this end, we have set in place a stringent internal control system to prevent customer data leakage and measures aimed at proactive consumer protection such as how financial education program, ∙ Education for the financially and provide financial education to to better safeguard senior investors and how to strengthen marginalized: 920 persons hacking incidents, and strive to protect financial consumers by focusing on eradicating the mis-selling of the financially marginalized ∙ Military financial literacy program: financial products. evaluations of consumer complaints. 612 persons Encourage more active resolution Customer Panel of complaints through internal ∙ Complaint drop rate: 36% collaboration based on complaintWe have established an offline customer panel team, called handling responsibility system Mi-Supporters, for the purpose of fulfilling customer-centric Enhance customer satisfaction by values and enhancing financial consumer rights. In 2018, a total ∙ Customer suggestion adoption rate: proactively incorporating customer 51% of 33 participants formed the panel and conducted evaluation ideas and suggestions 48 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 49 Building a Strong Pursuing Sustainable Finance Strengthening Digital Finance Protecting Financial Consumers Information Protection System Facilitating Customer Communication Pursuing Complete Selling Culture of Financial Consumer Protection Enhance Complaints Management for Conducting On-site Inspection and Self Evaluation Education to Prevent Mis-selling Financial Consumer Protection Day Customer Rights Protection Mirae Asset Daewoo is rolling out various activities aimed at Mirae Asset Daewoo is actively rolling out internal training Every Wednesday in the first week of each quarter is designated In order to better protect the rights of financial consumers and complete selling practices and investor protection. On-site sessions aimed at consumer protection, such as on-site training, as ‘Financial Consumer Protection Day’ to diffuse the culture of handle complaints in a more professional manner, we have inspection was conducted against all sales offices to evaluate in-class training and online training. To promote complete selling, financial consumer protection across the company. In 2018, we set in place a dedicated team in charge of handling customer whether complete selling processes and procedures for financial in-class training, sales office training, online training take place conducted a survey to all employees on consumer protection complaints and managing VOCs under the CCO. Furthermore, products are effectively in place at the sales field, with intensive around the year, complemented by internal mystery shopping and survey findings were reflected in related policy formulation. we have established an integrated complaints management focus across the product sales lifecycle including protection and role-playing activities for sales offices to ensure all the As such, the Financial Consumer Protection Day serves as system and operate diverse complaints communication channels of marginalized investors such as seniors and fulfillment of training provided to reinforce standard sales processes is firmly an opportunity to build an enterprise-wide consensus and for more efficient and prompt complaints handling. Guidelines complete selling, in a bid to strengthen our consumer protection adhered to. dedication to customer protection. on complaint prevention, which details actual complaints efforts. The inspection also looks at whether posters and We also strive to increase our employees’ awareness on Other Activities to Protect Financial Consumers and dispute case studies and tips to prevent complaints, brochures promoting financial consumer rights are appropriately consumer protection and improve relevant capabilities by were created and distributed to all employees and the entire positioned in the offices and if not, immediate corrective Mirae Asset Daewoo undertook external consulting advice on rolling out various programs and campaigns, such as consumer workforce including executives are obliged to attend complaint actions and training are taken on the spot and the results are financial consumer protection to proactively respond to the protection training tailored for job levels, lectures provided by prevention training at least once a year, as part of our diverse reflected in the KPI evaluation of sales offices. Furthermore, changing market environment and establish a leading consumer external experts for an update on the latest trend in consumer initiatives to prevent complaints. ‘NAME and SHAME Program’ random inspections are also conducted based on five indices protection system. Through this consulting service from experts protection and major issues. In particular, when such critical is to share critical monthly complaints, complaint analysis to with high tendency towards mis-selling to ensure early detection outside the company, we were able to develop plans with an issues as customer complaints take place, we provide mandatory review key points in each complaint type, complaints early of mis-selling signs and enhance employees’ awareness on objective, external viewpoint on how to revamp the system to training to prevent customer complaints, and training results are alert system to call for company-wide attention for issues that complete selling practices. protect financial consumers, how to enhance the complaint reflected in the evaluation to make sure consumer protection undermine consumer rights – all these programs are intended handling system, and how to protect consumers following Mystery Shopping for Complete Selling activities are properly carried out. to raise employees’ awareness of complaints and prevent similar increasing non-face-to-face channels. The consulting deliverables complaints occurrence and are shown to be effectively executed. Mirae Asset Daewoo has a regular mystery shopping program in were reported to the CEO and key executives in a bid to place to ensure the complete selling of financial products. Each continue our endeavor towards practical and proactive consumer Customer-Centric Opinion Gathering Activities year over six rounds of mystery shopping visits are conducted protection. Our core value of customer centricity begins from upholding the thoroughly against entire sales offices, all employees, and all principle of ‘Client first’ to stay attentive to customers’ voices and financial products without any blind spot and stricter shopping Activities to Expand a Culture of Financial Consumer Protection make necessary improvements. criteria were adopted in 2018 with greater point deductions and weight on key areas in need of improvements. Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Education on complete selling process and Education hour Hour 13 13 14 financial consumer protection Customer Service Improvement Council Complaint Prevention Proposal System Q1 98 87 82 ‘Customer Service Improvement Council’ was set in place to enable For consumer protection and dispute prevention, we are operating Q2 97 95 95 Result of mystery shopping Point prompt response to various customers’ opinions collected via a a complaint prevention proposal system, where those on the Q3 99 95 91 range of customer contact points. The council meetings take place frontline sales organizations listen to customers’ opinions and make each month where responsible employees from related departments relevant proposals. By improving potential factors undermining the Q4 87 94 91 discuss and analyze customers’ suggestions and complaints and the rights of financial consumers and those financially marginalized and Receiving and handling of VOCs VOC handling rate % 100 100 100 outcome of the meeting is reflected in our business processes. In unfair practices, we aim to prevent complaints from occurring, thus 2018, 3,352 ideas out of 6,497 customer suggestion were adopted delivering a more trustworthy financial service. in 2018 (customer suggestion adoption rate of 51%), demonstrating Complete Selling throughout Product Lifecycle that the Council plays its role as a key channel to strengthen customer rights. Among the chosen ideas, 26 items which made a significant contribution to improving customer service quality were awarded, encouraging customers to speak up their voices. Product Development Product Sales Post-sales Management Establish and operate Operate a standard complete Run a happy call system to ensure a procedure for pre-discussion on selling system which provides whether explanations on the product new products to review whether a standard sales manual and structure and risks are fully delivered to there is a possible violation of checklist for each product and understood by customers customer rights and rectify any Conduct self on-site inspection and potential problems mystery shopping at all sales offices 50 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE 51 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 54 Business Performance Performance Review & Plan by Business 56  Human Resources Management 64  Customer Satisfaction Management 70  72 Social Contributions 77 Environmental Management 52 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 53 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Business Performance Generating Business Performance and Plan Economic Values 2018 was a year when Mirae Asset Daewoo was focused on laying the foundation to make a leap forward Mirae Asset Daewoo has successfully created differentiated values in the diverse business areas into becoming a global IB. Although we were not able to meet the target by recording KRW 585 billion of wealth management (WM), pension, IB, trading, wholesale, PBS, global, and digital. Through in income before tax and KRW 462 billion in net income on a consolidated basis, we have increased our total equity capital to KRW 8.4 trillion, firmly settling our stature as Korea’s outstanding mega-sized IB. We perpetual innovation and transformation, we will seek new opportunities to generate economic also proactively leveraged our investment capabilities, and thus secured nearly KRW 6 trillion in Korean growth that make contributions to advancing the domestic financial market. and global investment assets, equipping ourselves with differentiated growth engines in IB, PI, and trading businesses. Furthermore, new sources of revenue created in overseas business enabled us to achieve a balanced profit ratio at home and abroad, building a foundation on which Mirae Asset Daewoo can grow MAJOR PERFORMANCE Equity Capital Total Client Assets 8.4 KRW trillion 234 KRW trillion into a global IB. In 2019, Mirae Asset Daewoo will continue our efforts to overcome challenging market situations and turn them into opportunities. Our G.I.D.P strategy, put in place from 2018, will be upgraded to ‘Synergy Market Review Securities Market Creation through Convergence’ strategy, based on which we will develop new products and services for the and Outlook In 2018, the global stock market faced downturns on the back of the U.S-China trade dispute and the global market, and offer financial investment services of higher level. interest rates hike by the US Federal Reserve. The stock market index both in developed and emerging markets went down by 10.4% and 16.6%, respectively. In contrast, the global stock market is expected to Business Overview recover driven by cyclical economic rebound and as central banks of the U.S. and the EU are not likely to As of the end of 2018, Mirae Asset Daewoo operates 136 branches, three overseas representative offices, increase interest rates. Moreover, the US Federal Reserve’s announcement to end the balance sheet runoff in and 11 overseas subsidiaries (excluding those undergoing liquidation and merger). Total client assets September is expected to promote higher liquidity and depreciation of the U.S. dollar. Therefore, diversified reached KRW 234 trillion, and balance for financial product sales recorded KRW 112 trillion, maintaining investments in the U.S., Europe and emerging market are expected to be promising. However, in Korea, a stable growth pace. The number of high net worth individuals (HNWIs) with investments of KRW 100 because corporate earnings are forecasted to decline and the decrease in Korea’s proportions in the MSCI million or more exceeded 150,000 at the end of 2018. emerging market index will have adverse effects on supply and demand relationship, the Korean market Credit Rating is likely to underperform. Thus, the U.S-China trade dispute will be a key risk factor not only for the stock In 2018, we received an AA grade from Korea Ratings, the Korea Investors Service, and NICE Information market but for global financial markets as a whole. Service for our non-guaranteed corporate bonds. In addition, we received Baa2 (Stable) grade for foreign Bond Market currency-denominated long-term fixed income from Moody’s, an overseas credit rating agency, and are In 2018, the interest rates of 10-year government bonds by major countries continued to fall, except for a maintaining that rating, and we are also received a BBB (Stable) rating from S&P. moderate increase in the U.S. in early 2018. The accelerating interest rate hikes by the U.S. Federal Reserve prompted other developed nations to increase their interest rates, the overall interest rates however continued Distribution of Values Distributing to fall in the second half of 2018 coupled with the downturn in the stock market. Mirae Asset Daewoo pursues a fair and transparent distribution of values we have generated to enhance Economic Values In 2019, developed nations are expected to maintain their interest rates at the current level until the third customer value and promote sound social growth. In 2018, a total of KRW 2,775.7 billion was distributed quarter, and Korea is also likely to freeze its interest rate within this year. However, if liquidity expansion causes to key stakeholders, such as customers, shareholders, investors, executives and employees, and local asset prices to soar, this may prompt the governments to adopt contractionary monetary policies. As the global community, while supporting their values. economy cycle is likely to improve in the second half of 2019, interest rates of government bonds issued by Unit: KRW billion developed nations are likely to rise moderately, rebounding from the downturn in the first half of the year. Changes in Laws Business Model Change and Product Diversification and Regulations The trend in the securities industry in 2019 can be summarized as business model change and product for the Financial diversification. In terms of business model change, many securities companies are going through M&As 1,754.2 153.9 658.3 4.2 205.1 Customers Shareholders and Employees Local Communities and Government Market and equity expansion to focus more on changing business models. Attempts to solidify existing revenue (Interest expenses) Investors (Salaries) NGOs (Income taxes and streams, such as brokerage and WM, are taken simultaneously with attempts to establish a proactive (Dividends) (Donations) other taxes) IB model based on capital. The securities landscape in 2019 is to build unique and distinctive business models, rather than an identical structure, profitability, and profit model. In terms of bills issued, securities companies certified for short-term financial business have issued approximately KRW 6 trillion in issued Tax Payment Fulfillment of Tax Payment Obligations bills under management, which flows into the insurance, construction, and ship-building industries serving Mirae Asset Daewoo complies with our tax payment obligations for domestic business sites as well as as venture capital. The IB sector of a mega-sized securities firm will expand its role as venture capital, and finance industry is expected to play a greater role in industrial development. Product diversification emerged Korea 90.0% our overseas business sites based on criteria set forth by the respective local governments. When tax laws are unclear to us, we receive help from external professional organizations to satisfy legal standards. We as prolonged low-growth economic structure in Korea and diverse investment target in the overseas market led to establishing overseas stocks as an alternative medium of investment. Furthermore, real estate and Asia 5.6 % disclose income tax-related information through an audit report that is made available on the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer (DART) system. Financial statement and footnote information on the audit report alternative investment asset took root as alternative products and structured products, such as ELS, are includes the criteria for calculating income tax expenses, deferred tax assets and liabilities. We manage risks evolving towards leveraging overseas basic assets. North America 4.1 % that may arise in relation to taxation, and prevent tax-related risks by fulfilling our tax payment obligations in a fair and transparent way. For international transactions with overseas subsidiaries, we observe domestic Government Initiative to Reform Capital Market Europe 0.2 % tax laws as well as the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, and execute tax payment obligations based on The Korean government has presented five measures to reform and innovate the capital market including local laws. We have overseas subsidiaries in the U.S., Brazil, Hong Kong, and other countries, and we establishing realistic standards for the issuance of private equity funds (PEFs), easing regulations on PEFs, Others 0.1 % transparently disclose the amount of taxes we pay in each region. introduction of Business Development Companies (BDC), expansion of individual professional investors, and improving IPO system. Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to properly respond to the initiative by drawing up measures for each agenda. 54 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 55 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Performance Review & Plan by Business Wealth Management Pension 2018 Performance In 2018, overseas stock investment increased and positioned itself as a prime source of revenue. Overall, our 2018 Performance On the back of competitive product offerings and distinctive consulting services which we have wealth management (WM) business recorded 15% higher net operating revenue compared to the previous accumulated over the past 10 years, Mirae Asset Daewoo has grown into a leading pension management year owing to the growth of stable WM revenue. Stable WM revenue, an area where we have long been company with KRW 11.7 trillion in pension assets under management (KRW 8.6 trillion in retirement strong at, was combined with gradually increasing brokerage revenue to achieve KRW 660.9 billion in net pension and KRW 3.1 trillion in individual pension as of the end of 2018). operating revenue. Despite market decline and increased volatility, our pension and global assets grew by KRW 3.2 trillion. Detailed Key Performance Mirae Asset Daewoo has been focused on delivering diverse products, customer care, and differentiated services. Our pension asset Detailed Key Performance is on a steady increase each year. Our WM business is offering differentiated products aimed at successful asset investment for our customers. In addition, we Products We have launched Robo-Port individual pension advisory service, and developed a line-up of retirement pensions into have been active in responding to a shift in the global investment paradigm, thereby consistently generating increased revenue in deposits at savings banks (11 in KRW 230 billion), and are operating Global Retirement Pension Asset Allocation Wrap (25,862 overseas brokerage. subscribers at KRW 936 billion). Total customer assets in WM In 2018, total customer assets in our WM business decreased by KRW 6 trillion year-on-year to Non-face-to-face customer management and services We have established Pension Asset Management Center as an online KRW 150.5 trillion mainly due to the deteriorating stock market in the second half of the year. Brokerage revenue, however, saw a asset management organization and were the first to introduce loans secured by retirement pensions. net growth of KRW 68 billion to record KRW 370.4 billion. In particular, overseas stock investment is on a rapid increase serving as a major source of revenue. Assets under management for pension and global brokerage, our strategic assets to strengthen ties with Infrastructure and accolades We launched MAPIS, a next-generation mobile system for retirement pension management. We customers, grew by KRW 3.2 trillion. Our assets for overseas brokerage, which recorded KRW 0.7 trillion in the beginning of 2017, received the Grand Prize at the 5th Retirement Pension Award by The Korea Economic Daily (special prize for pension customer grew to KRW 2.7 trillion by the end of 2017, and KRW 4.1 trillion in 2018, demonstrating growth of approximately six times in the education) and Grand Prize at the 5th Retirement Pension Awards by Money Today (best securities firm for retirement pension). past two years. We maintain No. 1 ranking in the industry in terms of overseas stock assets and contracts. (Unit: KRW billion) (Unit: KRW trillion) Contribution Classification Classification Beginning of the Year End of the Year Change 2016 2017 2018 Funds 9.9 10.0 0.1 DB 3,744.6 4,192.3 4,588.2 WM assets Others 42.9 43.4 0.5 DC 2,046.7 2,545.2 2,962.4 Sub Total 52.8 53.5 0.7 IRP 769.7 953.6 1,110.4 Domestic Brokerage 101.0 93.0 -8.0 Individual pension 2,039.2 2,794.3 3,096.0 Brokerage Assets Overseas Brokerage 2.7 4.1 1.4 Total 8,600.2 10,485.4 11,757.1 Sub Total 103.7 97.1 -6.6 * As of the end of 2018; No. 1 in contributions for retirement pension and personal pension among securities companies in Korea (Excluding the performance of Total Customer Assets 156.5 150.5 -6.0 subsidiaries for retirement pension) Pension Assets 10.2 11.7 1.5 Strategic Assets Global Assets 5.5 7.2 1.7 Total 15.7 18.9 3.2 2019 Plan and Business Plan * Based on retail customers Strategy The pension market has so far grown in quantity and the pension market of the future will be focused on quality growth. In this regard, Mirae Asset Daewoo will strive to enhance customer satisfaction in 2019, solidifying our position as a top-tier pension management company. 2019 Plan and Business Plan Business Strategy Strategy In 2019, to fortify our position as a leading asset manager in the industry, we will remain focused on laying We strive to enhance customer satisfaction through proactive customer care and differentiated pension the foundation for sustained growth, enhancing customer values, and improving WM competitiveness, all consulting services. We will offer better education, seminar, consulting, and non-face-to-face customer in an effort to generate better results. management services, and increase profitability for our pension customers via outstanding global asset Business Strategy allocation. Lay the foundation for sustained growth Enhance customer values Improve WM competitiveness We will upgrade the retirement pension management system to enhance work efficiency and innovate the Increase global core assets Provide differentiated products Pursue innovation and improve efficiency infrastructure to boost the quality of customer service both in online and offline channels. Furthermore, we • Global stocks • WM assets • Pension assets • Expand collaboration between IB and trading in organization (channel) operations will remain proactive in responding to the external environment such as changing pension policies so that divisions for linked products • Synergy through mega-sizing we can build a company image as a leading pension business provider. • Expand PEF products Increase overseas core stock by • Expand medium-risk, medium-yield products Improve competitiveness of WM personnel accelerating the ‘reformation of accounts’ • Strengthen an integrated consulting process Big data-based marketing Respond to markets proactively (Total solutions for investment assets) • Provide one-stop services VIP service innovation • Global infrastructure services Strategic and efficient operations of • Investment solutions for professional investors human resources 56 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 57 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management IB Trading 2018 Performance In 2018, we have achieved excellent performance across all sectors in IB business. In terms of ECM, we 2018 Performance Our trading business is equipped with a globally competitive human network and financial infrastructure. contracted large deals for paid-in capital increase, marking outstanding sales earnings. In the IPO operation, Our bonds, derivatives and multi-strategy management is empowered by our team-oriented approach and our achievement included arranging a deal worth KRW 500 billion with a market share of 17%, topping strategic decision making, and based on which we develop financial products with an aim to improve our the IPO League Table for two consecutive years from 2017. In addition, in terms of acquisition financing, profitability while also increasing customers' assets. we arranged 14 deals worth KRW 2.7 trillion, making it to the top position and successfully arranging a number of landmark projects in Korean and foreign real estate and alternative investments, demonstrating our strength as the most well-capitalized securities house in Korea. Detailed Key Performance Trading Division1 Mirae Asset Daewoo issued ELS products worth KRW 9.1 trillion in 2018 to achieve the largest ELS market share in Korea for two consecutive years. We issued foreign equity-linked products worth KRW 150 billion, including KRW 80 billion Detailed Key Performance issuance of the first Korean equity products that makes payment at maturity with foreign stocks. We also expanded the issuance of IPO Beginning with the IPO deals for Lotte Data Communication Company and Hana Pharmaceuticals worth more than KRW 100 derivative products, such as knock-in products that meet market trends and customer requirements, and lizard products with better billion, Mirae Asset Daewoo has listed Café 24, SV Investment, Robotis, and Air Busan, exerting market influence. stability. In addition, we generated additional profits by employing strategic hedging against higher volatility. Acquisition financing We have arranged acquisition financing and refinancing for many Korean companies including Coway, Trading Division2 In Won-denominated bond trading, we outperformed through active trading of stability-focused portfolios. Ssangyong Cement, and Doosan Machine Tools, as well as overseas acquisition financing for Pepper Group, maintaining our market In Won-denominated bond brokerage, we increased our profits as sourcing of corporate bonds was expanded as well as the Bank leading position for two consecutive years. of Korea consistently selected us as an outstanding financial institution. As for foreign currency bond brokerage, we increased the inbound brokerage volumes and expanded private placement of foreign currency bonds, which led to improvement in ECM & DCM We strengthened our market position by serving as a lead arranger for paid-in capital increase of Samsung Heavy profitability. We were named the foreign currency trade institution by the Bank of Korea (UST, credits). As for the brokerage of Industries, Lotte Tour Development, Jeju Bank, as well as corporate bond offerings of high-grade issuers such as LG Group. Our Won-denominated bond in-bound trades by foreign investors, we ranked first with a market share of 12.02% (Named the best market presence was further solidified by successfully issuing bonds with warrants (BW) for Hanwha Galleria Time World and securities company in 2018 by the Swiss National Bank). arranging a number of block deals. Real estate We are vigorously participating in profit-driven real estate investment and development projects such as the acquisition project for Pangyo Alphadom City 6-3BL office and development project for 6-1BL and 6-2BL offices at the Alphadom City in Pangyo. Furthermore, we have delivered financial advisory services for acquisition fund of KRW 363 billion and were the first to issue a credit tenant lease (CTL) loan in high credit rating (AA+) based on the cash flow of real estate asset rent fee for Samsung 2019 Plan and Business Plan C&T’s East Central Tower investment. In addition, we participated in the world’s largest scale acquisition financing (KRW 5.5 trillion) Strategy and conducted new investments for The Center office in Hong Kong. Alternative investment By diversifying our IB strategy beyond traditional deal sourcing methods, we were able to secure prime brands both at home and abroad and executed an actual investment of 11 deals worth KRW 1.2 trillion thanks to the outstanding performance of the newly established Global Investment Finance Department. 2019 Plan and Business Strategy Strategy Trading Division1 Trading Division2 We will expand our coverage for new-growth companies and improve less-developed coverages to achieve market competitiveness and will diversify our profit sources by offering financing plans utilizing company-owned assets and corporate restructuring schemes. We will expand our We will provide innovative products which can We will increase the proportion of customer assetIB Division1 IPO efforts into outstanding overseas corporations and the Industry 4.0 companies and promote generate stable earnings by creating new business focused foreign bond assets and expand earnings from pre-IPO sales. We will also expand our position in core assets both at home and abroad and to cope with market uncertainties and enhancing overseas business. To strengthen our global business improve returns via asset-backed financing services, such as mezzanine, alternative investment, our business capabilities. To accommodate global capabilities, we aim to generate at least 30% of our REITs, and structured financing. investment needs, we will diversify channels for earnings within this division from overseas and will Leveraging our network with construction companies, developers, and key customers, we currency exchange clients and provide new products promote intra-team management and intra-division will secure mid-to long-term revenue sources, such as equity investments, bridge loans, and with expanded external credit lines. Furthermore, we trades to create synergy with sales and trading business. development profits securitization. We will also participate in various markets including policy/ will diversify our sources of revenue and broaden our We will also continue to promote collaboration with our IB Division2 public/municipal projects to continuously discover high value deals. Furthermore, we are footprints in the market by developing new ELW/ETN WM and wholesale businesses and analyze the sales fortifying our total financial solution capabilities as a global IB house by arranging finance, investing in, and managing loans and equity in overseas real estate and infrastructure. products and active asset management. environment and new market opportunities in order to develop new businesses. We aim to strengthen our deal pipeline and pioneer new businesses with key partners by penetrating overseas acquisition financing markets. We will also implement a basecamp strategy IB Division3 for local markets and products, and thus localize deal sourcing channels. In addition, we will enter the new real estate financing market by participating in government policy-linked projects and discovering new businesses. 58 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 59 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Wholesale PBS 2018 Performance In 2018, our Equity Sales Department received top grades from major pension funds and asset managers 2018 Performance Our PBS Department achieved remarkable performance in 2018. We became the second largest hedge in Korea. Our Multi Solution Department led the market by expanding overseas sales of alternative fund operator in Korea with KRW 5,014.2 billion under management by winning new prime brokerage investment products. service (PBS) contracts worth more than KRW 3.4 trillion. Our growth marked the largest among the six companies engaging in PBS business in Korea. Also, our active marketing efforts led a number of hedge fund managers to partner with us. On the back of these accomplishments, Mirae Asset Daewoo received the PBS of the Year Award in the 2019 Korea Wealth Management Awards. Detailed Key Performance Equity Sales Department We received top grades from public pension funds, such as Korea National Pension Service and Korea Post, in their biannual or quarterly brokerage house ratings. In addition, we solidified our leading position in traditional securities brokerage fields including block deals for corporations and trading of non-listed stocks. We also expanded our foreign ETF sales Detailed Key Performance capacity as Mirae Asset Financial Group acquired Global X. Moreover, the Korea National Pension Fund named Mirae Asset Daewoo Net profit (Unit: KRW billion) Assets under management (Unit: % for M/S; and KRW billion as its new foreign stock broker, which led to remarkable growth in commitments and revenue from foreign equity sales. for assets under management) Multi Solution Department We provided institutional investors with competitive products through foreign asset managers and 26.7 27.4 deal sourcing. The balance of financial products offered by the Multi Solution Department increased KRW 5.3 trillion year-on-year to 23.9 35 KRW 54.8 trillion as of the end of 2018, as a result of expanding earnings and the sale of financial products, thereby solidifying our 8,000 31% position as a market leader. The Department also focused on collaborating with IB sectors of relevant teams, and thus expanded the sourcing channels for alternative investments. 17.5 30 5,014.2 6,000 25 4,000 21% 20% 2019 Plan and Business Plan 20 1,596.5 2,000 1,349.2 Strategy In 2019, the Equity Sales Department aims to receive the highest grades from major pension and 1,057.8 institutional funds in their brokerage house ratings. It also plans to continuously expand overseas equity 15 1,000 sales by leveraging the global network of Mirae Asset Financial Group. Our Multi Solution Department1 and 13% Multi Solution Department2 will diversify earnings by developing a wide range of products through close 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 collaboration with our IB Division, and by soliciting new institutional investors. Furthermore, in response to the growing demand for foreign alternative investment products, we will focus more on increasing sales in Prime Service Team Mirae Asset Daewoo has the second largest share in the hedge fund contract volume in Korea. In 2018 alternative investments by leveraging our global network including foreign asset managers and global real alone, our contract volume increased by KRW 3,425.1 billion, while maintaining a solid partnership with hedge fund management estates. as an optimized solution provider. We closely communicate with our clients and provide various services tailored to their Business Strategy requirements in the right place at the right time. We offer incubating services, such as seeding and marketing, and we also provide Equity Sales Department The Equity Sales Department will create new deals by collaborating with our hedge funds with liquidity through credit exposure. We also contribute to maximizing hedge fund returns by providing total return swap (TRS) for all asset classes such as equity, bonds, and fund securities. IB, WM and global divisions, and provide competitive services. In addition, by partnering with new private equity firms and investment advisors, we will enhance our sales capabilities. We will also complete the Equity Finance Team Our balance in the short sale accounts is KRW 2.5 trillion. We lend stocks under management to domestic construction of a Korean local brokerage platform for offshore pre-IPOs. and foreign entities through global standard short sale contracts. Based on the short sale account balance, we lend our stocks to help our hedge fund clients employ long-short selling strategies and arbitraging, enabling them to stabilize returns regardless of Multi Solution Department1 and 2 The Multi Solution Department1 and Multi Solution Department2 will market fluctuations. continue to attract new institutional investors and provide differentiated products. We will also continuously expand placement agent operations targeting foreign asset managers and supply in-house products to institutional investors. We also aim to solicit funds to cope with the growth of Outsourced Chief Investment Officer (OCIO) market. 2019 Plan and Business Plan Strategy In 2019, we aim to achieve the largest hedge fund contract amounts and expand security-lending and over-the-counter derivatives, while also providing unrivaled services. Furthermore, we will offer products and services covering over-the-counter derivatives and foreign security lending to more customers including retail customers. Business Strategy We will diversify marketing activities for investors by providing hedge fund portfolios, while expanding hedge fund sales channels to include retail channels. We will also continuously expand underlying assets for TRS, such as mezzanine, funds and offshore stocks, and thus securitize various types of assets. In addition, we will offer security lending services to retail and institutional customers by leveraging our domestic stocks and the balance of foreign stocks worth KRW 5 trillion. 60 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 61 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Global Digital Finance 2018 Performance Based on the reputation and network accumulated as Korea’s representative global IB, Mirae Asset 2018 Performance We strive to upgrade the account opening processes for our non-face-to-face channels by adopting Daewoo is expanding its investment into prime overseas assets. an automated identity card authentication and mobile OTP system. As a result, 366,000 new accounts were created in 2018 via non-face-to-face-based direct channels. The number of m.Club subscribers, our online financial service platform, exceeded 100,000 thanks to our continued efforts including the Detailed Key Performance 1. UK 7.Vietnam expansion of content. In addition, we established a digital innovation platform, formed partnerships with Perform IB business Target the local 13 institutions to build a fintech hub, and completed two tasks with three fintech companies through the Increasing profitability and IB assets of overseas market with a 1 first fintech partnership program. subsidiaries In 2018, profit before tax from our global particular focus on 2. India brokerage and IB subsidiaries grew by 148% compared to the previous year, especially the IB sector witnessed an increased revenue of Become established Business Plan in the local market 2 8. Singapore 2019 Plan and 164% over the year. In particular, our overseas PBS business, In 2019, we will continue to proactively respond to the changing digital environment with the goal of for all areas Diversify businesses Strategy initiated in 2017, combined the know-how and expertise of including IB and leading digital finance. To this end, we will upgrade the account opening processes for our non-facetrading from equity sales to Korean business with the local market, and thus achieved include other areas to-face channels, enhance UI and UX, fortify big data-driven customized customer management a 287% revenue growth in 2018 compared to the previous services, including m.Club, and make other efforts to sharpen our competitive edge. In addition, we will 3. Mongolia year, being recognized for a successful business localization. 9. Indonesia strengthen our partnership with fintech companies and companies in different industries to expand our Perform IB business Continue to customer and sales base. In response to the changes in the financial industry with the regulations being Capital increase and market entry to drive growth We focus on the local conducted capital increase for the Indian and Vietnamese 4. China brokerage market lenient, we will explore new business opportunities in fintech, such as payment gateway (PG) business subsidiaries in order to better leverage benefits of the economic and expand WM and overseas remittance services. These will enable us to attract more non-face-to-face customers and Perform 3 business growth in India and Vietnam. This served as a turning point cross-border deals 5 increase profitability. 4 to transform the typical business model in emerging countries between Korea 6 10. U.S. (L.A.) and China Business Strategy mainly focused on brokerage into one with a particular focus 7 Strengthen WM on IB business. As such, we are establishing ourselves as a 8 business by creating 5. Korea 9 major IB player in the emerging markets by capturing and synergy with IB Vision investing in new business opportunities. No. 1 in Digital Finance Market 6. Hong Kong 11. U.S. (New York) Expanding our business through market entry Mirae Invest in and Generate stable Asset Capital Markets (India) Private Limited, our Indian productize big deals 10 11 profits from PBS subsidiary began its business in early 2018, generated 15% by strengthening business IB capacity and of our total revenue for the year from overseas subsidiaries. collaborating with This achievement was made possible by driving strong IB and headquarters 12. Brazil trading businesses based on outstanding local professionals 12 Mission Secure Enable quick and easy online transactions anytime, anywhere and accurate understanding of the local market. Mirae Asset competitiveness customized to Capital Markets (India) Private Limited is expected to serve as a South America in major pillar of our global business growth in the future. local brokerage and WM businesses Strategies 2019 Plan and Business Strategy Strategy Strengthen our position as a global IB Mirae Asset Daewoo will strengthen our position in the global IB market by identifying profitable deals and core assets based on the network and expertise that we have accumulated through IB deal experiences around the world. In addition, we will develop localization plans suited for each market environment in order to establish competitive organization and secure diversified investment portfolio. Based on that, we will offer investment products to local customers, thereby + ADD SUBTRACT × MULTIPLY ÷ SHARE maximizing the efficiency of our IB business. Enhancing profitability through business model diversification We will diversify our business models to establish an overseas expansion model for sustainable growth. In advanced markets, we will designate and Add Eliminate unnecessary new businesses process Double quality and drive specialized businesses suited for each region, while in emerging markets, we will respond closely to quantity Digitalization the region’s economic and regulatory changes and proactively discover and pursue new businesses. Create new business Help customers save models time Create synergy Share the system Strengthen our position as a local integrated securities company We will further bolster our brokerage between Korea and business in emerging markets by leveraging our know-how accumulated through our localization Continue to grow Get closer to customers overseas experiences over a long time. We will also successfully establish a wide range of businesses, including IB and WM, by securing outstanding professionals in the fields, thus establishing our strong position as an integrated securities company. 62 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 63 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Human Resources Management It is most important for Mirae Asset Daewoo to secure outstanding talent to develop into a global IB. To this end, we are providing systematic training programs to strengthen Strengthening Digital Competencies employees’ financial expertise and global competitiveness. We also pursue employee Professional financial data analytics course Emerging digital technologies, such as fintech, big data, and diversity and strive to build a flexible, creative organizational culture, in addition to providing robo-advisor, are vital to Mirae Asset Daewoo’s competitiveness. We are therefore offering a professional a safe work environment to employees and helping them enjoy a healthy life. financial data analytics course where employees receive intensive training in order to nurture internal data experts specializing in data analysis and algorithms. Not only IT staff but also any employee can apply for this course because it is designed to improve the overall digital competencies of the company. In 2018, a KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Number of newly hired employees 276 persons Employee training costs 7.2 KRW billion total of 115 data analytics experts were developed by completing this program. Digital innovation leader program Digital innovation leader program was provided to all executives with the goal of encouraging them to develop a digital transformation-oriented mindset and to promote a creative Employee Principles of Fair Employment sense of urgency. It was provided on two occasions in 2018, and 80 executives attended the program. Recruitment We attract talent based on our principles of fair employment that do not place a restriction on academic Fostering experts in digital convergence finance In order to develop internal experts to lead our digital background, gender, age, etc. We have created a blind interview process that evaluates only the job skills transformation, we have signed an agreement with the Korea University Graduate School of Computer & and competencies of applicants which form the basis of executing work, through which we measure Information Technology. Accordingly, around 20 employees are given an opportunity and support to enter factors that are adequate for the characteristics of each duty and recruit talent with job competency. the master’s course in Digital Convergence Finance at Korea University. Expanding Overseas Recruitment Promoting Global Mindset Mirae Asset Daewoo places its highest priority in sourcing global top talents with investment experience Self-management learning program For the purpose of nurturing key talents equipped with global in Vietnam, India, Singapore, and Hong Kong with the goal of securing diverse overseas investment opportunities. Going forward, our plan is to diversify our recruiting channels to operate global talent competitiveness and mindset and share innovative ideas across the enterprise, we are operating a recruiting process and overseas job fairs to find and hire professionals from extensive channels. self-management learning program. Designed to motivate employees via self-led learning, participants visit the U.S., Europe, and other countries for two-week overseas training, and share their experiences with other employees. In 2018, 26 employees completed the program. Human Resources Strengthening Financial Expertise Global expert fostering program We have dispatched junior staff to our overseas subsidiaries so that they Development Global equity expert fostering course A global equity expert fostering course has been in place in order to secure a pool of global brokerage experts and boost WM competencies. This course serves as an can have a better understanding of the global investment market situation and help discover new business opportunity where participants can learn global economic analysis techniques, share their actual investment areas. 16 trainees were chosen to go through a three-week preparation training and participate in the experiences, and develop competencies required for successful management of customer assets. overseas work and experience program for three months. Professional competency training was provided on four occasions in 2018, nurturing 123 global brokerage BUSINESS CASE experts. Tax and real estate expert fostering course This is an in-depth training program designed to satisfy the Fostering talent to strengthen competitiveness in global IB specific and diverse needs of our customers. This program has enabled the learning of field knowledge across tax and real estate required for comprehensive asset management consulting services and analysis of actual customer cases to boost customer consulting competencies. The program was first launched in 2018 and nurtured 22 experts. Mirae Asset Daewoo is operating various training programs intended to enhance our competencies in global IB. The training is based on actual cases and designed to be immediately applicable to the job execution. Also, its well-structured curriculum is effective in Pension expert course We offer a pension expert course to develop pension professionals who design and strengthening global IB competencies both for the company and individuals. In addition, a risk management training program is plan customers’ stable retirement life in an aging society. Course participants will first acquire professional provided for specific areas of bond investment, real-estate, financial analysis, and alternative investment, and thus solidifies the expertise of a chief risk officer (CRO). pension expertise and then receive hands-on training on drafting consulting reports and hosting customer seminars to reach the competency level of proposing tailored solutions for customers. It was first launched Classification Course Details Performance in 2018 in 2018 offered on two occasions, and 57 participants have completed the course. Enhance understanding of the capital market, and acquire key 102 persons, Basic program knowledge by business area to assist related sales activities 28 hours WM Academy Created to foster global investment experts, WM Academy is an intensive training program Basic and advanced course Nurture real-estate PF experts and boost competencies towards 89 persons, consisting of specialized courses covering global equity and bond, pension consulting, and tax/real estate on real-estate PF becoming global investors 41 hours consulting. In 2018, 1,408 employees undertook the course. Intensive course for Nurture experts in alternative investments to strengthen 40 persons, infra/energy related (Unit: Person) competitiveness in global IB 20 hours Global IB alternative investments Expert Status Basic and intermediate course Provide education on teaching financial modeling techniques that 64 persons, Classification 2016 2017 2018 for financial modeling can be used by junior IB professionals in the field 23 hours AFPK 1) 1,802 1,805 1,582 Financial statement analysis Support new hires and sales support staff to improve their 24 persons, course for valuation understanding of IB business and learn accounting knowledge 30 hours 2) CFP 328 329 300 Fundamental analyst Enhance global analysis competency through training on global M&A 21 persons, 3) development program and investment analysis methods 21 hours FP 1,495 1,499 1,285 Strengthen expertise of a CRO (understanding bond investment, real1) AFPK: Associate Financial Planner Korea Bond investment, real-estate, Risk estate legal matters in practice, financial analysis by each industry/ 213 persons, 2) CFP: Chartered Financial Planner financial analysis, alternative management company, securities derivatives product∙hedge in practice, alternative 71 hours 3) FP: Financial Planner investments investments) 64 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 65 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Establishment Sharing a Culture of Innovation Employee Performance Evaluation Principle of an Innovative Mirae Asset Daewoo has in place a number of programs aimed at establishing a corporate culture of Evaluation and Mirae Asset Daewoo is impartially evaluating employees’ achievement and competency based on a Corporate Culture innovation and investment and share the culture at the corporate-level. Compensation transparent process and reasonable grounds. Under the mission statement of becoming a “company that evaluates according to performance and compensates according to performance”, we revamped Innovation School We provided the Innovation School course to our junior managers and workingthe seniority-based evaluation practices of the past into one which measures employees’ achievement level employees in order to promote change and mind-set for customer alliance and to draw up detailed and performance in a fair and transparent manner. In this way, we are motiving staff and increasing work methodologies. efficiency. Open Space, Open Education It is a bottom-up training planning program where employees can plan and design their own training courses in addition to existing top-down training. As a result, various types Fostering-type Performance Evaluation Process of training, such as digital financial study and book clubs, have been planned and executed through We conduct the fostering-type evaluations by facilitating communication between team heads and staff. employee’s participation. In 2018, we held an official mid-term feedback session and a year-end final evaluation session to provide comprehensive feedback. In addition to the official mid-term feedback session, we are recommending Book Square It is a point accrual system for book-reading to encourage employees to read books in a our team heads to provide staff with coaching and feedback on a regular basis, and support with online voluntary manner so as to enhance the individual’s competencies and spread forward-looking corporate management system through which they can manage staff feedback. culture. Promotion System Based on Job Competency Promoting Labor-Management Communication Mirae Asset Daewoo has established a promotion system with a selection-type promotion approach Labor-Management Council Representing all staff, the Labor-Management Council is in charge of engaging where employees who can perform higher roles are chosen from among employees with outstanding in discussions with top management on major issues related to staff. In 2018, the Labor-Management achievements and competencies. We have thus institutionalized a structure that evaluates employees’ Councils was held on a quarterly basis, leading to agreements on restructuring the salary scheme, performance only by their achievements regardless of backgrounds, gender and age, so that capabilities introducing the flexible work system, such as flex-time work hour, and selective lunch time, as well as the of those who continuously generate performance are recognized. In addition, our efforts to foster female early adoption of 52-hour workweek. We respect employees’ decision to join the labor union and engage in employees have been increasing, and the the percentage of female managers (40.9%) is on the rise as well. union activities. As of the end of 2018, there are 2,890 members of the labor union on the basis of check off. Separately and Together It is a program that promotes team activities by creating an arena of communication and harmony for each team, while looking for ways to generate synergy in the entire Work-Life Balance Maternity Protection System organization. In 2018, a total of 94 employees from four teams took part in the program on three To encourage childbirth and protect mothers’ rights against the backdrop of a low birthrate in Korea, we occasions. guarantee maternity and childcare leaves that are stipulated in laws. Also, we have been operating child care centers since 2011 to help employees feel less burdened from childbirth and childcare, and help them Handling employee grievance Mirae Asset Daewoo has assigned employee grievance handling staff to achieve a balance between work and personal life. address employees’ complaints or grievances, and is making sincere efforts in drafting various measures to protect customer-facing employees. We have strengthened the company’s sexual harassment prevention Establishment of Healthy Work Conditions and disciplinary obligations in order to prevent workplace sexual harassment. Furthermore, psychotherapy We are enhancing work efficiency and helping staff achieve a balance between work and personal life by and counselling programs are in place to help employees maintain mental health as well as supporting the adopting the concentrated work system, minimizing overtime work, and promoting the use of vacations. work & life balance the company is pursuing. In 2019, following revision of the Labor Standards Act, we will In particular, we have already adopted the 52-hour workweek system, and flex-time work hours has been ban office bullying and develop a prevention and response system which is to be stipulated in the Rules of implemented. Furthermore, we are planning to expand the flexible work system based on job characteristics Employment. in the near future. Employee Safety Health Management Programs for Employees and Health Mirae Asset Daewoo runs the employee health management program to protect staff from grievance and psychological stress that may occur in the process of handling work. We operate the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to provide professional psychological counseling and coaching services for resolution of various issues that staff come across inside and outside of work. We also offer ‘TodakTodak’, a psychological counseling program, and ‘Inside Out’, a self-reflection program, for staff who provide customer services. By providing the ‘Begin Again’ program, which is an arena for understanding and communication, we encourage staff to enjoy a positive, enterprising life. Emotional Care Program Our emotional care program is intended to alleviate employees’ stress and help them recognize and adjust their emotional status, thus contributing to enhance employees work emotional satisfaction. This program is focused on psychotherapy and is run year-round. In 2018, 85 employees received counseling service for 259 times in total. 66 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 67 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Human Rights Human Rights Management Principle Management Mirae Asset Daewoo supports the human rights principles presented by the ‘UN Universal Declaration Risk Analysis Process of Human Rights’ and the ‘UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights’ of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. After joining the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in June 2006, we have been observing the ten major principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, thereby fulfilling social responsibilities that are in line with global standards. By establishing and distributing human rights protection principles, we seek to protect the human rights of all stakeholders, including all staff. Human Rights Management Principle Perform a risk evaluation Identify areas needing improvement Conduct a voluntary audit on Identify and implement improvement employees and stakeholders measures based on the results of I.  irae Asset Daewoo believes that protecting human rights is its most basic responsibility in running its M the voluntary audit business, and has adopted, as its basic principles for running its business, respect for comprehensive human rights principles, including prohibition of child labor and forced labor, and prohibition of discrimination. Ⅱ. M  irae Asset Daewoo’s principle on protecting human rights applies equally to staff at our business sites, shareholders, investors, customers, trading organizations, collaborative organizations, and local communities. Ⅲ. Mirae Asset Daewoo does not discriminate against customers based on gender, religion, race, political Conduct an assessment Corrective measures leaning, etc., and strives to protect customers’ information and to achieve stable revenue generation. Have a third party perform Implement corrective measures based Ⅳ. Mirae Asset Daewoo respects the basic rights of individual employees, and strives to provide a work an assessment in relation to on the outcome of the third-party environment that strikes a balance between work and personal life. voluntary audit shortcomings assessment Ⅴ. M  irae Asset Daewoo examines compliance with the human rights protection principle, and in the event of a human rights violation and discrimination, the company implements a process that resolves the issue in accordance with a set procedure. Outcome of a Human Rights Audit We conduct voluntary audits on employees and stakeholders, and audits through an outside, third-party organization. In the case of voluntary audits, we comprehensively assess compliance with the Labor Standards Act, salary, and non-discrimination principle. In the case of an audit by a third-party organization, actual implementation of labor/human rights rules is examined. Results of the voluntary audit and third-party organization audit conducted in 2018 indicated shortcomings in relation to compliance Process to Identify Human Rights Risks & Improvement Measures with operation of the grievance handling process. We completed 100% corrective measures for these We identify potential human rights issues throughout our business activities, and take corrective measures shortcomings. We are particularly making efforts to improve work conditions for service counseling for identified issues. We identify the issues by comprehensively considering whether human rights issues employees, which has recently become a social issue. We will strengthen the human rights protection occurred in the past, their frequency, as well as financial and non-financial seriousness. We continuously system for service counseling employees by continually strengthening such programs as mental health manage vulnerabilities for each identified issue, and designate a division to continue managing relevant diagnosis and stress management. matters. 68 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 69 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Advancing CS System It has been becoming increasingly important to develop products that are adequate Satisfaction Mirae Asset Daewoo has established its own CS system, and is solidifying it in order to realize the principle for customer and market trends and to provide higher profitability as a result of fierce Management of ‘Clients First’ and ‘Clients Alliance’, and to ensure WM services of the same quality across the nation. A circumstances in the domestic financial market and increased customer interest in asset survey was conducted on customers who visited WM centers in 2018, and found their satisfaction rate to be 93.9 points based on internal CSI criteria. Furthermore, employees with outstanding CS services were management and preparation for life after retirement due to the rapidly aging population. designated as CS Masters to further drive employees’ service-centric mindset. In 2019, we will sophisticate Setting enhancement of customer profitability as our top-priority goal, we continue our CS system through various training programs and by nurturing outstanding talents as CS instructors. to implement customer-centered management activities, such as communicating with customers, developing diverse products that satisfy customer needs, and providing distinctive CS System financial services. Establishment of CS Infrastructure Full Establishment of Selection of a CS Master ● D  evelop a standardized customer service manual and establishment of KEY ACHIEVEMENTS the customer service manual to upgrade customer services and share it with all employees CS standards to set standards for customer services form a customer alliance ● S elect a CS leader for each WM center, and operate the CS Day Developing Product Development Process Diversification of CS Assessment Methods Customer-centric Mirae Asset Daewoo has set a product selection process in place to build an excellent product lineup that is Objective ● C  onduct customer satisfaction surveys by an external identification Products suited for the long-term future, customer needs, and the global investment environment. We conduct the professional organization (4 times/year) of CS status first scoring process on funds ranked high according to the result of quantitative evaluation on all available ● P lan to conduct LMS survey to listen to voices of customers funds in the market. The second scoring process will then finalize a new and recommended product in their 20s and 50s lineup. In 2018, we engaged in regular communication with a customer advisory group to reflect customer opinions in the product selection process. Expansion of CS Programs Quantitative First scoring ● Provide CS training customized to each WM center Enhancement of Second scoring CS capabilities evaluation (criteria for selecting Final selection ● Provide training to enhance the capabilities of CS leaders (qualitative evaluation) (entire market) mutual fund) ● Provide CS standard training to new employees Product Strategy Council CS Motivation Program The Product Strategy Council is a voluntary entity where team heads from 16 teams, such as product solution, sales and marketing, conduct thorough analysis of clients’ asset portfolio and increase profitability ● Reward outstanding WM centers (yearly) Strengthening Select CS Masters (semi-annually) of CS execution in a stable manner. The council meetings have been held on a monthly basis since 2017, to scrutinize ● products with low return and strengthen portfolio rebalancing for clients. Furthermore, the entity evaluates ● Reward outstanding CS leaders (quarterly) various issues that may impact the return from different perspectives and incorporate the voices of customer-facing sales organization to enhance transparency in product policy and achieve the value of client alliance the company pursues. Furthermore, a customer panel was established to keep ears open to Providing CS Services the varying needs of clients and incorporate their voices into the process of releasing products and services. Mobile asset management services Mirae Asset Daewoo has been expanding the scope of its Robo-Port and Robo-Pick services, which provide small investors with more convenient asset management services. BUSINESS CASE Robo-Port offers quality online counseling and one-click ordering functions and Robo-Pick discovers Major Products promising stocks for investment and offers investment information through AIand big data-based algorithms through alliances with fintech companies. These two services aim at satisfying diverse investment styles and needs. KOSDAQ Venture Fund Robo-Port Service Robo-Pick Service Mirae Asset Daewoo launched the KOSDAQ Venture Fund for the purpose of invigorating the KOSDAQ market in line with the FSS announcement in January 2018. The Fund allocates over 50% of assets into outstanding venture firms as well as promising SMEs in Recommendations for stock and fund, Investment advisory service new growth areas. We have 18 public offering and private equity funds on offer, contributing to the government’s policy to promote and provision of investment information the growth of SMEs. ● P rovide real-time portfolio advisory services ● Identify items through AIand big data-based Target Income Fund (KakaoTalk push notifications) algorithms Mirae Asset Daewoo developed Target Date Fund (TDF) products which differentiate asset allocation ratio according to different time ● Instant order approval is available via mobile ● 10 services for stocks and 1 service for funds period especially for investors with specific long-term plans, such as retirement fund or tuition fee at a certain target date. In addition, devices we launched a Target Income Fund (TIF) in March 2019. TIF is a pension investment solution that offers stable and consistent cash income, so that it is suitable for investors who are in need of withdrawing their pension fund after retirement. 70 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 71 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Social Contributions Mirae Asset Daewoo strives to share our success with society by practicing ‘warm-hearted, caring capitalism’. We also strive to go beyond our role as a Korea’s leading investment Nurturing Talent Adding Hope to Challenge — Mirae Asset Overseas Exchange Program financial group, and create a greater social value. We therefore carry out various social Under the slogan, ‘Mirae Asset will serve as hope for the youth’, we have been rolling out the Mirae Asset contribution activities based on the three pillars of ‘Nurturing Talent’, ‘Social Welfare’, and overseas exchange program as a core part of our social contribution activities in the largest scale in Korea. ‘Culture of Sharing’. In order to provide opportunities to more college students, we have lifted the limitation on certain colleges and major, and also eliminated the interview process. In doing so, we help scholarship students who have experienced and learned from the overseas exchange program have bigger dreams to grow further. Accumulated Number of participants in 8,000 260,000 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS number of talent development Began in 2007, this program has supported 5,117 college students to study abroad in 50 countries Mirae Asset scholarships Exceeded programs Exceeded including the U.S., Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. A total of 550 scholarship recipients were chosen twice a year with up to KRW 7 million granted per person. From 2019, the number of students will grow to 650 a year so that help more Korean young adults grow into a global talent in the future. Social Contribution CSR Directions 99 students in eight classes, selected as ‘Mirae Asset Global Correspondents’ since 2014, are sharing their Strategies With the ‘Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation’ performing central roles, Mirae Asset is rolling out CSR activities through cohesive cooperation among affiliates. The three main areas of the company’s CSR unique cultural, economic, and regional experiences and information by posting on personal blogs with activities are nurturing talent, social welfare, and culture of sharing. We are systematically and continually students preparing for the exchange program. ‘Sharing Day’ is an event where students who have received executing scholarship and education support programs based on the slogan, ‘Mirae Asset will serve as hope the grant serve as mentors for new students, and also carry out diverse voluntary activities such as baking, for the youth’. We will return the profits earned through our business activities to society, and strive to build wall painting, and carrying briquettes, thereby creating a virtuous cycle of sharing their experiences and a healthy and sound society where we stand by the side of the underprivileged through volunteering. talent with society Major CSR Areas North America Europe Asia 2,100 1,842 1,070 Accumulated number of South America scholarship recipients 40 5,117 Nurturing Talent Social Welfare Culture of Sharing Number of countries Developing global talents of Supporting social welfare with Making employee donations the future through a sincere interest and conducting social 50 scholarship programs contribution activities Number of scholarship recipients 550 Mirae Asset’s CSR Milestones 500 450 Number of people who have The Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo participated in Mirae Asset talent Foundation was established, development programs exceeded and selected scholarship recipients 260,000 2018 in Korea 2000 Middle East Number of people who have Chose students for the global 32 participated in Mirae Asset talent investment expert scholarship development programs exceeded 100,000 2014 2006 2016 2017 2018 Oceania 33 V O I C E O F S TA K E H O L D E R S Launched the Book Project to Selected overseas exchange students, donate books and conducted global cultural experience program Mirae Asset overseas exchange program has made it possible for me to 2013 2007 experience the greater world and have priceless experience and memory. I will always keep in mind my commitment to ‘become a warm-hearted global leader who understands the value of sharing’ written in my application for the scholarship program, and will become a talent who Launched the ‘1% Hope Sharing’ Launched the ‘I Love You’ donation project with participation by campaign and the company’s practices sharing and contributes to society. executives matching grant 2011 2008 Jinwoo Han (selected in spring semester 2018; and sent to Netherlands) 72 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 73 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Social Welfare Global Cultural Experience Program The Global Cultural Exchange Program is one of Mirae Asset’s major talent nurturing programs offering Achievement of Global Cultural Exchange Program Achievement of Book Project opportunities for the youth to broaden their view and grow into global leaders. Participants take a trip to Shanghai, the Chinese financial capital, and stay for four days, visiting the Provisional Government Site of Accumulated figure Accumulated figure 198 197 the Republic of Korea, Yuyuan Garden, Shanghai Science and Technology Museum, the Bund financial district, and thus learn history and culture. In 2018, they also had a first-hand experience of the O2O 1,737 persons 22,224 93,996 books (Online to Offline) services of the advanced fintech industry in Shanghai. Persons Organizations Book Project 47 46 15,972 16,224 1,852 9,194 persons The Book Project aims at fostering a happy reading environment so that the youth can experience the Books Persons greater world and develop creativity and thinking power through books. Participants are presented with 1,331 1,352 books which suit their areas of interest, background, and reading level and professionals in social welfare facilities are given workshops to boost their reading instruction capability and create a quality reading 99 environment. 26 Bilingual e-learning Books We upgraded our bilingual textbooks, which we had developed for children from multicultural families, to e-books for better learning effectiveness and easier distribution. These e-books are designed to enhance readers’ interest and immersion by recording native speakers’ reading and offering various types of activities such as drag and drop, drawing lines, and ticking the right answer. We expect children from multicultural families can learn the different languages and culture of their parents and grow into talents with greater communication capabilities. 2016 2017 1) 2018 2016 2017 2018 Youth Vision Project 1) The Youth Vision Project offers programs based on design thinking and maker education to help students Did not take place in the second half of the year develop creative and flexible thinking to design the future in the fast-changing environment. Furthermore, * Based on past 3-year data * Based on past 3-year data Accumulated figure is based on performance from the beginning of Accumulated figure is based on performance from the beginning of we offer professionals in children’s welfare facilities workshops which include know-how on planning and the program until 2018 the program until 2018 conducting maker education, assisting them to roll out various activities in the field. Achievement of Youth Vision Project Achievement of bilingual learning book’ Accumulated figure 4 languages 321 649 persons 278 Persons Organizations あ á 44 á 16 Available language Chinese, Vietnamese, Japanese, Filipino 50 8 Way of use PC  Download from the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation Website App Search for ‘Bilingual learning book’ on 2016 2017 2018 the Google Play Store or the App Store for iOS operating systems * Based on past 3-year data Accumulated figure is based on performance from the beginning of the program until 2018 * Based on performance from the beginning of the program until 2018 74 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 75 Performance Review & Human Resources Customer Satisfaction Social Environmental Business Performance Plan by Business Management Management Contributions Management Environmental Management There has been increasing interest around the globe in environmental and climate change Culture of Sharing One Company One School Financial Education issues, such as increase in wastes and abnormal climate, and continued efforts are being Mirae Asset Daewoo appreciates the adolescent as the financial consumers of the future, and thus carries made to counter them. Companies in the financial sector therefore are fulfilling their social out various financial education programs to help them choose their career path. In particular, we have responsibilities in relation to environmental issues by implementing diverse policies, such as expanded the ‘One Company, One School’ financial education by the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS), green financing and the carbon emission trading scheme. Accordingly, Mirae Asset Daewoo and formed sisterhood ties with 394 schools around the nation, the largest scale in the financial industry, strives to create new business opportunities by adopting and executing environmental in 2018. In recognition of our efforts to invigorate the financial education for the youth, we won the FSS policies. In addition, we do our utmost to fulfill our environmental responsibilities by Governor Award in 2016 and 2017, and also received the Outstanding Staff Award in One Company One reducing greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption, and waste discharge based on our School Financial Education from the FSS Governor. eco-friendly management system. In addition, we are carrying out many participation-based hands-on programs, such as inviting elementary, middle, and high school students to Mirae Asset headquarters for financial education, and career counseling program jointly conducted with Korea Exchange and Korea Financial Investment Association, thereby fulfilling our social responsibility as a financial institution. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Energy consumption intensity 58.3 GJ/FTE GHG emissions intensity 2.80 tonCO2eq/FTE Expanding Employee Donation and Volunteering through the Hope Chain Leader Mirae Asset Daewoo held the launching ceremony of ‘Hope Chain Leader’ in May 2018. We had Environmental Environmental Management workshops to discover various ideas for CSR activities and selected 10 models, based on which we have Management We are enhancing environmental awareness of our employees through corporate-wide eco-friendly been conducting innovative CSR activities since August 2018. 20 volunteer organizations have been set System management, while also engaging in activities to reduce environmental impact for sustainable up by division at headquarters and regional departments, and each organization, led by 3-4 volunteer development. We systematically manage diverse environmental data, such as greenhouse gas emissions, leaders, participates in voluntary activities more than once per quarter. This program is noteworthy as it is a waste discharge, and energy consumption, and report our status on countering climate change to the bottom-up voluntary activities where employees plan and participate in various CSR activities themselves, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). By doing so, we actively take part in international efforts to combat climate instead of the traditional top-down approach. Some 30 CSR activities, including 10 activities planned by change. employees, have been conducted for the past five months since the launch of the Hope Chain Leader in 2018. We have also signed a partnership deal with Naver Happy Bean and other non-profit organizations Management of GHG and Energy to introduce CSR themes and activities to our employees with the goal of establishing a culture of employee To reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, Mirae Asset Daewoo has been reducing donation. unnecessary energy consumption and continually managing energy use. There is almost zero direct GHG emission caused by energy sources directly owned or managed by Mirae Asset Daewoo, given the nature of BUSINESS CASE the financial industry. We therefore focus on managing Scope 2, which refers to indirect emissions. We also manage Scope 3 by reducing paper use and wastes, and by increasing business trip efficiency. In particular, Major Programs of the Hope Chain Leader we encourage employees to take part in GHG emissions reduction activities in their daily work, including when they commute, carry out work, and provide customer service. We also strive to reduce energy consumption by conducting such campaigns as turning off lights during off hours and refraining from the use of air-conditioning units and heating devices. We will expand the scope of eco-friendly management Hands-On Voluntary Activities (Orange box) to cover branches in addition to headquarters, thereby preventing potential environmental risks and Our employees prepare orange boxes filled with gifts they make during lunch time, and donate them to families with single mom, foster care families, children who were victims of harassment, strengthening the fulfillment of environmental responsibilities. the elderly living alone, and children from multicultural families in Vietnam. Management of Water, Resources and Waste Cultural Experience Festival Mirae Asset Daewoo has a system in place for using greywater and rainwater. Clean water that is used This program started with providing water play toys, and has expanded to various cultural once and rainwater is purified to be reused for bathrooms and landscaping, and thus saving water. There experience programs, such as coding training and basketball classes. is a sewage treatment facility inside the Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Building that handles internal purification Jump & Joy to minimize our impact on the environment. In addition, we are refraining from unnecessary printing and This is a program which enables children in local childcare facilities with limited travel using an electronic reporting system to reduce paper use. Given the nature of the financial industry, all opportunities to visit regions of other children in similar facilities to experience the joy of the waste discharged is domestic waste, which is treated by an outsourced company. Wastewater is batch traveling. The program also supports children to make their own craft gift and donate to treated at a sewage treatment plant of the Seoul Metropolitan Government, and we also strive to minimize overseas children of a similar age group. our environmental impact through thorough separation of garbage disposal and recycling. Multicultural Cooking Class We provide cooking programs where the youth from Vietnam, China, and Russia can meet each other, introduce their unique cultures and cook their nation’s representative foods. This allows participants to have a mutual understanding of another country’s history and culture and provides opportunities to exchange and network with neighbors of diverse ethnicities. Sharing Truck With the Sharing Truck program, we aim to provide children from socially marginalized families to learn the global culture and taste global food. This year we featured an Indian food truck to help food trucks in poor financial shape as well as provide children with global cuisine and culture experiences. 76 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 77 Independent Auditors’ Report Based on a report originally issued in Korean To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. FINANCIAL Opinion As of December 31, 2018, the Group’s level 3 financial assets and liabilities amount to KRW 2,944,636 million and KRW 9,688,587 We have audited the consolidated financial statements of million, respectively, which include derivatives, hybrid instruments, Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (collectively and unlisted equity instruments (refer to Note 3.(9) of the REVIEW the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statements consolidated financial statements). of financial position as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes We have identified valuation of financial instruments classified in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes, under level 3 fair value hierarchy as a key audit matter, considering comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory significant degree of management judgment involved, and the information. following associated risks: In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial • Risk that the estimate of the financial instruments’ fair value statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated is materially misstated due to applying inappropriate valuation financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2018 methodology and inputs (i.e. volatility of discount rate, stock and 2017, and its consolidated financial performance and its price, and individual factors and correlation between the consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance factors, etc). 79 Independent Auditors’ Report with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). • Risk that the estimate of the financial instruments’ fair value is (Consolidated Financial Statements) Basis for Opinion materially misstated due to inappropriate assumptions used in estimating future cash flows. 82 Consolidated Financial Statements We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing (KSAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are The primary audit procedures we performed to address the above 89 Independent Auditors’ Report further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit key audit matters included: (Separate Financial Statements) of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical • We have tested certain internal controls over the process 92 Separate Financial Statements requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated of changes in the methodology used to value the financial financial statements in the Republic of Korea, and we have instruments, and the appropriateness of the model applied to fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the valuation of new products based on the characteristics of these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have the products. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. • We have tested certain internal controls over the process of selection and approval of inputs used to estimate fair value. Key Audit Matters • We have tested certain internal controls over the process of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional compiling the underlying data used to estimate the future judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the cash flows and discount rates and the process of assessing consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended the accuracy of the data used with reference to internal data, December 31, 2018. These matters were addressed in the context observable market data, macroeconomic indicators, and so on. of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming • We have also involved our internal valuation specialists to our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on assist us in evaluating the reasonableness of methodologies these matters. and inputs used in the estimation of fair values on a sample basis. In addition, we have assessed the assumptions used by (1) Valuation of financial instruments classified under level management by considering the business environment of the 3 fair value hierarchy Group, market and macroeconomic indicators on a sample If the fair value of a financial instruments is measured using basis. We have also compared the historical financial data used valuation techniques where significant inputs are not observable, by management in the valuation to the information publicly the Group classifies the fair value hierarchy of the financial available. instruments as Level 3. • F or valuation of unlisted equity instruments, we have independently re-calculated the fair value and compared it to the Group’s estimates on a sample basis of unlisted equity instruments. 78 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 79 (2) Revenue recognition of commission fee revenues from Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the From the matters communicated with those charged with non-standard transactions Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate governance, we determine those matters that were of most The Group recognized the commission revenues of KRW 1,059,082 in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements as Management is responsible for the preparation and fair million for the year ended December 31, 2018, which includes opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 and are therefore presentation of the consolidated financial statements in revenues derived from non-standard transactions of KRW 380,245 the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ accordance with K-IFRS, and for such internal control as • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used in the million (refer to Note 37 of the consolidated financial statements). report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure management determines is necessary to enable the preparation preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we of consolidated financial statements that are free from material reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures The timing of revenue recognition related to non-standard determine that a matter should not be communicated in our misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. made by management. transactions depends on the individual terms of each transaction. report because the adverse consequences of doing so would We have identified revenue recognition of commission fee • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management revenues from non-standard transactions as a key audit matter going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit such communication. is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a considering the following risks identified: evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless • Risks that revenue may be deliberately misstated through early Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude auditors’ report is Myung-Ki Seok. management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease revenue recognition or adjustment of revenue allocation for the that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. period as a result of management override resulting from the attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in Other Matter pressure certain individual departments or management may the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to feel to achieve performance goals or expectations. inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based Group’s financial reporting process. audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ • Risks that the revenue may be misstated as a result that the generally accepted and applied in other countries. report. However, future events or conditions may cause the calculation of revenue recognition is complex due to various Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Group to cease to continue as a going concern. and complicated terms of each contracts. Financial Statements • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether The primary audit procedures we performed to address the above consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and Seoul, Korea the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from key audit matters included: whether the consolidated financial statements represent the March 11, 2019 material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable • We have tested certain internal controls over process of review fair presentation. assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that each contracts to determine whether timing of commission an audit conducted in accordance with KSAs will always detect • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the fee revenues from non-standard recognition is accurate (i.e. a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise financial information of the entities or business activities within whether it is subject to deferred revenue recognition). from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial • We have tested certain internal controls over process of in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision assessment whether deferred commission fee revenues the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these and performance of the group audit. We remain solely from non-standard transactions are accurately allocated and consolidated financial statements. responsible for our audit opinion. recognized for each month. As part of an audit in accordance with KSAs, we exercise We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, • We have tested certain internal controls over process of professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit confirm accuracy of calculation of commission fee revenues throughout the audit. We also: and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies from non-standard transactions including stock underwriting in internal control that we identify during our audit. commissions, corporate bond underwriting commissions and • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the other underwriting commissions. consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or We also provide those charged with governance with a statement • F or selected samples from commission fee revenues from error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements non-standard transactions, compared the terms of contracts those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and regarding independence, and communicate with them all provided by management with terms of contracts publically appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought disclosed. not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve safeguards. • F or selected samples from commission fee revenues from collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or non-standard transactions, inspection of documentation the override of internal control. including contracts to assess the accuracy of timing of revenue recognition and recalculation of commission fee revenues from non-standard transactions. This report is effective as of March 11, 2019, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 80 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 81 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Notes 2018 2017 Notes 2018 2017 Assets Operating revenue Cash and cash equivalents 45,47 W 1,717,840,165,734 1,374,448,969,904 Commissions 37,56 W 1,059,081,807,074 895,239,308,614 5,6,8,10,15,22,30, Gains on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 31,38 7,002,686,182,399 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 30,267,532,823,491 31,45,47 Gains on financial instruments measured at fair value through 5,6,8,10,15,22,30, 31,39 8,273,683,930,871 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 35,064,492,273,331 profit or loss 31,45,47 Gains on available-for-sale financial assets 40 114,486,993,943 Available-for-sale financial assets 5,6,12,15,22,45,47 8,838,520,107,354 Gains on financial assets measured at fair value through Financial assets measured at fair value through 41 4,885,302,388 5,6,12,15,22,45,47 8,203,072,869,074 other comprehensive income other comprehensive income Interest income 7,42 Loans and receivables 5,8,14,15,22,45,47, 56 46,923,425,478,459 Interest income 1,152,767,665,404 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 5,8,14,15,22,45,47, 56 69,385,395,391,406 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 1,793,637,323,651 Investments in associates 17 1,049,040,379,186 673,055,861,630 Financial assets measured at fair value through 130,348,729,098 Property and equipment, net 18 232,152,045,602 198,576,441,900 other comprehensive income Investment properties, net 19 1,086,179,552,339 1,140,599,627,851 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 484,386,836,000 Intangible assets, net 20 654,825,151,295 650,053,632,828 Gains on loans and receivables 43 5,031,242,135 Other assets 21 70,023,704,118 113,910,623,579 Reversal of credit loss allowances 44 2,018,261,112 Income tax receivable 3,280,804,264 1,785,334,715 Gains on foreign currency transactions 45 1,181,895,204,758 742,658,913,994 Deferred tax asset 52 619,197,137,563 444,690,399,842 Others 46,56 394,002,657,506 385,779,522,179 Total assets W 118,085,499,473,912 90,626,599,301,553 13,323,940,052,458 10,298,649,828,668 Liabilities Operating expenses Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 5,15,23,30,31,45,47 W 17,432,460,637,775 Commissions expense 37,56 203,812,635,264 161,043,126,453 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 5,15,23,30,31,45,47 17,740,007,802,711 Losses on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 30,31,38 6,856,852,969,311 Deposits due to customers 5,15,25,45,47 5,465,538,408,517 5,118,877,230,489 Losses on financial instruments measured at fair value through 30,31,39 8,378,381,247,879 profit or loss Borrowings 5,6,15,26,45,47 72,363,400,367,451 49,390,196,184,989 Losses on available-for-sale financial assets 40 52,226,218,053 Debentures 5,15,27,47,56 4,249,204,789,706 3,085,496,672,057 Losses on financial assets measured at fair value through Provisions 28 22,926,315,377 20,377,052,332 41 4,081,958,499 other comprehensive income Other liabilities 5,15,29,45,47,56 9,804,343,180,993 8,171,135,639,184 Interest expense 7,42 1,754,212,264,589 581,452,620,235 Income tax payable 87,711,840,937 22,782,013,768 Losses on loans and receivables 43 2,141,545,956 Deferred tax liabilities 52 768,141,323 Provision for credit loss allowance 44 17,664,878,555 Total liabilities W 109,733,132,705,692 83,242,093,571,917 Losses on foreign currency transactions 45 1,292,743,701,374 898,308,939,487 Equity Employee costs 48 658,267,396,434 647,272,403,418 Capital stock 32 W 4,101,960,790,000 3,401,960,790,000 Selling and administrative expense 49 456,430,612,154 436,918,970,835 Capital surplus 33 2,153,912,358,019 2,164,649,228,172 Others 46,56 46,015,990,020 34,680,464,383 Retained earnings 34,36 2,250,141,496,796 1,874,982,489,194 12,811,610,684,768 9,670,897,258,131 (Regulatory reserve for credit losses of W88,581,001,870 and Operating profit W 512,329,367,690 627,752,570,537 ₩50,848,967,579 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively) (Provision for (reversal of) regulatory reserve for credit losses Non-operating income, net amounted to ₩(-)13,120,063,229 and W37,732,034,291 Non-operating income 7,50 W 154,295,087,590 111,624,182,081 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively) Non-operating expense 7,51 81,614,666,539 74,627,745,824 Capital adjustment 35,55 (6,847,094,937) (7,714,262,282) 72,680,421,051 36,996,436,257 Accumulated other comprehensive loss 11,12,35 (185,614,512,179) (77,205,546,703) Non-controlling interests 38,813,730,521 27,833,031,255 Total equity 8,352,366,768,220 7,384,505,729,636 Total liabilities and equity W 118,085,499,473,912 90,626,599,301,553 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 82 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 83 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Notes 2018 2017 Attributable to equity holders of the Group Profit before income tax expense W 585,009,788,741 664,749,006,794 Accumulated Capital Capital Capital other Retained Non-controlling Sub-Total Total Income tax expense 7,52 123,000,183,925 159,815,280,306 stock surplus adjustment comprehensive earnings interests income(loss) Profit for the year Balance at W 3,401,960,790,000 1,813,265,000,459 (103,038,495,934) 128,929,761,111 1,397,747,543,513 6,638,864,599,149 26,900,107,765 6,665,764,706,914 Equity holder of the Company 456,565,313,872 503,175,503,631 January 1, 2017 Total comprehensive income Non-controlling interests 5,444,290,944 1,758,222,857 for the year: W 462,009,604,816 504,933,726,488 Profit for the year 503,175,503,631 503,175,503,631 1,758,222,857 504,933,726,488 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax Net changes in unrealized valuation of available-for-sale (24,123,520,440) (24,123,520,440) (222,774,139) (24,346,294,579) Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss: financial assets Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale Equity in other comprehensive 11 W (24,346,294,579) (8,193,453,933) (8,193,453,933) (8,193,453,933) financial assets income of associates Gains on financial asset measured at fair value through Hedges of a net investment in 12,599,573,133 12,599,573,133 12,599,573,133 12 66,010,063,382 foreign operations other comprehensive income Gain or loss on translation of Equity in other comprehensive income (loss) of associates 17 5,444,934,500 (8,193,453,933) (186,417,906,574) (186,417,906,574) (186,417,906,574) foreign operations Hedges of a net investment in foreign operations 31 (11,731,060,892) 12,599,573,133 Transaction with owners, etc.: Foreign currency translation adjustments for foreign operations 63,890,554,804 (186,417,906,574) Dividends paid (25,940,557,950) (25,940,557,950) (25,940,557,950) Changes in treasury stocks 351,445,658,768 33,096,916,634 384,542,575,402 384,542,575,402 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss: Stock option (83,572,665) (83,572,665) (83,572,665) Valuation loss on financial asset measured at fair value 12 (109,625,006,968) Others (61,431,055) 62,310,889,683 62,249,458,628 (602,525,228) 61,646,933,400 through other comprehensive income Balance at Changes in own credit risk on financial liabilities designated W 3,401,960,790,000 2,164,649,228,172 (7,714,262,282) (77,205,546,703) 1,874,982,489,194 7,356,672,698,381 27,833,031,255 7,384,505,729,636 24 2,577,123,786 December 31, 2017 as measured at fair value through profit or loss Balance at W 3,401,960,790,000 2,164,649,228,172 (7,714,262,282) (77,205,546,703) 1,874,982,489,194 7,356,672,698,381 27,833,031,255 7,384,505,729,636 16,566,608,612 (206,358,081,953) January 1, 2018 Adoption effect of K-IFRS Total comprehensive income for the year (124,995,655,215) 120,149,622,780 (4,846,032,435) (246,851,929) (5,092,884,364) No. 1109, net of tax(Note 4) Equity holder of the Company 473,152,003,611 297,040,195,817 Balance at 3,401,960,790,000 2,164,649,228,172 (7,714,262,282) (202,201,201,918) 1,995,132,111,974 7,351,826,665,946 27,586,179,326 7,379,412,845,272 January 1, 2018 (Restated) Non-controlling interests 5,424,209,817 1,535,448,718 Total comprehensive income W 478,576,213,428 298,575,644,535 for the year: Earnings per share Profit for the year 456,565,313,872 456,565,313,872 5,444,290,944 462,009,604,816 Basic and diluted earnings per share 53 Net changes in unrealized valuation of financial assets (43,614,943,586) (43,614,943,586) (43,614,943,586) Common stock 660 944 measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 2 preferred stock 660 Equity in other comprehensive 5,444,934,500 5,444,934,500 5,444,934,500 income of associates See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Credit risk fluctuation of financial liabilities designated as measured 2,577,123,786 2,577,123,786 2,577,123,786 at fair value through profit or loss Hedges of a net investment in (11,731,060,892) (11,731,060,892) (11,731,060,892) foreign operations Gain or loss on translation of 63,910,635,931 63,910,635,931 (20,081,127) 63,890,554,804 foreign operations Transaction with owners, etc.: Dividends paid (124,691,658,520) (124,691,658,520) (124,691,658,520) Capital increase with 700,000,000,000 (13,175,806,743) 686,824,193,257 5,472,187,018 692,296,380,275 consideration Changes in treasury stocks 2,340,572,587 (76,400,928,322) (74,060,355,735) (74,060,355,735) Retirement in treasury stocks 76,864,270,530 (76,864,270,530) Stock option 647,077,315 647,077,315 429,518,363 1,076,595,678 Others 98,364,003 (243,252,178) (144,888,175) (98,364,003) (243,252,178) Balance at December 31, 2018 W 4,101,960,790,000 2,153,912,358,019 (6,847,094,937) (185,614,512,179) 2,250,141,496,796 8,313,553,037,699 38,813,730,521 8,352,366,768,220 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 84 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 85 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Gain on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading W (7,955,205,898) Profit for the year W 462,009,604,816 504,933,726,488 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities measured at fair value (29,658,052,144) through profit or loss Adjustments: Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (58,874,322,184) Interest income (2,408,372,888,749) (1,152,767,665,404) Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value Dividend income (81,374,193,120) (220,313,095,925) (376,139,857,576) through profit or loss Interest expense 1,754,212,264,589 581,452,620,235 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at (714,828,114,049) fair value through profit or loss Income tax expense 123,000,183,925 159,815,280,306 Gain on valuation of derivatives (858,848,789,630) (1,364,624,758,347) Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 111,300,620,278 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (114,486,993,943) Loss on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 534,158,728,885 Gain on disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through Loss on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 21,511,487,771 (4,885,302,388) other comprehensive income Loss on valuation of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 19,482,069,411 Gain on disposal of investments in associates (79,734,357) Loss on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 52,623,031,178 Gain on valuation of investments in associates (40,039,913,005) (50,787,176,636) Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value 468,735,340,889 Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries (15,773,484,185) (8,403,873,610) through profit or loss Gain on disposal of property and equipment (2,415,783,388) (1,805,011,499) Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at 234,379,942,244 fair value through profit or loss Gain on disposal of investment properties (48,083,362,851) Loss on valuation of derivatives 1,340,413,565,620 1,128,513,534,990 Gain on disposal of intangible assets (150,000,000) (89,178,000) Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 25,058,425,258 Reversal of bad debt allowances (1,477,834,881) Loss on disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through Reversal of credit loss allowance (171,694,496) 4,081,958,499 other comprehensive income Reversal of other bad debt allowances (715,261,956) Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 27,167,792,795 Reversal of provision on credit losses of other financial assets (38,552,466) Impairment loss on financial assets measured at fair value through 2,268,252,290 other comprehensive income Gain on foreign currency translation (130,332,632,151) (67,477,826,955) Loss on valuation of investments in associates 9,688,903,637 3,224,192,264 Reversal of provisions (9,905,864,655) (3,404,459,429) Loss on disposal of investments in associates 38,153,447 28,132,093 (507,551,651,509) (639,610,699,921) Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 8,588,332,469 6,791,201,528 Changes in: Depreciation 24,023,647,165 22,718,086,404 Due from financial institutions for customer accounts W (2,670,231,841,543) (470,479,042,077) Depreciation on investment properties 29,865,965,523 29,115,730,988 Financial assets held for trading 333,741,534,637 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 628,497,568 289,046,322 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (2,044,850,643,681) Loss on disposal of investment properties 6,682,043 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 2,737,051,329,492 Amortization 41,844,744,571 42,901,954,200 Loans and receivables (8,902,982,471,849) Loss on disposal of intangible assets 7,817,040 17,431,920 Financial assets measured at amortized cost (3,226,225,658,895) Impairment loss on intangible assets 152,715,509 Other assets (20,098,028,797) 18,607,768,190 Stock option expense 3,534,378,078 7,365,438,269 Financial liabilities held for trading 192,076,848,963 Rent expense 2,227,578,610 2,912,487,630 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 121,539,315,140 Bad debt expense 1,966,765,028 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (4,908,975,621,420) Provision of allowances on credit losses 9,352,813,621 Financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss 648,148,823,701 Other bad debt expense 1,653,079,039 Deposits due to customers 355,771,556,716 996,338,089,654 Provision of allowances on credit losses of other financial assets 1,552,746,323 Other liabilities 1,534,616,953,546 5,288,053,347,849 Loss on foreign currency translation 77,296,618,298 235,981,266,357 Provisions (169,296,999) (4,263,116,089) Provision of allowances 8,990,774,826 12,402,576,548 (5,301,498,820,812) (4,720,831,332,650) Other operating expenses 12,998,954,445 7,226,595,543 Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading (161,133,276,663) Gain on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (405,316,597,359) 86 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 87 Independent Auditors’ Report Based on a report originally issued in Korean To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (In Korean won) 2018 2017 Opinion As of December 31, 2018, the Company’s level 3 financial assets Interest received W 2,327,707,493,064 1,101,197,090,473 and liabilities amount to KRW1,560,818 million and KRW 9,688,587 Interest paid (1,730,967,326,103) (572,210,250,197) We have audited the separate financial statements of Mirae Asset million, respectively, which include derivatives, hybrid instruments, Daewoo Co., Ltd. (collectively the “Company”), which comprise Dividends received 75,868,525,683 216,004,048,640 and the unlisted equity instruments (refer to Note 3.(9) of the the separate statements of financial position as of December Income tax paid (201,114,484,955) (34,063,456,901) separate financial statements). 31, 2018 and 2017, the separate statements of comprehensive Net cash used in operating activities (4,875,546,659,816) (4,144,580,874,068) income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then We have identified valuation of financial instruments classified Cash flows from investing activities ended, and notes, comprising significant accounting policies and under level 3 fair value hierarchy as a key audit matter, considering other explanatory information. Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 7,229,759,117,774 significant degree of management judgment involved, and the following associated risks: Proceeds from disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through In our opinion, the accompanying separate financial statements 4,090,636,831,863 other comprehensive income present fairly, in all material respects, the separate financial • Risk that the estimate of the financial instruments’ fair value Proceeds from disposal of investments in subsidiaries 28,580,217,210 position of the Company as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, is materially misstated due to applying inappropriate valuation Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates 975,474,125 46,829,663,293 and its separate financial performance and its separate cash flows methodology and inputs (i.e. volatility of discount rate, stock for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 6,843,580,700 10,476,407,369 price, and individual factors and correlation between factors, etc). Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). Proceeds from disposal of investment properties 57,219,070,833 • Risk that the estimate of the financial instruments’ fair value is Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,110,320,000 1,912,359,980 Basis for Opinion materially misstated due to inappropriate assumptions used in estimating future cash flows. Decrease in deposits 19,241,099,970 9,770,782,962 We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards Increase in withdrawals 377,114,887 5,542,232,310 on Auditing (KSAs). Our responsibilities under those standards The primary audit procedures we performed to address the above are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (7,391,671,283,378) key audit matters included: Audit of the Separate Financial Statements section of our report. Acquisition of financial assets measured at fair value through We are independent of the Company in accordance with the (6,492,854,154,314) other comprehensive income • We have tested certain internal controls over the process ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the separate Acquisition of investments in associates (360,840,024,027) (272,295,013,851) of changes in the methodology used to value the financial financial statements in the Republic of Korea, and we have instruments, and the appropriateness of the model applied to Acquisition of property and equipment (64,152,258,433) (46,562,286,746) fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the valuation of new products based on the characteristics of Acquisition of investment properties (85,596,047,107) these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have the products. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Acquisition of intangible assets (36,318,014,598) (41,657,356,373) • We have tested certain internal controls over the process of opinion. Increase in deposits (4,104,179,770) (8,191,373,473) selection and approval of inputs used to estimate fair value. Decrease in deposits received (3,014,370,960) (2,498,930,000) Key Audit Matters • We have tested certain internal controls over the process of compiling the underlying data used to estimate the future Net cash used in investing activities (2,841,895,339,621) (458,585,680,133) Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional cash flows and discount rates and the process of assessing Cash flows from financing activities judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the separate the accuracy of the data used with reference to internal data, financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, Proceeds from borrowings, net 6,274,497,896,823 3,040,699,405,955 observable market data, macroeconomic indicators, and so on. 2018. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit Proceeds from debentures, net 1,159,391,623,332 382,541,028,869 of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion • We have also involved our internal valuation specialists to thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these assist us in evaluating the reasonableness of methodologies Proceeds from capital stock increase with consideration 692,296,380,275 matters. and inputs used in the estimation of fair values on a sample Proceeds from disposal of treasury stock 498,499,990,230 basis. In addition, we have assessed the assumptions used by Increase in other liabilities 277,469,801,339 179,520,346,595 (1) Valuation of financial instruments classified under level management by considering the business environment of the Dividends paid (124,691,658,520) (25,940,557,950) 3 fair value hierarchy Company, market and macroeconomic indicators on a sample basis. We have also compared the historical financial data used Acquisition of treasury stock (76,864,270,530) (172,801,387) If the fair value of a financial instruments is measured using by management in the valuation to the information publicly Decrease in other liabilities (147,854,042,381) (24,545,342,752) valuation techniques where significant inputs are not observable, available on a sample basis. the Group classifies the fair value hierarchy of the financial Increase in non-controlling interest (602,525,228) • F or valuation of unlisted equity instruments, we have instruments as Level 3. Net cash provided by financing activities 8,054,245,730,338 4,049,999,544,332 independently re-calculated the fair value and compared it to the Company’s estimates on a sample basis of unlisted equity Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents held W 6,587,464,929 (78,412,741,390) instruments. Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 343,391,195,830 (631,579,751,259) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,374,448,969,904 2,006,028,721,163 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year W 1,717,840,165,734 1,374,448,969,904 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 88 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 89 (2) Revenue recognition of commission fee revenues from Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent non-standard transactions Governance for the Separate Financial Statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the auditors’ report is Myung-Ki Seok. The Company recognized the commission revenues of KRW circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion Management is responsible for the preparation and fair 1,020,575 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, which on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. Other Matter presentation of the separate financial statements in accordance includes revenues derived from non-standard transactions of with K-IFRS, and for such internal control as management • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used in The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to KRW 386,738 million (refer to Note 36 of the separate financial determines is necessary to enable the preparation of separate the preparation of the separate financial statements and the audit such separate financial statements may differ from those statements). financial statements that are free from material misstatement, reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures generally accepted and applied in other countries. whether due to fraud or error. made by management. The timing of revenue recognition related to non-standard • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the transactions depends on the individual terms of each transaction. In preparing the separate financial statements, management is going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. We have identified revenue recognition of commission fee responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related Seoul, Korea revenues from non-standard transcations as a key audit matter going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on March 11, 2019 considering the following risks identified: concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to • Risks that revenue may be deliberately misstated through early operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures revenue recognition or adjustment of revenue allocation for the in the separate financial statements or, if such disclosures are period as a result of management override resulting from the Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based pressure certain individual departments or management may Company’s financial reporting process. on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ feel to achieve performance goals or expectations. report. However, future events or conditions may cause the • Risks that the revenue may be misstated as a result that the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Company Company to cease to continue as a going concern. calculation of revenue recognition is complex due to various and Financial Statements • E valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of complicated terms of each contracts. the separate financial statements, including the disclosures, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the company financial statements as a whole are free from and whether the separate financial statements represent the The primary audit procedures we performed to address the above material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves key audit matters included: issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable fair presentation. assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that • We have tested certain internal controls over process of review an audit conducted in accordance with KSAs will always detect We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, each contracts to determine whether timing of commission fee a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit revenues from non-standard recognition is accurate (i.e. whether from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies it is subject to deferred revenue recognition). the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the in internal control that we identify during our audit. • W e have tested certain internal controls over process of economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these separate assessment whether deferred commission fee revenues financial statements. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement from non-standard transactions are accurately allocated and that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding recognized for each month. As part of an audit in accordance with KSAs, we exercise independence, and communicate with them all relationships and professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our • W e have tested certain internal controls over process of throughout the audit. We also: independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. confirm accuracy of calculation of commission fee revenues from non-standard transactions including stock underwriting • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, commissions, corporate bond underwriting commissions and separate financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, we determine those matters that were of most significance in other underwriting commissions. design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, the audit of the separate financial statements as of and for the • For selected samples from commission fee revenues from nonyear ended December 31, 2018 and are therefore the key audit and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate standard transactions, compared the terms of contracts provided matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a by management with terms of contracts publically disclosed. law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for • For selected samples from commission fee revenues from nonone resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a standard transactions, inspection of documentation including intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of matter should not be communicated in our report because the contracts to assess the accuracy of timing of revenue recognition internal control. adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected and recalculation of commission fee revenues from non-standard to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. transactions. This report is effective as of March 11, 2019, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying separate financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 90 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 91 Separate Financial Statements Separate Statements of Financial Position As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 Separate Statements of Comprehensive Income For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Assets Operating revenue Cash and cash equivalents W 945,067,253,594 848,986,514,634 Commissions W 1,020,575,249,715 845,768,008,497 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 27,791,775,259,746 Gains on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 6,844,214,618,543 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 31,576,860,388,993 Gains on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss 7,836,819,374,710 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,040,524,984,525 Gains on available-for-sale financial assets 90,996,846,426 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 7,824,119,174,033 Gains on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,785,751,744 Loans and receivables 14,053,568,958,115 Interest income Financial assets measured at amortized cost 18,801,470,714,918 Interest income 864,032,115,384 Investments in subsidiaries 5,404,675,176,709 4,724,056,202,313 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 434,135,300,126 Investments in associates 491,135,355,727 362,271,349,884 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 129,532,323,344 Property and equipment, net 199,747,852,975 167,809,205,230 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 443,402,720,823 Investment properties, net 147,864,678,942 256,276,723,969 Gains on loans and receivables 1,477,834,881 Intangible assets, net 647,732,420,713 638,283,576,844 Reversal of credit loss allowances 1,988,440,118 Other assets 49,116,000,455 92,704,533,504 Gains on foreign currency transactions 1,114,908,633,462 551,737,696,441 Deferred tax asset 596,077,712,628 441,028,324,626 Others 291,169,890,863 266,579,373,122 Total assets W 66,683,866,729,687 57,417,285,633,390 11,277,317,684,905 9,464,806,493,294 Liabilities Operating expenses Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss W 17,462,103,172,600 Commissions expense 166,830,307,869 129,973,748,618 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 17,961,111,679,354 Losses on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 6,737,147,149,262 Deposits due to customers 5,371,613,042,052 5,083,222,114,515 Losses on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss 8,097,140,698,635 Borrowings 22,667,573,778,727 18,612,446,620,185 Losses on available-for-sale financial assets 40,535,714,825 Debentures 3,649,576,630,992 2,880,759,775,243 Losses on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,995,879,686 Provisions 22,399,441,209 20,377,052,332 Interest expense 460,812,115,308 327,800,628,351 Other liabilities 8,692,140,876,141 5,931,767,122,084 Losses on loans and receivables 1,875,572,707 Income tax payable 84,203,681,268 19,766,660,800 Provision for credit loss allowance 15,629,744,096 Total liabilities W 58,448,619,129,743 50,010,442,517,759 Losses on foreign currency transactions 1,070,502,478,377 750,400,228,238 Equity Employee costs 588,805,742,746 585,645,625,576 Capital stock W 4,101,960,790,000 3,401,960,790,000 Selling and administrative expense 319,445,299,401 315,390,428,942 Capital surplus 2,152,389,719,289 2,163,224,953,445 Others 12,927,222,783 22,818,148,109 Retained earnings 2,082,209,872,334 1,765,094,658,016 10,736,089,488,901 8,911,587,244,628 (Regulatory reserve for credit losses of W88,581,001,870 and Operating profit W 541,228,196,004 553,219,248,666 W50,848,967,579 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively) Non-operating income, net (Provision for (reversal of) regulatory reserve for credit losses amounted to W(-)13,120,063,229 and W37,732,034,291 Non-operating income W 52,346,205,105 15,651,415,111 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 respectively) Non-operating expense 37,192,384,660 14,584,563,476 Capital adjustment 2,232,955,726 1,364,758,700 15,153,820,445 1,066,851,635 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (103,545,737,405) 75,197,955,470 Total equity 8,235,247,599,944 7,406,843,115,631 Total liabilities and equity W 66,683,866,729,687 57,417,285,633,390 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 92 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 93 Separate Statements of Changes in Equity For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2018 2017 Accumulated Capital Capital Capital other Retained Profit before income tax expense W 556,382,016,449 554,286,100,301 Total stock surplus adjustment comprehensive earnings income(loss) Income tax expense 122,296,567,474 129,857,979,171 Balance at January 1, 2017 W 3,401,960,790,000 1,811,898,689,162 (93,647,213,914) 108,638,379,221 1,366,607,094,836 6,595,457,739,305 Profit for the year W 434,085,448,975 424,428,121,130 Total comprehensive income for Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax the year: Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss: Profit for the year 424,428,121,130 424,428,121,130 Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale financial assets W (33,440,423,751) Net changes in unrealized valuation (33,440,423,751) (33,440,423,751) of available-for-sale financial assets Gains on financial asset measured at fair value through 11,237,467,068 other comprehensive income Transaction with owners, etc.: Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss: Dividends paid (25,940,557,950) (25,940,557,950) Valuation loss on financial asset measured at fair value through Changes in treasury stocks 351,445,658,768 33,096,916,634 384,542,575,402 (104,247,626,526) other comprehensive income Stock option (83,572,665) (83,572,665) Changes in own credit risk on financial liabilities designated as 2,656,932,638 Others (119,394,485) 61,998,628,645 61,879,234,160 measured at fair value through profit or loss (90,353,226,820) (33,440,423,751) Balance at December 31, 2017 W 3,401,960,790,000 2,163,224,953,445 1,364,758,700 75,197,955,470 1,765,094,658,016 7,406,843,115,631 Balance at January 1, 2018 W 3,401,960,790,000 2,163,224,953,445 1,364,758,700 75,197,955,470 1,765,094,658,016 7,406,843,115,631 Total comprehensive income for the year W 343,732,222,155 390,987,697,379 Adoption effect of K-IFRS No. 1109, Earnings per share (88,390,466,055) 84,585,694,393 (3,804,771,662) net of tax(Note 4) Basic and diluted earnings per share Balance at January 1, 2018 3,401,960,790,000 2,163,224,953,445 1,364,758,700 (13,192,510,585) 1,849,680,352,409 7,403,038,343,969 Common stock W 628 797 (Restated) Total comprehensive income for 2 preferred stock 628 the year: See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Profit for the year 434,085,448,975 434,085,448,975 Net changes in unrealized valuation of financial assets measured at fair (93,010,159,458) (93,010,159,458) value through other comprehensive income Credit risk fluctuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at 2,656,932,638 2,656,932,638 fair value through profit or loss Transaction with owners, etc.: Dividends paid (124,691,658,520) (124,691,658,520) Capital increase with consideration 700,000,000,000 (13,175,806,743) 686,824,193,257 Changes in treasury stocks 2,340,572,587 (76,400,928,322) (74,060,355,735) Retirement in treasury stocks 76,864,270,530 (76,864,270,530) Others 404,854,818 404,854,818 Balance at December 31, 2018 W 4,101,960,790,000 2,152,389,719,289 2,232,955,726 (103,545,737,405) 2,082,209,872,334 8,235,247,599,944 94 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 95 Separate Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Gain on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through W (332,184,519,076) profit or loss Profit for the year W 434,085,448,975 424,428,121,130 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading (7,955,205,898) Adjustments: Gain on valuation of financial liabilities measured at fair value through Interest income (1,007,070,344,293) (864,032,115,384) (29,459,179,415) profit or loss Dividend income (68,308,230,692) (248,072,020,048) Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through (57,065,693,331) profit or loss Interest expense 460,812,115,308 327,800,628,351 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through Income tax expense 122,296,567,474 129,857,979,171 (378,557,718,228) profit or loss Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 104,100,355,278 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at (715,635,288,811) Loss on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through fair value through profit or loss 396,741,542,027 profit or loss Gain on valuation of derivatives (847,761,620,261) (1,353,102,535,643) Loss on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 21,511,487,771 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (90,996,846,426) Loss on valuation of financial liabilities measured at fair value through Gain on disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through 19,482,069,411 (4,785,751,744) profit or loss other comprehensive income Loss on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through 52,169,130,340 Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries (9,027,432,977) (1,377,809,078) profit or loss Gain on disposal of investments in associates (3,600,840,649) Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through 471,132,045,371 profit or loss Gain on disposal of property and equipment (2,398,254,527) (1,805,011,499) Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at Gain on disposal of investment properties (38,351,546,053) 235,307,011,967 fair value through profit or loss Gain on disposal of intangible assets (150,000,000) (89,178,000) Loss on valuation of derivatives 1,301,936,273,626 1,096,823,832,808 Reversal of bad debt allowances (1,477,834,881) Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 21,534,331,722 Reversal of credit loss allowance (163,657,340) Loss on disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through 3,995,879,686 other comprehensive income Reversal of other bad debt allowances (715,261,956) Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 19,001,383,103 Reversal of provision on credit losses of other financial assets (16,768,628) Impairment loss on financial assets measured at fair value through Gain on foreign currency translation (103,175,761,988) (57,497,748,418) 2,266,422,392 other comprehensive income Reversal of provisions (9,905,864,655) (3,404,459,429) Impairment loss on investments in subsidiaries 21,306,090,125 1,787,864,769 Other income (246,681,053) Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 8,218,172,327 3,895,552,019 (444,581,469,801) (638,096,381,063) Loss on disposal of investments in associates 26,140,209 28,290,432 Changes in: Depreciation 22,216,757,205 20,675,859,565 Due from financial institutions for customer accounts (2,527,541,129,719) (566,947,941,182) Depreciation on investment properties 2,110,605,856 1,960,505,148 Financial assets held for trading (1,996,800,576,199) Loss on disposal of property and equipment 621,583,173 231,743,312 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss (1,784,233,330,741) Loss on disposal of investment properties 6,682,043 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 5,239,846,407,690 Amortization 35,080,414,068 34,799,754,176 Loans and receivables (4,600,503,059,590) Loss on disposal of intangible assets 7,817,040 17,431,920 Financial assets measured at amortized cost (2,445,725,890,852) Stock option expense 3,534,378,078 7,198,180,951 Other assets (20,672,201,481) 25,291,522,868 Rent expense 2,227,578,610 2,912,487,630 Deposits due to customers 298,919,932,553 979,205,524,161 Bad debt expense 1,703,859,058 Financial liabilities held for trading (133,542,972,385) Provision of allowances on credit losses 7,339,940,374 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 516,025,372,759 Other bad debt expense 1,187,123,666 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (4,864,503,533,393) Provision of allowances on credit losses of other financial assets 1,532,315,009 Financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through 476,953,255,517 Loss on foreign currency translation 55,822,304,455 221,429,052,415 profit or loss Provision of allowances 8,440,475,889 12,402,576,548 Other liabilities 2,883,524,402,426 3,622,489,884,381 Other operating expenses 12,730,295,360 14,003,087,583 Provisions (159,340,979) (4,263,116,089) Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading (136,510,645,302) (2,602,908,930,517) (2,299,727,859,738) 96 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW 97 Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (In Korean won) 2018 2017 Interest received W 973,667,497,967 861,027,600,847 Interest paid (453,736,445,931) (326,178,088,833) Dividends received 70,151,578,252 247,733,456,249 APPENDIX I Income tax paid (177,519,440,602) (15,811,306,318) Net cash used in operating activities (2,200,841,761,657) (1,746,624,457,726) Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 7,371,258,317,903 Proceeds from disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through 4,066,205,924,640 other comprehensive income Proceeds from disposal of investments in subsidiaries 2,967,140,880,261 1,411,114,982,972 Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates 931,629,003 10,119,674,452 Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 6,831,202,829 6,508,388,535 Proceeds from disposal of investment properties 10,465,888,081 100 Mirae Asset Financial Group Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,105,320,000 1,912,360,000 102 Independent Assurance Statement Decrease in deposits 19,197,293,400 9,745,436,981 Increase in withdrawals 367,958,900 6,106,932,310 104  Verification of GHG Emissions Data Reports Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (7,348,343,030,410) 105 GRI Index Acquisition of financial assets measured at fair value through other (6,187,407,754,314) comprehensive income 109 UNGC & UN SDGs Acquisition of investments in subsidiaries (3,676,910,754,391) (825,723,310,274) Acquisition of investments in associates (129,821,775,055) (30,290,844,028) 110 Social Performance Acquisition of property and equipment (62,187,143,981) (43,342,200,444) Acquisition of intangible assets (34,808,197,157) (20,792,299,892) 112 Environmental Performance Increase in deposits (3,047,902,730) (7,702,796,898) 113 Tax Policy Decrease in deposits received (3,014,370,960) (3,063,630,000) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (3,024,951,801,474) 537,507,981,207 114 Organization Chart Cash flows from financing activities 115 Membership & Awards Proceeds from borrowings, net 4,065,346,581,862 289,962,247,791 Proceeds from debentures, net 771,231,886,895 639,799,380,000 Proceeds from disposal of treasury stock 498,499,990,230 Proceeds from capital stock increase with consideration 686,824,193,257 Dividends paid (124,691,658,520) (25,940,557,950) Acquisition of treasury stock (76,864,270,530) (172,801,387) Net cash provided by financing activities 5,321,846,732,964 1,402,148,258,684 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents held W 27,569,127 (2,951,289,104) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 96,080,738,960 190,080,493,061 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 848,986,514,634 658,906,021,573 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year W 945,067,253,594 848,986,514,634 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 98 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 99 Mirae Asset Financial Group Group Overview Since its establishment in 1997, Mirae Asset has relentlessly pursued financial innovation including strong Business Beginning with the establishment of Mirae Asset Venture Capital and Mirae Asset Global Investments in entrepreneurship and global business expansion, and has thus grown into Asia’s leading global investment Milestones 1997, we have established Mirae Asset Securities in 1999 and Mirae Asset Life Insurance in 2005. In 2011, group. We are diversifying our revenue structure by investing into various core assets that go beyond we acquired two ETF providers of Horizons ETFs in Canada and BetaShares in Australia. With the merger the Korean market to the global arena, from traditional investment asset to natural environment and between Mirae Asset Securities and Daewoo Securities in December 2016, an integrated Mirae Asset infrastructure. Our mission is to make contribution to our clients and society through investment. Towards Daewoo was born as Korea’s largest securities company. In 2018, Mirae Asset Life Insurance acquired the this mission, we strive to manage client asset in a stable manner to ensure a secure retirement, while Korean subsidiary of PCA Life Insurance, a UK-headquartered insurer, and settled itself as an insurer specialcreating social values through investment. izing in variable insurance and pension. Our global business expansion is underway with the acquisition of a US ETF provider Global X and Prévoir Vietnam Life Insurance in 2018. Asset Under Management and Equity Capital of the Group Based on distinctive specialization of subsidiaries, Mirae Asset is currently managing an asset of KRW 438 Harvard Business School has chosen Mirae Asset’s success story as a case study and our financial innovation trillion, while expanding the global investment arena based on stable capital position of all subsidiaries. journey was covered by a global academic institution, ‘The Case Centre’. (Asset under management1): KRW 438 trillion; Equity capital2): KRW 13.9 trillion) 1) Based on net asset as of March 31 2019; sum of subsidiaries’ asset 1997 2012 2) As of December 31 2018; sum of subsidiaries’ equity capital 1997 07 Establishment of Mirae Asset Venture Capital 03 Mirae Asset Global Investments acquired Mirae Asset 08 Establishment of Korea’s first specialized asset MAPS Global Investments management company, Mirae Asset Investment Advisory 07 Launch of Mirae Asset Huachen Fund Management Subsidiaries Mirae Asset is an independent global investment group consisting of asset management, comprehensive (China) as the first Korea-China joint venture asset 1998 management financial investment, life insurance, venture investment, and other financial businesses. Beginning with the 12 Establishment and registration of Korea’s first asset establishment of the Hong Kong subsidiary of Mirae Asset Global Investments in 2003, for the past 16 years, we management company, Mirae Asset Global Investments 2013 Mirae Asset Global Investments launched Korea’s first 01 Launch of Mirae Asset Retirement Institute have built a global network of some 30 overseas subsidiaries and offices in 14 countries as of March 31 2019. mutual fund product, the Park Hyeon Joo No. 1 Fund 06 Horizons ETFs launched its first ETF IPO in South America Mirae Asset Global Investments, Mirae Asset Daewoo, Mirae Asset Life Insurance, Multi Asset Global Investments, 1999 09 Acquisition of the world’s leading hotel brand, Korea Mirae Asset Financial Services, Mirae Asset Mobile, Mirae Asset Venture Investment, Mirae Asset Capital, Mirae Asset Consulting, 12 Establishment of Mirae Asset Securities Four Seasons Hotel Sydney Mirae Asset Fund Services, Energy Infra Asset Management, Mirae Asset Retirement Institute, Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation 2000 2014 Mongolia Mirae Asset Daewoo 2000 03 Establishment of the Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation 04 Establishment of a financial product sales specialist U.S. Mirae Asset Global Investments, Mirae Asset Daewoo (LA), Mirae Asset Daewoo (New York), Global X company – Mirae Asset Financial Service 2001 12 Purchase of an office building, 1801 K Street, Mirae Asset Global Investments, Mirae Asset Daewoo, Mirae Asset Finance Company, Mirae Asset Prévoir Life insurance, 02 Launch of Korea’s first opened mutual fund, Vietnam where the U.S. Federal Reserve Board is a tenant, Mirae Asset Capital Vietnam Company the Mirae Asset Independence Equity-type Fund in Washington D.C. Launch of Korea’s first wrap account service Brazil Mirae Asset Global Investments, Mirae Asset Daewoo 2015 Singapore Mirae Asset Daewoo 2003 12 Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments 2015 05 Acquisition of the Fairmont Orchid resort hotel in Hawaii UK Mirae Asset Global Investments, Mirae Asset Daewoo (Hong Kong), the first overseas subsidiary by any 07 Mirae Asset Life Insurance’s IPO on the Korean Stock Korean financial institution Exchange India Mirae Asset Global Investments, Mirae Asset Daewoo 12 Purchase of San Francisco’s landmark hotel, the Fairmont Indonesia Mirae Asset Daewoo 2004 San Francisco 02 Establishment of the Mirae Asset Investment Education Mirae Asset Daewoo, Mirae Asset Huachen Fund Management, Mirae Asset Daewoo Shanghai Rep. Office, Institute 2016 China Mirae Asset Daewoo Beijing Rep. Office 08 Purchase of the Amazon HQ building in Seattle, U.S. 2005 Canada Horizons ETFs 2005 02 Launch of Korea’s first overseas direct operation fund Establishment of a mobile insurance sales specialist company – Mirae Asset Mobile Colombia Global X* 06 Launch of Mirae Asset Life Insurance 09 Mirae Asset Global Investments acquired the Hyatt Australia Mirae Asset Global Investments, BetaShares 2006 Regency Waikiki Beach Resort and Spa Hong Kong Mirae Asset Global Investments, Mirae Asset Daewoo, Horizons ETFs 02 Mirae Asset Securities’ IPO on the Korea Composite Stock 12 Merger between Mirae Asset Daewoo and Mirae Asset Price Index Securities to launch the integrated Mirae Asset Daewoo * As of May 2019 11 Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (India) 2017 2007 01 Investment in the Yeosu Gyeongdo Maritime Tourism 01 Establishment of Mirae Asset Wealth Management (HK) Complex Mirae Asset All subsidiaries of Mirae Asset strive to maintain independent competitiveness through strict risk 03 Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (UK) 07 Mirae Asset Daewoo signed an MOU with Naver Organization management practices. As of March 31 2019, there are around 10 subsidiaries with 12,500 employees in total. 07 Opening of the Beijing Representative Office of 09 Mirae Asset’s disruptive innovation story was covered by Mirae Asset Securities a global academic institution ‘The Case Centre’ 12 Establishment of Mirae Asset Wealth Management 10 Establishment of Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) Securities (Vietnam) Private Limited Total number of employees Asset Management Securities 12 Investment in development of Alphadom City in Pangyo 2008 12,563 ● Mirae Asset Global Investments ● Mirae Asset Daewoo 02 Establishment of Mirae Asset YiCai Investment Consulting (China) 2018 ● Multi Asset Global Investments 04 Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (U.S.) 03 Merger between Mirae Asset Life Insurance and ● Energy Infra Asset Management Establishment of Mirae Asset Global Investments (Brazil) PCA Life Insurance to launch the integrated (Including 3,190 FCs) 07 Mirae Asset Global Investments obtained the QFII for Mirae Asset Insurance Financial Service Insurnace the first time in Korea 05 Establishment of Mirae Asset Prévoir Life insurance Mirae Asset Global Investments launched its first off-shore 07 Mirae Asset Global Investments acquired a US ETF ● Mirae Asset Fund Services ● Mirae Asset Life Insurance fund in Luxembourg management, ‘Global X’ ● Mirae Asset Financial Services 08 Establishment of Mirae Asset Securities (U.S.) 11 Mirae Asset Global Investments became the first financial ● Mirae Asset Mobile institution in Asia to obtain license as a private equity fund 2011 management in China 2011 01 Mirae Asset Global Investments (Hong Kong) became the 2019 Social Contributions Investment & Capital ● Mirae Asset Park Hyeon Joo Foundation ● Mirae Asset Capital Korea’s first to introduce its ETF on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange 2019 03 Mirae Asset Venture Investment’s IPO on the Korea Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (KOSDAQ) ● Mirae Asset Retirement Institute ● Mirae Asset Venture Investment 11 Acquisition of a Canada’s leading ETF management, Horizons ETFs * Based on financial subsidiaries (Including social contributions) 100 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 101 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Conclusion Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (“Mirae Asset Daewoo”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the adherence to GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of 2019 Mirae Asset Daewoo Integrated Report (the “Report”). The directors of Mirae the Principles for defining report content in GRI Standards. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; Asset Daewoo have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is Stakeholder Inclusiveness Mirae Asset Daewoo has identified 4 major internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, to the management of Mirae Asset Daewoo in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the Shareholders and Investors, Employees and Local community. Mirae Asset Daewoo engages with the stakeholders at the company and assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. business unit levels through various channels. Stakeholder engagement and expectations are described in the Report. Sustainability Context Mirae Asset Daewoo pursues a 2020 global top-tier investment bank with four major innovations (Globalization, Scope and Basis of Assurance Investment, Digitalization, and Pension). The Report presents stakeholders with achievements in 2018, and the 2019 innovation plan. Based on non-financial data and sustainability performance data of Mirae Asset Daewoo in Korea in 2018, we have assessed ‘Reporting Various sustainability achievements are also provided in the Report. In addition, the Report explains its effort to meet the principles in Principles for defining report content’ and ‘Reporting Principles for defining report quality’ set forth in GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards UN Global Compact and its contribution to help to meet UN Sustainable Development Goals. Socially Responsible Investment including 2016. We have reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are identified in the materiality determination process; investment in renewable energy project demonstrates the implementation of social responsibility. No. Material Topics GRI Disclosure1 No. Material Topics GRI Disclosure Materiality Mirae Asset Daewoo has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 43 various issues have been derived Response to climate change and by analysing the topics covered in various global initiatives and standards, global benchmarking, internal data review and media research. 1 development of eco-friendly FS8, FS10, FS11 6 Fostering global talents 404-1 The issue pools were used on internal and external stakeholder survey to rate the material topics. Finally, 10 material topics were prioritized products and Mirae Asset Daewoo has mapped the material topics out with the disclosures as defined in GRI Standards. The assurance team has Increase in Socially Responsible reviewed the materiality assessment process and confirmed relevant material topics prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. 2 FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 7 Ethics and compliance 205-3 Investment (SRI) The Report presents key stakeholders and their impacts (financial, operational, and reputational) linked to material topics to help readers Protection of personal and financial understand Mirae Asset Daewoo's sustainability management. 3 418-1 8 Zero incomplete sales 417-2, 417-3 information of customers Completeness Mirae Asset Daewoo provides stakeholders with information on stakeholder impacts, key issues, and 2018 Increase in economic support for 4 Leading FinTech Non-GRI 9 413-2, FS14 performance(how to manage performance) on sustainability management material topics during the reporting period. The reporting the underprivileged Development of products and Establishment of boundary is set to include headquarters, customer support center, IT center, domestic branches as well as overseas subsidiaries and offices 5 Non-GRI 10 Non-GRI services meeting customer needs sound governance system over which Mirae Asset Daewoo has business control. In case of overseas subsidiaries and offices, only economic performance is included in the reporting scope due to the limitation of data gathering. Nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the DNV GL’s assurance methodology, VeriSustainTM2 which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice performance results of material topics within the reporting boundary were not complete. including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) is applied for the assurance engagement with the Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Timeliness, Clarity and Reliability The assurance team has sampled data and tested accuracy and limited level of assurance. The assurance was carried out from May and till June 2019. The site visit was made to Mirae Asset Daewoo’s reliability. The assurance team interviewed the data owners and reviewed the data gathering process with the supporting documents and Headquarters in Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data level. Based on the test, the intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data and information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of ● c hallenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data the data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. In addition, the Report provides the latest three-year performance on management system, information flow and controls; material topics, helping stakeholders understand the changes over the years in organizational performance. The Report describes the follow● interviewed representatives from the various departments; up actions and corrective actions on consumer disputes and complaints and the efforts to prevent recurrence. Mirae Asset Daewoo provides ● c onducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system as they relate timely information to stakeholders by annual reporting. to selected content and performance data; ● reviewed the materiality assessment report. Competence and Independence DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2011 Limitations Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of Mirae Asset Daewoo’ subsidiaries, comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct3 during the as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http:// out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data dart.fss.or.kr) as well as Mirae Asset Daewoo’s website (www.miraeassetdaewoo.com). These documents, financial statements and the included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical the assurance process. DNV GL have no other contract with Mirae Asset Daewoo and did not provide any services to Mirae Asset Daewoo in procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. June 2019 Jang Sup Lee Seoul, Korea Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. 1 3 FS: GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 2 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com) 102 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 103 Verification of GHG Emissions Data Reports GRI Index Introduction 1. General Disclosures Korea Productivity Center was required to verify ‘2018 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Statements (hereinafter ‘Statement’)’, of which reporting years was defined as January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018, by Mirae Asset Daewoo. Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 102-1 Name of the organization 8 Levels of Assurance 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8, 9, 14-17 A reasonable level of assurance was agreed. 102-3 Location of headquarters 4, 5, 8 102-4 Location of operations 4, 5 Verification Scope Refer to page 618 102-5 Ownership and legal form in the business report 2018 Greenhouse gas emissions throughout domestic 12 company buildings of Mirae Asset Daewoo’s own 4, 5, 14-17, 102-6 Markets served 56-63 Verification Criteria 4, 5, 8, 102-7 Scale of the organization 14-17, 110 • • GHG Energy Target Management Guideline Organizational profile 110, • • IPCC Guideline: 2006, WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol: 2004 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Refer to page 630 in the business report • • ISO14064-3: 2006 standard 102-9 Supply chain 11 Refer to Significant changes to the organization and Limitation 102-10 its supply chain page 21-26 in the business report Having investigated by sampling method, the Statement might have errors and uncertainties. Final GHG estimates may contain uncertainty 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 28-30 for the reasons such as unspecified standard and method, although no exceptional factor has been reported. 102-12 External initiatives 109 102-13 Membership of associations 115 Conclusion 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6, 7 • • The verification team confirmed that the ‘Statements (2018)’ was being reported in accordance with self-inspection guideline based on Strategy GHG Energy Target Management Guideline and IPCC Guideline. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6, 7, 29, 30 • • Appropriate corrective action was taken by Mirae Asset Daewoo in accordance with investigation results from the verification team. 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 8 Ethics and integrity • • The verification team confirms that the ‘Statements (2017)’ was being reporting ‘appropriately’ in accordance with relevant standards. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 25 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 20-23 Classification Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 31 Direct Emissions (Scope 1) 1,033 ton CO2e 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 66, 110 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 11,757 ton CO2e Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 31 engagement Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) 1,018 ton CO2e 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 31 Total Emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2) 12,790 ton CO2e 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 32 Refer to page 3-7 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements in the business report 5th June 2019 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 32, 33 Korea Productivity Center, 102-47 List of material topics 33 Sustainability Management Center Stated separately at 102-48 Restatements of information the related content Director Dong-Soo, Kim Stated separately at 102-49 Changes in reporting the related content Reporting practice 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-55 GRI content index 105-108 102-56 External assurance 102-103 104 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 105 2. Topic-specific Disclosures 3. Disclosures for Non-material Issues Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 103-1 3 Management Approach 24-27, 33, 111 Economic Performance Anti-corruption No case of contract 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 54, 55 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 25 cancellation due to Economic Performance Financial implications and other risks and anti-corruption 201-2 36-38 opportunities due to climate change 103-1 3 Management Approach 33, 64 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Training and Fair training opportunity Market Presence 202-1 110 compared to local minimum wage Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 111 regardless of gender and position Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 72-76, 111 Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 36, 37 103-1 3 Management Approach 33, 36, 72, 77 Operations with significant actual and 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 100% Local Communities 413-2 4, 5, 30, 77 potential negative impacts on local communities Anti-corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption Initiatives to improve access to financial services 205-2 26, 111 FS14 38, 39 policies and procedures for disadvantaged people Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 206-1 No such case 103-1 3 Management Approach 33, 48, 49 Behavior anti-trust, and monopoly practices Marketing and Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 417-2 No violation Labeling service information and labeling Environmental Performance Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 417-3 No violation communications 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 112 103-1 3 Management Approach 33, 40 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 112 Customer Privacy Energy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 302-3 Energy intensity 112 418-1 No violation customer privacy and losses of customer data Policies with specific environmental and social 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 77, 112 components, assessing, monitoring, improving staff 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 112 FS1 5 33, 36 competency, and environmental and social risks and opportunities, applied to business lines Water Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal All from tap water 303-2 Product Portfolio of water and sewage Monetary value of products and services designed to FS7 37 deliver social benefits for each business line 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 112 Monetary value of products and services designed to 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 112 FS8 37, 38 deliver environmental benefits for each business line Voting policy(ies) applied to environmental or social Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 112 Audit FS12 issues for shares over which the reporting organization 37 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 112 holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 77, 112 Wastewater is treated by a wastewater treatment Effluents 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination plant operated by a local and Waste autonomous entity 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 112 Environmental Non-compliance with environmental laws and 307-1 No violation Compliance regulations 106 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 107 UNGC & UN SDGs UNGC Mirae Asset Daewoo joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary corporate initiative that calls for corporations to assume social Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note responsibility, in October 2006. By abiding by its ten principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption, Social Performance (GRI 400) we are taking part in global standards on corporate social responsibility and declaring our strong determination to practice sustainability management. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 110 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Classification Principles Activities of Mirae Asset Daewoo Page Employment 401-2 66, 67 provided to temporary or part-time employees Principle 1: Businesses should support and 401-3 Parental leave 110 respect the protection of internationally proclaimed We establish human rights protection principles, Types of injury and rates of injury, Human Rights human rights; and and provide training on preventing various human 68-69 Occupational Health 403-2 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 110 rights violations, including sexual harassment. and Safety Principle 2: make sure that they are not and number of work-related fatalities complicit in human rights abuses. Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 64, 65 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Training and transition assistance programs We operate the Labor-Management Council association and the effective recognition of Education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance based on communication. 404-3 110 the right to collective bargaining; and career development reviews Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of We establish principles on protecting human rights 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 20, 110 forced and compulsory labour; concerning the eradication of child labor and Labour 110, forced labor, and implement the principles 64-67 Diversity and Standards Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and throughout our business activities. Equal Opportunity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Refer to page 630 405-2 women to men in the business Prohibition on discrimination based on gender, age, report Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in religious belief, social status, region of origin, school, Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 68 No violation respect of employment and occupation. childbirth, medical history, etc. is specified on the Rules of Employment. Freedom of Operations and suppliers in which the right to Association and 407-1 freedom of association and collective bargaining 68, 110 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; We develop alternative energy through Collective Bargaining may be at risk the Green Index Fund and Clean Energy Fund, Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater participate in new & renewable energy power Child Labor 408-1 68 No violation Environment 77, 112 incidents of child labor environmental responsibility; and generation projects, including the floating photovoltaic on Hapcheon Dam, as part of Forced or Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Principle 9: encourage the development and 409-1 68 No violation efforts to save energy, and build a green office. Compulsory Labor incidents of forced or compulsory labor diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Rights of Incidents of violations involving rights of Principle 10: Businesses should work against 411-1 68 No violation We conduct compliance and ethical management Indigenous Peoples indigenous peoples Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion 24-27 activities, such as blocking the inflow of illegal funds. Operations that have been subject to and bribery. 412-1 68 human rights reviews or impact assessments Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 68, 111 Assessment UN SDGs Significant investment agreements and contracts that 412-3 include human rights clauses or that underwent human 68 Mirae Asset Daewoo is conducting activities to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that were established by the UN for the rights screening sustainable development of the international community. Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 419-1 No violation Compliance and economic area Classification Goals Activities of Mirae Asset Daewoo Page Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education Goal 04 Social contributions (Scholarship) 73 and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Achieve gender equality and empower Goal 05 Career development of female employees 64-65, 67 all women and girls Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable Participating in new & renewable energy Goal 07 77 and modern energy for all power generation projects Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Socially responsible finance and fund Goal 08 37, 45-47, 63 full and productive employment and decent work for all management; and leading digital finance Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive Providing financial services customized to Goal 09 38 and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation medium-sized enterprises and small giants Increasing financial accessibility for Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries 39 minorities Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Energy saving efforts 77 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable Goal 16 development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, Protecting personal information 42-43 accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 108 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 109 Social Performance Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 1) Total number of employees 4,818 4,659 4,564 Employee Training Domestic 4,782 4,642 4,544 Total training hours Hour 181,309 198,542 210,524 By region Person Overseas 36 17 20 Number of employees received training Person 12,463 16,584 18,234 Executives 201 280 290 Total training expenses KRW billion 6.6 6.6 7.2 PB Executives 0 0 46 Education on Human Rights and Ethics Head manager 493 760 770 Ethical management training Occasion 159 165 253 By position Senior manager Person 1,840 1,534 1,533 Number of people who participate in education programs 4,812 4,659 4,277 Manager 1,493 1,744 1,502 on ethics and compliance Assistant manager 527 543 394 Number of people who participate in education programs Person 4,304 4,592 4,915 on sexual harassment prevention Others 67 40 38 Number of people who participate in education programs Full-time 4,063 3,953 3,914 2,882 4,421 4,253 on information protection Part-time 755 706 650 Social Contribution Expenditures and Participants By type Person Number of employees converted from Expenditures in social contributions1) KRW billion 6.3 4.0 4.2 118 139 116 part-time to full-time Hours for volunteer activities Hour 8,166 428 733 New hires 306 259 276 Person Participants in volunteer activities 2) Person 2,836 140 349 Recruitment and Female new hires 177 120 114 1) retirement Quit rate 5.5 7.8 8.0 C  SR expenditures consist of cash donation, goods donation, and operating expenses for voluntary activities; Expenses for voluntary activities per employee = Total hours of participation x average hourly wage per person % Turnover rate 4.2 6.2 7.1 2) Data prior to 2016 is an aggregation of both weekend and weekday volunteers and from 2017 the data is based on the number of weekday volunteers Male 2,722 2,614 2,543 By gender Female 2,096 2,045 2,021 Person Major Association Expenses in 2018* (Unit: KRW million) Disabled people 24 23 23 Minorities Korea Financial Korea Financial Korea Chamber Financial Security Korea Capital Investment Telecommunications & of Commerce and Others Total Foreigners 26 24 23 Institute Market Institute Association Clearings Institute Industry Number of people returning to 4,372 641 285 217 92 362 5,968 Person 307 201 174 work after parental leave Parental leave Number of people staying at work * Mirae Asset Daewoo strictly bans any forms of donation or aid towards political campaigns and election funds, political parties/political entities/politicians, and lobbying organizations/lobbyists for 12 months since returning to % 94.9 93.9 82.9 work after parental leave Labor union membership percentage2) % 44 45 63 Number of absentees due to Person 134 12 50 injuries or illness Occupational injury Lost work days Day 8,133 271 4,658 Number of injuries Person 0 0 0 1) Number of employees including registered executives 2) Major agreements, including collective bargaining agreements with the labor union, are applied to all employees (100%) Classification Unit 2018 Ratio of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 232.7 % Employee participation rate in performance evaluation 91.7 110 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 111 Environmental Performance Tax Policy Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Governing Message Energy Consumption Mirae Asset Daewoo understands that compliance with tax laws and responsible, transparent tax payments that go beyond observance of laws is an important factor in contributing to national finance, enhancing shareholder value, and maximizing stakeholder profits, and that LNG 13,426 20,401 19,987 it is a fundamental condition that needs to be met for the company’s long-term growth. We have therefore established tax rules and policy, Gasoline, diesel 216 143 0 and pursue cooperative, constructive relations with taxation authorities for faithful implementation of our tax policy. We make transparent tax payments and disclose relevant information according to the following rules. Kerosene GJ 340 442 276 Electricity 332,680 342,610 242,064 District heating 6,600 6,629 3,663 Principles on Tax • We recognize that compliance with tax laws and transparent tax payments are important parts of management. GHG Emissions • We faithfully report and pay taxes in accordance with responsible tax rules. Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 719 1,075 1,033 • We do not abuse differences in tax laws among countries to avoid taxes. Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) tonCO2eq 16,402 16,640 11,757 • We evaluate the adequacy of transfer price in accordance with the arm’s length principle. Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)1) 502 681 1,018 • W  e do not manage a legal entity for the purpose of avoiding taxes at a tax haven where sharing of tax information is impossible Water Consumption and where we do not have any economic activity. Tap water and sewage m3 105,101 97,545 76,794 •  e make utmost efforts to fulfill cooperation obligations that are stipulated in tax laws to maintain constructive and cooperative relations W with taxation authorities. Weight of Waste • We conduct preemptive management and monitoring to reduce tax risks. General wastes 2) kg 63,750 268,478 245,978 • We document and store tax reports, documentary evidence, and materials related to decision-making on accounting issues. 1) Scope of measurement was expanded, resulting in increase in Scope 3 emissions 2) • We perform regular monitoring of tax issues. 2017 data was corrected due to the expanded scope and change in measurement method Disclosure of Tax Payment Information Energy Consumption Total In Korea, we responsibly disclose income tax-related details through an audit report which is available on the Financial Supervisory Service’s 2016 73.3 353,262 265,990 GJ electronic official notice system (Dart.fss.or.kr). Disclosed content includes the following. 1. Accounting criteria for calculating income taxes 2017 79.5 370,225 Energy consumption intensity 2. Deferred tax asset and liability details 2018 58.3 265,990 58.3 GJ/FTE 3. Composition details regarding temporary differences 4. Income tax expense composition details and tax rate information In addition, through our annual Sustainability Report and Audit Report, we disclose revenue and tax payment amount information by GHG Emissions Total country, the difference between the valid tax rate and statutory tax rate of income taxes, and the reason for this difference. 2016 3.55 17,121 12,790 tonCO2eq 2017 3.81 17,715 GHG emissions intensity Base Erosion and Profit Shifting 2018 2.80 12,790 2.80 tonCO2eq/FTE Taxation authorities have made it mandatory to submit a report by country, which is Action 13 (Transfer Pricing Documentation) of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project, for multinational companies through the Adjustment of International Taxes Act. Parties obligated to submit a report, such as a controlling entity in Korea of a multinational company with sales exceeding KRW 1 trillion based on * Total GHG emissions and GHG emissions intensity are based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 consolidated financial statements of the preceding tax year, is obligated to submit a report by country that includes revenue details, pretax profits and losses, and other such information by country for affiliated companies within the multinational company group. Mirae Asset Daewoo is faithfully fulfilling this obligation. Total energy GHG emissions intensity consumption intensity (Including Scope 1 and Scope 2) Water consumption intensity 58.3 3) 2.80 16.83 GJ/FTE tonCO2 eq/FTE m3/FTE Target 2021: 52.5 GJ/FTE Target 2021: 2.52 tonCO2eq/FTE Target 2021: 15.14 m3/FTE 3) Full Time Employee 112 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 113 Organization Chart Membership & Awards Membership Asia Society Korea Center ISDA Korea Management Association Association of Compliance Officers K-OTC Korea Money and Finance Association BOD CEO IB Unit IB Division1 Capital Market Association of Korea Association of Korea Options, Swaps & Derivative IB Division2 Securities Companies Real Estate Investment Trusts Association IB Division3 Center for Financial Law of Korea Capital Market Institute Korean Pension Association Mega Investment Banking Seoul National University Department Committee on Financial Informatization Korea Center for International Finance Korean Securities Association Trading Division1 Promotion Trading Unit Audit Committee Trading Division2 Financial Information Business Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korean Securities Law Association Strategy Trading Department Financial Information Security Council Korea Economic Research Institute National Strategy Institute Financial Law Center, Sogang University Korea Employers Federation Seoul IB Forum Multi Strategy Trading Department Financial Security Forum Korea Federation of Banks The Institute of Internal Auditors Conglomerate Passive Solution Department Risk Management CEO Financial Security Institute Korea Financial Investment Association UN Global Compact Committee WM Unit 14HUB Retail Sales Department Korea Financial Telecommunications & Global Finance Society Investment Strategy Division Clearings Institute Institute for Global Economies Korea Listed Companies Association WM Consulting Department Global Equity Consulting Department Awards Pension Consulting Department Corporate RM Center Jan. 09 Hankyung Business, 2H2017 Research House & Analyst Awards The Best Research House in Securities Industry Jan. 24 The 7th Yonhap Media Group Finance Awards IPO Wholesale Division Jan. 25 The Bell 2018 Korea Capital Markets TheBell League Table Awards The Best IPO House of the Year Jan. 26 15th Korea IB Awards Sponsored by Money Today The Best ECM Underwriter IT Division Feb. 05 2017 Chosun Research House Awards in Securities Industry Global Coverage Awards Digital Finance Division Feb. 08 MK Economy, Securities Awards The Best Investment Banking Global Division Feb. 26 Korea Economy, Investment Banking Awards IPO Awards Showing its presence and capability of Risk Management Apr. 02 HK Money – the Best PB Center of 2018 overseas investment Division Apr. 25 2018 E-daily, Best Financial Investment Award Best Awards in Retail Compliance Monitoring Division Jun. 20 Money Today, 2018 Korea Analyst Awards Grand Awards in Securities Industry Business Innovation Jun. 25 Money Today, 2018 Retirement Pension Awards Best Awards in Securities Industry Division Jul. 17 MK Economy, The 5th Best Model Portfolio Awards Best Global Portfolio Business Support Division Oct. 04 2018 Asia Today, Financial Grand Award Awards in Research House Category Oct. 22 Asia Today MTS Award The Best Innovation Prime Brokerage Service Department Nov. 26 2018 Herald Biz Fund Distribution Award The Best Wealth Management Awards Alternative Principal Dec. 05 2018 National Consumer Satisfaction Index (NSCI) Awards Grand Prize in Securities Industry Investments Department Dec. 10 2018 Asia Economy Capital Investment Awards Best IB Research Center Dec. 13 2018 Aju Economy Securities Awards Best IB Equity Investments Dec. 18 2018 Newsis IR awards in Securities Industry The Best Global Business Awards Department Dec. 20 E-today Marketleader Awards Excellence in Wealth Management 114 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX I 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Reporting Entity (1) Parent company Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) was originally incorporated on September 23, 1970, under the name of Dong Yang Securities Co., Ltd. and changed its name to Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. on October 20, 1983. The Company merged with Sambo Securities Co., Ltd. on December 19, 1983, and changed its name to Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. on May 13, 2016. In addition, the Company merged with Mirae Asset Securities Co., Ltd. on December 29, 2016. APPENDIX II The Company is headquartered in Suha-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul and also operates a network of 136 domestic branches, 3 overseas liaison offices, 14 overseas subsidiaries and 1 overseas investment consulting company as of December 31, 2018. The shares of the Company were initially listed on the Korea Exchange in September 1975, and the Company has increased its capital by issuing new paid-in shares, bonus issue, and stock dividend, etc. The Company’s outstanding capital (including preferred shares) as of December 31, 2018, amounted to W4,101,961 million, and major shareholders of the Company as of December 31, 2018, are as follows: Name of shareholder Number of Shares Percentage of ownership (%) Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. 126,980,000 19.29 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Treasury stock 109,581,643 16.64 Employee stock ownership association 1,703,912 0.26 Others 420,050,853 63.81 658,316,408 100.00 (2) Subsidiaries 1) Mirae Asset Venture Investment Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. was founded on June 8, 1999, to primarily support the establishment of smaller businesses and registered as a small investment business company with the Small and Medium Business Administration on June 28, 1999. The entity is mostly engaged in projects regarding investments and venture capital fund managements for small businesses. The entity’s headquarters is located at Seongnam City, Gyeonggi Province. The entity had W10,000 million as capital at the time of establishment, and with issuances of new stocks, the entity has W26,032 million of common stocks and W500 million of preferred stocks of paid-in capital, as of December 31, 2018. 2) Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. was established by the Company on May 3, 1991, and it is engaged in securities brokerage, sale, acquisition and arrangement of proprietary assets, etc. The entity changed its name from Daewoo Securities (Europe) Ltd. to Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. on November 28, 2016. 3) Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. is wholely owned by Mirae Asset Securities Holdings (USA) Inc.. Established on July 7, 1992, it is engaged in securities brokerage, sale of proprietary assets, etc. The entity changed its name from Daewoo Securities (America) Inc. to Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. on November 28, 2016. 4) Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited was established by the Company, and it obtained a permit for operation from relevant authorities in Hong Kong on January 11, 2007. It is engaged in securities brokerage, proprietary trading, corporate finance consulting, and asset management etc. Upon the merge with Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd,., the entity changed its name from Mirae Asset Wealth Management (HK) Limited to Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited on March 1, 2017. 116 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 117 5) Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM Estimates and underlying assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM was established through a merger between Mirae Asset Brasil Holdings, the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected. a holding company controlled by Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited in order to operate securities brokerage business in Brazil, and Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) CCTVM LTDA for overall business on the region on February 25, 2014. The entity 1) Management’s judgment was renamed from Mirae Asset Securities (Brazil) CCTVM to Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) CCTVM on February Information about critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts 9, 2015. recognized in the consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: Note 3. (7) – Non-derivative financial assets 6) PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia Note 3. (8) – Derivative financial assets PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia was established by Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited on August 1, 2013. It is Note 3. (9) – Fair value of financial instruments engaged in securities brokerage, sale, acquisition and proprietary trading, consulting, etc. The entity is renamed from PT. Daewoo Securities Indonesia to PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia on December 26, 2016. Note 3. (10) – Impairment of financial assets Note 3. (13) – Investment property 7) Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment Trust 6-2 Note 3. (17) – Hybrid financial instruments Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment Trust 6-2 is a collective investment securities designed to Note 3. (21) – Provisions invest in Fairmont Hotel located in San Francisco, USA. The Group holds its equity on the amount of ₩141,500 million (book Note 3. (27) – Income tax value) which is correspond to 99.92% from its total portion as of December 31, 2018. 2) Uncertainty of assumptions and estimations 8) Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment Trust 7 Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material  Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Estate Investment Trust 7 is a collective investment securites designed to invest adjustment within the next fiscal year are included in the following notes: in Hyatt Regency Waikiki Hotel located Oahu Waikiki beach in Hawaii, USA. The Group holds its equity in the amount of ₩317,077 million (book value) which is correspond to 99.83% of its total shares as of December 31, 2018. Note 3. (27): Income tax Note 14: Financial assets measured at amortized cost Note 15: Fair value of financial asset and liability 2. Basis of preparation Note 28 and 54: Provisions, commitments and contingencies Note 55: Share-based payments (1) Statement of compliance The Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”), as prescribed in the Act on External Audits of Stock Companies 3. Significant accounting policies in Republic of Korea. E xcept for the new standards and the amendments to existing standards as described in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, which were applied from January 1, 2018, the accounting policies applied by the Group in preparing the 2018 The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been translated into English from the Korean language financial consolidated financial statements are consistent with prior year. Significant accounting policies applied by the Group are as follows: statements. The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on January 31, 2019, which will be (1) Basis of consolidation submitted for approval to the stockholder’s meeting to be held on March 27, 2019. The consolidated financial statements integrate the financial statements of the parent and those of its subsidiaries. The Group controls an investee if the Group has 1) Power over the investee 2) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement (2) Basis of measurement with the investee, and 3) The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns. The Group reevaluates whether or not it controls over an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following material items elements of control. in the consolidated statement of financial position which are measured at fair value: Derivative financial instruments The Group with less than a majority of the voting rights has rights that are sufficient to give it power when the investor has Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss the practical ability to direct the relevant activities unilaterally. When assessing whether the Group’s voting rights are sufficient Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income to give it power, the Group considers all facts and circumstances, including: Share-based payments measured at fair value The size of the investor’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders. Potential voting rights held by the investor, other vote holders or other parties. (3) Functional and presentation currency Rights arising from other contractual arrangements, and Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate the investor has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the Each group entity’s financial statements are prepared using the respective currency of the primary economic environment in relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings. which the group entities operate (functional currency). The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean won (“₩”), which is also the Company’s functional and presentation currency. Income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date or the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. The carrying (4) Use of estimates and judgments amount of the non-controlling interests is proportionate share of the recognized amount of the identifiable net assets at the acquisition date and the amount of change in equity related to non-controlling interest thereafter. The Group shall also The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with K-IFRS requires management to make judgments, attribute total comprehensive income to the owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 118 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 119 If a subsidiary of the Group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated financial statements for like The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurementtransactions and events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to the subsidiary’s financial statements in period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified preparing the consolidated financial statements. as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance All transactions between the group entities are eliminated upon consolidation. with K-IFRS No. 1109, Financial Instruments , or K-IFRS No. 1037, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets , as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss. The transactions of changes in the Group’s ownership interest that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. Changes in equity from subsidiary are accounted for by adjusting book value of controlling interest and When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group‘s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured non-controlling interest. The differences between the adjusted amount of the non-controlling interest and the fair value of to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e., the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is the considerations are directly recognized to equity attributable to the parent. recognized in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate If a parent loses control of a subsidiary it will recognize gains or losses from the disposal of its subsidiaries at the difference if that interest were disposed of. between 1) the fair value of the considerations received and 2) the carrying amounts of the assets (including any goodwill), liabilities of the subsidiary and non-controlling interests at the date when control is lost. If a parent loses control of a If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination subsidiary, the parent shall account for all amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that occurs, the Group recognizes provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional subsidiary on the same basis as would be required if the parent had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. At the amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see above), or additional assets or liabilities are recognized to reflect date of losing control over subsidiaries, the fair value of investment retained in the former subsidiary shall be regarded as the new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have fair value on initial recognition of a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 or, when appropriate, the cost on initial affected the amounts recognized at that date. recognition of an investment in an associate or joint venture. (3) Investments in associates and joint ventures (2) Business combinations An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the fair values of the assets transferred by the Group at the acquisition date, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and equity A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognized in assets of the joint arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists profit or loss as incurred. only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair value at the The results and assets and liabilities of associates or joint ventures are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements acquisition date, except that: using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and for in accordance with K-IFRS No.1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations . Under the equity measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1012, Income Taxes , and K-IFRS 1019, Employee Benefits , respectively; method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group's share of the profit or loss and equity changes of the Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment associate or joint venture. When the Group's share of losses of an associate or a joint venture exceeds the Group's interest arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in in that associate or joint venture (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Group's net accordance with K-IFRS 1102, Share-based Payment , at the acquisition date; and investment in the associate or joint venture), the Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognized only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of a) the consideration transferred, b) the amount of any non-controlling of the associate or joint venture. interests in the acquiree and c) the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment, the net of Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of a) the consideration contingent liabilities of an associate or a joint venture recognized at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill, which transferred, b) the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and c) the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held is included within the carrying amount of the investment and it undergoes impairment test as a part of the investment assets. interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Non-controlling interests that are current ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either 1) at fair value or 2) at the non-controlling interests’ Upon disposal of an associate or a joint venture that results in the Group losing significant influence over that associate or proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis joint venture, any retained investment is measured at fair value at that date and the fair value is regarded as its fair value on is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 Financial Instruments . The difference between the applicable, on the basis specified in another K-IFRS. previous carrying amount of the associate or joint venture attributable to the retained interest and its fair value is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the associate or joint venture. In addition, the Group accounts for all When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate or joint venture on the same basis contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and is we would be required if that associate or joint venture had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by that associate or joint venture would be reclassified to consideration that qualify as measurement-period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or against goodwill. Measurement-period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during loss (as reclassification adjustment) when it loses significant influence over that associate or joint venture. the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture but the Group continues to use the equity method, the Group reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities. In addition, the Group applies K-IFRS No.1105 Non-current Assets Held 120 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 121 for Sale and Discontinued Operations to a portion of investment in an associate or a joint venture that meets the criteria to be statement of comprehensive income are translated at average rate for the accounting period. Foreign currency differences classified as held for sale. that arise from translation are recognized as other comprehensive income, and reclassified as profit or loss when foreign operations are disposed and the disposal profit or loss is recognized. The requirements of K-IFRS No.1109 Financial Instruments are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with respect to the Group’s investment in an associate or a joint venture. When necessary, the entire carrying Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with K-IFRS No.1036 Impairment of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition of that foreign operation is treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Assets by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount; operation. Thus, they are expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. any impairment loss recognized forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1036 Impairment of Assets to the extent that the recoverable amount of the When a foreign operation is disposed the relevant amount in the translation is transferred to profit or loss as part of the investment subsequently increases. profit or loss on disposal. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the relevant proportion is reclassified to profit or loss. The Group continues to use the equity method when an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a joint venture or an investment in a joint venture becomes an investment in an associate reversely. There is no remeasurement to fair value 3) Translation of net investment in the foreign operation upon such changes in ownership interests. Monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, with none or little possibility of being settled in the foreseeable future, are considered a part of the net investment in the foreign operation. Therefore, the exchange When a group entity transacts with an associate or a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the difference is recognized as other comprehensive profit or loss in the financial statement, and reclassified to profit or loss as transactions with the associate or joint venture are recognized in the Group's consolidated financial statements only to the of the disposal of the related net investment. extent of interests in the associate or joint venture that are not related to the Group. (6) Cash and cash equivalents (4) Goodwill Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily Goodwill resulting from an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as established at the date of acquisition of the business convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their fair value, and are less accumulated impairment losses, if any. used by the Group in the management of its short-term commitments. Equity investments are excluded from cash equivalents unless they are, in substance, cash equivalents, for example, in the case of preferred shares when it has a short maturity with For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of casha specified redemption date. generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. (7) Non-derivative financial assets A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying 1) Classification and measurement amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to Policy applicable from January 1, 2018 the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent In accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109, the Group classifies non-derivative financial assets with financial assets measured at periods. fair value (recognizing fair value changes either on other comprehensive income or profit or loss) or at amortized cost. In general, the classification is determined sequentially based on how the financial instrument is managed within business On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the models and its contractual cash flow is characterized. profit or loss on disposal. The Group assesses the purpose of the business models at the portfolio level of financial assets considering how the (5) Foreign currency transactions business is managed and how the information is provided to managements, as follows: The account policy and purpose stated for the portfolio, and operation of these policy in practice. Including acquisition 1) Foreign currency transactions of contractual interest, maintenance of specific interest rate, match to the duration of liabilities to fund financial asset Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at exchange with the duration of the financial assets, and management’s strategy for an outflow or realization of expected cash flow rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to through disposal of assets. the functional currency using the report date’s exchange rate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign How to report the assessment to key management, with assessing the performance of financial assets held by business currencies that are measured at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that model. the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are The risk affecting the performance of business model (and financial assets held by business model) and how to manage the translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. risk How to compensate to management (e.g., whether compensate based on fair value of assets or contractual cash flows) Foreign currency differences arising on translation of monetary items are recognized in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign Frequency of sale of financial assets for the past period, amount, timing, reason, the expectation about future sale activity operation, or in a qualifying cash flow hedge, which are recognized in other comprehensive income. Translation differences on Non-monetary items whose fair value gain or loss is recognized in other comprehensive income or profit or loss is also The Group considers terms and conditions of a contract when assess whether the contractual cash flow is composed of recognized in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively. solely payments of principal and interest. If non-derivative financial assets include terms and conditions of a contract that change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows, the Group determine whether the contractual cash flow that may 2) Foreign operations arise for the lifetime of the financial assets is composed of solely payments of principal and interest. The Group considers the following: If the presentation currency of the Group is different from a foreign operation’s functional currency, the financial statements of the foreign operation are translated into the presentation currency using the following methods. The conditional situation that may change the amount or timing of cash flows Terms that adjust coupon rate including the characteristics of floating rate Unless the functional currency of foreign operations is in a state of hyperinflation, assets and liabilities of foreign The characteristics of prepayment or extension operations are translated at the closing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. Revenues and expenses on the Terms and conditions that restrict the Group’s claim on cash flow from specific assets 122 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 123 A non-derivative financial asset is measured initially at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition. Such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or The financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its ① Financial assets measured at amortized cost performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented Risk management or A financial asset shall be measured at amortized cost if the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, and the contractual term of the financia l a s s e t g i v e It forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives and K-IFRS No. 1039, Financial Instruments: rise on specified date to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Recognition and Measurement , permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated at FVTPL. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets measured at amortized cost are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Amortized cost is reduced by impairment loss. Interest income, profit or loss from ② HTM investments translation of foreign currency, impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. If the non-derivative assets have a fixed maturity with fixed or determinable payments, and the Group has the positive ② Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income intent and ability to hold them until maturity, then such financial assets are classified as HTM. Subsequent to initial recognition, HTM financial assets are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. A financial asset shall be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and the ③ Loans and receivables contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on a specified date to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Profit or loss from all financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income except for the credit losses (reversal), interest income, and foreign exchange gain or loss, are recognized in other comprehensive income. The  AFS financial assets ④ cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income will be reclassified from equity to profit or AFS financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as AFS or are not classified as financial loss as a reclassification adjustment. assets at FVTPL, HTM investments or loans and receivables. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value, net of any tax effect, recorded in other comprehensive income in equity. Investments in Investments in equity instrument that is not held for trading can be irrevocably elected to present the subsequent changes equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably in fair value in other comprehensive income. The choice is decided by individual financial instruments. Dividends from measured and derivatives those are linked to and must be settled by delivery of such unquoted equity instruments are equity securities designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, which do not belong to measured at cost. When the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss refund of invested capital, is recognized as profit or loss. Other items are recognized with other comprehensive income previously accumulated in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss. Dividends on AFS equity instruments and will never be reclassified to profit or loss. are recognized in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive the dividends is established. ③ Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 2) Derecognition of financial assets A financial instrument shall be measured at fair value through profit or loss unless it is measured at amortized cost or The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers at fair value through other comprehensive income. All gains and losses, including interest and dividend income, are the rights to receive the contractual cash flows of the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and recognized in profit or loss. rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognized as a consolidated asset or liability. A financial asset can be irrevocably designated as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred financial assets, the Group assets or liabilities or recognizing the gains and losses on them on a different basis. continues to recognize the transferred financial assets and recognizes financial liabilities for the consideration received. Policy applicable before January 1, 2018 3) Offsetting between financial assets and financial liabilities The Group recognizes and measures non-derivative financial assets by the following four categories: financial assets at Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the consolidated statement of financial fair value through profit or loss(“FVTPL”), held-to-maturity (“HTM”) investments, loans and receivables and available-forposition only when the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts, and there is the sale(“AFS”) financial assets. The Group recognizes financial assets in the consolidated statement of financial position when intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. (8) Derivative financial instruments Upon initial recognition, non-derivative financial assets are measured at their fair value plus, except for a financial asset at FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the asset’s acquisition or issuance. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. ① Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as of FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or is designated at FVTPL. 1) Hedge accounting Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value upon initial recognition and changes therein are recognized in profit or Derivative instruments are accounted for differently depending on whether hedge accounting is applied, and therefore, are loss. Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. classified into trading purpose derivatives and hedging purpose derivatives. A fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, or an identified portion of A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: such an asset, liability or firm commitment, that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss. A cash It has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that (i) is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability (such as all or some future interest payments on variable rate debt) or a highly probable On initial recognition, it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has forecasted transaction and (ii) could affect profit or loss. For trading purpose derivatives transactions, changes in the fair a recent actual pattern of short-term profit taking; or value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss. It is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. 124 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 125 2) Embedded derivative instruments The method of measuring fair value of financial instruments are as follows: Derivatives may be embedded in another contractual arrangement (a “host contract”). The terms of the embedded Type Fair value measurement method derivative would meet the definition of a derivative if they were included in a separate contract, and the economic The carrying amount and fair value is the same for cash, and the carrying amount is characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the Deposits determined to be the fair value for deposits. host contract. The quoted prices are applied to financial instruments held for trading traded in active Financial assets measured at fair markets, like listed stocks. If quoted prices are not available, fair values determined by Policy applicable from January 1, 2018 value through profit or loss external evaluation specialized agency are applied hybrid financial instruments apply the fair values determined by valuation techniques. When the non-derivative financial asset is a hybrid contract with an embedded derivative, except the host contract is The quoted prices are applied to in-market derivatives, and as of off-market derivatives, fair not a financial asset under certain condition, the Group considers the entire hybrid contract in determining whether the Derivatives values determined by external evaluation specialized agency are applied. contractual cash flow is composed of solely payments of principal and interest. Financial assets measured The quoted prices are applied to securities traded in active markets, like listed stocks, and at fair value through other if quoted prices are not available, fair values determined by external evaluation specialized When the non-derivative financial liability is a hybrid contract with an embedded derivative, the Group accounts for the comprehensive income agency are applied. embedded derivative separately from the host contract when the host contract is not measured at fair value through profit Financial assets measured at The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value. or loss. Any changes in the fair value of the separated embedded derivatives are recognized in profit or loss. amortized cost Deposits due to customers The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value. Policy applicable before January 1, 2018 Borrowings The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value. Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments are treated as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their Debentures The fair value is calculated using discounted cash flow model. economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract The carrying amount is determined to be the fair value for other financial assets and is not itself held for trading or designated at FVTPL, unless the Group aggregately designates the host contract and Other financial assets and liabilities liabilities that are derived from various transactions, since they are relatively short term. embedded derivative as a financial instrument at FVTPL. These embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and are carried at fair value, with changes in their fair value recognized in profit or loss. (10) Impairment of financial assets 3) Other derivative financial instruments Policy applicable from January 1, 2018 Changes in the fair value of other derivative financial instrument not designated as a hedging instrument are recognized The Group assesses the expected credit losses on a debt instrument measured at amortized cost or fair value through other immediately in profit or loss. comprehensive income based on the forward-looking information. Impairment approach will depend on the significant increases in credit risk. Depending on the degree of increase in credit risk on a financial asset since initial recognition, the (9) Fair value of financial instruments Group recognizes the amount for loss allowance at an amount equal to either 12-month credit losses or lifetime expected credit losses by 3 stages as shown in the below table. The fair values of financial instruments not actively traded in markets (e.g., OTC derivatives) are determined by using valuation techniques. The Group determines valuation methods and assumptions based on significant market conditions at the end of Description Expected Credit Loss each reporting period. Diverse valuation techniques are used to determine the fair value of financial instruments, from general 12-month ECL: 12-month expected credit losses: the expected credit losses that No significant increase in credit risk market accepted valuation models to internally developed valuation models that incorporate various types of assumptions and Stage 1 result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within since their initial recognition(*) variables. the 12 months after the reporting date. Significant increase in credit risk Stage 2 The Group classifies and discloses fair value of the financial instruments into following three-level hierarchy. since their initial recognition Lifetime ECLs: the expected credit losses that result from all possible default Assets are non-performing and events over the expected life of a financial instrument. (Level 1) Financial instruments measured at quoted prices from active markets are classified as fair value level 1. Stage 3 therefore considered as creditimpaired (Level 2) Financial instruments measured using valuation techniques where all significant inputs are observable market data (*) The Group may assume that the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition if the credit risk is low at are classified as level 2. the reporting date. (Level 3) Financial instruments measured using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market data are classified as level 3. The Group recognizes the cumulative changes in lifetime expected credit losses since initial recognition as a loss allowance for credit-impaired financial assets. As for financial assets measured at amortized cost or debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the Group regards the following indication as a significant increase in credit risk relative to initial recognition. ① Loans Loans classified as precautionary of the Financial Supervisory Service’s asset soundness classification. Loans whose level of default risk exceeds absolutely or relatively high due to significant changes in internal credit rating as of the reporting date after initial recognition(12-month expected credit losses are recognized if external credit rating corresponding to internal credit rating is qualified investment rating) Loans for which the principal or interest is overdue for more than 30 days ② Bonds Bonds whose level of default risk exceeds absolutely or relatively high due to significant changes in internal credit rating of the reporting date after initial recognition(12-month expected credit losses are recognized if external credit rating corresponding to internal credit rating is qualified investment rating) Bonds for which the principal or interest is overdue for more than 30 days 126 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 127 The Group considers that credit risk is low if the degree of credit risk rating is at a level that is internationally understood as The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for loans and receivables that are the definition of ‘investment grade’. The Group considers an external credit rating of A or higher to have low credit risk. individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or The Group defines that a default has occurred if there are objective reasons to reduce the reliably estimated future cash flows not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for after initial recognition. The objective reasons included the following: impairment. Continuous overdue of principal and interest; Impairment losses on loans reduces the carrying amount of the assets through the use of an allowances account, and when Deterioration in credit rating such as suspension of overdraft checking accounts of debtor; a loan becomes uncollectable, it is written off against the related allowances account. If, in a subsequent recognition of Debtor’s bankruptcy or default; impairment, the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed by adjusting an allowance account, the amount of the Occurrence of a significant lawsuit or claim against debtor; reversal is recognized in profit or loss. Debtor’s financial situation is poor due to an important factor which is related to a delay in the business schedule; or Individual assessment of impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its Occurrence of other events that would significantly impact on the solvency of a debtor. original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loan’s current carrying amount. This process normally encompasses management’s best estimate, such as estimating the operating cash flows of the borrower, and the net Also, the Group defined the meaning of default in the same way as the regulatory capital management policies. Therefore, realizable value of any collateral held, and the timing of anticipated receipts. the Group believes that the best estimate could be used for the measurement of financial asset impairment. For the purpose of a collective assessment of impairment, loans are analyzed on the basis of the Group’s internal credit rating 1) Measurement of expected credit losses system that considers credit risk characteristics such as asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, past-due The major variables used by the Group for measuring expected credit losses are as follows. These credit risk measures status and other relevant factors. are estimated using statistical techniques and historical experience data developed internally by the Group and adjusted through reflection of forward-looking information. Future cash flows of the loans collectively assessed are estimated on the basis of historical loss experience for loans with Percentage of default by period obtained from independent credit ratings institutions similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the Percentage of loss given default defined by regulatory requirement historical period that no longer exists. Estimates of changes in future cash flows reflect, and are directionally consistent The expected exposure at the time of default and the contractual maturity with, changes in related observable data from year to year (such as changes in unemployment rates, property prices, commodity prices, payment status or other factors that are indicative of incurred loss in the Group and their magnitude). 2) Reflection of forward-looking information The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences The Group reflects the forward-looking information presented by the internal expert group based on various information between loss estimates and actual loss experience. when measuring expected credit losses. For the purpose of forecasting these forward-looking information, the Group utilizes the economic prospects disclosed by domestic and overseas research institutes or government and public ② AFS financial assets institutions. When a decline in the fair value of an AFS financial asset has been recognized in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income The Group reflects the anticipated future macroeconomic conditions from a neutral point of view without bias, in shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment even though the financial asset has not been measuring expected losses. Expected loss in this respect reflects the most likely outcome and is based on the same derecognized. assumptions as the Group estimates based on its business plan and management strategy. Impairment losses recognized in profit or loss for an investment in an equity instrument classified as AFS shall not be Policy applicable before January 1, 2018 reversed through profit or loss. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as AFS increases and A financial asset not carried at FVTPL is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in profit or loss, the that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognized in profit or loss. recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. However, losses expected as a result of future events, regardless of likelihood, are not recognized. (11) Day 1 profit or loss recognition Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes, but is not limited to, the following events: In cases where fair value is determined using data which is not observable in the market, the difference between the Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor; transaction price and initial value is amortized in the statement of comprehensive income by using the straight line method over an appropriate period. A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; The lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession (12) Property and equipment that the lender would not otherwise consider; It becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization; Property and equipment are initially measured at cost and after initial recognition, are carried at cost less accumulated The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties; or depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property and equipment includes expenditures arising directly Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a group of financial from the construction or acquisition of the asset, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the initial estimate of the assets in the group costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. In addition, for an investment in an equity security, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below its cost is objective Subsequent to initial recognition, an item of property and equipment shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated evidence of impairment. depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. If financial assets have objective evidence that they are impaired, impairment losses are measured and recognized. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost ① Loans and receivables of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Loans and receivables are measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original Property and equipment, except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives that appropriately effective interest rate. reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected to be consumed. A component that is significant compared to the total cost of property and equipment is depreciated over its separate useful life. 128 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 129 The estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets by categories are as follows: Expenditures on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Development activities involve a plan or design for the production Descriptions Useful lives (years) of new or substantially improved products and processes. Development expenditures are capitalized only if development Structures 20, 40 costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are Vehicles 4 probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Other Furniture and fixtures 4 development expenditures are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Data processing equipment 4 (15) Impairment of non-financial assets Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to the total cost of the item The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than assets from employee benefits and deferred tax assets, are depreciated separately. Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and are recognized in then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are profit or loss. not yet available for use, irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, are tested for impairment annually by comparing their recoverable amount to their carrying amount. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year-end and adjusted if appropriate. The change is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. The Group estimates the recoverable amount of an individual asset. If it is impossible to measure the individual recoverable amount of an asset, then the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit (“CGU”). A CGU is the Property and equipment is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. The Company assesses smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets residual value and economic life of its assets at each reporting date and makes adjustments to its useful life when necessary. or groups of assets. The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. Any gain or loss arising from the disposal of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is recognized in profit of loss. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. (13) Investment property Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of Property held for the purpose of earning rentals or benefiting from capital appreciation is classified as investment property. its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Investment property is measured initially at its cost. Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized investment property is carried at depreciated cost less any accumulated impairment losses. immediately in profit or loss. Investment property is derecognized upon disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use (16) Non-derivative financial liabilities and no future economic benefits are expected from the disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the property (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets) is included in profit or Based on the contractual terms and definition of the financial liabilities, the financial liabilities are classified either as loss in the period in which the property is derecognized. financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss or financial assets measured at amortized cost, all of which are recognized in its statement of financial position when, and only when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Depreciation of investment property is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives as follow: provisions of the instrument. Descriptions Useful lives (years) 1) Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Buildings 20, 40, 50 The financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition. Such financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or (14) Intangible assets loss are recognized initially at fair value and changes there in are recognized in profit or loss. Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Intangible assets are measured initially at cost and after initial recognition are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. A financial liability is classified as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss if: It has been acquired principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term; or Amortization of intangible assets is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are available for use. The residual value of intangible assets is zero. However, as there are no foreseeable On initial recognition, it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and limits to the periods over which memberships and settlement system right of use are expected to be available for use, these has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit taking; or intangible assets are determined as having indefinite useful lives and not amortized. It is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. Descriptions Useful lives (years) A financial liability other than a financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss may be designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition if: Goodwill Indefinite useful lives Such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise Development cost 4 arise; or Software 4 The financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and Memberships Indefinite useful lives its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented Risk management or Settlement system right of use Indefinite useful lives investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or Others 7 It forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives and K-IFRS No. 1109, Financial Instruments, permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss. Amortization periods and the amortization methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. The useful lives of intangible assets that are not being amortized are reviewed at the end of each In accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109, the Group recognizes the change in fair value of financial liabilities due to change in reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support indefinite useful life assessments for credit risk in other comprehensive income, except for recognizing the effect of change in credit risk in other comprehensive those assets. Changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. income causes or expends an accounting mismatch. The change in fair value of financial liabilities due to change in credit risk is not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, which is reclassified to retained earning when financial liabilities are derecognized. 130 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 131 2) Financial liabilities measured at amortized costs 3) Termination benefits The non-derivative financial liabilities that are not classified as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or Termination benefits are recognized as an expense when the Group is committed demonstrably, without realistic possibility loss are measured at amortized costs. Deposits, borrowings and debentures that are not designated as measured at fair of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to either terminate employment before the normal retirement date, or to provide value through profit or loss are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized costs. Financial liabilities measured termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Termination benefits for voluntary at amortized cost are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. They are subsequently carried at redundancies are recognized as an expense if the Group has made an offer of voluntary redundancy, it is probable that amortized cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognized in the offer will be accepted and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. If benefits are payable more than 12 the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the other financial liabilities using the effective interest rate months after the reporting period, then they are discounted to their present value. method. (20) Share-based payments 3) Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an The Group has granted shares or share options to its employees and other parties. For equity-settled share-based payment existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an transactions, the Group measures the goods or services received, and the corresponding increase in equity as a capital existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original adjustment at the fair value of the goods or services received, unless that fair value cannot be estimated reliably. If the liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference between the carrying value of the original financial liability Group cannot reliably estimate the fair value of the goods or services received, the Group measures their value, and the and the consideration paid is recognized in profit or loss. corresponding increase in equity, indirectly, by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. (17) Hybrid financial instruments For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group measures the goods or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability. Until the liability is settled, the Group remeasures the fair value of the liability at each The hybrid financial instrument issued by the Group is classified as a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance reporting date and at the date of settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss for the period. with the substance of the contractual arrangement. (21) Provisions The liability component of a convertible bond shall be recognized as the fair value of a similar liability on initial recognition and be measured in amortized cost by the effective interest method until it is extinguished. The equity component is determined Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is by deducting the fair value of the financial liability from the fair value of the hybrid financial instrument as a whole on initial probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable recognition. The tax effect shall be reflected and the instrument is not remeasured afterward. Transaction costs that relate estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. to the issuance of a hybrid financial instrument are allocated to the liability and equity components of the instrument in proportion to the allocation of proceeds. The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and circumstances are taken into account in reaching the best estimate of a provision. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined at the present (18) Financial guarantee contract liabilities value of the expected future cash flows. A financial guarantee contract refers to a contract that requires the issuer to pay the specified amounts to reimburse the Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no longer holder for a loss because the specified debtor fails to make payment when due under original or revised contractual terms of probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the provision is debt instruments. Financial guarantee contract liabilities are initially measured at their fair values and amortized during the reversed. Provisions are used only in the expenditures related to initial recognition. contractual term. (22) Regular way trades Financial guarantee contract liabilities are subsequently measured at the higher of: The amount of expected credit loss determined in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109, Financial Instruments , and Equity securities, debt securities and derivatives, which are traded in Korea Exchange or qualified foreign exchange markets, The initial amount less amortization of fees recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1115, Revenue from Contracts with are treated as regular way trades. The Company’s accounting policies about regular way trades are described below. Customers 1) Proprietary Trading (19) Employee benefits In proprietary trading transactions, purchases or sales of asset that require delivery of asset within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace are recognized or derecognized on the trading date. 1) Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are due to be settled within 12 months after the end of the 2) Brokerage period in which the employees render the related service. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during an For brokerage services, the Group serves a customer who trades listed stocks and other securities and recognizes the accounting period, the Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid brokerage fee on the trading date. Until the settlement date of the trading on consignment, the Group does not offset the in exchange for that service. receivables and payables to customers and offsets the receivables and payables to Korea Exchange. 2) Retirement benefits (23) Interest income and expense The Group operates defined contribution plans for the qualified employees. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during a period, the Group recognizes the contribution payable to a defined contribution plan in exchange for Effective interest method is used in calculating amortized cost of financial assets and liabilities and allocating interest income that service as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid and expenses through relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash exceeds the contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, the Group recognizes that excess as an payments or receipts through the expected life or the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net asset (prepaid expense) to the extent that the prepayment will lead to a reduction in future payments or a cash refund. carrying amount of the financial asset of financial liability. Meanwhile, the Group operates defined benefit plans for the part timers. The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined When calculating the effective interest rate, the Company estimates future cash flows considering all contractual terms of the benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned financial instrument, but not future credit losses. The calculation of the effective interest rate includes all fees and points paid in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. or received that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. Transaction costs include incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issuance of a financial asset or liability. In exceptional cases where the cash flow or expected life of the financial instruments is not reliably estimated, the interest rate is calculated by using contractual cash flows from contractual period. If the carrying value of financial instruments or the group of relevant financial instruments is reduced by due to recognition of impairment, interest income is measured using interest rate used in measuring impairment of discounting future cash flows. 132 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 133 (24) Fees and commission income (28) Operating segments The Group applies different revenue recognition accounting standards based on the type of service provided to the customers. An operating segment is a component of the Group whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief Fees and commission income and expense that are integral to the effective interest rate on a financial asset or liability are operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and included in the measurement of the effective interest rate. for which discrete financial information is available. Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Fees and commission earned are recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No.1115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers by applying the five-step model (①Identifying the contract → ②Identifying performance obligations → ③Determine the (29) Earnings per share transaction price → ④Allocating the transaction price to performance obligations → ⑤Recognize revenue upon satisfaction of performance obligation). The Group calculates basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for profit or loss and discloses them in statements of comprehensive income. Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to (25) Net gains (losses) on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held. Diluted earnings per share are determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary Net gains (losses) on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss include the following profit or loss shareholders and the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects (including changes in fair value, interest rate, dividends, and profit or loss from translation of foreign currency). of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Net gains and losses related to financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss (30) Accounting for trust accounts Net gains and losses related to derivative financial instruments held for trading (including derivative financial instruments that are held for Risk management objectives, but do not meet the criteria as a fair value hedge) The Group manages trust accounts and its own account separately in accordance with the Financial Investment Services and Capital Market Act. The Company recognizes trust fees earned from the trust accounts as income from trust operations. (26) Dividends (31) Regulatory reserve for loan loss Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive income is established. In case that the total sum of allowance for loan losses in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 is lower than the amount prescribed (27) Income tax in the regulations on financial investment business, the Group is required to recognize the difference as a regulatory reserve for loan loss at the end of each fiscal year (as the fiscal year-end reserve amount is not determined every quarter, the projected Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred taxes are recognized in profit or loss, except to regulatory reserve for loan losses are measured). the extent that they relate to a business combination, or items recognized directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. In case the amount of existing regulatory reserve for possible loan losses exceeds the amount needed to be recognized as of 1) Current tax the end of the current period, the difference, if any, shall be reversed. If there is undisposed deficit, the Group can accumulate Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or reserves for possible loan losses after disposing deficit. substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. The taxable profit is different from the accounting profit for the period since the taxable profit is calculated excluding the (32) Treasury stocks temporary differences, which will be taxable or deductible in determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods, and non-taxable or non-deductible items from the accounting profit. Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) are recognized at cost and deducted from equity. No gain or loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the 2) Deferred tax Group’s own equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognized in other Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is capital surplus or capital adjustment. realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. 4. Change in accounting policies The Group recognizes deferred tax liabilities for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of (1) New standards and interpretations adopted the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Group recognizes deferred tax assets for all deductible temporary differences arising from investments in The Group applied the following new accounting standards from January 1, 2018. subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. 1) K-IFRS No. 1115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with customers’ The Group applied K-IFRS No. 1115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This standard replaced K-IFRS No. 1018 The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduces the carrying Revenue, K-IFRS No. 1011 Construction Contracts, K-IFRS No. 2031 Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising amount to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part Services, K-IFRS No. 2113 Customer Loyalty Programs, K-IFRS No. 2115 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilized. and K-IFRS No. 2118 Transfers of Assets from Customer. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is Standards such as K-IFRS No. 1018 and others provide revenue recognition criteria for different types of transactions realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the such as sales of goods, rendering of services, interest, royalties, dividends, and construction contracts. However, the end of the reporting period. revenue under the new standard K-IFRS No. 1115 is recognized by applying the five-step model (①Identifying the contract → ②Identifying performance obligations → ③Determine the transaction price → ④Allocating the transaction price to Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the related current tax performance obligations → ⑤Recognize revenue upon satisfaction of performance obligation). liabilities and assets, and they relate to income tax levied by the same tax authority and they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. The Group retrospectively applied K-IFRS No. 1115 and concluded that no adjustment shall be made to the Group’s consolidated financial statements as of January 1, 2018. Additional income taxes arising from dividend payments are recognized when expenses related to dividend payments are recognized. 2) K-IFRS No. 1102 ‘Share-based Payment’ The amendments clarify that the accounting for the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on cash settled sharebased payments should follow the same approach as for equity-settled share-based payments and classification of sharebased payments settled net of tax withholding. 134 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 135 Classification by Classification by Book value in Book value in 3) K-IFRS No. 1109 ‘Financial Instruments’ category in accordance category in accordance accordance with accordance with with K-IFRS No. 1039 with K-IFRS No. 1109 K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 K-IFRS No. 1109 Financial Instruments replaces the recognition of financial assets and liabilities, classification and measurement, derecognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets, and hedge accounting related to Financial assets Financial instruments Financial assets measured at designated at fair value K-IFRS No. 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurements. In addition, K-IFRS No. 1107 Financial Instruments: designated at fair value fair value through profit or 1,129,239 1,129,239 through profit or loss Disclosure and other standards related to financial instruments have been amended in accordance with the K-IFRS No. through profit or loss loss (hybrid financial assets) 1109. Financial assets measured at fair value through other 671,467 The Group adopted the K-IFRS No. 1109 effective January 1, 2018, and the Group amended its accounting policies and Available-for-sale comprehensive income Available-for-sale financial made cumulative adjustments in its financial statements as of January 1, 2018. The comparative financial statements as of financial assets 1,251,653 assets Financial assets measured at and for the year ended December 31, 2017 have not been restated in accordance with the transitional provisions. (Equity instruments) fair value through profit or 580,186 loss i) Details of changes in retained earnings and accumulated other comprehensive loss of the Group as of January 1, 2018 Financial assets measured upon the adoption of K-IFRS No. 1109 were as follows: at fair value through other 5,191,196 Available-for-sale comprehensive income Descriptions Amount Available-for-sale financial financial assets 5,431,865 assets Financial assets measured at Beginning balance of retained earnings under K-IFRS No. 1039 W 1,874,982 (Debt instruments) fair value through profit or 240,669 Adjustment of retained earnings due to adoption of K-IFRS No. 1109 loss Reclassification from loans and receivables to financial assets measured at Financial assets measured at (690) Available-for-sale financial fair value through profit or loss fair value through profit or 2,155,002 2,155,002 assets Reclassification from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets measured at loss 160,067 Available-for-sale fair value through profit or loss financial assets Financial assets measured at 46,606,449 Measurement of credit losses on debt instruments measured at amortized cost (3,192) (Collective investment amortized cost securities and others) Loans and receivables 46,923,425 Measurement of credit losses on debt instruments measured at fair value through other Financial assets measured at (2,018) fair value through profit or 312,686 comprehensive income loss Measurement of credit losses on loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts (2,469) Other assets Changes in credit risk of financial liabilities designated as measured at (3,427) Other assets 24,490 fair value through profit or loss Income tax effect (28,121) Advance payments Other assets Financial assets measured 80,693 56,203 at amortized cost 120,150 Financial liabilities Beginning balance of retained earnings under K-IFRS No. 1109 W 1,995,132 Financial liabilities Beginning balance of accumulated other comprehensive loss under K-IFRS No. 1039 W (77,206) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities designated as measured at designated at fair value designated at fair value 15,295,424 15,295,424 Adjustment of other comprehensive income due to adoption of K-IFRS No. 1109 fair value through profit or through profit or loss through profit or loss Reclassification from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets measured at loss (160,067) fair value through profit or loss Provisions for offMeasurement of credit losses on debt instruments measured at fair value through other balance sheet items 2,018 comprehensive income Provisions Provisions Provisions 2,469 Changes in credit risk of financial liabilities designated as measured at Provision of payment Provision of payment Provision of payment 3,427 83,663 83,663 fair value through profit or loss guarantees guarantees guarantees Income tax effect 29,627 Deferred tax assets (124,995) Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets 444,690 446,195 Beginning balance of accumulated other comprehensive loss under K-IFRS No. 1109 W (202,201) iii) The adjustments on the consolidated statements of financial position from K-IFRS No. 1039 to K-IFRS No. 1109 as of ii) The impact of adoption of K-IFRS No. 1109 on the classification and measurement of Group’s financial assets and January 1, 2018 were as follows: liabilities on the statements of financial position as of January 1, 2018 were as follows: Book value in Book value in Effects on accordance with Reclassification Remeasurement accordance with Classification by Classification by Book value in Book value in retained earnings K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 category in accordance category in accordance accordance with accordance with with K-IFRS No. 1039 with K-IFRS No. 1109 K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 < Financial assets > Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) W 1,374,449 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents W 1,374,449 1,374,449 equivalents Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 1,374,449 Financial assets measured at Financial assets held for Financial assets held for Financial assets held for trading fair value through profit or 28,199,027 28,199,027 trading trading (Including derivative financial loss assets) Financial assets Financial instruments Financial assets measured at Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 28,199,027 designated at fair value designated at fair value fair value through profit or 681,516 681,516 Deduction: Classified as financial through profit or loss through profit or loss loss assets measured at fair value (28,199,027) (Equity instruments) through profit or loss Financial assets Financial instruments Financial assets measured at Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) designated at fair value designated at fair value fair value through profit or 257,751 257,751 through profit or loss through profit or loss loss (Debt instruments) 136 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 137 Book value in Book value in Book value in Book value in Effects on Effects on accordance with Reclassification Remeasurement accordance with accordance with Reclassification Remeasurement accordance with retained earnings retained earnings K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 Financial assets designated at Deduction: Classified as financial fair value through profit or loss assets measured at fair value (313,623) (Equity securities) through profit or loss(*4) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 681,516 Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) Deduction: Classified as financial Financial assets measured at fair assets measured at fair value (681,516) value through profit or loss through profit or loss(*1) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) Addition: Classified as financial Financial assets designated at fair assets held for trading (Including 28,199,027 value through profit or loss (Debt derivative financial assets) securities) Addition: Classified as financial Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 257,751 assets designated at fair value 2,068,506 through profit or loss(*1) Deduction: Classified as financial assets measured at fair value (257,751) Addition: Classified as availablethrough profit or loss(*1) for-sale financial assets (Equity 580,186 9,964 securities)(*1) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) Addition: Classified as availableFinancial assets designated at for-sale financial assets (Debt 240,669 (7,518) fair value through profit or loss securities)(*2) (Embedded derivatives) Addition: Classified as availableBook value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 1,129,239 for-sale financial assets (Collective Deduction: Classified as financial 2,155,002 126,318 investment securities and others) assets measured at fair value (1,129,239) (*3) through profit or loss(*1) Addition: Classified as loans and Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 313,623 receivables(*4) Available-for-sale financial assets Remeasurement: Deferred loan (Equity securities) 162 117 origination cost and fee Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 1,251,653 Remeasurement: Fair value of (1,099) (852) Deduction: Classified as financial investment bonds assets measured at fair value (580,186) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 33,556,076 through profit or loss(*1) Financial assets measured Deduction: Classified as financial at fair value through other assets (Equity securities) measured comprehensive income (671,467) at fair value through other Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) comprehensive income Addition: Classified as availableBook value (K-IFRS No. 1109) for-sale financial assets (Equity 671,467 Available-for-sale financial assets securities) (Debt securities) Addition: Classified as availableBook value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 5,431,865 for-sale financial assets (Debt 5,191,196 (1,284) Deduction: Classified as financial securities) assets measured at fair value Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 5,862,663 (5,191,196) through other comprehensive Financial assets measured at income (Debt securities) amortized cost Deduction: Classified as financial Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) assets measured at fair value (240,669) through profit or loss(*2) Addition: Classified as loans and 46,609,802 receivables Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) Addition: Classified as Other Available-for-sale financial assets 56,203 assets (Advance payments)(*5) (Collective investment securities and others) Remeasurement: measurement of (3,354) (2,321) expected credit losses Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 2,155,002 Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 46,662,651 Deduction: Classified as financial assets measured at fair value (2,155,002) < Other assets > through profit or loss(*3) Advance payments Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 80,693 Loans and receivables Deduction: Classified as financial Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 46,923,425 assets measured at amortized (56,203) cost(*5) Deduction: Classified as financial instruments measured at (46,609,802) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 24,490 amortized cost 138 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 139 Book value in Book value in iv) Changes in loan loss allowance from K-IFRS No. 1039 to K-IFRS No. 1109 were as follows. Effects on accordance with Reclassification Remeasurement accordance with retained earnings December 31, January 1, K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 2017 2018 < Financial liabilities > ReclassiRemeasuBook value in Book value fication(*) rement Effects on Financial liabilities designated at accordance in accordance retained fair value through profit or loss with K-IFRS with K-IFRS earnings No. 1039 No. 1109 Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 15,295,424 Loans and receivables W 108,389 (108,389) Deduction: Classified as financial liabilities designated as measured (15,295,424) Financial assets measured at amortized cost 87,433 3,354 90,787 (2,322) at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets measured at fair value 2,018 2,018 (1,284) Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) through other comprehensive income Financial liabilities designated as Provisions for off-balance sheet items 2,469 2,469 (1,790) measured at fair value through W 108,389 (20,956) 7,841 95,274 (5,396) profit or loss (*) The amount of loss allowance on financial assets measured at amortized cost were reclassified from loans and receivables. Allowance of Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) W20,956 million not reclassified from loans and receivables to financial assets measured at amortized cost is related to financial assets measured Addition: Classified as financial at fair value through profit or loss. liabilities designated at fair value 15,295,424 (2,484) through profit or loss v) Change in credit risk of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 15,295,424 In accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109, changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value < Provisions for off-balance sheet items > through profit or loss due to change in issuer’s credit risk is recognized in equity. As of January 1, 2018, amount of Provisions (Purchase commitments, cumulative change in fair value due to changes in issuer’s credit risk was ₩3,427 million. The effect on retained earnings unused credit lines and etc.) as of January 1, 2018 is ₩(-)2,484 million. Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) (2) New standards and interpretations issued but not yet adopted Remeasurement: measurement of 2,469 (1,790) expected credit losses The following new standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group for annual periods beginning after Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 2,469 January 1, 2018, and the Group has not early adopted them. Provision of payment guarantees Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 83,663 1) K-IFRS No. 1116 “Leases” Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 83,663 K-IFRS No. 1116, Leases , which was enacted on May 22, 2017, is effective for annual periods beginning on or after < Deferred tax assets > January 1, 2019, but may be applied early. The Standard is based on current K-IFRS No. 1017 Leases , K-IFRS No. 2104, Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease , K-IFRS No. 2015 Operating lease: Incentive It will replace Book value (K-IFRS No. 1039) 444,690 K-IFRS No. 2027, Evaluating the substances of transactions involving the legal form of a lease . Changes due to measurement of 1,550 expected credit losses The lessee and lessor must account for each lease element of the lease as a lease, separate from the non-lease element in Changes due to other factors an agreement that includes a lease or lease. aside from measurement of (45) expected credit losses The lessee is required to recognize a right-of-use asset (lease asset) that represents the right to use the underlying asset Book value (K-IFRS No. 1109) 446,195 and a lease liability that represents the obligation to pay the lease payments. However, in the case of short-term lease (a (*1) In accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109, these financial assets do not meet the requirement for designation as financial assets measured at fair lease that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low-value asset (e.g. lease of value through profit or loss. In addition, the Group did not elect to designate the financial assets as fair value through other comprehensive underlying assets with a value of US$ 5,000 or less), the lessee is not required to separate the non-lease component from income under K-IFRS No. 1109. As such, these financial instruments were classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or the lease component in accordance with the simplified method, and can apply the method of accounting for each lease loss in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109. Also some debt securities and all hybrid financial assets are classified with financial assets measured component and related non-lease component as one lease component. at fair value through profit or loss, because their contractual cash flow characteristics do not solely consist of principal and interest. (*2) Certain debt securities classified as available-for-sale financial assets(debt securities) under K-IFRS No. 1039 were classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost under K-IFRS No. 1109. Certain securities which were formerly classified as available-for-sale financial assets(debt The accounting treatment of lease provider is not significantly different from the accounting treatment of the current securities) under K-IFRS No. 1039 are now classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss under K-IFRS No. 1109, for K-IFRS No. 1017. their contractual cash flow characteristics do not solely consist of principal and interest. (*3) Despite management of assets within a business model of collecting contractual cash flow, some beneficiary securities and other securities Accounting treatment where the Group is a lessee which were classified as available-for-sale financial assets under K-IFRS No. 1039 are now classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss under K-IFRS No. 1109. i) Elected transition method to K-IFRS No. 1116 Lease (*4) Certain portion of loans which were classified as loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 are now classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, because the assets’ cash flow characteristics do not consist solely of principal and interest. Also The Group could elect to retrospectively apply the new standard and recognize the effect of initially applying the on reclassification to financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction cost of ₩162 million which occurred on initial retrospective application either to each past reporting period presented in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1008, Accounting recognition were adjusted to retained earnings. Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors (Full Retroactive Method) or recognize the cumulative effect at the (*5) Certain portion of prepaid assets which were classified as other assets as of December 31, 2017 are now classified as financial assets at date of initial application(‘Cumulative Catch-up Transition Method). amortized cost, because the assets are held within the business model of collecting contractual cash flow and its characteristics of cash flow consist solely of principal and interest. The Group plans to apply K-IFRS No. 1116 initially on January 1, 2019 by using the ‘Cumulative Catch-up Transition Method’. Therefore, the cumulative effect on adopting K-IFRS No.1116 will be recognized as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at January 1, 2019, with no restatement of comparative information. ii) Financial effect of K-IFRS No. 1116 Lease The Group assessed the impact of initial application of K-IFRS No.1116 on the financial statements based on information available as of January 1, 2019. 140 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 141 The aggregate amount of the minimum lease payments prior to the present value discount of the assets for existing iv) K-IFRS No.1023 “Borrowing costs” operating leases is ₩1,240,989 million and the present value is ₩302,337 million at the incremental borrowing rate of the If most of the necessary activities to enable the Group to use (or sell) our qualifying assets has been completed, it will lessee, including short-term leases and leases of low-value assets in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1116. include the funds borrowed for specific purposes in ordinary borrowings to acquire those assets. This amendment applies to borrowing costs incurred subsequent to the first year of the application of the amendment and may be applied early in The Group will account for each lease element and associated non-lease element as a single lease element, using the the financial year beginning after January 1, 2019, but may be applied early. simplified method of accounting for contracts that include all or part of the lease or lease. As a result of a detailed analysis of the effect on the consolidated financial statements, the Group expects right-of-use 5. Risk management assets and lease liabilities as of January 1, 2019 to increase by ₩302,967 million and ₩300,714 million, respectively. However, the effect on the financial statements may change depending on additional information available in the future. (1) Risk management organizations and its policies Accounting treatment where the Group is a lessor The Group maintains a comprehensive Group-wide risk management system through specific internal regulations (e.g. Risk Management Regulations, Risk Management Committee Regulations, Market Risk Management Guidelines, Credit As a lessor, the Group does not expect the financial impact of the initial adoption of K-IFRS No. 1116 is significant because Risk Management Guidelines, Liquidity Risk Management Guidelines, Operational Risk Management, Overseas Network the Group’s accounting treatment are not different to K-IFRS No. 1116 significantly. Risk Management and Trust Asset Management Guidelines etc.). In addition, the Group has drawn up a set of Assessment Regulations, Investment Review Committee Regulations, Principal Investment Management Guidelines, Acquisition Review 2) Amendment of K-IFRS No.1109 “Financial instruments” Guidelines, NPL Management Guidelines and Real Estate Project Financing Risk Management Guidelines to enhance stability Financial assets that are redeemable with reimbursable financial assets are remeasured to be measured at amortized cost. of investment and credit support business, and efficiency of post-investment monitoring. When the financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are changed but not eliminated, the effect of the change should be recognized in profit or loss. These amendments will be effective from the fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, Risk Management Regulations set members, conference and resolutions of the Risk Management Committee which functions 2019 and are subject to early adoption. as the highest authority in the hierarchy of the risk management structure, and also set members, process and business details of Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk Management Council which are installed to treat details 3) Amendment of K-IFRS No.1019 “Employee benefits” about Risk Management Committee’s decisions and items delegated by the committee. If the change in the defined benefit plan results in the revision, reduction or settlement of the plan, the assumptions used in remeasurement of the net defined benefit obligation (asset) to estimate the current service cost and net interest for the The Group sets its own risk management standards in order to achieve capital adequacy and stable risk management via the remaining period of the period after the adjustments in the plan . In addition, the decrease in excess of the amount of efficient management of risks and distribution of available investment resources. unrecognized actuarial gain or loss is reflected in profit or loss as a part of past service cost or settlement profit or loss. The amendments are applied prospectively to the amendment, reduction, and settlement of systems that have occurred since Assessment Regulations is developed to manage the Group’s investment position consistently by setting up detail monitoring the fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2019. procedures for proprietary investment and credit support business. Investment Review Committee Regulations describe member, conference protocol and resolution items of Investment Review Committee. 4) Amendment of K-IFRS No.1028 “Investment in associates and joint ventures” The Group established detailed guidelines to effectively manage risk according to the type of asset management and risk The clarification has been conducted that other financial instruments (financial instruments that do not apply the equity exposure. The guidelines include Market Risk Management Guidelines, Credit Risk Management Guidelines, Liquidity Risk method) related to associates or joint ventures are subject to K-IFRS No. 1109, and that the long-term investment interests Management Guidelines, Operational Risk Management Guidelines, Overseas Network Risk Management Guidelines and that form part of the net investment in the related companies or joint ventures was revised accordingly under K-IFRS 1109. Trust Asset Management Guidelines. In addition, Principal Investment Management Guidelines, Acquisition Review Guidelines, These amendments will be effective from the fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2019 and are subject to early NPL Management Guidelines and Real Estate Project Financing Risk Management Guidelines manage steadily the Group’s adoption. In addition, the first-time adoption of this standard does not require reclassification of comparative information investment position by providing detailed assessment procedures and monitoring procedures. by applying the transitional provisions of K-IFRS No. 1109, and the effect of retroactive application is reflected in the beginning retained earnings (or other appropriate capital elements) at the date of initial application . 1) Risk Management Committee 5) K-IFRS No.2123 “Uncertainty over income tax treatments” The Committee, comprised of three registered directors including at least two outside directors, heads the Group’s risk management structure. The Committee prepares risk management strategies that correspond to the Group's strategies The interpretation is applied to the recognition and measurement of deferred tax and deferred income tax if there is and supervises the risk management process. Major topics that the Committee resolves include enacting and revising uncertainty about whether or not the tax treatment applied by the entity will be recognized by the taxing authority. Risk Management Regulations and Guidelines, setting adequate capital ratio level and mandating total risk limits by year Guidance on accounting units of uncertainty in taxation and circumstances requiring reevaluation Includes. The and quarter. The Committee is held regularly once per quarter and on an ad hoc basis. Nomination and dismissal of the interpretation is effective from January 1, 2019, and it can choose between retroactively reclassifying comparative financial Committee members is determined by the Board of Directors (“BOD”) and the Committee chair is selected from among statements or reflect the effect of the change on the basis of the first year of adoption. outside directors of the Committee members. The chair presides over the meetings on behalf of the Committee and in the event of a risk-related urgent situation, is entitled to authorize appropriate actions to the pertinent department. 6) Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015 2017 Cycle 2) Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council & Trust Asset Risk Management Council i) K-IFRS No.1103 “Business combination” The Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and the Trust Asset Risk Management Council deal with details and the The business combination that is held in stages to acquire control over the joint business (meeting the definition of the delegated items determined by the Committee and report the results to the Committee. The Council is held quarterly business) while retaining the rights and liabilities for the assets related to the joint business. Therefore, remeasurement (if necessary, on an as-needed basis). The chairman of Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk should be conducted for all underlying assets and liabilities. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning Management Council is Chief Risk Officer and the Council members are appointed by the Committee. on or after January 1, 2019, but may be applied early. 3) Investment Review Committee ii) K-IFRS No. 1111 “Joint arrangements” The Investment Review Committee is the body responsible for conducting reviews of the Group’s investments and is If a jointly controlled entity that participates in a joint venture but does not have joint control obtains joint control over the composed of executive officers. The Investment Review Committee convenes irregularly to facilitate investment decision. joint venture, the previously held equity interest in the joint venture is not remeasured. This amendment is effective for The chairman of Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk Management Council is Chief Risk transactions beginning after January 1, 2019, but may be applied early. Officer and the Council members are appointed by the Committee. iii) K-IFRS No.1012 “Income taxes” The provisions of paragraph 57A of K-IFRS 1012 (defining the timing and recognition of dividend tax effects) apply to all income tax effects of dividends and are recognized in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or capital. This amendment is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2019, but may be applied early. 142 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 143 4) Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) 2018 2017 The CRO serves as chair of the Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council and Trust Asset Risk Management Council and Deposits 6,246,440 presides over the meetings of the two bodies and has authority over the risk management organization. The CRO is also Financial assets measured at Loans(*3) 54,917,168 entitled to take appropriate measures in the event of an urgent situation in relation to the Group’s risk management. amortized cost Other financial assets(*3) 8,221,787 5) Risk Management Department 69,385,395 The Risk Management Department operates independently from other departments, executes the risk management 104,424,566 73,940,165 policies determined by the Risk Management Committee or the Proprietary and Trust Asset Risk Management Council Asset-backed commercial paper and through appropriate procedures and systems, plans and controls all risk management-related issues and supports the asset backed short-term bond purchase 1,541,900 1,438,500 operation of the Risk Management Committee or the Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council. The department commitments also reports the current status of the Group’s asset management and overall risk management issues to the executive Guarantees and commitments Guarantees 1,287,244 1,769,876 management. Unused line of credit 855,434 86,027 3,684,578 3,294,403 (2) Credit risk W 108,109,145 77,234,568 Credit risk refers to the possibility losses that would incur if a counter party or an issuer of financial instruments fails to fulfil (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair its contractual obligations, or is deteriorated in the credit quality. The Group measures credit exposure and credit risk amount value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, and loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial by utilizing the standard model provided by Financial Investment Regulation. To manage appropriate level of credit risk, the assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, and financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018, Group assign exposure limits by each quarter and year. Total limit of credit risk of the Group is finally set through approval of respectively. the Committee. (*2) Equity securities are excluded. (*3) Deferred loan originated costs, fees, present value discounts and allowance for credit loss are considered. Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council resolves the credit risk amount allocated to each front department. In addition, Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council sets appropriate level of credit exposure limit considering counterparty’s credit rate depending on the type of business. Investment & Credit Assessment Department manages credit risk of each investment 2) Credit risk of loans and receivables position by operating pre-assessment process on investment transactions. i) The credit risk of loans and receivables by loan conditions as of December 31, 2017 is as follows: 2017 The Risk Management Department reports total exposure of the Group’s credit risk to the management on a regular basis and Loans neither Loans overdue reports the analysis of credit risk exposure to executive management. In addition, credit risk Stress-Testing is performed on a Allowances for Carrying overdue nor but not Impaired loans Total regular basis based on various scenarios for the financial market. Enhanced monitoring is carried out for counterparties with credit losses amount impaired impaired significant credit risks. Loans Call loans W 1,280 1,280 1,280 1) Maximum exposure to credit risk Broker’s loans 6,473,333 1,189 6,474,522 (1,189) 6,473,333 The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk refers to the net book value of its financial assets, net of provisions, which shows the uncertainties of maximum changes in the net value of financial assets attributable to a particular risk without Loans receivable(*) 898,444 898,444 898,444 considering collateral and other credit enhancements obtained. Securities purchased under resale 28,104,834 28,104,834 28,104,834 The maximum exposure to credit risk as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: agreements Loans to employees 52,679 18 52,697 (18) 52,679 2018 2017 Purchased loans(*) 121,655 88,265 209,920 (61,326) 148,594 Held for trading (*2) W 18,537,249 Advances for Financial assets at fair Designated at fair value through profit or 1,340 1,340 (1,340) 1,922,396 customers value through profit or loss (*2) loss Privately placed Derivative assets 1,125,230 55,994 29,758 85,752 (19,931) 65,821 bonds 21,584,875 Dishonored bills 122 122 (121) 1 Bonds and other financial instruments (*2) 25,929,008 receivable Financial assets measured at fair Derivative assets 968,115 35,708,219 120,692 35,828,911 (83,925) 35,744,986 value through profit or loss Hybrid financial instruments 829,415 Other loans and 27,726,538 receivables Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets (*2) 5,431,865 Accounts 7,227,630 13,716 7,241,346 (13,048) 7,228,298 receivable(*) Financial assets measured Financial assets measured at fair value Accrued income 242,040 11,212 253,252 (10,254) 242,998 at fair value through other 7,312,634 through other comprehensive income(*2) comprehensive income Guarantee 126,075 1,970 128,045 (1,161) 126,884 Deposits 3,580,259 deposits(*) Loans(*3) 35,744,986 7,595,745 26,898 7,622,643 (24,463) 7,598,180 Loans and receivables Other loans and receivables(*3) 7,598,180 W 43,303,964 147,590 43,451,554 (108,388) 43,343,166 46,923,425 (*) Deferred loan originated costs/ fees and present value discounts are considered. 144 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 145 ii) The Group manages its loans and receivables that are neither overdue nor impaired through an internal system. Loans 3) Credit quality of debt securities and receivables with appropriate level of collateral and credit enhancements are classified to investment grade and i) The Group manages debt securities based on the external credit rating. Credit soundness of debt securities on the basis subordinated loans and receivables without collateral and credit enhancements and are highly risky are classified of External Credit Assessment Institution’s rating as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: to non-investment grade. Credit quality of loans and other receivables that are neither overdue nor impaired as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: 2018 Financial assets measured at 2017 fair value through profit or loss Financial assets Grade measured at fair Investment grade Non-investment grade Total Financial assets Financial assets Total measured at fair value designated as measured value through other Loans through profit at fair value through comprehensive income or loss(*2) profit or loss Call loans W 1,280 1,280 Broker’s loans 6,473,333 6,473,333 (1) AAA ~ A W 18,557,831 7,238,555 25,796,386 Loans receivable 898,444 898,444 (2) A~ BBB 192,114 74,079 266,193 Securities purchased under resale agreements 28,104,834 28,104,834 (3) Lower than BBB21,959 21,959 Loans to employees 52,679 52,679 (4) Unrated 638,769 638,769 Purchased loans 121,655 121,655 W 19,410,673 7,312,634 26,723,307 Privately placed bonds 55,994 55,994 (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, and available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at 35,708,219 35,708,219 fair value through profit or loss, financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, and financial assets measured at Other loans and receivables fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018, respectively. (*2) Amounts of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss excluded from credit quality disclosure are other debt instruments Accounts receivable 7,227,630 7,227,630 W6,518,335 million, derivative assets W968,115 million, and hybrid financial instruments W829,415 million as of December 31, 2018. Accrued income 242,040 242,040 Guarantee deposits 126,075 126,075 2017 7,595,745 7,595,745 Financial assets at Grade fair value through profit or loss Available-for-sale W 43,303,964 43,303,964 Total Designated at fair value financial assets Held for trading through profit or loss iii) Individually impaired loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (1) AAA ~ A W 17,987,896 365,937 5,226,748 23,580,581 2017 (2) A~ BBB 178,646 4,194 67,299 250,139 Loans (3) Lower than BBB665 1,417 328 2,410 Broker’s loans W 1,189 (4) Unrated 370,042 558,266 137,490 1,065,798 Loans to employees 18 W 18,537,249 929,814 5,431,865 24,898,928 Purchased loans 88,265 Advances for customers 1,340 ii) Credit quality of debt securities based on external credit rating agencies’ evaluation results as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Privately placed bonds 29,758 < Grade Classification > Dishonored bills receivable 122 120,692 Domestic Global NICE P&I MOODY'S S&P FITCH Other loans and receivables AAA Aaa ~ Aa3 AAA ~ AAAAA ~ AAAccounts receivable 13,716 AA+ ~ AAA1 ~ A3 A+ ~ AA+ ~ AAccrued income 11,212 A+ ~ BBBBaa1 ~ Ba3 BBB+ ~ BBBBB+ ~ BBGuarantee deposits 1,970 BBBB1 ~ C B+ ~ C B+ ~ C 26,898 Total W 147,590 Credit ratings of debt securities in Korean won are determined based on the domestic external credit rating agency evaluation results. Credit ratings of debt securities in foreign currencies are determined based on the lowest of three external credit rating agencies’ evaluation results. 4) Credit ratings of Loan and receivables as of December 31, 2018 are as follow: 2018 Grade Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Total Not Impaired Impaired (1) AAA ~ A W 240,199 240,199 (2) A~ BBB 962,871 962,871 (3) Lower than BBB211,761 211,761 (4) D 81,090 81,090 W 1,414,831 81,090 1,495,921 146 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 147 Amounts of loan and receivables excluded from credit quality are call loans of W328 million, broker’s loans of ₩10,719,500 (3) Market risk million, securities purchased under resale agreements of ₩42,720,530 million, and loans to employees of ₩57,970 million as of December 31, 2018. Credit quality is based on external credit rating of external credit rating agency. Market risk is the risk of changes in the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments arising from trading activities in the volatility of market factors, such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. 5) Credit ratings of bonds measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018 are as follow: 1) Market risk management 2018 Market risk refers to the possibility of losses that may incur in proprietary investments and short-term management of Grade Lifetime ECL available liquid funds due to changes of market price (e.g. equity price, interest rate and exchange rate and other). The 12-month ECL Total Group monitors the standard market Value at Risk (VaR), measured according to Financial Investment Regulations set by Not Impaired Impaired Financial Supervisory Service (“FSS”). VaR represents the maximum loss expected on an investment, over a given time period (1) AAA ~ A W 7,238,555 7,238,555 and given a specified degree of confidence level when the market price moves in an adverse direction under normal market (2) A~ BBB 74,079 74,079 conditions. The Company has implemented and operates SAS’s system which can calculate the internal market VaR. (3) Lower than BBBThe Group has set a limit of market risk on a quarterly and yearly basis to manage appropriate level of market risk. (4) Unrated The total limit of market risk of the Company is decided by the Risk Management Committee. Proprietary Asset Risk W 7,312,634 7,312,634 Management Council also sets reasonably the limit for market risk exposure by considering the type of business. 6) Credit ratings of financial guarantees, other guarantees and unused line of credit as of December 31, 2018 are as The Group produces assessment and analysis reports on current market risk on a weekly, monthly, and quarterly basis for follow: brief to the executive management. In addition, market risk Stress-Testing is performed on a regular basis based on various scenarios for the financial market. 2018 Grade 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL Total Details of the risk factor VaR as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: <Purchase commitments> Factors 2018 2017 (1) AAA ~ A W 1,541,900 1,541,900 Foreign currencies W 107,356 129,529 (2) A~ BBB Interest rates 481,621 364,790 (3) Lower than BBBStock prices 635,845 509,621 (4) Unrated Commodities 14,053 2,739 W 1,541,900 1,541,900 Collective investment securities 694,636 656,458 <Financial guarantee contract> Options 76,761 153,590 (1) AAA ~ A W 145,418 145,418 Total risk W 2,010,272 1,816,727 (2) A~ BBB 775,320 775,320 (3) Lower than BBB366,506 366,506 (4) Liquidity risk (4) Unrated W 1,287,244 1,287,244 L iquidity risk refers to the “Market Liquidity Risk” that would incur when the Group is unable to offset or settle a position <Unused credit lines and etc.> without significantly affecting the market price because of or market disruption. Also, it refers to the “Prudential Liquidity Risk” that would incur when the Group is unable to meet the minimum requirement rate of liquidity. (1) AAA ~ A W 9,627 9,627 (2) A~ BBB 128,761 128,761 To measure liquidity risks, the Company operates a liquidity risk management system and uses liquidity gap and liquidity ratios (3) Lower than BBB70,870 70,870 as key indicators. The Company reports the liquidity risk status on a weekly and monthly basis to the executive management (4) Unrated 646,176 646,176 while the treasury department also reports the current liquidity situation to the management regularly. W 855,434 855,434 1) Maturity analysis of financial liabilities (*) No financial guarantees, other guarantees and unused line of credit were impaired as of December 31, 2018. i) The Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities by residual contractual maturity classified as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 Within 3 to 6 to 9 to 1 to Over Total 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months 5 years 5 years Financial liabilities measured at fair W 569,076 569,076 value through profit or loss Deposits due to 5,465,538 5,465,538 customers Borrowings(*1) 71,566,335 177,706 13,371 8,659 595,506 1,823 72,363,400 Debentures(*2) 931,532 288,324 20,047 76,966 2,808,719 136,122 4,261,710 Other financial 7,840,045 1,636 806 2,079 6,647 3,433 7,854,646 liabilities(*3) W 86,372,526 467,666 34,224 87,704 3,410,872 141,378 90,514,370 148 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 149 2017 iii) Expected maturity cash flows of the derivative financial liabilities and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Within 3 to 6 6 to 9 9 to 12 1 to 5 Over Total 3 months months months months years 5 years 2018 Financial liabilities Within 3 to 6 to 9 to 1 to Over at fair value Total W 816,883 816,883 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months 5 years 5 years through profit or loss Stock W 179,868 9,264 15,490 11,606 322,692 538,920 Deposits due to Interest rate 16,912 19,701 14,288 2,866 125,495 280,542 459,804 5,118,877 5,118,877 customers Currency 135,789 92,689 61,832 11,686 36,925 338,921 Borrowings(*1) 48,679,000 117,565 1,132 10,614 579,851 2,035 49,390,197 Credit 703 1,177 6,903 8,783 Debentures(*2) 971,115 267,676 216,394 14,344 1,841,892 3,311,421 Commodity 208 208 Other financial Others 17,552 114 17,666 6,452,965 2,700 1,090 2,675 6,319 3,424 6,469,173 liabilities(*3) Derivative-linked securities in W 62,038,840 387,941 218,616 27,633 2,428,062 5,459 65,106,551 320,451 616,530 121,105 4,760,757 7,523,800 1,878,500 15,221,143 short position (*1) Amounts with maturity of more than three months from the date of acquisition include cash flows of both the principal and interests. W 653,020 738,184 213,418 4,788,092 8,033,575 2,159,156 16,585,445 (*2) The cash flow of interest is excluded because it cannot be reliably estimated. (*3) Financial guarantee liabilities are excluded in other financial liabilities. 2017 Within 3 to 6 to 9 to 1 to Over ii) The Group’s guarantees and commitments by residual contractual maturity classified as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 Total 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months 5 years 5 years are as follows: Stock W 36,767 10,722 9,087 16,840 73,318 146,734 2018 Interest rate 5,483 9,695 11,720 28,648 105,425 219,763 380,734 Within 3 months Over 3 months Total Currency 244,165 88,187 54,695 42,930 52,029 482,006 Asset-backed commercial paper and asset backed Credit 48 13,459 13,507 W 1,541,900 1,541,900 short-term bond purchase commitments Commodity 9,169 354 67 9,590 Guarantees 1,287,244 1,287,244 Others 23 36 19,676 19,735 Unused line of credit 855,434 855,434 Derivative-linked securities in W 3,684,578 3,684,578 570,203 1,768,668 282,410 4,305,492 6,483,271 1,692,763 15,102,807 short position W 865,787 1,877,649 357,948 4,393,958 6,747,245 1,912,526 16,155,113 2017 (*) Derivatives traded in the Exchange are excluded because the settlement of the transactions takes place by means of the trading margins within Within 3 months Over 3 months Total a few days. And financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Asset-backed commercial paper and asset backed W 1,438,500 1,438,500 short-term bond purchase commitments (5) Operating Risk Management Guarantees 1,769,876 1,769,876 Unused line of credit 369,713 369,713 Operational risk is the possibility of losses arising from shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or systems, and W 3,578,089 3,578,089 from external events. The Company manages operational risk through Risk & Control Self Assessment (“RCSA”), Key Risk Indicator (“KRI”) management, loss data management, management of countermeasures and calculation of operational VaR The balances of purchase commitments, guarantees and commitments on loans that are potentially prone to liquidity risks using internal model. are reclassified to balances with less than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition, which is the earliest possible for repayment. The guarantees are the maximum amount, which the financial institution must pay under the guarantee By performing RCSA on a regular basis, the Company checks the level of risk of each department, develops countermeasures contracts when the counterparty defaults and principal debtor demands the amount guaranteed. Commitments on loans in advance collects the financial loss data. In addition, the Company implements and operates operational risk management includes loan commitments and purchase commitments that are related to asset securitizations. system to work out operational VaR using internal model. The Company has a future plan to expand the target of operational risk management to the parent company and foreign subsidiaries to measure and manage enterprise-wide operational risk. Asset-backed commercial paper (“ABCP”) is issued or refinanced based on the underlying assets for securitization that are purchased by SPEs, including SPEs under the Asset-Backed Securitization Act and companies under the Commercial Law. (6) Capital management In this case, ABCP purchase commitments guarantee the Group’s purchase of ABCP when all or a portion of ABCP are not sold in the market. The Company evaluates the capital adequacy by calculating net capital ratio (“NCR”) in accordance with the Financial Investments Regulations and Guidelines in order to maintain adequate capital and comply with supervisory regulation. The Group’s Net Capital Ratio (NCR) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are 1,669.01% and 2,386.61%, respectively. 150 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 151 (7) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 2) Categories of financial liabilities that offsetting agreements and other similar agreements apply to as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: The Controlling Company applies offsetting agreements to derivatives and repurchase agreement transactions. 2018 1) Categories of financial assets that offsetting agreements and other similar agreements apply to as of December Related amount not offset in the Net amount statement of financial position(*1) 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Total amount of financial Types of financial Total amount liabilities of recognized liabilities in Financial 2018 of offsetting Net amount financial the statement collaterals financial assets Related amount not offset in liabilities of financial Financial assets received the statement of position (cash collateral Net amount of financial position (*1) Types of Total amount included) Total amount financial assets financial assets of offsetting Financial of recognized financial in the statement Net amount Derivative financial financial assets of financial collaterals W 1,213,336 1,213,336 680,698 400,217 132,421 liabilities Financial liabilities (*2) position received liabilities (cash collateral Accounts payables (*3) 6,205,995 2,245,857 3,960,138 3,960,138 included) Securities sold under Derivative financial repurchase agreements 90,155,580 27,507,045 62,648,535 18,722,539 28,043,738 15,882,258 W 875,377 875,377 680,698 37,618 157,061 assets (*2) (*4) Accounts receivable (*3) 6,253,410 2,245,857 4,007,553 4,007,553 Securities sold (*4) 569,076 569,076 568,518 558 Securities sold under W 98,143,987 29,752,902 68,391,085 19,971,755 28,444,513 19,974,817 repurchase agreements 18,759,240 18,759,240 17,287,574 1,471,666 (*4) Securities purchased 2017 under resale 70,227,575 27,507,045 42,720,530 1,457,976 41,262,554 Related amount not offset in the agreements (*4) Net amount statement of financial position (*1) Assets pledged as Types of financial Total amount of financial Total amount liabilities of recognized liabilities in Financial collateral for securities of offsetting Net amount 15,275,500 15,275,500 1,108,693 5,754,160 8,412,647 financial the statement collaterals lending and borrowing liabilities financial assets of financial Financial received (*4) position assets (cash collateral W 111,391,102 29,752,902 81,638,200 20,534,941 47,054,332 14,048,927 included) Derivative financial W 1,052,305 1,052,305 596,437 189,137 266,731 liabilities (*2) 2017 Accounts payables (*3) 7,209,376 3,467,824 3,741,552 3,741,552 Related amount not offset in the Securities sold under Net amount of statement of financial position(*1) Types of Total amount Total amount financial assets repurchase agreements 81,929,274 38,796,414 43,132,860 15,662,447 18,241,131 9,229,282 financial assets of offsetting Financial (*4) of recognized in the statement Net amount financial collaterals financial assets of financial Financial Securities sold (*4) 816,883 816,883 498,428 318,455 liabilities received position liabilities (cash collateral W 91,007,838 42,264,238 48,743,600 16,757,312 18,748,723 13,237,565 included) Derivative financial (*1) Only for cases of default, insolvency and bankruptcy are eligible to be offset, and all other transactions are considered to have not met the W 956,837 956,837 596,437 36,508 323,892 offsetting standards, and therefore are not offset on the statement of financial position, but instead stated separately. assets (*2) (*2) Some of the Controlling Company’s OTC derivatives are traded in accordance to agreements of the ISDA. In accordance to this agreement, in Accounts receivable (*3) 7,472,214 3,467,824 4,004,390 4,004,390 case the counterparty is bankrupt or has credit issues, all derivative transactions are settled. At the point of settlement, the trading partners Securities sold under receive payments for each transaction, or may offset payments with each other and offer a single payment to one trading partner. repurchase agreements 17,258,879 17,258,879 15,662,447 1,596,432 (*3) Transactions between exchanges, customers and other financial institutions regarding bonds and liabilities are included in the statement (*4) of financial position as total amounts in regard to the receivables and payables accounts. Receivables and payables occurring in relation to exchanges and from trading same types of items are eligible to be offset and are disclosed as net amounts on the statement of financial Securities purchased position, according to accounting policies under resale 66,901,248 38,796,414 28,104,834 268,800 27,310,876 525,158 agreements (*4) (*4) Those are in accordance with the offsetting agreements, which is similar to ISDA offsetting agreements. Assets pledged as collateral for securities 8,981,091 8,981,091 498,428 2,096,834 6,385,829 lending and borrowing (*4) W 101,570,269 42,264,238 59,306,031 17,026,112 29,444,218 12,835,701 152 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 153 6. Transfers of financial assets Details of the operating results of reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: 2017 Transfers of financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirely as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Sales & Intersegment WM IB Wholesale PI & others Total Description(*) 2018 2017 Trading eliminations Transferred financial assets Operating revenue W 826,895 300,781 8,111,227 941,280 115,305 3,162 10,298,650 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss W 14,810,014 Interest revenue 244,435 34,947 1,152,334 23,598 (299,744) (2,802) 1,152,768 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 14,118,526 Non-interest revenue 582,460 265,834 6,958,893 917,682 415,049 5,964 9,145,882 Available-for-sale financial assets 2,448,865 Operating expense (752,775) (114,632) (7,873,800) (903,818) 37,384 (63,256) (9,670,897) Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive Interest expense (95,817) (19,341) (798,296) (28,159) 351,613 8,547 (581,453) 4,640,714 income Non-interest expense (656,958) (95,291) (7,075,504) (875,659) (314,229) (71,803) (9,089,444) W 18,759,240 17,258,879 Operating income (loss) 74,120 186,149 237,427 37,462 152,689 (60,094) 627,753 Related liabilities Non-operating income (loss) (386) 3,624 5,831 25 (16,391) 44,293 36,996 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements W 17,287,574 15,662,447 Income (Loss) before tax 73,734 189,773 243,258 37,487 136,298 (15,801) 664,749 expense (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial assets Income tax expense (17,102) (43,795) (55,828) (8,722) (21,146) (13,222) (159,815) measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Profit (Loss) for the year W 56,632 145,978 187,430 28,765 115,152 (29,023) 504,934 (3) Assets and liabilities of reportable segments 7. Operating segments Details of the assets and liabilities of reportable segments as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (1) Reportable segments 2018 The Group’s segment information is prepared for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of each segment’s Sales & Intersegment WM IB Wholesale PI & others Total performance and is based on the types of services provided. Trading eliminations Assets W 4,810,447 3,965,868 79,393,810 5,116,071 31,882,622 (7,083,319) 118,085,499 Reportable segment Services provided Liabilities 5,124,456 329,537 76,290,705 2,968,283 25,011,541 8,611 109,733,133 Providing securities brokerage to individual customers and non-professional investors, WM offering products of wealth management and financial consulting services IB Conducting corporate finance businesses such as various funding and M&A advisory, etc. 2017 Bond dealing and brokerage, supplying derivatives, hedge fund management and sales, Sales & Intersegment Sales & Trading WM IB Wholesale PI & others Total Trading eliminations principal investment and proprietary trading Sales of various financial instruments to corporate customers, providing domestic equity and Assets W 4,632,273 1,636,338 57,980,932 2,535,938 29,558,095 (5,716,977) 90,626,599 Wholesale derivatives brokerage and related services to domestic institutional investors Liabilities 4,715,896 130,777 57,945,772 1,052,545 19,687,377 (290,273) 83,242,094 Conducting principal investment and supporting parts of headquarters and providing other PI(Principal Investment) & Others operating activities aside from the above mentioned activities (4) Information on products, services and key customers (2) Operating results of reportable segments The Group’s revenues are derived from various services classified as interest, non-interest and others; however, since this classification has already been reflected in the component of the operating segments above, revenue from external customers Details of the operating results of reportable segments for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: by service type is not separately disclosed. The Group does not have any key customers who account for more than 10% of the Group’s sales for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. 2018 Sales & Intersegment WM IB Trading Wholesale PI & others eliminations Total (5) Geographical information Operating revenue W 1,042,497 521,106 9,923,928 2,080,413 (385,622) 141,618 13,323,940 Of the Group’s revenue (interest income and non-interest income) from domestic customers for the years ended December Interest revenue 328,625 97,927 2,205,104 50,366 (281,980) 8,331 2,408,373 31, 2018 and 2017 amounted to ₩11,570,125 million and ₩9,819,013 million, respectively, and revenue from foreign Non-interest revenue 713,872 423,179 7,718,824 2,030,047 (103,642) 133,287 10,915,567 customers amounted to ₩1,753,815 million and ₩479,637 million, respectively. The Group’s non-current assets (investment Operating expense (834,983) (271,462) (9,875,863) (2,024,653) 371,784 (176,434) (12,811,611) in associates, investment properties, property and equipment and intangible assets) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are ₩1,807,210 million and ₩1,617,886 million, respectively, for the Company and domestic subsidiaries, and ₩1,214,987 Interest expense (147,542) (62,475) (1,883,613) (60,663) 396,331 3,750 (1,754,212) million and ₩1,044,400 million, respectively, for foreign subsidiaries. Non-interest expense (687,441) (208,987) (7,992,250) (1,963,990) (24,547) (180,184) (11,057,399) Operating income (loss) 207,514 249,644 48,065 55,760 (13,838) (34,816) 512,329 Non-operating income (loss) (155) 1,005 958 131 41,807 28,935 72,681 Income (Loss) before tax 207,359 250,649 49,023 55,891 27,969 (5,881) 585,010 expense Income tax expense (43,598) (52,700) (10,307) (11,751) (5,881) 1,237 (123,000) Profit (Loss) for the year W 163,761 197,949 38,716 44,140 22,088 (4,644) 462,010 154 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 155 8. Restricted use of financial assets (2) Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Details of restricted use of deposits as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018(*) 2017 2018 2017 Descriptions Reducing accounting mismatch Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss(*1) Equity securities W 19,230 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust)(*3) W 3,871,503 Regulation on Financial Investment Business Government bonds 100,620 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit Special bonds 9,955 or loss(*1) Corporate bonds 147,176 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust)(*3) 3,786,573 Regulation on Financial Investment Business Securities in foreign currencies 539,730 Loans and receivables(*2) Exchange traded fund 122,556 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits(*3) 702,334 Regulation on Financial Investment Business 939,267 Collateral on derivative transaction and Deposits for exchangetraded derivatives 567,766 Hybrid financial instruments others, etc. Guarantee deposit for account opening 52 Guarantee deposit for account opening Redeemable convertible preference shares 1,000 Derivatives and collateral on payment and Convertible bond 135,657 Time deposit 2,056,913 settlement, etc. Equity-linked securities 525,854 3,327,065 Other derivative-linked securities 466,728 Financial assets measured at amortized cost(*2) 1,129,239 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits(*3) 1,151,255 Regulation on Financial Investment Business W 2,068,506 Collateral on derivative transaction and Deposits for exchangetraded derivatives 1,051,349 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as financial assets designated as measured others, etc. at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 10-(2). Guarantee deposit for account opening 50 Guarantee deposit for account opening Derivatives and collateral on payment and Time deposit 3,097,555 settlement, etc. 10. Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 5,300,209 W 9,086,782 7,198,568 T he Group’s financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 are classified as mandatory financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial assets designated as measured at fair value through (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, profit or loss. 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. (*2) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018, respectively. (1) Details of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 (*3) Pursuant to the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act and Regulation on Financial Investment Business , the Group is required to are as follows: deposit with the Korean Securities Finance Corporation for the payment of its customers’ deposits and those amounts are restricted for use. Details 2018 2017(*) Equity securities W 2,073,603 Investments in partnerships 245,403 9. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Government and public bonds 2,598,059 The Group’s financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 are classified as financial assets held Special bonds 6,124,943 for trading and financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss. Corporate bonds 6,363,126 Corporate commercial papers 494,125 (1) Details of financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Collective investment securities 4,522,463 2018(*) 2017 Securities in foreign currencies 4,550,787 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust) W 3,871,503 Other securities 1,375,679 Equity securities 1,313,794 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust) 3,786,573 Government and public bonds 2,658,169 Loan and receivables 1,132,201 Special bonds 6,942,767 Derivative financial assets 968,115 Corporate bonds 5,298,446 Equity-linked securities 270,884 Collective investment securities 1,963,865 Other derivative-linked securities 558,531 Corporate commercial papers 2,076,104 W 35,064,492 Securities in foreign currencies 2,845,103 (*) The above items were classified as financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 9-(1), 9-(2). Asset backed short-term bond 89,762 Others 14,284 (2) There is no financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss as of December 31, Derivative assets 1,125,230 2018. W 28,199,027 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss as of Decemer 31, 2018 and are included in note 10-(1). 156 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 157 11. Available-for-sale financial assets 12. Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (1) Details of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: The Group’s financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are classified with financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (debt securities) and equity securities designated as measured at 2018 (*1) 2017 fair value through other comprehensive items at initial recognition, by its contractual cash flow characteristics and its business Equity securities(*2) W 854,679 model of the instruments. Investments in partnerships(*2) 199,374 Government and public bonds 39,689 (1) Details of financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Special bonds 1,898,472 2018 2017(*) Corporate bonds 2,705,849 Equity securities W 527,867 Collective investment securities 1,881,044 Equity securities in foreign currencies 362,572 Securities in foreign currencies(*2) 1,249,116 Government and public bonds 20,051 Others(*2) 10,297 Special bonds 1,253,802 W 8,838,520 Corporate bonds 4,284,984 (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 12. Bonds in foreign currencies 1,753,797 (*2) Equity securities with no quote market prices in active market and for which the fair value cannot be measured reliably due to lack of basic data W 8,203,073 and experience used to predict future cash flows are recorded at cost. Carrying amount of available-for-sale equity securities’ evaluated cost is ₩104,463 million as of December 31, 2017. (*) The above items were classified as available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 11. (2) Equity securities designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (2) Maturity analysis of available-for-sale (debt securities) as of December 31, 2017 is as follows: 2017 i) Details of equity securities designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are as follows: More Than Within 1 year 1 to 5years 5 to 10years Total Purchase cost Book value 10 years Government and public bonds W 39,689 39,689 Equity securities W 666,570 527,867 Equity securities in foreign currencies 314,077 362,572 Special bonds 946,862 865,087 86,523 1,898,472 Corporation bonds 793,676 1,818,574 53,635 39,964 2,705,849 (*1) The above items were classified as available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 11. (*2) They are held for financial business purposes and strategic purposes, not for trading purposes. Securities in foreign currencies 151,740 523,801 53,012 59,302 787,855 W 1,892,278 3,247,151 193,170 99,266 5,431,865 There is no dividend from equity securities eliminated in the current period. The amount of dividends related to equity securities as of December 31, 2018 is ₩12,237 million. (3) Details of changes in unrealized changes in valuation of available-for-sale financial assets for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: ii) No equity securities designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income were disposed for the year ended December 31, 2018. 2017 Beginning Gain (Loss) on Ending Disposal Tax effect (3) Debt securities balance valuation balance Equity securities W 6,717 1,707 12,802 (6,168) 15,058 i) Debt securities classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December Investments in partnerships 11,926 8,226 (9,486) 1,510 12,176 31, 2018 are as follows: Government and public bonds (2,225) (170) 3,357 (1,517) (555) Face value Amortized Cost Book Value Special bonds (6,091) 1,117 (1,313) (1,352) (7,639) Government and public bonds W 20,000 20,253 20,051 Corporate bonds (3,400) (3,504) 3,377 (1,166) (4,693) Special bonds 1,256,900 1,253,851 1,253,802 Collective investment securities 108,606 2,543 (31,960) (3,033) 76,156 Corporate bonds 4,278,250 4,279,364 4,284,984 Securities in foreign currencies 20,401 (10,145) 5,254 5,797 21,307 Bonds in foreign currencies 1,763,785 1,768,000 1,753,797 W 135,934 (226) (17,969) (5,929) 111,810 W 7,318,935 7,321,468 7,312,634 (*) The above items were classified as available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 11. (4) Details of changes in accumulated impairment loss of available-for-sale financial assets for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: 2017 Beginning Ending Increase Disposal balance balance Equity securities W 32,944 17,201 (595) 49,550 Investments in partnerships 10 10 Corporate bonds 9,071 138 9,209 Collective investment securities 80,471 9,773 (40,548) 49,696 Securities in foreign currencies 2,854 56 2,910 W 125,350 27,168 (41,143) 111,375 158 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 159 ii) Details of changes in loss allowance of debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income for the 13. Loans and receivables year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: 2018 (1) Details of loans and receivables as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 12-month Lifetime ECL 2018(*) 2017 Total ECL Not Impaired Impaired Deposit W 3,580,259 Beginning Balance(*) W 2,018 2,018 Loans 35,830,812 Replacement Deferred loan origination cost and fee (1,901) Replace to Lifetime ECL(Not Impaired) Allowance for doubtful accounts (83,925) Replace to Lifetime ECL(Impaired) 39,325,245 Replace to 12-month ECL Other loans and receivables 7,622,643 Increase 2,269 2,269 Allowance for doubtful accounts (24,463) Derecognition (1,011) (1,011) 7,598,180 Other changes 2 2 W 46,923,425 Ending Balance W 3,278 3,278 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as financial assets measured at amortized (*) The beginning balance is measurement of credit losses on debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in note cost as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 14. 4-(1)-3)-i). (2) Details of deposits as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: iii) Details of changes in total carrying amount of debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 2018(*) 2017 for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits W 702,334 2018 Trading margin of derivatives 567,766 12-month Lifetime ECL Total Long-term deposits 1,884,491 ECL Not Impaired Impaired Restricted deposits and others 52 Beginning Balance W 5,191,196 5,191,196 Others 425,616 Replacement W 3,580,259 Replace to Lifetime ECL(Not Impaired) Replace to Lifetime ECL(Impaired) (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 14. Replace to 12-month ECL Acquisition 6,193,171 6,193,171 Derecognition (4,088,830) (4,088,830) (3) Details of loans as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Evaluation 10,220 10,220 2018(*) 2017 Other changes 6,877 6,877 Call loans W 1,280 Ending Balance W 7,312,634 7,312,634 Broker’s loan 6,474,522 Securities purchased under resale agreements 28,104,834 (4) Gains and losses on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive Loans receivable 900,648 income Loans to employees 52,697 Details of changes in gains and losses on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive Loans purchased 209,617 income as accumulated other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: Advances for customers 1,340 2018 Privately placed bonds 85,752 2017.12.31 ReclassifiBeginning Disposals and Ending Dishonored bills receivable 122 Evalua-tion Tax effect (*1) cation(*2) Balance etc. Balance Deferred loan origination cost and fee (1,901) Equity securities W 15,058 (16,092) (1,034) (94,047) 39,542 (55,539) Allowance for doubtful accounts (83,925) Investments in partnerships 12,176 (12,176) W 35,744,986 Government and (555) 4 (551) 552 10 (154) (143) public bonds (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 14. Special bonds (7,639) 185 (7,454) 8,152 2,234 (2,856) 76 Corporate bonds (4,693) (22) (4,715) 11,211 1,761 (3,756) 4,501 Bonds in foreign currencies (1,942) (430) (2,372) (9,695) 928 2,504 (8,635) Collective investment 76,156 (76,156) securities Others 23,249 (23,249) W 111,810 (127,936) (16,126) (83,827) 4,933 35,280 (59,740) (*1) The above items were classified as net unrealized gains or losses of valuation of available-for-sale financial assets in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2017, and are included in note 11-(3). (*2) The effect is reclassified to financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss in note 4-(1)-3)-i). 160 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 161 (4) Details of the other loans and receivables as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 14. Financial assets measured at amortized cost 2018(*) 2017 (1) Details of financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Accounts receivable W 7,249,676 2018 2017(*) Accrued income 253,252 Deposit Deposits provided 131,673 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits W 1,151,255 Present value discount (11,958) Trading margin of derivatives 1,051,349 Allowance for doubtful accounts (24,463) Long-term deposits 3,617,929 W 7,598,180 Restricted deposits and others 50 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 14. Others 425,857 6,246,440 (5) Details of changes in allowance for doubtful accounts for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are Loan and receivables as follows: Call loan 328 2018(*) 2017 Broker’s loan 10,719,500 Beginning balance W (116,298) Securities purchased under resale agreements 42,720,530 Bad debt expenses (1,427) Loans receivable 1,025,425 Write-off Loans to employees 57,970 Others 9,337 Loans purchased 114,920 Ending balance W (108,388) Advances for customers 1,310 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as allowance for credit loss related to Privately placed bonds 354,144 financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 14. Dishonored bills receivable 122 (6) Details of changes in net deferred loan origination costs and fees for the years ended December 31, 2018 Deferred loan originated cost and fee (1,941) and 2017 are as follows: 54,992,308 Other loans 2018(*) 2017 Accounts receivable 7,716,690 Beginning balance W (105) Accrued income 361,116 Increases (5,916) Advance payments 62,737 Amortization 4,120 Deposits provided 116,406 Ending balance W (1,901) Present value discount (8,895) (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were classified as deferred loan origination cost and fee related to financial assets measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and are included in note 14. 8,248,054 Allowance for credit loss(Loans) (75,140) Allowance for credit loss(Other financial assets) (26,267) W 69,385,395 (*) The above items were classified as loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 13. (2) Details of changes in allowances for credit loss of financial assets measured at amortized cost for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: i) Details of changes in allowances for credit loss of loans and receivables 2018 Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Total Not Impaired Impaired Beginning Balance W 2,987 62,969 65,956 Replacement Replace to 12-month ECL Replace to Lifetime ECL(Not Impaired) Replace to Lifetime ECL(Impaired) Disposal Increase (Decrease) 9,187 (6) 9,181 Other changes 3 3 Ending Balance W 12,174 62,966 75,140 162 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 163 ii) Details of changes of the allowances for credit loss of other financial assets 15. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities 2018 (1) The carrying amount and fair value of the Group's financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2018 Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Total and 2017 are as follows: Not Impaired Impaired Beginning Balance W 368 24,464 24,832 2018(*1) 2017 Replacement Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Replace to Lifetime ECL(Not Impaired) Financial assets Replace to Lifetime ECL(Impaired) Deposits W 6,246,440 6,246,440 3,580,259 3,580,259 Replace to 12-month ECL Financial assets held for trading(*2) 28,199,027 28,199,027 Disposal (5) (5) Financial assets measured at fair value 35,064,492 35,064,492 through profit or loss(*2) Increase (Decrease) 376 1,138 1,514 Financial assets designated at fair value Other changes (74) (74) 2,068,506 2,068,506 through profit or loss(*2) Ending Balance W 739 25,528 26,267 Available-for-sale financial assets(*3) 8,838,520 8,838,520 Financial assets measured at fair value (3) Details of changes in carrying amount of financial assets measured at amortized cost for the year ended 8,203,073 8,203,073 through other comprehensive income December 31, 2018 are as follows: Loans(*4) 54,917,168 54,917,168 35,744,986 35,744,986 2018 Other financial assets(*5) 8,221,787 8,221,787 7,598,180 7,598,180 Description(*1) Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Total W 112,652,960 112,652,960 86,029,478 86,029,478 Not Impaired Impaired Financial liabilities Beginning Balance W 770,318 92,421 862,739 Financial liabilities held for trading(*2) W 2,137,037 2,137,037 Replacement Financial liabilities measured at fair value Replace to 12-month ECL 2,280,438 2,280,438 through profit or loss(*2) Replace to Lifetime ECL(Not Impaired) Financial liabilities designated at fair value 15,295,424 15,295,424 Replace to Lifetime ECL(Impaired) through profit or loss(*2) Execution 1,845,641 15 1,845,656 Financial liabilities designated as measured 15,459,570 15,459,570 at fair value through profit of loss(*2) Repayment (1,118,171) (11,346) (1,129,517) Deposits due to customers 5,465,538 5,465,538 5,118,877 5,118,877 Amortization Borrowings(*4) 72,363,400 72,363,400 49,390,196 49,390,196 Disposal(*2) (82,123) (82,123) Others (834) (834) Debentures 4,249,205 4,278,954 3,085,497 3,071,069 Ending Balance W 1,414,831 81,090 1,495,921 Other financial liabilities(*5) 7,919,826 7,919,826 6,552,574 6,552,574 W 107,737,977 107,767,726 81,579,605 81,565,177 (*1) Amounts of loan and receivables excluded from changes in carrying amount are call loans of ₩328 million, broker’s loans of ₩10,719,500 million, securities purchased under resale agreements of ₩42,720,530 million, and loans to employees of ₩57,970 million as of December 31, 2018. (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair value through Amounts of allowances for credit loss are broker loans of ₩1,308 million, loans to employees of ₩114 million as of December 31, 2018. Call profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities held for trading, and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss loans and Securities purchased under resale agreements are excluded. as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets designated as measured at (*2) The loan was disposed for smooth implementation of capital investment for the year ended December 31, 2018, and there is no profit or loss fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, financial liabilities measured at fair value effect on the disposal. through profit or loss, and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. (*2) The fair value of derivatives, etc., is the sum of book value and day 1 profit or loss. (4) Details of changes in deferred loan origination fees and costs for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as (*3) Included in financial assets classified as available-for-sale are non-marketable equity securities that have been measured at cost. follows: (*4) As loans and borrowings are due in one year as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and due to other reasons, the Group regards book value is similar to the fair value. 2018 2017(*1) (*5) Other assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position that do not meet the definition of financial instruments, such as advance paymets, Beginning Balance W (1,901) advance received and income in advance, are excluded. Remeasurement(*2) 162 Beginning balance(Adjusted) (1,739) Increase (4,323) Amortization 4,121 Ending balance W (1,941) (*1) The above items were classified as deferred loan origination fees and costs related to loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 13. (*2) As some portion of loans are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss described in note 4-(1)-3-iii), deferred loan originated costs and fees, which incurred by acquisition of the asset at initial recognition, are remeasured. 164 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 165 (2) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at fair value 2018 Other Beginning ReclassificPurchase/ Disposal/ Ending 1) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at fair value as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: balance ation(*2) Profit (Loss) comprehenissuance settlement balance sive income 2018 Description(*) Financial liabilities (*1): Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial liabilities Financial assets measured at fair value W 119,682 69,768 244,525 (70,353) 363,622 through profit or loss Financial assets measured at fair value through profit W 14,144,403 17,390,223 3,529,866 35,064,492 or loss Financial liabilities Financial assets measured at fair value through other designated as measured 363,519 7,292,583 546,971 8,203,073 9,060,833 (54,898) (3,555) 9,042,499 (8,719,914) 9,324,965 comprehensive income at fair value through profit of loss W 14,507,922 24,682,806 4,076,837 43,267,565 W9,180,515 14,870 (3,555) 9,287,024 (8,790,267) 9,688,587 Financial liabilities (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities held for trading, and financial liabilities designated at fair W 1,079,551 837,265 363,622 2,280,438 or loss value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial Financial liabilities designated as measured at assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, 8,258 6,126,347 9,324,965 15,459,570 financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of fair value through profit of loss loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. W 1,087,809 6,963,612 9,688,587 17,740,008 (*2) Reclassification from level 2 to level 3 is due to change of fair value measurement method. The Group recognizes the reclassification of level at the end of the reporting period in which the events or changes in circumstances that may cause the reclassification of level occur. 2017 Description(*) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2017 Financial assets Beginning Other Purchase/ Disposal/ Ending Profit (Loss) comprehenFinancial assets held for trading W 14,567,513 13,486,593 144,921 28,199,027 balance issuance settlement balance sive income Financial assets designated at fair value through Financial assets (*1): 255,685 880,065 932,756 2,068,506 profit or loss Financial assets held for trading W 148,034 248,819 13,137 (265,069) 144,921 Available-for-sale financial assets 933,099 7,153,499 751,922 8,838,520 Financial assets designated at W 15,756,297 21,520,157 1,829,599 39,106,053 1,675,856 57,198 474,834 (1,275,132) 932,756 fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities Available-for-sale financial 711,492 (5,212) (39,429) 138,485 (53,414) 751,922 Financial liabilities held for trading W 1,135,876 881,479 119,682 2,137,037 assets Financial liabilities designated at fair value W 2,535,382 300,805 (39,429) 626,456 (1,593,615) 1,829,599 11,425 6,223,166 9,060,833 15,295,424 through profit or loss Financial liabilities (*1): W 1,147,301 7,104,645 9,180,515 17,432,461 Financial liabilities held for W 454,348 (153,060) 144,290 (325,896) 119,682 trading (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities held for trading, and financial liabilities designated at fair Financial liabilities designated value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial at fair value through profit or 12,622,663 577,860 8,451,922 (12,591,612) 9,060,833 assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, loss financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. W 13,077,011 424,800 8,596,212 (12,917,508) 9,180,515 (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair 2) Details of changes in financial assets and liabilities classified into Level 3 for the years ended December 31, 2018 value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities held for trading, and financial liabilities designated at fair and 2017 are as follows: value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, 2018 financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Other Beginning ReclassificPurchase/ Disposal/ Ending Profit (Loss) comprehenbalance ation(*2) issuance settlement balance sive income Financial assets (*1): Financial assets measured at fair value W2,037,949 17,422 41,234 4,541,363 (3,108,102) 3,529,866 through profit or loss Financial assets measured at fair 181,603 52,111 313,257 546,971 value through other comprehensive income W2,219,552 17,422 41,234 52,111 4,854,620 (3,108,102) 4,076,837 166 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 167 3) Valuation techniques and inputs for financial assets and liabilities classified into Level 2 as of December 31, 2018  Quantitative details regarding the valuation techniques and unobservable inputs for financial assets and liabilities and 2017 are as follows: classified into Level 3 as of December 31, 2017 is as follows: 2018 2017 Valuation techniques Inputs Valuation 2017 Inputs Range techniques Financial assets Financial assets Discount rates, DCF, net asset value, Black-Scholes, Volatility, (Stock) Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% Financial assets held for trading W 13,486,593 interest rates, Financial assets held Black-Scholes W 144,921 DCF, probability correlation Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% volatility for trading model coefficient (Others) Correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ 96.22% Discount rates, Financial assets measured at fair DCF, net asset value, Financial assets 17,390,223 interest rates, Black-Scholes, Volatility, (Stock) Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% value through profit or loss Black-Scholes designated at fair volatility 932,756 DCF, probability correlation Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% value through profit Financial assets designated at fair Discount rates, stock model coefficient (Others) Correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ 96.22% 880,065 DCF, net asset value or loss value through profit or loss prices, exchange rates Available-for-sale Discount rates, 751,922 DCF and others Discount rates Discount rates: 7.41% ~ 17.62% Available-for-sale financial assets 7,153,499 DCF, net asset value financial assets exchange rates W 1,829,599 Financial assets measured at fair Discount rates, Financial liabilities value through other comprehensive 7,292,583 DCF, net asset value exchange rates income Black-Scholes, Volatility, (Stock) Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% Financial liabilities held W 24,682,806 21,520,157 W 119,682 DCF, probability correlation Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% for trading model coefficient (Others) Correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ 96.22% Financial liabilities Financial liabilities Black-Scholes, Volatility, (Stock) Volatility: 0.03% ~ 54.61% Interest rates, volatility, designated at fair value 9,060,883 DCF, probability correlation Correlation coefficient: -66.21% ~ 99.97% Financial liabilities held for trading W 881,479 Black-Scholes, DCF discount rates through profit or loss model coefficient (Others) Correlation coefficient: -44.86% ~ 96.22% Financial liabilities measured at fair Interest rates, volatility, 837,265 Black-Scholes, DCF W 9,180,515 value through profit or loss discount rates Financial liabilities designated at fair Interest rates, volatility, (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair 6,223,166 Black-Scholes, DCF value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities held for trading, and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss discount rates value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial Financial liabilities designated as assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, Interest rates, volatility, measured at fair value through profit 6,126,347 Black-Scholes, DCF financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss discount rates or loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. W 6,963,612 7,104,645 5) Sensitivity analysis on changes in unobservable inputs (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities held for trading, and financial liabilities designated at fair Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is separately estimated as favorable and unfavorable changes based on the value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial changes in value of financial instruments coming from the changes in unobservable inputs using statistical techniques. assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, And sensitivity analysis is calculated based on the most favorable and unfavorable amount in the case that the fair value is financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit of loss affected by more than two inputs. as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Sensitivity analysis on changes in inputs of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities classified into Level 3 as of December 4) Quantitative details regarding the valuation techniques and unobservable inputs for financial assets and liabilities 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: classified into Level 3 as of December 31, 2018 is as follows: 2018 Valuation 2018 Inputs Range Profit (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) techniques Financial assets Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Favorable changes changes changes changes Volatility, (Stock) Volatility: 0.42% ~ 62.01% Financial assets Black-Scholes, Derivatives linked securities sold and correlation Correlation coefficient: -61.07% ~ 99.99% W 15,660 (21,916) measured at fair value W 3,529,866 DCF, probability related hedging assets (*1) coefficient, (Others) Correlation coefficient: -47.49% ~ 90.22% through profit or loss model discount rates Discount rates: 2.51% ~ 18.96% Financial assets measured at fair value through 74,227 (52,985) other comprehensive income(*2),(*3) Financial assets measured at fair Financial assets measured at fair value 546,971 DCF and others Discount rates Discount rates: 6.50% ~ 15.32% 3,241 (2,416) value through other through profit or loss (*1),(*2),(*4) comprehensive income W 4,076,837 2017 Financial liabilities Profit (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) Financial liabilities Black-Scholes, Volatility, (Stock) Volatility: 0.42% ~ 62.01% Unfavorable Unfavorable measured at fair value W 363,622 DCF, probability correlation Correlation coefficient: -61.07% ~ 99.99% Favorable changes changes Favorable changes changes through profit or loss model coefficient (Others) Correlation coefficient: -47.49% ~ 90.22% Derivatives linked securities sold and Financial liabilities W 26,609 (27,945) Black-Scholes, Volatility, (Stock) Volatility: 0.42% ~ 62.01% related hedging assets(*1) designated as measured 9,324,965 DCF, probability correlation Correlation coefficient: -61.07% ~ 99.99% Equity security (*2) 24,466 (12,915) at fair value through model coefficient (Others) Correlation coefficient: -47.49% ~ 90.22% profit of loss (*1) Change in fair value is calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility of the underlying asset by 10%, an input that is impossible to observe. W 9,688,587 (*2) Change in fair value is calculated by adjusting the growth rate and discount rate each by -1~1%, inputs that are impossible to observe. (*3) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018, respectively. (*4) Derivatives linked securities sold and related hedging assets are excluded. 168 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 169 6) Details of changes in deferred day 1 profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 16. The Group’s subsidiaries Description(*) 2018 2017 (1) The Group’s subsidiaries Beginning balance W (108,436) (71,207) New transactions (155,442) (165,984) Details of subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Recognized in current profit or loss 132,120 128,755 Percentage of ownership Ending balance W (131,758) (108,436) Reporting and voting rights (%) Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location date 2018 2017 (*) The deferred day 1 profit or loss arose from derivative financial instruments at Level 3 fair value hierarchy. Domestic subsidiaries: (3) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments disclosed by fair value Smalland medium-sized Mirae Asset Venture Investment Korea December, 31 72.55 77.53 1) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments disclosed by fair value as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: enterprise venture capital 2018 Mirae Asset MAPS India Frontier Private Collective Korea December, 31 62.50 62.50 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Real Estate Investment Trust 1st investment Financial assets School Infrastructure Private Investment Collective Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 Trust investment Deposits W 6,246,440 6,246,440 Mirae Asset Securities PEF I Green Growth Collective Loans 328 54,916,840 54,917,168 Korea December, 31 11.76 2009(*1) investment Other financial assets 3,027,433 5,194,354 8,221,787 Hyundai CVC CLO Private Equity Collective Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 W 3,027,433 328 66,357,634 69,385,395 Investment Trust 2nd investment Financial liabilities DB Together Private Equity Investment Trust Collective Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 67th investment Deposits due to customers W 5,465,538 5,465,538 Hyundai ING CLO Private Special Asset Collective Borrowings 1,810,000 70,553,400 72,363,400 Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 Investment Trust 1st investment Debentures 4,278,954 4,278,954 Collective Multiasset DW – 2nd Fund Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 Other financial liabilities 3,026,460 4,893,366 7,919,826 investment W 3,026,460 6,088,954 80,912,304 90,027,718 Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Collective Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 Trust 13th investment Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Collective 2017 Korea December, 31 100.00 Trust 17th investment Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 Financial assets Investment Trust 1st investment Deposits W 3,580,259 3,580,259 Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective Korea December, 31 99.28 99.28 Mirae Asset Investment Trust 3rd investment Loans 1,280 35,743,706 35,744,986 Daewoo Co., Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective Other financial assets 632,974 6,965,206 7,598,180 Ltd. Korea December, 31 98.43 98.43 Investment Trust 4th investment W 632,974 1,280 46,289,171 46,923,425 Hana Landchip Private Real Estate Collective Korea December, 31 81.91 81.91 Financial liabilities Investment Trust No.67 investment Deposits due to customers W 5,118,877 5,118,877 Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Collective Korea December, 31 98.04 98.04 Investment Trust 5th investment Borrowings 600,000 48,790,196 49,390,196 Mirae Asset Daewoo Global K Growth Collective Debentures 3,071,069 3,071,069 Korea December, 31 30.30 30.30 Private Equity Fund(*1) investment Other financial liabilities 632,949 5,919,625 6,552,574 Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private Real Collective Korea December, 31 99.92 99.92 W 632,949 3,671,069 59,828,698 64,132,716 Estate Investment Trust 6-2 investment Mirae Asset Dividend High Equity Focus 30 Collective Korea December, 31 99.99 2) Valuation techniques and inputs for financial assets and liabilities disclosed by fair values classified into Level 2 as of Private Balanced Investment Trust 1 investment December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Mirae Asset Maps Frontier US Private Real Collective Korea December, 31 99.83 99.83 Estate Investment Trust 7th investment Valuation 2018 2017 Inputs Multi Asset Gateway Global Prime techniques Collective Convertible Bond Professional Private Korea December, 31 79.59 Financial assets investment Investment Trust 1st Loans receivable W 328 1,280 DCF Discount rates MAPS US Professional Investment Private Collective Korea December, 31 98.33 98.33 Real Estate Investment Trust 9-1 investment Financial liabilities Richmond Private Gangnam Hotel Collective Korea December, 31 99.60 Investment Trust investment Borrowings 1,810,000 600,000 DCF Discount rates Samsung H Club Global Muti-Strategy Debentures 4,278,954 3,071,069 DCF Discount rates Collective Professional Investment Private Investment Korea December, 31 77.25 investment W 6,088,954 3,671,069 Trust 1st INMARK US Professional Private Investment Collective Korea December, 31 99.04 Trust 8th investment Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate Professional Collective Korea December, 31 54.73 Private Investment Trust 3rd investment 170 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 171 Percentage of ownership Percentage of ownership Reporting and voting rights (%) Reporting and voting rights (%) Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location date date 2018 2017 2018 2017 Heungkuk Balance Investment Private Collective Other financial Korea December, 31 54.61 MD Flight 2nd Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Trust 1st investment service My First Asset First Gift Professional Collective Other financial Korea December, 31 62.60 MD GlobalS Co.,Ltd( *2) Korea December, 31 Investment Private Investment Trust 3rd investment service LKGHC Specialized Privately Placed Collective Other financial Korea December, 31 78.90 78.90 MD Flyhigh Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Trust No.1 investment service Mirae Asset Solomon Short-Term Gov't Other financial Collective Fly High 1st Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 and Agency Bond Investment Trust (Fixed Korea December, 31 57.64 service investment Income) Class I Domestic subsidiaries: Mirae Asset Corporate Emerging Dollar Collective Other financial Prime Gov't and Agency Bond Monthly Korea December, 31 50.74 Fly High 2nd Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 investment Mirae Asset service Payment Investment Trust Daewoo Co., Other financial Mirae Asset Smart Q Global Hedge Focus Collective Ltd. MS Paju 1st Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Korea December, 31 96.16 service Professional Private Investment Trust 1st investment Mirae Asset Patriot Professional Private Collective Other financial Korea December, 31 99.76 MS Paju 2nd Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Trust 1st investment service JB Infra Build-up Professional Private Collective Other financial Korea December, 31 89.38 MASG 1st Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Trust 3rd investment service Multi Asset Global Private Debt Professional Collective Other financial Korea December, 31 88.17 MASG 2nd Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Private Investment Trust 4th investment service Multi Asset Global Private Equity Collective Other financial Korea December, 31 92.31 Landfill Management 1st Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Professional Private Investment Trust 1st investment service Hana Alternative Investment US Power Money Market Trust Trust asset Collective Korea December, 31 100.00 100.00 Plant Professional Private Special Asset Korea December, 31 95.67 (2018: 16, 2017: 32) management investment Investment Trust 1st 2010 KIF-Mirae Asset IT Investment Fund Investment Korea December, 31 29.83 29.83 INMARK UK Professional Private Real Estate Collective (*1) Korea December, 31 99.91 Investment Trust 19th investment Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Investment Korea December, 31 16.66 16.66 Mirae Asset Smart ELS Selection Collective Fund (*1) Korea December, 31 99.80 Professional Private Investment Trust 1st investment Mirae Asset Agro Project Fund (*1) Investment Korea December, 31 10.00 10.00 Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Global Bio Investment FundⅠ Investment Korea December, 31 96.31 96.31 KoFC-Mirae Asset Pioneer Champ 2011Investment Korea December, 31 21.82 21.82 Daewoo Co., Mirae Asset Global Unicorn PEF Investment Korea December, 31 86.79 3rd Investment Fund (*1) Ltd. Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Mirae Asset Daewoo GlobalⅠPrivate Equity Investment Korea December, 31 5.00 5.00 Investment Korea December, 31 26.12 Fund 2nd (*1) Fund (*1) Mirae Asset Daewoo KoreaⅡPrivate Equity Noroo-Mirae Asset Agrostar Project Investment Korea December, 31 29.88 Investment Korea December, 31 10.00 10.00 Fund (*1) Venture Fund (*1) MADW EP Co. Ltd (*2) Investment Korea December, 31 Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Investment Korea December, 31 51.11 51.11 Investment Fund Other financial Good Aiming 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #1 Investment Korea December, 31 60.00 60.00 service Other financial MAVI Good Company Investment Fund #2 Investment Korea December, 31 67.14 67.14 Good Aiming 2nd Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 service MIRAE ASSET Global Investment Fund (*1) Investment Korea December, 31 37.50 37.50 Other financial Mirae Asset Koscom-Mirae Asset Fintech Company Good Chance 1st Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 60.00 60.00 service Venture Investment Fund #1 Other financial Investment MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Good Chance 2nd Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 17.86 17.86 service Fund (*1) Other financial Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Deogi Dream M.S. Co.,Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 44.50 44.50 service Investment Fund #2 (81) Other financial 2016 KIF-MIRAE ASSET ICT Venture Fund Good Chance 4th Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 30.00 30.00 service (*1) Other financial MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Good Chance 5th Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 10.40 10.40 service Fund#16-1 (*1) Other financial MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Good Chance 6th Co., Ltd. (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 9.13 9.13 service Fund#17-1 (*1) Other financial Mirae Asset Hi-Tech Frontier Investment HC Hybrid 1st Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 24.00 24.00 service Fund (*1) Other financial MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment HC Hybrid 2nd Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 28.00 28.00 service Fund #2 (*1) Other financial MIRAE ASSET Good Company Secondary MD Series 1st Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 Investment Korea December, 31 22.25 service Investment Fund#18-1 (*1) Other financial MIRAE ASSET Young Start-UP Investment MD Flight Co.,Ltd (*2) Korea December, 31 40.10 service Fund #3 (*1) 172 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 173 Percentage of ownership Percentage of ownership Reporting and voting rights (%) Reporting and voting rights (%) Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location Investor Subsidiaries Main business Location date date 2018 2017 2018 2017 Overseas subsidiaries: Mirae Asset Capital Markets Collective Securities Mirae Asset Credit Opportunities Fund India December, 31 65.89 (India) Private investment brokerage and Limited Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. investment, UK December, 31 100.00 100.00 investment Real estate consulting MAPS HAWAII TWO, LLC. investment and USA December, 31 100.00 100.00 rent Mirae Asset Securities Holdings (USA) Inc Other financial USA December, 31 100.00 (*3) service Mirae Asset Real estate Maps Frontier MAPS WAIKIKI HOTEL, LLC. investment and USA December, 31 100.00 100.00 Securities US Private rent Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited (*4) brokerage and Hong Kong December, 31 100.00 100.00 Mirae Asset Real Estate investment Real estate Daewoo Co., Investment MAPS HOTELS AND RESORTS HAWAII 2, investment and USA December, 31 100.00 100.00 Ltd. Real estate Trust 7 LLC. rent Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) PTE. investment and Singapore December, 31 100.00 100.00 rent Real estate MAPS ROYAL GROVE, LLC. investment and USA December, 31 100.00 100.00 Collective Cayman Asia Opportunity Arbitrage Fund December, 31 84.38 rent investment Islands Mirae Asset Collective Mirae Asset China Growth Equity Fund Luxembou-rg December, 31 71.87 Global Bio investment MAGBI Fund Limited Investment Hong Kong December, 31 100.00 100.00 Investment Collective Cayman FundⅠ Mirae Asset Global Long Short Fund, Ltd. December, 31 100.00 investment Islands LK GHC MAPS Location (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore December, 31 90.00 Specialized Privately Placed Super Delta Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore December, 31 99.12 99.12 Overseas subsidiaries: Investment Securities Trust No.1 Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC brokerage and Vietnam December, 31 100.00 100.00 Mirae Asset investment Cayman Global Unicorn MAC Global Unicorn Investment Limited Investment December, 31 100.00 Islands Securities PEF Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) brokerage and Brazil December, 31 100.00 100.00 Mirae Asset CCTVM investment Daewoo Mirae Asset Daewoo GlobalⅠ, LLC Investment USA December, 31 100.00 Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. General UK December, 31 100.00 100.00 GlobalⅠPrivate Equity Fund Mirae Asset (Shanghai) Investment Investment China December, 31 100.00 Multi Asset Consulting Co. Ltd. consulting Global Investment and Private Equity Mirae Asset Investment Advisory (Beijing) Cayman investment China December, 31 100.00 100.00 Professional Alpha Assai Fund SP Imvestment December, 31 100.00 Mirae Asset Co., Ltd. Islands consulting Private Securities (HK) Limited Securities Investment Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore December, 31 100.00 100.00 Trust 1st brokerage Investment and Hana Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK LLC investment Mongolia December, 31 83.16 83.16 Alternative consulting Investment US Power Plant Securities Professional HPUS1 LLC Investment USA December, 31 99.91 PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia Indonesia December, 31 99.00 99.00 brokerage Private Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited Investment Hong Kong December, 31 100.00 100.00 Special Asset Investment Collective Trust 1st South Mountain Asset Management Ltd. Hong Kong December, 31 100.00 investment (*1) Although the Group’s ownership is less than 50 percent, the Group has substantial power to influence related decisions of the entity and is Securities Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) Private exposed to significant changes in profit in which the Group can also influence, and therefore, the entity was classified as a subsidiary. brokerage and India December, 31 100.00 100.00 Limited (*2) The entity is a structured entity for assets securitization and although the Group’s ownership is less than 50 percent, the Group has substantial investment power to influence related decisions of the entity, and is exposed to significant changes in profit in which the Group can also influence, and Securities therefore, the entity was classified as a subsidiary. Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. brokerage and USA December, 31 100.00 100.00 investment (*3) During this year, Mirae Asset Securities Holdings (USA) Inc. is established by in-kind contribution of Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. stocks held by Securities the Group. Holdings (USA) Securities Inc. Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) (*4) Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. Merged with Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited in March 1, 2017. brokerage and USA December, 31 100.00 100.00 Inc. (*5) Five of the collective investment securities that the Group has substantial power are excluded because they are not material to the Group's investment consolidated financial information. The Group recognized the collective investment securities in the amount of ₩27,020 million as financial assets Overseas subsidiaries: measured at fair value through profit or loss. Mirae Asset Securities & Investments (USA), Investment USA December, 31 100.00 Mirae Asset LLC Wealth HGX (USA), LLC Investment USA December, 31 100.00 Management (USA) Inc. Collective Mirae Asset Global Long Short Fund, LP USA December, 31 96.15 investment Mirae Asset PropertiesⅠ, DST Investment USA December, 31 100.00 174 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 175 (2) Changes in subsidiaries 2) Subsidiaries excluded from the scope of consolidation for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: Subsidiaries Reason 1) Subsidiaries newly included in the scope of consolidation for year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: South Mountain Asset Management Ltd. Subsidiaries Reason Mirae Asset (Shanghai) Investment Consulting Co. Mirae Asset Securities Holdings (USA) Inc. Mirae Asset Dividend High Equity Focus 30 Private Balanced Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset Securities & Investments (USA), LLC Richmond Private Gangnam Hotel Investment Trust Lost control due to HGX (USA), LLC Asia Opportunity Arbitrage Fund the disposal of all shares in MAC Global Unicorn Investment Limited Obtained controls by the current period investing 100% on its total JB Power Professional Private Investment Trust 9th Mirae Asset Global Long Short Fund, Ltd. shares Mirae Asset Securities PEF I Green Growth 2009 Alpha Assai Fund SP Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Trust 17th Mirae Asset Daewoo GlobalⅠ, LLC Heungkuk Balance Investment Private Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset PropertiesⅠ, DST INMARK US Professional Private Investment Trust 8th Ssi Aat Multi-仁 Professional Private Investment Trust Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate Professional Private Investment Trust 3rd Mirae Asset MAPS Professional Private Investment Trust 63th MiraeAsset Solomon Short-Term Gov't and Agency Bond Investment Trust Mirae Asset Global Unicorn PEF (Fixed Income) Class I Mirae Asset Smart Q Global Hedge Focus Professional Private Investment Trust 1st MiraeAsset Corporate Emerging Dollar Prime Gov't and Agency Bond Monthly Payment Mirae Asset Patriot Professional Private Investment Trust 1st Investment Trust Reclassified as financial assets Mirae Asset MAPS Professional Private Investment Trust 63th measured at fair value through JB Power Professional Private Investment Trust 9th profit or loss as a result of losing Shinhan BNPP US Frontera Gas Development Professional Private Investment Trust(H)[Loan] Multi Asset Gateway Global Prime Convertible Bond Professional Private control after partial disposal of Investment Trust 1st NH-Amundi Global Infra Professional Private Investment Trust 4th interest in subsidiary NH-Amundi Global Infra Professional Private Investment Trust 4th NH-Amundi Global Infra Professional Private Investment Trust 5th NH-Amundi Global Infra Professional Private Investment Trust 5th JB Infra Build-up Professional Private Investment Trust 3rd INMARK US Professional Private Real Estate Investment Trust 16th Multi Asset Global Private Debt Professional Private Investment Trust 4th Hyundai YouFirst Private Real Estate Investment Trust No. 23-1 Mirae Asset Global Long Short Fund, LP Mirae Asset Balance Long Short Securities Investment Trust 1st MIRAE ASSET Good Company Secondary Investment Fund#18-1 Mirae Asset China Growth Equity Fund Multi Asset Global Private Equity Professional Private Investment Trust 1st Samsung H Club Global Muti-Strategy Professional Investment Private Investment Trust 1st Reclassified as financial assets INMARK US Professional Private Real Estate Investment Trust 16th measured at fair value through My First Asset First Gift Professional Investment Private Investment Trust 3rd Hana Alternative Investment US Power Plant Professional Private Special Asset Investment Trust 1st profit or loss as a result of losing Ssi Aat Multi-仁 Professional Private Investment Trust control after the decrease of its Hyundai YouFirst Private Real Estate Investment Trust No. 23-1 Shinhan BNPP US Frontera Gas Development Professional Private Investment Trust(H)[Loan] portion of shares Mirae Asset Balance Long Short Securities Investment Trust 1st Midas Global Debt Professional Private Real Estate Investment Trust 6th Midas Global Debt Professional Private Real Estate Investment Trust 6th They are newly acquired Mirae Asset Daewoo GlobalⅠPrivate Equity Fund investment trusts and structured (3) Financial information of subsidiaries MAPS Location (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. entities for the year ended December 31, 2018 on which 1) Financial information of subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: HPUS1 LLC the Group has control. INMARK UK Professional Private Real Estate Investment Trust 19th 2018 Mirae Asset Smart ELS Selection Professional Private Investment Trust 1st Total Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive MIRAE ASSET Young Start-UP Investment Fund revenue for the year income Mirae Asset Daewoo KoreaⅡPrivate Equity Fund Mirae Asset Venture Investment W 120,819 3,549 117,270 39,034 19,218 19,218 Mirae Asset Credit Opportunities Fund Mirae Asset MAPS India Frontier Private 27,193 568 26,625 (27,777) (27,777) HC Hybrid 1st Co.,Ltd Real Estate Investment Trust 1st HC Hybrid 2nd Co.,Ltd School Infrastructure Private Investment 19,079 19 19,060 759 446 446 MD Series 1st Co.,Ltd Trust MD Flight Co.,Ltd Hyundai CVC CLO Private Equity 5,711 2 5,709 8,843 (24) (24) Investment Trust 2nd MD Flight 2nd Co.,Ltd DB Together Private Equity Investment MD GlobalS Co.,Ltd 22,510 2 22,508 1,338 1,300 1,300 Trust 67th MD Flyhigh Co.,Ltd Hyundai ING CLO Private Special Asset 6,206 3 6,203 940 630 630 Fly High 1st Co.,Ltd Investment Trust 1st Fly High 2nd Co.,Ltd Multiasset DW – 2nd Fund 79 79 26 26 26 MS Paju 1st Co.,Ltd Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment 21 17 4 1,110 7,577 7,577 Trust 13th MS Paju 2nd Co.,Ltd Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate MASG 1st Co.,Ltd 5,740 3,018 2,722 489 262 262 Investment Trust 1st MASG 2nd Co.,Ltd Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate 14,275 7,892 6,383 963 309 309 Landfill Management 1st Co.,Ltd Investment Trust 3rd 176 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 177 2018 2018 Total Total Operating Profit (loss) Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive revenue for the year revenue for the year income income Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate MASG 2nd Co.,Ltd W W 9,837 5,124 4,713 732 364 364 Investment Trust 4th Landfill Management 1st Co.,Ltd 7,503 8,190 (687) (686) (686) Hana Landchip Private Real Estate 42,080 30,779 11,301 2,542 791 791 Mirae Asset Global Bio Investment FundⅠ 79,518 79,518 1,845 (59) 139 Investment Trust No.67 Mirae Asset Global Unicorn PEF 256,645 1,929 254,716 46 (3,184) (3,184) Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate 7,063 4,157 2,906 514 219 219 Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Ⅰ Private Investment Trust 5th 114,832 114,832 3 (1,168) (1,168) Equity Fund Mirae Asset Daewoo Global K Growth 35,333 339 34,994 831 (1,075) (1,075) Mirae Asset Daewoo Korea Ⅱ Private Private Equity Fund 145,600 36 145,564 (36) (36) Equity Fund Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private 137,393 9 137,384 15,671 3,791 3,791 2010 KIF-Mirae Asset IT Investment Fund 14,451 4 14,447 7,719 4,516 4,516 Real Estate Investment Trust 6-2 Mirae Asset Maps Frontier US Private Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment 343,899 21 343,878 44,273 6,485 6,485 143 5 138 191 (348) (348) Real Estate Investment Trust 7th Fund MAPS US Professional Investment Private Mirae Asset Agro Project Fund 9,013 1,363 7,650 2,603 1,716 1,716 121,496 5 121,491 16,529 6,820 6,820 Real Estate Investment Trust 9-1 KoFC-Mirae Asset Pioneer Champ 201119,794 2,053 17,741 10,151 1,891 1,891 LKGHC Specialized Privately Placed 3rd Investment Fund 45,126 13 45,113 9 (387) (387) Investment Trust No.1 Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment 4,161 27 4,134 136 (94) (94) Mirae Asset Smart Q Global Hedge Focus Fund 2nd 114,809 1,096 113,713 40,140 (10,664) (10,664) Professional Private Investment Trust 1st Noroo-Mirae Asset Agrostar Project 6,646 217 6,429 1,474 (2,727) (2,727) Mirae Asset Patriot Professional Private Venture Fund 141,477 24,125 117,352 2,808 (7,789) (7,789) Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary 8,096 1 8,095 2,084 (2,681) (2,681) JB Infra Build-up Professional Private Investment Fund 877 877 2 (43) (43) Investment Trust 3rd MAVI Good Company Investment Fund 5,746 131 5,615 2,464 2,133 2,133 Multi Asset Global Private Debt #1 43,658 9 43,649 15,280 6,064 6,064 Professional Private Investment Trust 4th MAVI Good Company Investment Fund 4,930 117 4,813 2,279 1,832 1,832 Multi Asset Global Private Equity #2 128,478 510 127,968 55 (2,032) (2,032) Professional Private Investment Trust 1st MIRAE ASSET Global Investment Fund 28,377 350 28,027 6,884 2,530 2,530 Hana Alternative Investment US Power Koscom-Mirae Asset Fintech Company Plant Professional Private Special Asset 108,698 579 108,119 3,730 2,640 2,640 2,353 12 2,341 496 445 445 Investment Fund #1 Investment Trust 1st MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment INMARK UK Professional Private Real 13,248 94 13,154 218 (144) (144) 106,592 31 106,561 1,671 (220) (220) Fund Estate Investment Trust 19th Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary Mirae Asset Smart ELS Selection 19,975 133 19,842 11,570 5,333 5,333 48,611 7 48,604 134 (1,496) (1,496) Investment Fund #2 Professional Private Investment Trust 1st 2016 KIF-MIRAE ASSET ICT Venture Fund 21,928 157 21,771 325 (520) (520) MADW EP Co. Ltd 3,546 1,286 2,260 MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment Good Aiming 1st Co., Ltd. 25,202 25,300 (98) 2,426 423 423 12,517 58 12,459 7,305 4,567 4,567 Fund#16-1 Good Aiming 2nd Co., Ltd. 46,641 45,700 941 2,653 497 497 MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment 16,880 68 16,812 7,106 5,648 5,648 Good Chance 1st Co., Ltd. 187 187 1,598 890 890 Fund#17-1 Good Chance 2nd Co., Ltd. 108 108 5,049 (107) (107) Mirae Asset Hi-Tech Frontier Investment 20,443 163 20,280 1,599 454 454 Fund Deogi Dream M.S. Co.,Ltd. 17,887 18,557 (670) MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Good Chance 4th Co., Ltd. 486 486 143 113 113 14,540 160 14,380 18 (612) (612) Fund #2 Good Chance 5th Co., Ltd. 101,129 102,500 (1,371) 1,769 (383) (383) MIRAE ASSET Good Company Secondary 15,066 62 15,004 148 4 4 Good Chance 6th Co., Ltd. 50,095 50,101 (6) 948 202 202 Investment Fund#18-1 HC Hybrid 1st Co.,Ltd 20,090 19,984 106 1,811 107 107 MIRAE ASSET Young Start-UP Investment 5,003 61 4,942 3 (58) (58) Fund #3 HC Hybrid 2nd Co.,Ltd 10,132 10,165 (33) 410 (34) (34) Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. 685,188 7,235 677,953 24,860 993 58,108 MD Series 1st Co.,Ltd 49,952 50,511 (559) 2,363 (559) (559) Mirae Asset Securities Holdings (USA) MD Flight Co.,Ltd 30,588 30,512 76 2,924 76 76 637,404 25 637,379 8,507 Inc. MD Flight 2nd Co.,Ltd 20,263 20,404 (141) 972 (141) (141) Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited 1,669,690 210,735 1,458,955 64,416 40,016 55,890 MD GlobalS Co.,Ltd 20,297 20,297 84 Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) PTE. 200 45 155 (8) (1) MD Flyhigh Co.,Ltd 30,351 30,545 (194) 160 (194) (194) Mirae Asset Global Long Short Fund, Ltd. 335,660 335,660 (31,727) (23,455) Fly High 1st Co.,Ltd 25,483 25,533 (50) 2,996 (50) (50) MAPS Location (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 7,538 126 7,412 (408) (440) Fly High 2nd Co.,Ltd 30,639 30,562 77 2,999 77 77 Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC 344,940 122,608 222,332 26,821 9,681 12,059 MS Paju 1st Co.,Ltd 35,113 35,113 833 Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) MS Paju 2nd Co.,Ltd 10,293 10,293 368 134,176 60,369 73,807 20,737 3,362 (10,627) CCTVM MASG 1st Co.,Ltd 15,100 15,142 (42) 82 (41) (41) Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. 178 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 179 2018 2017 Total Total Operating Profit (loss) Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive revenue for the year revenue for the year income income Mirae Asset Investment Advisory Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment W 3,967 201 3,766 1,319 297 245 W 22,265 14,648 7,617 1,409 480 480 (BEIJING) Co., Ltd. Trust 17th Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore) Pte. Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate 7,100 293 6,807 1,136 6 175 5,819 3,022 2,797 479 252 252 Ltd. Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate 1,745 33 1,712 562 201 127 14,493 7,900 6,593 963 304 304 LLC Investment Trust 3rd PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia 153,113 59,946 93,167 31,181 9,888 9,123 Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate 9,952 5,130 4,822 723 356 356 Investment Trust 4th Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited Hana Landchip Private Real Estate Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) 42,455 30,755 11,700 2,522 749 749 323,981 1,417 322,564 18,339 10,238 2,709 Investment Trust No.67 Private Limited Richmond Private Multiflex Real Estate Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. 49,479,072 49,219,719 259,353 1,296,420 3,602 14,339 7,160 4,165 2,995 508 221 221 Investment Trust 5th Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) 369,310 1,085 368,225 38,331 8,887 23,567 Mirae Asset Daewoo Global K Growth Inc. 35,107 448 34,659 2,974 1,882 1,882 Private Equity Fund Mirae Asset Securities & Investments 323,863 323 323,540 4,196 2,245 25,889 Mirae Asset MAPS Frontier US Private (USA), LLC 141,099 2,662 138,437 31,362 17,581 3,928 Real Estate Investment Trust 6-2 HGX (USA), LLC 102,187 1 102,186 1,531 1,530 2,688 Mirae Asset Dividend High Equity Focus Mirae Asset PropertiesⅠ, DST 85,880 47,073 38,807 190 (442) (439) 6,823 4 6,819 543 427 427 30 Private Balanced Investment Trust 1 Mirae Asset Global Long Short Fund, LP 52,939 52,939 (5,119) (3,814) Mirae Asset Maps Frontier US Private 366,465 22 366,443 71,708 14,084 33,150 Mirae Asset Credit Opportunities Fund 8,292 42 8,250 312 (149) 205 Real Estate Investment Trust 7 MAPS HAWAII TWO, LLC. 389,471 164,031 225,440 (11,314) (661) Multi Asset Gateway Global Prime Convertible Bond Professional Private 70,439 265 70,174 23,239 3,599 3,599 MAPS WAIKIKI HOTEL, LLC. 853,620 453,578 400,042 72,361 (3,170) 13,720 Investment Trust 1st MAPS HOTELS AND RESORTS HAWAII 2, MAPS US Professional Investment Private 17,691 13,516 4,175 152,333 160 308 118,949 5 118,944 27,756 13,202 13,202 LLC. Real Estate Investment Trust 9-1 MAPS ROYAL GROVE, LLC. 15 1 14 169 (38) (36) Richmond Private Gangnam Hotel 25,468 526 24,942 464 495 495 MAGBI Fund Limited 76,547 17,250 59,297 97 278 (103) Investment Trust Super Delta Pte. Ltd. 28,459 11 28,448 908 (8,171) (9,244) Samsung H Club Global Muti-Strategy Professional Investment Private 10,306 10,306 874 414 115 MAC Global Unicorn Investment Limited 265,549 26 265,523 (26) 1,938 Investment Trust 1st Mirae Asset Daewoo GlobalⅠ, LLC 111,280 111,280 INMARK US Professional Private 104,692 7 104,685 Alpha Assai Fund SP 167,790 75 167,715 (3,310) Investment Trust 8 HPUS1 LLC 104,538 75,346 29,192 (4,130) (4,033) Multi Asset Foreign Real Estate 142,440 107 142,333 16 Money Market Trust 595,221 77 595,144 11,612 (1,654) (2,605) Investment Trust 3 Heungkuk Balance Investment Private (*) The financial statements of some subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the accounting policies of the Controlling Company. 6,495 1,020 5,475 Investment Trust 1st My First Asset First Gift Professional 2) Financial information of subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 is as follows: 4,111 888 3,223 Investment Private Investment Trust 3rd 2017 LK GHC Specialized Privately Placed 45,370 13 45,357 Total Investment Trust No.1 Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive MiraeAsset Solomon Short-Term Gov't revenue for the year income and Agency Bond Investment Trust (Fixed 31,236 16 31,220 Mirae Asset Venture Investment W 97,928 6,362 91,566 18,033 6,774 5,486 Income) Class I Mirae Asset MAPS India Frontier Private MiraeAsset Corporate Emerging Dollar 54,813 411 54,402 (22) (3,037) Real Estate Investment Trust 1st Prime Gov't and Agency Bond Monthly 41,402 13 41,389 School Infrastructure Private Investment Payment Investment Trust 21,075 23 21,052 895 559 559 Trust Mirae Asset Global Bio Investment FundⅠ 83,318 228 83,090 4 (877) (877) Mirae Asset Securities PEF I Green MADW EP Co. Ltd 3,546 1,286 2,260 7,061 4,306 1,476 71 7 64 (25) (296) Growth 2009 Good Aiming 1st Co., Ltd. 46,679 47,200 (521) 2,008 (14) (14) Hyundai CVC CLO Private Equity 5,735 2 5,733 382 (431) (1,595) Good Aiming 2nd Co., Ltd. 46,645 46,200 445 1,306 2,976 2,976 Investment Trust 2nd Good Chance 1st Co., Ltd. 121,210 122,100 (890) 3,964 (578) (578) DB Together Private Equity Investment 22,141 2 22,139 945 534 496 Good Chance 2nd Co., Ltd. 107 107 4,189 393 393 Trust 67th Hyundai ING CLO Private Special Asset Deogi Dream M.S. Co.,Ltd. 30,945 31,454 (509) 6,241 3 6,238 1,262 350 (556) Investment Trust 1st Good Chance 4th Co., Ltd. 27,373 27,000 373 4,438 565 565 Multiasset DW – 2nd Fund 53 53 4 4 4 Good Chance 5th Co., Ltd. 100,813 101,800 (987) (898) (898) Hyundai Private Real Estate Investment Good Chance 6th Co., Ltd. 50,093 50,301 (208) 15,547 12,667 2,880 1,214 467 467 Trust 13th 180 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 181 2017 2017 Total Total Operating Profit (loss) Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive revenue for the year revenue for the year income income 2010 KIF-Mirae Asset IT Investment Fund South Mountain Asset Management Ltd. W 970 9 961 9 (14) (13) W 16,283 5 16,278 5,325 1,729 909 4th Mirae Asset Capital Markets (India) 967 25 942 4 (153) (153) Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment Private Limited 1,827 14 1,813 80 (151) (151) Fund MAPS HAWAII TWO, LLC. 419,757 158,046 261,711 (9,711) (45,558) Mirae Asset Agro Project Fund 10,108 1,189 8,919 971 (844) (3,151) MAPS WAIKIKI HOTEL, LLC. 856,293 438,232 418,061 71,455 2,876 (53,002) KoFC-Mirae Asset Pioneer Champ 201122,362 2,118 20,244 2,061 (1,837) (3,510) MAPS HOTELS AND RESORTS HAWAII 2, 3rd Investment Fund 21,981 11,279 10,702 153,505 (1,014) (1,424) LLC. Mirae Asset Social Corporate Investment 4,323 40 4,283 347 (132) 1,960 MAPS ROYAL GROVE, LLC. 28 (1) 29 166 20 17 Fund 2nd MAGBI Fund Limited 80,699 80,699 Noroo-Mirae Asset Agrostar Project 13,252 244 13,008 1,475 (239) 1,530 Super Delta Pte. Ltd. 44,634 44,634 Venture Fund Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary 32 Money Market Trust 1,907,116 2,547 1,904,569 12,148 749 749 13,721 280 13,441 1,710 1,256 2,213 Investment Fund (*) The financial statements of some subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the accounting policies of the Company. MAVI Good Company Investment Fund 5,825 53 5,772 288 (361) (711) #1 MAVI Good Company Investment Fund 5,309 47 5,262 228 (280) (777) 17. Investments in associates #2 MIRAE ASSET Global Investment Fund 35,328 251 35,077 2,030 (2,850) (1,723) (1) Details of investments in associates as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Koscom-Mirae Asset Fintech Company 2018 1,961 15 1,946 79 16 217 Investment Fund #1 Associates Main business Location Percentage of Acquisition Carrying MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment ownership (%) cost amount 10,249 94 10,155 158 (323) (33) Fund Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd (*1) Insurance Korea 17.11 W 326,729 426,095 Mirae Asset Good Corporate Secondary 19,242 132 19,110 207 (762) 4,427 Shipping and Investment Fund #2 Pantos Logistics Co., Ltd (*2) Korea 19.99 145,000 145,000 transport 2016 KIF-MIRAE ASSET ICT Venture Fund 11,380 155 11,225 218 (845) (703) SMC RMB Investors II Limited Investment China 30.73 245 4,968 MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment 14,137 58 14,079 76 (581) 87 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore 24.53 280 Fund #16-1 Transwestern Corporate PropertiesⅠLLC Investment USA 27.40 121,215 122,911 MIRAE ASSET Good Company Investment 16,696 68 16,628 31 (206) 128 Fund #17-1 Traphaco Joint Stock Company Manufacturing Vietnam 40.00 108,283 112,402 Mirae Asset Hi-Tech Frontier Investment HPJV1 LLC (*3) Manufacturing USA 80.00 82,847 78,907 4,986 160 4,826 7 (174) (174) Fund Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth FundⅠ Investment Korea 45.00 17,100 16,356 MIRAE ASSET Young Start-Up Investment Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth FundⅠ(*3) Investment Korea 50.00 20,000 18,487 5,000 7 4,993 (7) (7) Fund #2 Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth FundⅠ Investment Korea 45.00 22,500 22,126 Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. 92,735 8,639 84,096 6,885 2,047 (8,573) Hancom-Miraeasset 4IR Fund Investment Korea 32.26 5,000 4,948 Mirae Asset Securities (USA) Inc. 32,085,303 31,840,289 245,014 240,335 (22,776) (55,693) Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th (*4) Investment Korea 3.97 6,087 1,511 Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited 1,135,718 86,014 1,049,704 162,764 31,585 15,764 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF (*4) Investment Korea 9.99 1,223 1,102 Mirae Asset Realty (Singapore) PTE. 191 35 156 (8) (8) Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Asia Opportunity Arbitrage Fund 112,595 67,486 45,109 12,749 (794) (8,055) Investment Korea 11.00 10 7 Investment Partnership PEF (*4) Mirae Asset China Growth Equity Fund 74,466 68 74,398 Mirae Asset Naver Asia Growth PEF (*3) Investment Korea 83.17 98,129 94,101 Mirae Asset Securities (Vietnam) LLC 130,934 31,541 99,393 11,712 5,515 (2,673) Mirae Asset 5th SPAC (*2) SPAC Korea 0.29 14 27 Mirae Asset Wealth Management (Brazil) Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC (*2) SPAC Korea 0.83 40 73 124,854 45,601 79,253 26,285 8,199 14,748 CCTVM Mirae Asset Daewoo 2nd SPAC (*2) SPAC Korea 0.33 10 19 Mirae Asset Securities (UK) Ltd. W 954,712 1,049,040 Mirae Asset Wealth Management (USA) 345,998 1,806 344,192 12,005 7,768 8,611 Inc. (*1) The Group’s ownership is 21.60 and 26.28 percent as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, considering the treasury stocks held by Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset (Shanghai) Investment 930 930 6 (1) 19 (*2) Although the Group’s ownership is less than 20 percent as of December 31, 2018, the Controlling Company has significant influence because it Consulting Co. Ltd. has voting power over the financial and operating policies of the investee and thus was included as associate. Mirae Asset Investment Advisory (*3) Although the Group’s ownership is more than 50 percent as of December 31, 2018, the Group does not have control since the Group is not the 3,647 126 3,521 1,066 (59) 191 (BEIJING) Co., Ltd. General Partner. Mirae Asset Securities (Singapore) Pte. (*4) Since the Controlling Company is the General Partner, the Controlling Company has significant influence over those associates. 7,482 849 6,633 1,629 328 906 Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities Mongolia UTsK 1,595 10 1,585 253 26 158 LLC PT. Mirae Asset Sekuritas Indonesia 182,335 129,214 53,121 23,825 5,799 6,879 Mirae Asset Investment Asia Limited 3,339 6 3,333 11,471 (497) (651) 182 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 183 2017 2018 Associates Main business Location Percentage of Acquisition Carrying Share of Effect on ownership (%) cost amount Beginning ReclassifiDividend Ending Acquisition Disposal profits change balance cation received balance (losses) in equity Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd (*1) Insurance Korea 19.87 W 320,296 394,770 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset SMC RMB InvestorsⅡLimited Investment China 30.73 245 5,517 Daewoo Global Investment 8 (1) 7 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. Investment Singapore 24.53 280 Partnership PEF Transwestern Corporate PropertiesⅠLLC Investment USA 26.88 120,745 106,610 Mirae Asset Naver Asia 98,129 (3,404) (624) 94,101 Traphaco Joint Stock Company Manufacturing Vietnam 40.00 125,332 125,332 Growth PEF Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I Investment Korea 45.00 18,000 17,601 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 37 (37) Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth FundⅠ(*3) Investment Korea 50.00 10,000 9,685 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 27 27 Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth FundⅠ Investment Korea 45.00 11,250 10,764 Daewoo Special Purpose 39 (39) Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th (*4) Investment Korea 3.97 6,087 1,333 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st New Growth Engine Green Future PEF (*4) Investment Korea 9.99 1,223 1,259 73 73 SPAC Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Mirae Asset Daewoo 2nd Investment Korea 11.00 10 8 10 9 19 Investment Partnership PEF (*4) SPAC Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC (*2) SPAC Korea 0.31 19 37 W 673,055 360,840 (976) (9,867) (11,567) 30,350 7,205 1,049,040 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC (*2) SPAC Korea 0.29 14 27 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd SPAC Korea 0.37 39 39 Details of changes in the carrying amounts of investments in associates for the year ended December 31, (*2) 2017 are as follows: Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC (*2) SPAC Korea 0.83 40 73 2017 W 613,580 673,055 Share of Effect on (*1) The Group’s ownership is 21.60 and 26.28 percent as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 considering the treasury stocks Mirae Asset Life Insurance Beginning ReclassifiDividend Ending Acquisition Disposal profits change balance cation received balance Co., Ltd hold. (losses) in equity (*2) Although the Group’s ownership is less than 20 percent as of December 31, 2018, the Controlling Company has significant influence because it Mirae Asset Life has voting power over the financial and operating policies of the investee and thus was included as associate. W 360,177 (1,586) 37,427 (1,248) 394,770 Insurance Co., Ltd (*3) Although the Group’s ownership is more than 50 percent as of December 31, 2018, the Group does not have control since the Group is not the SMC RMB Investors II General Partner. 6,368 (2,671) 1,975 (155) 5,517 Limited. (*4) Since the Controlling Company is the General Partner, the Controlling Company has significant influence over those associates. Daewoo Global 21,143 (19,499) (1,644) Development Pte. Ltd. (2) Details of changes in the carrying amounts of investments in associates for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: Transwestern Corporate 9,449 116,673 (1,283) (10,058) 5,781 (13,952) 106,610 Properties I LLC 2018 Traphaco Joint Stock 125,332 125,332 Share of Effect on Company Beginning ReclassifiDividend Ending Acquisition Disposal profits change balance cation received balance Mirae Asset-NAVER New (losses) in equity 9,000 9,000 (399) 17,601 Growth Fund I Mirae Asset Life W 394,770 6,433 (4,903) 29,340 455 426,095 Mirae Asset-GS Retail Insurance Co., Ltd 10,000 (315) 9,685 New Growth FundⅠ Pantos Logistics Co., Ltd 145,000 145,000 Mirae Asset-Celltrion SMC RMB Investors II 11,250 (486) 10,764 5,517 (594) 45 4,968 New Growth FundⅠ Limited Mirae Asset Partners PEF Cassava Investment 1,072 (2) 263 1,333 4th Korea Pte. Ltd. Renaissance 1st PEF 5,497 (8,942) 3,445 Transwestern Corporate 106,610 2,171 (4,590) 6,960 11,760 122,911 New Growth Engine Properties I LLC 2,227 (1,080) 112 1,259 Green Future PEF Traphaco Joint Stock 125,332 (9,867) (2,074) 3,499 (4,488) 112,402 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Company Daewoo Global Investment 10 (2) 8 HPJV1 LLC 82,847 (3,940) 78,907 Partnership PEF Mirae Asset-NAVER New Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 37 37 17,601 (900) (345) 16,356 Growth Fund I Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 27 27 Mirae Asset-GS Retail 9,685 10,000 (1,198) 18,487 Daewoo SBI Special New Growth FundⅠ Purpose Acquisition 1 62 (62) Mirae Asset-Celltrion Co., Ltd 10,764 11,250 112 22,126 New Growth FundⅠ Daewoo Special Purpose Hancom-Miraeasset 4IR 46 (46) 5,000 (52) 4,948 Acquisition 2 Co., Ltd Fund Daewoo Special Purpose Mirae Asset Partners PEF 39 39 1,333 130 48 1,511 Acquisition 3 Co., Ltd 4th Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st New Growth Engine 40 27 6 73 1,259 (157) 1,102 SPAC Green Future PEF W 415,154 272,295 (30,850) (62) (14,315) 47,563 (16,730) 673,055 184 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 185 (3) Financial information of investments in associates as of December 31, 2018 is as follows: 18. Property and equipment 2018 (1) Details of property and equipment as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Total Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive 2018 revenue for the year income Furniture Data ConstrucMirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd W 34,640,500 32,580,300 2,060,200 3,781,253 101,821 40,199 Leasehold Land Structu-re Vehicles and processing tion in Others Total facilities Pantos Logistics Co., Ltd 145,000 145,000 fixtures equipment progress SMC RMB Investors II Limited 17,629 1,465 16,164 (2,276) (1,932) (1,790) Acquisition cost W 80,760 19,769 1,302 114,340 97,958 8,181 54,356 4,354 381,020 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. 2 11,295 (11,293) Accumulated (4,504) (1,010) (57,254) (77,869) (6,608) (1,623) (148,868) depreciation Transwestern Corporate Properties I 403,756 4 403,752 17,052 30,828 28,182 The carrying LLC W 80,760 15,265 292 57,086 20,089 1,573 54,356 2,731 232,152 amount, net Traphaco Joint Stock Company 56,629 7,997 48,632 20,914 1,733 (723) HPJV1 LLC 102,740 102,740 1,065 1,065 1,301 2017 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth 36,348 36,348 250 (767) (767) Furniture Data ConstrucFund I Leasehold Land Structu-re Vehicles and processing tion in Others Total Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth facilities fixtures equipment progress 36,975 36,975 143 (2,395) (2,395) Fund I Acquisition cost W 84,291 22,191 1,772 133,657 87,461 8,592 19,029 3,673 360,666 Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth 49,168 49,168 1,428 (99) (99) Accumulated Fund I (2,778) (1,498) (81,401) (68,441) (6,631) (1,341) (162,090) depreciation Hancom-Miraeasset 4IR Fund 15,343 4 15,339 33 (161) (161) The carrying W 84,291 19,413 274 52,256 19,020 1,961 19,029 2,332 198,576 Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 72,131 28 72,103 (2) (2) amount, net New Growth Engine Green Future 11,034 1 11,033 848 (1,572) (1,572) PEF (2) The Group did not recognized any impairment loss in property and equipment as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo 77 77 1 (2) (2) Global Investment Partnership PEF (3) Details of changes in property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Mirae Asset Naver Asia Growth PEF 202,835 13,186 189,649 (4,413) (6,268) (7,019) 2018 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 10,429 1,067 9,362 153 21 21 Beginning Reclassifiation Others Ending Acquisition Disposal Depreciation Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 9,976 1,115 8,861 38 38 balance (*1) (*2) balance Mirae Asset Daewoo 2nd SPAC 6,968 1,164 5,804 (12) (12) Land W 84,291 (3,118) (413) 80,760 Structure 19,413 2,283 (1,315) (2,196) (2,920) 15,265 Financial information of investments in associates as of December 31, 2017 is as follows: Vehicles 274 104 (132) 46 292 Furniture and fixtures 52,256 15,313 (612) (11,167) (36) 1,332 57,086 2017 Total Data processing equipment 19,020 10,497 (9,431) 3 20,089 Operating Profit (loss) Assets Liabilities Equity comprehensive Leasehold facilities(*3) 1,961 356 (744) 1,573 revenue for the year income Construction in progress 19,029 35,327 54,356 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd W 35,527,597 33,474,018 2,053,579 4,321,774 220,684 218,782 Others 2,332 628 (11) (354) 36 100 2,731 SMC RMB Investors II Limited. 19,611 1,657 17,954 7,009 6,428 5,923 W 198,576 64,508 (5,056) (24,024) (3,333) 1,481 232,152 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. 2 11,295 (11,293) (*1) Reclassification to Investment properties by changes of leasable area. Transwestern Corporate Properties I 396,661 19 396,642 21,509 21,509 (17,661) (*2) Changes in scope of consolidation and fluctuation of foreign exchange rate. LLC (*3) W356 million acquired from leasehold facilities through a transfer of provision of restoration incurred in relation to new lease contract. Traphaco Joint Stock Company 57,180 13,978 43,202 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth 39,368 254 39,114 141 (875) (875) 2017 Fund I Beginning Reclassifiation Others Ending Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth Acquisition Disposal Depreciat-ion 19,623 254 19,369 136 (631) (631) balance (*1) (*2) balance FundⅠ Land W 228,262 (4,115) (139,856) 84,291 Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth 24,299 379 23,920 58 (1,080) (1,080) Structure 47,132 (221) (3,251) (24,247) 19,413 FundⅠ Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 72,134 28 72,106 (57) (57) Vehicles 485 (72) (181) 42 274 New Growth Engine Green Future Furniture and fixtures 45,508 20,435 (4,494) (9,265) (66) 138 52,256 12,605 12,605 365 1,456 1,456 PEF Data processing equipment 22,816 5,058 (5) (8,828) 61 (82) 19,020 Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Leasehold facilities(*3) 2,643 808 (827) (663) 1,961 84 84 1 (4) (4) Global Investment Partnership PEF Construction in progress 19,029 19,029 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 12,995 1,206 11,789 14 14 Others 910 2,025 (53) (366) (184) 2,332 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 10,405 1,057 9,348 64 64 W 347,756 47,355 (8,960) (22,718) (164,771) (86) 198,576 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 12,067 1,541 10,526 5 5 (*1) Reclassification to Investment properties by changes of leasable area. 3 Co., Ltd (*2) Changes in scope of consolidation and fluctuation of foreign exchange rate. Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 9,900 1,077 8,823 19 19 (*3) W808 million acquired from leasehold facilities through a transfer of provision of restoration incurred in relation to new lease contract. 186 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 187 (4) The Group is leasing a portion of the buildings, including the Yeouido office building, etc., to Standard (6) Valuation methods of investment property and input factor are as follows: Chartered Bank Korea Limited, etc., and therefore, it established the right to collateral security of W14,136 Valuation technique Inputs million and W17,077 million as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 and the right to lease on a deposit basis of Land Transaction comparison approach Transaction price W3,916 million and W3,989 million related to the lease respectively. Future cash flows (deposits, rental income, expenses, Structures Discounted cash flow analysis vacancy rate and others), discount rates 19. Investment properties (1) Details of investment properties as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 20. Intangible assets 2018 (1) Details of changes in intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Land Structures Total 2018 Acquisition cost W 148,512 1,007,527 1,156,039 Goodwill Development cost Software Others Total Accumulated depreciation (69,859) (69,859) Beginning balance, net W 397,777 29,993 8,245 214,039 650,054 The carrying amount, net W 148,512 937,668 1,086,180 Acquisition 32,947 2,800 570 36,317 Transfers (*) 10,300 384 10,684 2017 Amortization (14,388) (3,759) (23,698) (41,845) Land Structures Total Disposal (968) (968) Acquisition cost W 260,113 920,433 1,180,546 Fluctuation of foreign Accumulated depreciation (39,946) (39,946) (10) (23) 616 583 exchange rate The carrying amount, net W 260,113 880,487 1,140,600 Ending balance, net W 397,777 58,842 7,647 190,559 654,825 (*) It is transferred from advance payments for the year ended December 31, 2018. (2) The Group has not recognized any impairment loss in investment properties as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. 2017 Goodwill Development cost Software Others Total (3) Details of changes in investment properties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Beginning balance, net W 397,777 23,330 12,102 222,672 655,881 2018 Acquisition 18,946 1,922 20,789 41,657 Beginning Reclassification Others Ending Acquisiti-on Disposal Depreciation balance (*1) (*2) balance Transfers 1,061 (1,061) Land W 260,113 (91,751) 413 (20,263) 148,512 Amortization (13,228) (4,720) (24,954) (42,902) Structures 880,487 85,596 (54,905) (29,866) 2,920 53,436 937,668 Impairment (153) (153) W 1,140,600 85,596 (146,656) (29,866) 3,333 33,173 1,086,180 Disposal (1,841) (1,841) Fluctuation of foreign (116) 2 (2,474) (2,588) exchange rate 2017 Beginning balance Depreciation Reclassification (*1) Others (*2) Ending balance Ending balance, net W 397,777 29,993 8,245 214,039 650,054 Land W 120,257 139,856 260,113 (2) Impairment test of intangible assets Structures 994,829 (29,116) 24,247 (109,473) 880,487 W 1,115,086 (29,116) 164,103 (109,473) 1,140,600 1) Details of intangible assets tested for impairment as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (*1) Reclassification from properties by changes of leasable area. 2018 2017 (*2) Effects from changes of foreign currency exchange rates and scope of consolidation. Goodwill W 397,777 397,777 Brand 56,614 56,614 (4) Details of gain (loss) on investment properties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as W 454,391 454,391 follows: 2018 2017 2) The recoverable amount of the assets was evaluated based upon their respective value in use. The value was Rental income W 143,810 147,303 calculated using DCF method with consideration of special aspects of financial institution. Direct operating expenses for investment properties that generated rental income (101,759) (70,244) i) Measurement date and projection period Measurement date for the calculation of recoverable amount is September 30, 2018 and its projection period for cash flow (5) Fair value of investment properties as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: estimates is adjusted to 5.25 years. Terminal growth rate used in measuring the periods beyond the projection period. 2018 2017 ii) Discount rate and terminal growth rate Land W 132,745 217,598 The required rates of return expected by shareholders were applied to the discount rates by calculating the cost of Structures 1,095,059 1,008,418 capital which comprises a risk-free interest rate, a market risk premium and a systemic risk (beta factor). Expected W 1,227,804 1,226,016 terminal growth rate after the projection period is estimated to be 1%. (*) Valuation was conducted by professional independent appraisers who have evaluated similar properties in the past. Valuation was based on inputs iii) The main assumptions used in estimating future cash flow are the rate of GDP growth and Consumer Price Index (CPI). used in valuation technique and fair values is classified to Level 3. 188 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 189 3) As a result of an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the intangible assets exceeds its book value by (2) Details of the securities in short position as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: W531,651 million, therefore no impairment was recognized. 2018 2017 Valuation Equity securities W 598,486 Fair value 21. Other assets Bonds 218,314 Fair value Others (ETF sold) 83 Fair value Details of other assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: W 816,883 2018 2017 (*) The Group treats securities lending and borrowing, manages memorandum account for the securities borrowed from the Korea Securities Advance payments W 24,764 80,693 Depository and recognizes them as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss when the Group sells securities borrowed. In addition, the Group also recognizes as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss for short selling of securities without performing securities lending Prepaid expenses 37,485 25,071 and borrowing. Others 7,775 8,147 W 70,024 113,911 (3) Details of the financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 22. Pledged assets Hybrid financial instruments Equity-linked securities W 12,144,915 Details of pledged assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Other derivatives combine securities sold 3,150,509 2018 2017 Purpose W 15,295,424 Cash and cash equivalent W 394,487 Securities lending and borrowing (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were reclassified as financial liabilities designated as Financial assets at fair value through Securities sold under repurchase agreements(*1), securities measured at fair value through profit of loss as of December 31, 2018, and are included in note 24-(2). 20,112,781 profit or loss borrowing, trading with collateral on derivatives(*2), etc. Financial assets measured at fair Securities sold under repurchase agreements(*1), securities 22,199,657 value through profit or loss borrowing, trading with collateral on derivatives(*2), etc. 24. Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Securities sold under repurchase agreements(*1), BTL Available-for-sale financial assets 4,660,612 (Build-Transfer-Lease)(*3), etc. The Group’s financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss is classified with financial liabilities measured at Financial assets measured at fair fair value through profit or loss and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss. value through other comprehensive 6,478,173 Securities sold under repurchase agreements(*1), etc. income (1) Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables 31,489,442 Derivatives-linked securities, payments and settlements etc. Financial assets at amortized cost 52,107,489 Derivatives-linked securities, payments and settlements etc. i) Details of the financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: W 80,785,319 56,657,322 2018 2017(*) (*1) The Group has a contract to repurchase the transferred assets at predetermined price or selling price, plus a certain rate of return, and therefore, financial assets derecognized are provided as collaterals and the transferee can sell or practice rehypothecation. After transfer, the Group Securities in short position W 569,076 recognizes securities sold under repurchase agreements as liabilities since the transferred asset is continuously recognized. Derivative liabilities 1,711,362 (*2) The Group provides securities or bonds as collateral that correspond to a certain percentage of amount of securities borrowed during loan transaction, and also provides collateral for the margin call arising due to the decline in valuation of derivative in OTC derivative transactions. W 2,280,438 (*3) In connection with BTL business, 52,227 shares of Hawoon Education Corp., which is the operating company of the BTL business are provided to (*) The above items were classified as financial liabilities held for trading as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 23. the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives as collateral. (*4) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, available-forii) Details of the securities in short position as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: sale financial assets and loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and financial assets measured at amortized cost Description(*) 2018 2017 Valuation as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Equity securities W 275,775 Fair value Securities in short position Bonds 293,261 Fair value 23. Financial liabilities at financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss Others (ETF sold) 40 Fair value W 569,076 The Group’s financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit (*) The Group treats securities lending and borrowing, manages memorandum account for the securities borrowed from the Korea Securities or loss held for trading and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. Depository and recognizes them as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss when the Group sells securities borrowed. In addition, the Group also recognizes as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss for short selling of securities without performing securities lending (1) Details of the financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss held for trading as of December 31, and borrowing. 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (2) Financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss 2018(*) 2017 Securities in short position W 816,883 i) Details of the financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Derivative liabilities 1,320,154 Reason for designation Description 2018 2017(*) W 2,137,037 Equity-linked securities sold W 12,029,041 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were reclassified as financial liabilities measured at fair Hybrid financial assets Other derivatives combine securities sold 3,430,529 value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018, and are included in note 24-(1). W 15,459,570 (*) The above items were classified as financial liabilities held for trading as of December 31, 2017 and are included in note 23. 190 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 191 ii) Details of changes in fair value by credit risk fluctuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through 2017 profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: Lender Interest rate (%) Amount 2018 Korea Securities Finance Corp. and 1.50~1.73 W 2,300,000 others Beginning balance W 2,485 Borrowings Dongbu Insurance Co., Ltd. and Credit risk increase recognized in other comprehensive income 7,696 3.40~5.50 69,231 others Credit risk decrease recognized in other comprehensive income (342) KDB Bank and others 1.75~6.80 842,866 Disposal (3,799) Call money Woori bank and others 1.62~1.72 600,000 Income tax effect (978) Securities sold under repurchase agreements Others 0.10~3.20 43,132,859 Ending balance W 5,062 Others 0.10~1.75 2,445,240 W 49,390,196 iii) Differences of contractual payment due at maturity and the carrying amount of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (2) Details of changes of cash flow in borrowings for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as Contractual payment at maturity Book value Difference follows: Equity-linked securities sold W 11,852,267 12,029,041 (176,774) 2018 2017 Other derivatives combine securities sold 3,368,876 3,430,529 (61,653) Beginning balance W 49,390,196 18,946,894 W 15,221,143 15,459,570 (238,427) Changes from financing cash flow Changes of borrowings, net 6,274,498 3,040,699 Effect from fluctuations in exchange rate 1,313,271 (67,810) 25. Deposits due to customers (“Deposits”) Others 15,385,435 27,470,413 Ending balance W 72,363,400 49,390,196 Details of the deposits due to customers as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 Customers’ deposits 27. Debentures Customers’ deposits for brokerage W 4,736,347 4,408,358 Customers' deposits for exchange Details of the debentures as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 338,691 440,557 traded derivatives trading (1) General bonds Customers’ deposits for savings 44,714 62,078 Customers’ deposits for collective Issued date Due date Interest rate (%) 2018 2017 281,319 168,391 investment securities The 4th public offering subordinated Debenture 2013.02.21 2018.08.21 4.100 W 200,000 Others 1,967 12,402 The 5th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.07.28 2022.01.28 3.500 300,000 300,000 5,403,038 5,091,786 The 38-3rd public offering Debenture 2012.11.20 2019.11.20 3.370 50,000 50,000 Guarantee for credit account 3,160 The 39-1st public offering Debenture 2015.05.28 2018.05.28 2.098 250,000 Others 62,500 23,931 The 39-2nd public offering Debenture 2015.05.28 2020.05.28 2.387 50,000 50,000 W 5,465,538 5,118,877 The 40th public offering Debenture 2016.06.03 2019.06.03 1.857 250,000 250,000 The 41th public offering Debenture 2016.06.29 2021.06.29 1.833 80,000 80,000 The 42th public offering Debenture 2016.07.22 2021.07.22 1.768 170,000 170,000 26. Borrowings The 43th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.12.08 2022.06.08 4.000 40,000 40,000 (1) Details of the borrowings as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: The 44th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.12.15 2022.06.15 4.000 210,000 210,000 The 45th public offering subordinated Debenture 2016.12.20 2022.06.20 4.000 150,000 150,000 2018 Lender Interest rate (%) Amount The 46th public offering subordinated Debenture 2017.01.20 2022.07.20 3.700 220,000 220,000 Korea Securities Finance Corp. The 47-1st public offering subordinated Debenture 2018.04.26 2021.04.26 2.707 260,000 1.89~2.28 W 3,570,447 and others The 47-2nd public offering subordinated Debenture 2018.04.26 2023.04.26 3.005 240,000 Borrowings KEB Hana Bank and others 3.40~5.50 47,872 The 48-1st public offering subordinated Debenture 2018.09.12 2021.09.12 2.287 110,000 KDB Bank and others 2.80~7.90 587,676 The 48-2nd public offering subordinated Debenture 2018.09.12 2023.09.12 2.505 260,000 Call money KB Kookmin bank and others 1.87~2.01 1,810,000 The 48-3rd public offering subordinated Debenture 2018.09.12 2025.09.12 2.691 130,000 Securities sold under repurchase agreements Others 0.30~7.01 62,648,535 Unsecured Reg S Senior Bond 2018.11.07 2021.11.06 4.125 335,220 Others 0.13~2.30 3,698,870 MAPS HAWAII TWO LLC Mezzanine Loan 2016.09.12 2021.09.22 5.400 162,125 155,353 W 72,363,400 MAS/2018/CNSHTP-01 2018.04.16 2019.04.16 7.900 2,412 MAS/2018/CNSHTP-02 2018.04.16 2019.04.16 7.900 2,412 MAS/2018/CNSHTP-03 2018.04.16 2020.04.16 7.900 2,412 MAS/2/2018/CNSHTP-01 2018.07.09 2019.07.09 7.900 772 MAS/2/2018/CNSHTP-02 2018.07.09 2019.07.09 7.900 5,018 192 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 193 Issued date Due date Interest rate (%) 2018 2017 2017 Face Value 3,030,371 2,125,353 Provision of Provision of Others Total restoration litigations Discount on Debentures (6,349) (157) Beginning balance W 10,114 4,556 482 15,152 Book Value W 3,024,022 2,125,196 Provisions provided(*) 954 12,403 346 13,703 Reversal of unused amount (668) (2,736) (3,404) (2) Asset backed short-term bond Provisions used (649) (4,230) (195) (5,074) 2018 Ending balance W 9,751 9,993 633 20,377 Lender Interest rate (%) Amount (*) Provisions provided for the year ended December 31, 2017 consist of provision of restoration of ₩954 million which occurred in relation to new Samsung Investment Trust lease contracts and interest expenses, provision of allowance for litigations ₩12,403 million and provisions related to point provided to customers Asset backed short-term bond 1.99 ~ 2.75 W 1,225,183 Management Co., Ltd and others ₩346 million. (3) Details of changes in expected credit loss of off-balance items as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: 2017 Lender Interest rate (%) Amount Purchase Agreement Financial guarantee Unused credit line Total Samsung Investment Trust 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL Asset backed short-term bond 1.70 ~ 2.07 W 960,301 Management Co., Ltd and others Beginning Balance W 413 1,940 116 2,469 Replace to Lifetime ECL (3) Details of changes in debentures for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Replace to 12-month ECL 2018 2017 Provision allowances (Reversal) 91 696 1,896 2,683 Beginning balance W 3,085,497 2,725,625 Other changes 18 18 Changes from financing cash flow Ending Balance 522 2,636 2,012 5,170 Changes of debentures, net 1,159,392 382,541 Financial guarantee Amortization of discount on debentures (885) (2,937) liabilities 65,412 65,412 Effect from fluctuations in exchange rate 5,201 (19,732) Provision(*) 522 2,636 2,012 5,170 Ending balance W 4,249,205 3,085,497 (*) When amount of expected credit losses exceeds amount of financial guarantee liabilities, the excess amount is recognized as provisions(described in note 29). 28. Provisions (4) Details of changes in balances of off-balance items as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Purchase Agreement Financial guarantee Unused credit line (1) Details of provisions as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Total 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL 12-month ECL Lifetime ECL 2018 2017 Beginning Balance W 1,438,500 1,769,876 369,714 3,578,090 Provisions: Replace to Lifetime ECL Provision of restoration(*) W 9,288 9,751 Replace to 12-month Provision of litigations 7,314 9,993 ECL Provision of off-balance items 5,170 Increase (Decrease) 103,400 (482,632) 485,720 106,488 Others 1,154 633 Ending Balance W 1,541,900 1,287,244 855,434 3,684,578 W 22,926 20,377 (*) Provision of restoration represents the estimated costs to restore the existing leased properties, which are discounted to the present value using the appropriate discount rate at the end of the reporting period. Disbursements of such costs are expected to occur at the end of the lease contract. Such costs are reasonably estimated using the average lease year from initial contract date to the end of the contract as of December 31, 2018. The average restoration expense is calculated based on the actual costs incurred for the past five years using the five-year average inflation rate. (2) Details of changes in provisions(except for provisions of off-balance items) for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 Provision of Provision of Others Total restoration litigations Beginning balance W 9,751 9,993 633 20,377 Provisions provided(*) 485 4,500 804 5,789 Reversal of unused amount (948) (7,150) (8,098) Others (29) (283) (312) Ending balance W 9,288 7,314 1,154 17,756 (*) Provisions provided for the year ended December 31, 2018 consist of provision of restoration of ₩485 million which occurred in relation to new lease contracts and interest expenses, provision of allowance for litigations ₩4,500 million and provisions related to point provided to customers W804 million. 194 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 195 29. Other liabilities 30. Derivatives for trading (1) Details of other liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (1) Details of derivatives for trading as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Other financial liabilities: Contracts Assets Liabilities Contracts Assets Liabilities Accounts payable W 7,546,316 6,173,968 Equity: Accrued expenses 287,994 272,232 Futures W 2,587,807 27,632 11,944 730,121 6,257 6,051 Deposits received 20,102 22,709 Option 13,610,056 52,865 474,834 18,371,016 161,338 360,723 Financial guarantee contract liabilities 65,412 83,663 Swaps 14,549,189 233,276 512,427 10,700,826 143,622 131,808 Dividends payable 2 2 30,747,052 313,773 999,205 29,801,963 311,217 498,582 7,919,826 6,552,574 Interest rate: Other liabilities: Forwards 280,000 28,244 20,000 99 Deposits received 36,931 45,191 Futures 2,368,526 1,857 9,320 791,646 1,796 219 Advance received 7,609 140,668 Option 2,419,528 25,933 84,438 2,102,619 22,226 75,159 Income in advance 20,224 16,807 Swaps 101,902,780 236,733 347,122 136,647,683 248,990 305,476 Defined benefit liabilities 1,175 634 106,970,834 264,523 469,124 139,561,948 273,012 380,953 Others 1,818,578 1,415,262 Currency: 1,884,517 1,618,562 Forwards 33,090,600 278,549 244,124 21,270,777 357,422 379,388 W 9,804,343 8,171,136 Futures 89,002 827 22,488 3,659 179 Option 77,034 1,766 (2) Defined benefit liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Swaps 4,727,255 102,246 93,643 5,071,783 112,423 102,617 2018 2017 37,906,857 380,795 338,594 26,442,082 475,270 482,184 Defined benefit obligation W 1,246 717 Credit: Transfer from national pension (71) (83) Swaps 2,512,227 14,185 8,783 3,201,472 24,298 13,507 Defined benefit liabilities W 1,175 634 Commodity: Futures 162,583 2,602 4,355 25,866 670 768 (3) Details of changes in defined benefit obligation for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as Option 409,804 6,955 8,397 38,570 67 follows: Swaps 16,351 2,168 208 152,940 1,547 9,590 2018 2017 588,738 11,725 12,960 217,376 2,217 10,425 Beginning balance W 717 570 Others: Current service cost 677 297 Option 13,000 59 13,000 86 Salaries paid (158) (99) Swaps 351,511 17,666 417,925 1,150 19,735 Gain/loss on foreign exchange 10 (51) ELW 13,688 11,648 Ending balance(*) W 1,246 717 Others 8,192 24,431 24,929 364,511 8,251 31,354 455,356 26,165 31,383 (*) The amount, which is for temporary employees was calculated using a simple method due to difficulty of reliable estimation. Credit value adjustment (4,254) (1,966) (5,019) (2,319) (4) Details of changes in plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Day 1 profit 2018 2017 or loss (23,143) (147,846) 3,466 (94,561) Beginning balance W 83 97 W 179,090,219 965,855 1,710,208 199,680,197 1,110,626 1,320,154 Benefits paid by the plan (12) (14) Ending balance W 71 83 (2) Details of gains or losses on valuation and transaction of derivatives for trading for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (5) Details of expenses recognized in profit or loss regarding retirement benefits for the years ended December 2018 2017 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Valuation Transaction Valuation Transaction 2018 2017 Equity W (288,844) 497,718 261,850 517,085 Defined contribution W 34,250 34,821 Interest rate (82,644) (29,287) 58,455 29,216 Defined benefit 677 298 Currency 25,353 (50,338) (31,109) 267,936 W 34,927 35,119 Credit (532) 4,850 (4,452) 7,997 Commodity 4,908 (3,710) 30,524 (13,509) Others (2,512) 177,736 (17,993) (19,413) W (344,271) 596,969 297,275 789,312 196 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 197 31. Derivatives for hedging (3) Ineffective portion of hedging (1) Strategy of risk management i) Details of changes in fair value used on the basis of recognition of hedge ineffectiveness for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: The Group has a foreign currency exposure arising from net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency Fair value fluctuation for differs from the Group's presentation currency. The Group uses forward exchange as a hedging instrument to hedge foreign testing hedge effectiveness Reserves of Effective portion foreign exchange currency risk. Hedging Hedged translation instruments item Prospective effectiveness testing should be performed at the inception of the hedge and each reporting date. The hedge Hedges of a Net Investment in Foreign relationship is highly effective because the foreign currency gains and losses on the hedged item (net investment) that are Operations attributable to the hedged risk (changes in spot exchange rates) are expected to be offset by the foreign currency gains and Currency rate fluctuation risk W (16,743) 16,743 (11,731) 869 losses on the hedging instrument (forward exchange). ii) There is no hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss in relation to net investment hedge in foreign operations for Because the critical terms of the hedging instrument perfectly match the critical terms of the hedged item and the foreign the year ended December 31, 2018. currency exposure of hedging instrument is designated as a hedge of the change in the same nominal amount of the hedged item, the relative weight of the nominal amount between the hedging instrument and the hedged item is 1:1. The Group is exposed to credit risk of the hedging instrument which is not offset by credit risk of the hedged item in relation 32. Capital stock to the net investment risk of the foreign operation. Unsettled portions of the credit risk of the hedging instrument and the credit risk of the hedged item are the main sources of hedge ineffectiveness. However, the Group expects the credit risk does (1) Authorized shares of capital stock for the Group as of December 31, 2018 are 1,000,000,000 shares. not significantly increase and there is no hedge ineffectiveness. (2) Details of the capital stock for the Group as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (2) Hedge instruments (Derivative assets and liabilities) 2018 2017 Issued shares of capital stock W 658,316,408 shares 666,316,408 shares i) Details of Derivatives for hedging as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Issued shares of capital stock (preferred stock) 14,075,750 shares 14,075,750 shares 2018 2017 Issued shares of capital stock (2 preferred stock) 140,000,000 shares Contracts Assets Liabilities Contracts Assets Liabilities Par value per share (in Korean won) 5,000 5,000 Hedges of a Net Investment Capital stock(*) W 4,101,961 3,401,961 in Foreign Operations (*) Due to retirement of stock during the year, the amount of capital stock does not correspond to total face value of the Group’s issued shares. Currency Forwards W 334,856 2,260 1,154 374,440 11,950 Fair value hedges Currency Forwards(*) 123,621 2,654 33. Capital surplus (*) The forward exchange designated for fair value hedging as of December 31, 2017 is no longer applied to hedge accounting as a result of the reclassification of the hedged foreign currency available for sale as mentioned in note 4-(1)-3)-iii). Details of capital surplus as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 ii) Maturity and Nominal amounts of Derivatives for hedging as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Additional paid-in capital W 1,795,980 1,809,156 Maturity Gain on sales of treasury stocks 353,786 351,446 Less than 1 month ~ 3 months ~ More than Total Consideration of convertible bonds 2,623 2,623 1 month 3 months 1 year 5 years Hedges of a Net Investment in Others 1,523 1,424 Foreign Operations W 2,153,912 2,164,649 Currency Forwards Nominal Amount(*) W 223,620 111,236 334,856 Average foreign currency exchange rate (KRW/Dollar) 1,120.52 1,088.70 (*) If the nominal amount of the won and foreign currency basis exists at the same time, such as a currency swap, the nominal amount of the foreign currency basis was converted using the exchange rate at the year end. 198 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 199 34. Retained earnings and dividends 2018 2017 Expected date of appropriation: Determined date of appropriation: (1) The Group’s legal reserve and other reserves as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: March 27, 2019 March 27, 2018 2018 2017 II. Transfer from voluntary reserves, etc. Legal reserve(*1) W 121,513 109,044 Transfer from regulatory reserve for loan losses 13,120 Reserve for loss on future transactions(*2) 67 67 13,120 Other regulatory reserve 1,448 III. Appropriation of retained earnings Regulatory reserve for loan losses 88,581 50,849 Legal reserve 15,391 12,469 Unappropriated retained earnings 2,038,533 1,715,023 Regulatory reserve for loan losses 37,732 W 2,250,142 1,874,983 Cash dividends Dividends per share in won (*1) T he Commercial Law of the Republic of Korea requires the Company to appropriate an amount equal to a minimum of 10% of cash dividends Common stock paid as a legal reserve, until such reserve equals 50% of its issued capital stock. This reserve is not available for the payment of cash dividends, but Current year: W220 (4.4%) may be transferred to capital stock, or used to reduce accumulated deficit, if any, with the ratification of the Group’s majority shareholders. Previous year: W220 (4.4%) (*2) Pursuant to Article 50 of the Korean Futures Trading Act and Article 13-10 of the Enforcement Decree of the same Act , the Group reserved for loss on futures. The additional reserve for loss on futures transactions is not required according to enactment of the Act on Indirect Investment Asset Preferred stock 153,907 124,692 Management Business and is classified as voluntary reserves. Current year: W242(4.84%) Previous year: W242(4.84%) (2) Details of changes in unappropriated retained earnings for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 2 Preferred stock are as follows: Current year: W220(4.4%) Previous year: 2018 2017 169,298 174,893 Beginning balance W 1,715,023 1,284,667 IV. Unappropriated retained earnings to be carried W 1,715,900 1,430,271 Adoption effect of K-IFRS No.1109 120,150 over to subsequent year Net income attributable to equity holder of the Controlling Company 456,565 503,176 Dividends (124,692) (25,941) Provision for legal reserve (12,469) (78,136) 35. Capital adjustment and accumulated other comprehensive income Reversal of (Provision for) regulatory reserve for loan losses (37,732) 31,257 (1) Details of capital adjustment as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Regulatory reserve allowances (1,448) 2018 2017 Retirement of treasury stock (76,864) Treasury stock W (62,000) (62,463) Ending balance W 2,038,533 1,715,023 Stock options 1,836 1,836 Others(*) 53,317 52,913 (3) Details of dividend for the year ended December 31, 2018, are as follows: W (6,847) (7,714) Treasury stock Shares Cash dividend Total Description Issued shares (*) It is the stock options and others endowed applying financial investment company compensation system framework by financial supervisory service. (shares) outstanding per share (in won) cash dividend Common stock 666,316,408 110,377,511 555,938,897 W 220 W 122,307 (2) Details of accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Preferred stock 14,075,750 4,219,960 9,855,790 242 2,385 2018 2017 2 preferred stock 140,000,000 140,000,000 Gain on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets W 111,810 820,392,158 114,597,471 705,794,687 W 124,692 Loss on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through (59,740) other comprehensive income(*) (4) Statements of appropriation of retained earnings of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2018 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities measured at fair value through and 2017 are as follows: profit or loss 5,062 2018 2017 Gain on valuation of derivatives 869 12,600 Expected date of appropriation: Determined date of appropriation: Gain on valuation of investments in associates 22,578 16,677 March 27, 2019 March 27, 2018 Loss on foreign currency translation adjustment (154,383) (218,293) I. Unappropriated retained earnings W (185,614) (77,206) Unappropriated retained earning carried forward from W 1,430,271 1,180,736 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), net changes the prior year in unrealized valuation of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as net changes in unrealized valuation of Adoption effect of K-IFRS No.1109 84,586 financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018. Retirement in treasury stock (76,864) Net income for the year 434,085 424,428 1,872,078 1,605,164 200 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 201 36. Regulatory reserve for loan losses 38. Gains (Losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (1) According to the Regulation on Financial Investment Business 3-8, if the allowances for loan losses reserved (1) Details of gains on change in value of and disposal of financial instruments at fair value through profit or for the accounting purpose in accordance with K-IFRS are less than the amount of the allowances for loan loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: losses reserving with the supervision purpose, the differences are disclosed as regulatory reserve for loan losses. 2018(*) 2017 Gain on disposal of financial assets held for trading W 604,229 (2) Details of the ending balance of regulatory reserve for loan losses as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading 161,133 follows: Gain on disposal of financial liabilities held for trading 76,691 2018 2017 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 7,955 Regulatory reserve for loan losses W 88,581 50,849 Gain on transaction of derivatives 4,123,010 Estimated regulatory reserve for loan losses(*) (13,120) 37,732 Gain on valuation of derivatives 1,349,772 W 75,461 88,581 Gain on disposal of financial assets designated at 187,104 fair value through profit or loss (*) On estimated regulatory reserve for loan losses, W5,410 million for the decrease effect of regulatory reserve by the adoption of K-IFRS No. 1109 are included. Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at 57,235 fair value through profit or loss (3) Details of net income and earnings per share adjusted for regulatory reserve for the years ended December Gain on disposal of financial liabilities designated at 226,576 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: fair value through profit or loss Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated at 2018 2017 208,981 fair value through profit or loss Net income W 456,565 503,176 W 7,002,686 Provision for (Reversal of) regulatory reserve for loan losses 13,120 (37,732) Net income adjusted for regulatory reserve W 469,685 465,444 (2) Details of losses on change in value of and disposal of financial instruments at fair value through profit or Earnings per share adjusted for regulatory reserve (in Korean won) loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: EPS for Common stock 679 874 2018(*) 2017 EPS for 2 Preferred stock 679 Loss on disposal of financial assets held for trading W 398,814 Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 111,301 Loss on disposal of financial liabilities held for trading 104,066 37. Fee income and expense Loss on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 21,512 (1) Fee income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Loss on transaction of derivatives 3,333,698 2018 2017 Loss on valuation of derivatives 1,052,497 Brokerage commissions W 504,421 432,314 Loss on disposal of financial assets designated at 45,346 fair value through profit or loss Underwriting commissions 120,425 85,335 Loss on valuation of financial assets designated at Handling fee of collective investments 86,217 89,056 47,561 fair value through profit or loss Management fee on asset management 35,511 26,795 Loss on disposal of financial liabilities designated at 1,306,255 Advisory fee 472 5,070 fair value through profit or loss Trust fee 51,938 40,657 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated at 435,803 fair value through profit or loss Others 260,098 216,012 W 6,856,853 W 1,059,082 895,239 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were reclassified as gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 and are included in note 39. (2) Fee expenses incurred for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 Trading commissions W 55,075 47,717 Investment solicitor fee 4,486 4,075 Others 144,252 109,251 W 203,813 161,043 202 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 203 39. Gains (Losses) on financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 41. Gains and losses on valuation and disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (1) Details of gains on change in value of and disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through profit (1) Details of gains on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income recognized or loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017(*) 2018 2017(*) Gain on disposal of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss W 666,040 Gain on disposal of financial assets at fair value through other Gain on valuation of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 403,760 W 4,885 comprehensive income Gain on disposal of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 86,670 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or (2) Details of losses on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income recognized for the 29,658 loss years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Gain on transaction of derivatives 5,484,272 2018 2017(*) Gain on valuation of derivatives 851,210 Loss on disposal of financial assets at fair value through other Gain on disposal of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair W 4,082 274,707 comprehensive income value through profit or loss (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were reclassified as gains and losses on valuation and Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair 477,367 disposal of available-for-sale financial assets for the year ended December 31, 2017 and are included in note 40. value through profit or loss W 8,273,684 42. Interest income and expense (2) Details of losses on change in value of and disposal of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (1) Details of interest income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017(*) 2018 2017 Loss on disposal of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss W 817,340 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Loss on valuation of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 527,756 Interest on securities W 422,197 Loss on disposal of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 89,060 Interest on derivatives 4,944 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 19,482 427,141 Loss on transaction of derivatives 4,887,303 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss Loss on valuation of derivatives 1,195,481 Interest on securities 461,184 Loss on disposal of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair Interest on derivatives 6,840 625,892 value through profit or loss Interest on loans 16,363 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated as measured at fair 216,067 484,387 value through profit or loss W 8,378,381 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest on securities 123,542 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were reclassified as gains (losses) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 and are included in note 38. Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Interest on securities 130,349 40. Gains and losses on valuation and disposal of available-for-sale financial assets Loans and receivables Interest on deposits 76,510 (1) Details of gains on available-for-sale financial assets recognized for the years ended December 31, 2018 and Interest on loans 500,164 2017 are as follows: Interest on other assets 25,411 2018(*) 2017 602,085 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets W 114,487 Financial assets measured at amortized cost Interest on deposits 98,866 (2) Details of losses on available-for-sale financial assets recognized for the years ended December 31, 2018 Interest on loans 1,553,804 and 2017 are as follows: Interest on other assets 140,967 2018(*) 2017 1,793,637 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets W 25,058 Total W 2,408,373 1,152,768 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 27,168 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at amortized cost, financial assets W 52,226 measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), the above items were reclassified as gains and losses on valuation and 2018, respectively. disposal of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income for the year ended December 30, 2018 and are included in note 41. 204 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 205 (2) Details of interest expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Foreign Currency Won Foreign Currency Won Interest on derivatives W 7,001 5,977 Liabilities Interest on deposits due to customers 45,637 28,869 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit W 2,333,147 W 2,499,734 or loss Interest on borrowings 1,451,105 436,522 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Interest on debentures 100,853 70,975 2,471,322 2,763,185 through profit or loss Others 149,616 39,110 Deposits due to customers 844,785 944,555 502,509 538,388 W 1,754,212 581,453 Borrowings 46,482,899 51,972,529 29,061,466 31,136,454 Other financial liabilities 2,987,787 3,340,645 3,036,420 3,253,221 52,786,793 W 59,020,914 34,933,542 W 37,427,797 43. Gains and losses on loans (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial Details of gains and losses on loans for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: assets, loans and receivables and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, financial assets measured 2018(*) 2017 at amortized cost and as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Gain on sales of loan W 3,553 Reversal of allowances for loan losses 1,478 (2) Details of gains and losses on foreign currency transactions for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Loss on sales of loan (175) Bad debt expense (1,967) 2018 2017 W 2,889 Gains on foreign currency transactions W 1,051,562 675,181 Gains on foreign currency translations 130,333 67,478 (*) Bad debt expense (reversal) of loans was reclassified as allowances (reversals) of provision on expected credit losses in note 44. Losses on foreign currency transactions (1,215,447) (662,328) Losses on foreign currency translations (77,297) (235,981) 44. Allowances (Reversals) of provision on expected credit losses W (110,849) (155,650) Details of allowances (reversals) of provision on expected credit losses recognized for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: 46. Other operating income and expense 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (Note 12) W 2,269 (1) Details of other operating income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Financial assets at amortized cost (Note 14) 10,695 2018 2017 Provision for off-balance items (Note 28) 2,683 Dividend income W 81,374 165,327 W 15,647 Distribution income 144,892 54,986 Rental income from investment property 143,810 147,303 Reversal of other bad debt allowances 715 45. Gains and losses on foreign transaction Gain on hedged item 1,569 (1) Details of the assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as Gain on hedging instrument 7,327 follows: Reversal of allowances for litigation 7,150 2,736 (In thousands of dollar, in millions of won) Others 16,777 5,817 2018 2017 W 394,003 385,780 Foreign Currency Won Foreign Currency Won Assets (2) Details of other operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Cash and cash equivalent 1,088,198 W 1,216,714 677,938 W 726,342 2018 2017 Financial assets at fair value through profit or Other bad debt expense W 1,653 3,712,558 3,977,635 loss Provision of allowances for litigation 4,500 12,403 Financial assets measured at fair value through 5,400,190 6,037,952 Loss on hedged item 7,327 profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets 1,156,144 1,238,693 Loss on hedging instrument 1,569 Financial assets measured at fair value through Others 41,516 11,728 1,892,826 2,116,369 other comprehensive income W 46,016 34,680 Loans and receivables 29,101,292 31,179,124 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 48,171,188 53,860,205 Other financial assets 944 1,056 2,914,710 3,122,820 56,553,346 W 63,232,296 37,562,642 W 40,244,614 206 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 207 47. Classification of financial instruments by category 2017 Financial liabilities Financial (1) Details of categories of financial assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: liabilities held for designated at Other financial Total fair value through liabilities trading 2018 profit or loss Financial assets Debentures 3,085,497 3,085,497 Financial assets Financial assets measured at fair measured at fair Other financial liabilities 6,552,574 6,552,574 measured at value through other Total value through profit amortized cost comprehensive W 2,137,037 15,295,424 64,147,144 81,579,605 or loss income Cash and cash equivalents W 1,717,840 1,717,840 (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, available-for-sale financial assets, loans and receivables and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair Financial assets measured at fair value value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, financial assets measured at amortized 35,064,492 35,064,492 through profit or loss cost and as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Financial assets measured at fair value 8,203,073 8,203,073 through other comprehensive income (3) Details of gains (losses) on the financial instruments classified into the categories above for the year ended Financial assets at amortized cost 69,385,395 69,385,395 December 31, 2018 are as follows: W 71,103,235 35,064,492 8,203,073 114,370,800 2018 Dividend Gain on Loss on Allowances of Interest income and Gain on Loss on transaction transaction provision on 2017 income distribution valuation valuation and and expected credit (expense) Financial assets income redemption redemption losses(*4) designated AvailableFinancial assets: Loans and Financial assets at fair value for-sale Total receivables held for trading Financial assets through profit financial assets or loss measured at fair value through Cash and cash equivalents W 1,374,449 1,374,449 W 194,187 477,547 403,760 (527,756) 666,040 (817,340) profit or loss Financial assets held for trading 28,199,027 28,199,027 (except for Financial assets designated at fair value derivatives) 2,068,506 2,068,506 through profit or loss Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 8,838,520 8,838,520 measured at fair value Loans and receivables 46,923,425 46,923,425 12,237 130,349 4,885 (4,082) (2,269) through other W 48,297,874 28,199,027 2,068,506 8,838,520 87,403,927 comprehensive income(*1) (*) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets held for trading, available-for-sale financial assets, loans and Financial assets receivables and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair measured at 1,793,637 (10,695) value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, financial assets measured at amortized amortized cost cost and as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018, respectively. 206,424 2,401,533 403,760 (527,756) 670,925 (821,422) (12,964) (2) Details of categories of financial liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Financial liabilities: 2018 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair Financial liabilities Financial liabilities value through designated as 29,658 (19,482) 86,670 (89,060) measured at fair value measured at Total profit or loss measured at fair value through profit or loss amortized cost through profit or loss (except for Financial liabilities measured at fair value derivatives) W 2,280,438 2,280,438 through profit or loss Financial liabilities Financial liabilities designated as measured designated as 15,459,570 15,459,570 measured at fair 477,367 (216,067) 274,707 (625,892) at fair value through profit or loss value through Deposits due to customers 5,465,538 5,465,538 profit or loss(*2) Borrowings 72,363,400 72,363,400 Deposits due to (45,637) Debentures 4,249,205 4,249,205 customers Other financial liabilities 7,919,826 7,919,826 Borrowings (1,451,105) W 2,280,438 15,459,570 89,997,969 107,737,977 Debentures (100,853) Other financial (149,616) liabilities 2017 (1,747,211) 507,025 (235,549) 361,377 (714,952) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities held for designated at Other financial Total Derivatives(*3) (161) 851,210 (1,195,481) 5,484,272 (4,887,303) fair value through liabilities trading W 206,424 654,161 1,761,995 (1,958,786) 6,516,574 (6,423,677) (12,965) profit or loss Financial liabilities held for trading W 2,137,037 2,137,037 (*1) Gains and losses on valuation and disposal of equity securities designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are excluded because they are recognized to equity (details described in Note 12). Financial liabilities designated at fair value 15,295,424 15,295,424 (*2) The above items were excluded, as changes in fair value by credit risk fluctuation is recognized as other comprehensive income (details described through profit or loss in Note 24). Deposits due to customers 5,118,877 5,118,877 (*3) Except for the designation of the derivative financial assets to effective hedge instrument, the Group classifies it with financial instruments Borrowings 49,390,196 49,390,196 measured at fair value through profit or loss or designated at fair value through profit or loss. (*4) W  2,683 million for recovery of allowances for provisions of expected credit loss of off-balance sheet items are excluded (details described in Note 44). 208 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 209 Details of gains (losses) on the financial instruments classified into the categories above for the year ended 49. Selling and administrative expenses December 31, 2017 are as follows: Details of selling and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2017 Dividend 2018 2017 Interest Gain on Loss on income and Gain on Loss on Impairment distribution income valuation valuation transaction and transaction and loss Electronic data processing W 55,282 42,091 (expense) redemption redemption income Rental 77,637 70,598 Financial assets: Commission 33,805 29,509 Financial assets Entertainment 20,855 16,911 held for trading W 96,719 390,114 161,133 (111,301) 604,229 (398,814) Advertisement 32,323 20,762 (except for derivatives) Depreciation 24,024 22,718 Financial assets Depreciation on investment property 29,866 29,116 designated at fair 8,836 32,083 57,235 (47,561) 187,104 (45,346) Training 6,213 6,426 value through profit or loss Amortization 41,845 42,902 Available-for-sale Taxes and dues 41,826 41,337 91,840 123,542 114,487 (25,058) (27,168) financial assets Others 92,755 114,549 Loans and W 456,431 436,919 602,085 3,553 (175) (1,427) receivables 197,395 1,147,824 218,368 (158,862) 909,373 (469,393) (28,595) Financial liabilities: 50. Non-operating income Financial liabilities held for trading Details of non-operating income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 7,955 (21,512) 76,691 (104,066) (except for derivatives) 2018 2017 Financial liabilities Gain on disposal of property and equipment W 2,416 1,805 designated at fair 208,981 (435,803) 226,576 (1,306,255) Gain on disposal of investment properties 48,083 value through profit or loss Gain on disposal of intangible assets 150 89 Deposits due to Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 15,773 8,404 (28,869) customers Gain on disposal of investments in associates 80 Borrowings (436,522) Gain on valuation of investments in associates 40,040 50,787 Debentures (70,975) Others 47,833 50,459 Other financial (39,110) W 154,295 111,624 liabilities (575,476) 216,936 (457,315) 303,267 (1,410,321) Derivatives(*) (1,033) 1,349,772 (1,052,497) 4,123,010 (3,333,698) W 197,395 571,315 1,785,076 (1,668,674) 5,335,650 (5,213,412) (28,595) 51. Non-operating expense (*) The Group’s derivatives are classified as financial assets or liabilities held for trading except for derivatives that are not designated at effective Details of non-operating expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: hedging instrument. 2018 2017 Loss on disposal of property and equipment W 629 289 48. Employee costs Loss on disposal of investment properties 7 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 8 17 Details of employee costs for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Impairment on intangible assets 153 2018 2017 Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 8,588 6,791 Salaries W 553,391 538,513 Loss on disposal of investments in associates 38 28 Severance benefits 34,927 35,119 Loss on valuation of investments in associates 9,689 3,224 Employee benefits 69,950 73,640 Donations 4,193 4,033 W 658,268 647,272 Others 58,463 60,093 W 81,615 74,628 210 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 211 52. Income tax expense Adjustment Beginning Beginning due to K-IFRS Addition Ending Balance Balance No. 1109 (deduction) Balance (1) Details of income tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: adoption(*3) (Adjusted) 2018 2017 Provision of payment guarantees 77,955 77,955 (14,093) 63,862 Current income tax payable W 205,088 150,243 Restoration liabilities 9,751 9,751 (463) 9,288 Changes in deferred income tax due to temporary differences (175,275) 33,866 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation (18,625) (18,625) 11,880 (6,745) Changes in other prepaid income tax, etc. 60,839 28,901 Tangible assets (75,122) (75,122) 80,602 5,480 Income tax expense regarding to items recognized as other Intangible assets (550,377) (550,377) 21,815 (528,562) 32,348 (53,195) comprehensive income Treasury stocks 1,788,526 1,788,526 (45,460) 1,743,066 Income tax expense for the Group W 123,000 159,815 Others(*3) 12,668 5,248 17,916 48,163 66,079 1,183,769 5,248 1,189,017 280,106 1,469,123 (2) Profit before income taxes and income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as Not recognized as deferred tax assets follows: (438,243) (753,682) (liabilities) 2018 2017 Recognized as deferred tax assets (liabilities) 1,622,012 2,222,805 Profit before income tax W 585,010 664,749 Tax rate 27.50%, etc. 27.50%, etc. Tax calculated at statutory tax rate 136,832 160,407 Deferred tax assets (liabilities) W 443,922 619,197 Adjustments: (*1) Aside from the items that were separately described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and available-forNon-deductible expense 4,382 3,910 sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018, respectively. Non-taxable income (1,972) (*2) Aside from the items that were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), net Temporary differences not recognized (36,850) changes in unrealized valuation of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as net changes in unrealized valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2018. Effects of change in tax rate and other 18,636 (2,530) (*3) Additional corporate tax reconciliations by adopting K-IFRS No. 1109 were considered. Income tax expense for the Group W 123,000 159,815 Effective tax rate 21.03% 24.04% Details of changes in temporary differences and the deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: (3) Details of changes in temporary differences and the deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended 2017 December 31, 2018 are as follows: Beginning balance Addition (deduction) Ending balance Adjustment Beginning Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss W (74,914) 158,583 83,669 Beginning due to K-IFRS Addition Ending Balance Balance No. 1109 (deduction) Balance (Adjusted) Investment on subsidiaries and associates (196,516) 132,663 (63,853) adoption(*3) Accrued interest receivable (117,211) 6,517 (110,694) Financial assets at fair value through profit W 83,669 (83,669) or loss(*1) Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 200,918 (23,109) 177,809 Financial assets measured at fair value Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (335,194) 23,078 (312,116) 92,608 92,608 (42,539) 50,069 through profit or loss(*1) Available-for-sale financial assets 9,250 21,976 31,226 Investment on subsidiaries and associates (63,853) (63,853) (238,852) (302,705) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives 116,678 (261,443) (144,765) Accrued interest receivable (110,694) (110,694) (12,387) (123,081) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked securities (71,555) 49,106 (22,449) Impairment loss on available-for-sale Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked securities in short 177,809 (177,809) (72,148) 239,185 167,037 financial assets(*2) position Impairment loss on financial assets measured Gain (loss) on valuation of securities in short position (13,994) 21,452 7,458 at fair value through other comprehensive 167,220 167,220 (2,536) 164,684 income(*2) Incentive payables 15,772 109,899 125,671 Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale Provision of payment guarantees 16,159 61,796 77,955 (312,116) 312,116 financial assets(*2) Restoration liabilities 5,293 4,458 9,751 Gain (loss) on valuation of financial assets Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation 8,354 (26,979) (18,625) measured at fair value through other (310,133) (310,133) 316,512 6,379 comprehensive income(*2) Tangible assets (72,421) (2,701) (75,122) Available-for-sale financial assets 31,226 (31,226) Intangible assets (563,466) 13,089 (550,377) Financial assets measured at fair value Treasury stocks 2,529,296 (740,770) 1,788,526 31,226 31,226 4,497 35,723 through other comprehensive income(*1) Others 41,668 (29,000) 12,668 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (144,765) (333) (145,098) 547,260 402,162 1,425,969 (242,200) 1,183,769 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked Not recognized as deferred tax assets (liabilities) (529,351) (438,243) (22,449) (22,449) 29,725 7,276 securities Recognized as deferred tax assets (liabilities) 1,955,320 1,622,012 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative-linked 167,037 167,037 (408,070) (241,033) Tax rate 24.20%, etc. 27.50%, etc. securities in short position Deferred tax assets (liabilities) W 477,788 443,922 Gain (loss) on valuation of securities in short 7,458 7,458 (20,067) (12,609) position Incentive payables 125,671 125,671 4,119 129,790 212 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 213 (4) Temporary differences that are not recognized as deferred tax liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 (2) Details of weighted-average number of shares of common stocks outstanding for the years ended December 31, are as follows: 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 2018 Investment in subsidiaries W 355,905 40,466 Common stocks 2 preferred stocks Goodwill 397,777 397,777 Stocks outstanding Cumulative shares Stocks outstanding Cumulative shares W 753,682 438,243 Issued stock 658,316,408 241,485,488,920 140,000,000 51,100,000,000 Treasury stock (109,581,643) (40,257,202,100) (5) Details of deferred tax relating to items that are recognized directly in equity for the years ended December Shares outstanding 548,734,765 201,228,286,820 140,000,000 51,100,000,000 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Days 365 365 2018 2017 Weighted-average number of shares 551,310,375 140,000,000 Deferred tax: of common stocks outstanding Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets W 5,929 Gain (loss) on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value 2017 (35,280) through other comprehensive income(*) Common stocks outstanding Cumulative shares Gain (loss) on valuation of financial liabilities designated as measured Issued stock 666,316,408 243,205,488,920 978 at fair value through profit or loss Treasury stock (110,377,511) (48,739,392,365) Changes in equity adjustments from equity-method valuation 2,014 (3,177) Shares outstanding 555,938,897 194,466,096,555 Other (23) (65,300) Days 365 (32,311) (62,548) Weighted-average number of shares 532,783,826 Current income tax: of common stocks outstanding Loss on disposition of treasury stock 888 114,160 Stock option (925) 1,583 (3) Diluted EPS (37) 115,743 Income tax expense directly charged or credited to equity W (32,348) 53,195 Diluted EPS is same as basic EPS for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. (*) Aside from the items that were reclassified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss described in note 4-(1)-3)-iii), net changes in unrealized valuation of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 were reclassified as net changes in unrealized valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of January 1, 2018. 54. Commitments and contingencies (1) The Group has entered into various agreements with various financial institutions as of December 31, 2018, and the details are as follows: 53. Earnings per share (“EPS”) Description Financial Institution Contract amount (1) Basic EPS Collateral financial support borrowings Korea Securities Finance Corp. W 2,000,000 2018 Agency operation borrowings W 1,000,000 Common stocks 2 preferred stocks Agency operation borrowings within the range of W Net profit attributable equity holder of the Controlling Company W 364,104 92,461 (Reserve for claims of customer’s deposits) amount of deposits Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding (shares) 551,310,375 140,000,000 Notes discounting W 200,000 Basic EPS (in Korean won) 660 660 Notes discounting within the range of W (Deposits for subscription) amount of deposits Overdraft for operation (daily) W 200,000 2017 Overdraft for operation (daily) Shinhan Bank, etc. W 680,000 Common stocks KDB(London Branch) USD 10,000,000 Net profit attributable equity holder of the Controlling Company W 503,176 Shinhan Bank(London Branch) USD 5,000,000 Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding (shares) 532,783,826 Shinhan Bank New York USD 100,000,000 Basic EPS (in Korean won) 944 Term loan Bank of Montreal Harris Bank USD 200,000,000 Texas Capital Bank USD 25,000,000 KDB(Singapore Branch) USD 50,000,000 Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited USD 6,451,613 Overdraft Euroclear Bank SA/NV USD 7 Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited USD 38,709,677 The Bank of New York Mellon USD 100,000,000 Overdraft for operation (daily) Bank of Montreal Harris Bank USD 30,000,000 Texas Capital Bank USD 75,000,000 214 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 215 Description Financial Institution Contract amount Guarantee amount Financial guarantee contract liabilities BIDV VND 180,000,000,000 MD Samgakji Stay Co.,Ltd 50,000 2017.12.08~2021.08.09 Shinhan Bank(Vietnam) VND 95,000,000,000 MD Sadang Retail 1st Co.,Ltd 4,006 2017.11.28~2020.11.27 Vietinbank VND 200,000,000,000 MS Wirye 1st Co., LTD 14,250 2018.01.15~2021.01.15 Overdraft for operation (Line of credit) Woori Bank Vietnam VND 227,000,000,000 Yeksam Best 1st Co.,Ltd 13,000 2016.06.30~2019.08.30 Hana Bank Viet Nam VND 80,000,000,000 MS Hogye 1st Co.,Ltd 14,520 2017.11.30~2020.01.30 Indovina VND 220,000,000,000 Madw Misa 1st Co., LTD 73,200 2018.04.11~2021.04.11 Techcombank VND 250,000,000,000 Madw Misa 2nd Co., LTD 20,000 2018.04.11~2021.04.11 UOB Indonesia IDR 100,000,000,000 MS Ansan 1st Co., LTD 25,000 2018.09.04~2021.03.04 J Trust Indonesia IDR 100,000,000,000 Nexus Kyodong Co.,Ltd 15,250 2018.12.27~2023.03.27 CIMB Indonesia IDR 100,000,000,000 Dalio Joongang Co.,Ltd 15,250 2018.12.27~2023.03.27 Revolving Credit Facility KEB Hana Indonesia IDR 100,000,000,000 MJ 1st Co., LTD 10,000 2018.11.16~2022.11.16 Permata Bank IDR 50,000,000,000 MSSP 1st Co.,Ltd 27,500 2014.12.29~2020.12.29 KDB(Singapore Branch) USD 10,000,000 VLM 1st Co.,Ltd 6,700 2018.11.16~2019.05.28 MS Highend 1st Co.,Ltd 35,000 2017.04.26~2019.04.26 (2) As of December 31, 2018, the Group is involved in 27 lawsuits as a defendant (lawsuit amount: ₩53,698 MS Sejong 3rd Co.,Ltd 10,000 2017.08.24~2022.08.26 million) and in 15 lawsuits as a plaintiff (lawsuit amount: ₩158,853 million). Except for 8 lawsuits for which MS Myeongnyun 1st. Ltd 30,000 2018.12.28~2022.08.28 the Group has recognized provisions, the results of the litigations cannot be predicted at the moment. MA Alpha Co., Ltd. 50,000 2018.11.23~2023.01.24 MA Alpha 2nd Co., Ltd. 20,000 2018.11.23~2023.01.24 (3) The Group has leased equipment under operating lease agreements. Future lease payments by periods MASB 1st Co.,Ltd 29,000 2018.10.08~2021.09.09 under operating lease agreements are as follows: MASB 2nd Co., Ltd. 7,500 2018.10.08~2021.09.09 Period Amount Rostov1st Co.,Ltd 16,000 2018.12.21~2021.04.21 Within 1 year W 52,941 BL Energy 1st Co., Ltd. 113,700 2017.02.24~2020.02.25 1 ~ 5 years 135,225 CES 1st Co., Ltd. 23,600 2017.11.21~2019.11.20 Over 5 years 1,052,823 IGIS Professional Investment Type Private Real Estate Investment 137,300 2018.07.26~2020.02.05 W 1,240,989 Trust No.178 W 1,287,244 (4) Details of liabilities related financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Guarantee amount Financial guarantee contract liabilities (5) As of December 31, 2018, the Group entered into an agreement to purchase a portion of the commercial paper and asset backed short-term bond when the commercial paper and asset backed short-term bond Fiji Nabou Green Energy Co., LTD W 30,800 2016.01.18~2019.04.08 will not be purchased or paid until the issue date based on the purchase guarantee contract. The details of MDLD 2nd Co., Ltd 46,430 2017.04.28~2021.10.28 agreements are as follows: Paradiseyeongjong the 1st Co., Ltd 50,000 2018.12.17~2023.12.17 Institution Contract amount Contract Period DWS GangNam MICE Co., Ltd 40,000 2018.06.29~2021.02.26 Good Aiming 3rd Co., Ltd. W 49,900 2015.09.23~2020.10.19 DoubleSW Co., LTD 13,000 2015.10.20~2023.10.11 Good Aiming 4th Co., Ltd. 50,000 2016.04.25~2021.05.25 Madw Dt5-1 Co., Ltd. 20,000 2016.09.09~2020.03.08 Good Aiming 5th Co., Ltd. 31,000 2016.09.29~2019.07.24 Madw Green City 1st Co., Ltd. 18,800 2016.09.12~2019.09.11 Able Maecheon 2nd Co., Ltd. 51,600 2016.08.30~2019.06.28 Madw Seongsu Wcenter Co., Ltd. 30,000 2017.05.02~2020.08.02 M-Square Mia 3rd Co., Ltd. 6,600 2015.10.23~2019.02.24 Investship 1st Co., Ltd 22,700 2015.03.31~2021.07.03 MD Prime 1st Co., Ltd 412,300 2017.11.16~2022.09.16 Wingsky 1st Co., Ltd 18,100 2015.05.06~2021.05.06 MDLFirst Co., LTD 80,000 2018.02.23~2022.11.23 Vision Blue Green 1st Co., Ltd. 20,000 2016.06.23~2019.06.24 Uiwang Parade Co., Ltd. 62,000 2016.12.26~2019.12.26 Kwangkyo Triton 1st Co., Ltd. 16,538 2018.04.09~2021.04.09 KDB Partners Co., Ltd. 20,200 2014.05.13~2019.05.13 Best Award 1st Co., Ltd. 25,000 2017.07.31~2020.07.31 Constellation 1st Co., Ltd. 30,100 2016.03.22~2020.12.21 Bredbury 1st Co., Ltd. 3,000 2016.05.31~2021.05.31 Sangok The Seven Co., Ltd 23,000 2017.10.25~2021.01.26 Mirae SF 1st Co.,Ltd 25,000 2017.06.20~2020.02.20 ECO Future 1st Inc. 18,500 2016.09.30~2019.09.30 Mirae SF 2ho Co.,Ltd 10,000 2018.04.20~2021.04.13 KimpoHangangPark 1st Co.,Ltd. 29,800 2017.09.11~2022.10.11 Mirae SF 3ho Co.,Ltd 10,000 2018.07.12~2021.11.12 MS GADI Co.,Ltd 49,000 2017.11.29~2022.08.29 Mione gwangan 1st Co., Ltd. 13,800 2018.09.17~2020.12.15 MSSP 2nd Inc. 50,000 2014.12.29~2020.12.29 Mione dongchen Co.,Ltd 20,000 2018.12.21~2022.05.21 MSSP 3rd Inc. 45,000 2014.12.29~2020.12.29 MS Dongtan 1st Co.,Ltd 10,000 2016.04.28~2019.07.29 MS Sejong 1st Inc. 56,900 2014.02.27~2020.08.26 MS Gwangjoo Moollyu 1st Co.,Ltd 42,100 2017.05.31~2019.05.31 MS Dangjin 1st Inc. 34,000 2017.02.17~2019.02.18 MS Songdo Retail 1st Co.,Ltd 5,000 2017.06.01~2022.06.01 MS Bonchon 1st Inc. 38,000 2017.03.23~2019.11.25 MS Songdo Retail 2nd Co.,Ltd 36,200 2017.06.01~2022.06.01 MS Misa 1st Inc. 40,000 2017.04.07~2020.10.07 216 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 217 Institution Contract amount Contract Period 55. Share-based payments MS Songjeong 1st Inc. 22,000 2017.10.25~2020.10.25 (1) Stock options MS Beomeo 1st Inc. 62,000 2017.11.16~2021.02.16 MS Youngsin 1st. Ltd. 50,000 2018.06.28~2021.03.29 1) Details of the Group’s share-based compensation as of December 31, 2018, is as follows: K1 Empo Co.,Ltd 30,000 2018.05.14~2020.02.21 Mirae Asset Securities Mirae Asset Mirae Asset Daewoo Co., Ltd. Rebounce 8th Co., LTD 100,000 2018.06.27~2023.06.29 (HK) Limited Venture Investment Co., Ltd. Hyundai Card Co., Ltd. 50,000 2017.08.16~2020.08.14 Executives and Executives and Granted to Executives Executives Executives employees employees Hyundai Capital Co., Ltd. 50,000 2017.08.18~2020.08.18 2015.03.31, W 1,541,900 Grant date 2012.06.05 2014.07.15 2008.04.02 2018.08.03 2015.07.08 Granted shares 310,000 shares 15,000 shares 74,700,000 shares 1,920,000 shares 5,000 shares (6) As of December 31, 2018, the amount of credit commitment from loan agreement, etc. are ₩855,434 million. Issuance of Issuance of Issuance of Issuance of Issuance of Grant method treasury stock treasury stock treasury stock new shares new shares (7) As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 the securities in custody on behalf of the Group’s customers are as follows: 2 years of service 2 years of service 3 months of service 2 years of service 2 years of service Vesting condition 2018 2017 Valuation method from grant date from grant date from grant date from grant date from grant date Trust or securities in custody W 145,500,573 151,458,912 Fair value 2015.06.05– 2017.07.15– 2008.07.02– 2017.03.31– 2020.08.04– Exercise period 2020.06.04 2022.07.14 2023.04.01 2024.07.08 2027.08.04 Saver securities in custody 317,760 240,402 Fair value Exercise price Type 1: 37,463 Collective investment securities 42,005,751 34,425,167 Standard sold price 39,192 HKD 1.10 2,600 6,000 (in KRW) Type 2: 47,680 W 187,824,084 186,124,481 Type 1: 230,000 shares (8) Details of loaned securities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Granted shares 15,000 shares 74,700,000 shares 1,920,000 shares 500,000 shares Type 2: 80,000 2018 2017 Valuation method shares Equity securities W 2,346,183 985,955 Fair value Residual shares as of 210,000 shares 15,000 shares 49,800,000 shares 24,000 shares 500,000 shares December 31, 2018 8,000 shares Others (ETF) 606,153 715,553 Fair value Exercisable shares W 2,952,336 1,701,508 210,000 shares as of December 31, 15,000 shares 49,800,000 shares 24,000 shares 8,000 shares 2018 (9) Details of borrowed securities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: <Various factors for fair value measurements> 2018 2017 Valuation method Option pricing Black-Scholes option Black-Scholes option DCF, DCF, Binomial tree model pricing model pricing model Binomial tree Binomial tree Equity securities W 2,772,448 1,653,019 Fair value Risk-free interest Bonds 5,225,831 3,795,507 Fair value 3.6%, 3.34% 2.583%, 2.865% 1.90% 2.09%, 2.41% 2.54% rate Others (ETF) 275,623 361,387 Fair value Expected stock price 46.19%, 39.59%, 33.17% 46.38% 52.03%, 62.13% 95.33% W 8,273,902 5,809,913 volatility 48.11% (*) The Group treats securities lending and borrowing, manages memorandum account for the securities borrowed from the Korea Securities Assumed dividend Assumed dividend Depository and recognizes them as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss when the Controlling Company sells securities Assumption for payment of KRW payment of KRW borrowed. In addition, the Controlling Company also recognizes financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss for short selling of securities dividend 500 at the end of 350 at the end of without performing securities lending and borrowing. each year each year Stock price at grant 30,850 49,450 2,420, 2,896 6,159 date (in won) Fair value of stock Type 1: 8,444 14,575 HKD 0.6047 1,427, 1,806 5,332 option (in won) Type 2: 6,758 2) The Group recognized costs and carrying amounts of equity related to share-based payments as follows: Mirae Asset Daewoo Mirae Asset Securities Mirae Asset Venture Co., Ltd. (HK) Limited Investment Co., Ltd. Estimated amount of shares vested at 305,000 49,800,000 740,000 settlement date (shares)(*1) Total compensation cost 2,533 HKD 30,117,721 3,065 Amount recognized as stock option expenses for the 551 year ended December 31, 2018 Balances of Stock Option as of December 31, 2018(*2) 1,836 (*1) The Group assumed that the stock options are fully vested at the end of the service period as the Group could not make a reasonable assumption of the forfeiture rate. (*2) Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. and Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. recognized capital adjustment related to share-based payments of HKD 30,117,721 and W741 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. These were adjusted and thus there is no balance of capital adjustment in the Controlling Company’s consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2018. 218 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 219 3) Details of changes in granted shares for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 56. Related-party transactions 2018 (1) As of December 31, 2018, the list of associates and other related parties of the Group are as follows: Beginning Grant Expired Ending Mirae Asset Daewoo Type Name of the related parties 2012 Grant Type 1 210,000 210,000 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd Type 2 80,000 80,000 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 2014 Grant 15,000 15,000 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 305,000 305,000 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2nd SPAC Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited Mirae Asset Partners PEF 4th 2008 Grant 49,800,000 49,800,000 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. Lotte KDB Mirae Asset Daewoo Global Investment Partnership PEF 2015 Grant(*) 1,610,000 (1,370,000) 240,000 Mirae Asset-NAVER New Growth Fund I 2018 Grant 500,000 500,000 Mirae Asset-GS Retail New Growth FundⅠ 1,610,000 500,000 (1,370,000) 740,000 Associates Mirae Asset-Celltrion New Growth FundⅠ 51,715,000 500,000 (1,370,000) 50,845,000 Hancom-Miraeasset 4IR Fund (*) The shares were split at the ratio of 5-for-1 for the year ended December 31, 2018. Mirae Asset Naver Asia Growth PEF Pantos Logistics Co., Ltd 2017 SMC RMB Investors II Limited Beginning Expired Ending Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd Mirae Asset Daewoo Transwestern Corporate Properties I LLC 2012 Grant Type 1 210,000 210,000 Traphaco Joint Stock Company Type 2 80,000 80,000 2014 Grant 15,000 15,000 HPJV1 LLC 305,000 305,000 Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Limited Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd. Other related parties 2008 Grant 49,800,000 49,800,000 Mirae Asset Consulting Co., Ltd. Mirae Asset Venture Investment Co., Ltd. Miraeasset fund services Co.,Ltd, and member firm in a Large Business Group 2015 Grant 384,000 (62,000) 322,000 50,489,000 (62,000) 50,427,000 (2) Significant assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (2) Share-based Payments 2018 Receivables Payables In conformity with the performance-based compensation system model for financial investment companies, the Group Loans Guarantees Others Debentures Others deferred portions of management incentives and divided payments across three years, and therefore recognized equity and Associates liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. W 341,446 3,309 2018 2017 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd.(*) 2,751 Accrued expenses W 19,688 5,632 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC Capital adjustment 4,833 4,947 Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 700 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 760 Mirae Asset Daewoo 2nd SPAC 573 Other related parties Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd., 50,223 860 Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd. 11,277 71,675 Others 15,085 18,204 12,200 W 3,511 15,085 30,754 391,669 88,044 220 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 221 2017 (4) Significant borrowing transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Receivables Payables are as follows: Loans Guarantees Others Debentures Others 2018 Associates Beginning Increase Decrease Ending Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. W 3 361,510 3,398 Associates Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd.(*) 2,751 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd W 360,000 (20,000) 340,000 Mirae Asset 3rd SPAC 1,194 Others relate parties Mirae Asset 5th SPAC 700 Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd 50,000 50,000 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 W 410,000 (20,000) 390,000 980 Co., Ltd Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 760 2017 Other related parties Beginning Increase Decrease Ending Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd., 50,220 71 Associates Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd. 5,548 8,322 Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd W 290,000 70,000 360,000 Others 15,085 11,770 11,739 Others relate parties W 4,491 15,085 19,215 411,730 23,530 Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd 40,000 10,000 50,000 (*) Bad debt allowances set at 100% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 due to business delays. W 330,000 80,000 410,000 (3) Significant transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as (*1) Transactions under formalized terms and conditions such as CMA, MMW and etc. are excluded. follows: (*2) Discount on debentures is excluded. 2018 (5) Significant loan transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as Profit transaction Loss transaction follows: Dividends Commissions Others Rent Commissions Others 2018 Associates Beginning Increase Decrease Ending Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd W 4,903 2,951 4,850 2,385 13,311 Associates Mirae Asset Daewoo 2nd SPAC 83 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 W 980 (980) Other related parties Co., Ltd Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd 523 4 19 2,100 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 760 760 Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd. 8,836 4,380 1,203 22,283 Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. (*1) 2,751 2,751 Others 3,393 1,632 1,478 20,987 7,129 3,092 W 4,491 (980) 3,511 W 17,132 9,569 7,535 20,987 31,816 18,503 2017 2017 Beginning Increase Decrease Ending Profit transaction Loss transaction Associates Dividends Commissions Others Rent Commissions Others Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition 1 W 715 (715) Associates Co., Ltd Mirae Asset Life Insurance Co., Ltd. W 1,586 2,499 4,049 1,060 13,481 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 2 726 (726) Co., Ltd SMC RMB Investors II Limited 1,531 Daewoo Special Purpose Acquisition 3 New Growth Engine Green Future PEF 45 980 980 Co., Ltd Daewoo SBI Special Purpose Acquisition Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 760 760 383 1 Co., Ltd Cassava Investment Korea Pte. Ltd. (*1) 2,751 2,751 Mirae Asset Daewoo 1st SPAC 120 W 5,172 760 (1,441) 4,491 Other related parties (*1) Bad debt allowances set at 100% as of December 31, 2018 and 217 due to business delays. Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd 22 14 10 2,481 Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd. 4,347 4,328 1,128 14,145 Others 13,177 1,761 1,344 20,492 460 7,657 W 20,641 9,158 6,535 20,492 15,675 23,619 222 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 223 (6) Dividends paid by the Controlling Company to related parties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and (2) Carrying amounts of the interests related to unconsolidated structured entities and maximum exposure to 2017 are as follows: loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 2018 Other related parties Asset-backed SPC Project financing SPC Investment fund Total Mirae Asset Capital Co., Ltd. W 27,301 6,153 Assets Mirae Asset Consulting Co., Ltd. 52 Financial assets measured at fair value W 4 55,594 1,857,163 1,912,761 through profit or loss W 27,301 6,205 Associates 1,224 1,224 Loans 330,529 194,766 525,295 (7) The Group has entered into the entrusted investment service agreement for the Group’s Wrap Account with Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd., a related party. 330,533 250,360 1,858,387 2,439,280 Purchasing commitments and guarantees 1,495,174 1,316,500 645,393 3,457,067 2018 2017 Maximum exposure amount of loss W 1,825,707 1,566,860 2,503,780 5,896,347 Wrap Account Outstanding balance of the Wrap Account W 183,111 162,587 2017 Wrap Account Asset-backed SPC Project financing SPC Investment fund Total Operating expenses (1,445) (558) Assets (8) Compensations for key management, which consists of officers and chief managers who have important Available-for-sale financial assets W 2 46,901 2,163,468 2,210,371 duties and responsibilities over the planning, operating and control of the Controlling Company, for the Associates 1,259 1,259 years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Loans 219,968 228,631 448,599 2018 2017 219,970 275,532 2,164,727 2,660,229 Short-term salaries W 12,967 12,491 Purchasing commitments and guarantees 1,835,100 1,295,276 283,686 3,414,062 Severance benefits 1,535 1,455 Maximum exposure amount of loss W 2,055,070 1,570,808 2,448,413 6,074,291 W 14,502 13,946 58. Supplemental cash flow information 57. Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Significant non-cash transactions liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (1) Characteristics and scope of the interests in unconsolidated structured entities 2018 2017 Total Asset Characteristics Purpose Main business Financing method Gains on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets W (27,213) 2018 2017 Gains on valuation of financial assets measured at fair value through other Execution of asset(80,356) comprehensive income Liquidity improvements backed plans for the asset holder Transfer and collect Reclassification of properties to investment properties 3,333 164,121 Asset-backed SPC Issuance of ABS W 2,717,020 2,158,690 through early liquidation liquidated assets Income tax effect of treasury stock disposal (887) (114,160) of assets Issuance and Reclassification of deposits receivable to advanced payment (5,027) redemption of ABS Retirement of treasury stocks 76,864 SOC, investing and SOC for construction Investor investments and Project financing financing for real estate and real estate borrowing from financial 4,736,004 5,384,534 SPC development development institutions Managing and Sales of beneficiary Generate revenue from operating fund assets certificates investment in financial Remuneration Investment fund(*) General Partner 20,147,949 20,390,024 and non-financial fund payment and instruments and Limited Partner distribution of investments operating revenue (*) Beneficiary of certificate, PEF, etc. 224 2019 MIRAE ASSET DAEWOO INTEGRATED REPORT APPENDIX II 225 Mirae Asset CENTER 1 Bldg., 26, Eulji-ro 5-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea www.miraeassetdaewoo.com Listed on the DJSI World for Participated in the CDP for 7 consecutive years 10 consecutive years
