Energizing Green Future Leveraging Sustainability Through Technologies Group Sustainability Report FY 17 1 Rig Mounted Platform RS 12 of ONGC ONGC’s Solar Power Plant at Hazira 2 Contents 3 Message from the Chairman ONGC & ONGC Group of Companies 02 Message from Managing Director ONGC Videsh 05 Message from the Managing Director MRPL 08 Message from the Managing Director OPaL 11 Message from the Chief Executive Officer OMPL 14 Message from the Managing Director OTPC 17 Message from the Director (Exploration) & Director 20 I/c Carbon Management and Sustainability Group, ONGC From the desk of the Author: Executive Director 22 Chief Carbon Management and Sustainability Group, ONGC About the Report 24 Organisational profile 25 Corporate governance 33 Reporting What is Essential 37 Creating economic value 43 4 Promoting India’s energy security 47 Moving towards a smaller environmental footprint 51 Water and Waste Management 64 Biodiversity 71 Our People, Our Strength 78 Safety and Security 87 Supply Chain 94 Product Quality 95 Empowering Communities 97 Summary of Performance 129 Content Index 131 Assurance Statement 136 Abbreviations 138 5 Message from the Chairman — ONGC & ONGC Group of Companies Dear Stakeholders, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC) is an environment conscious integrated oil & gas company, committed to play a vital role in fulfilling energy security of the country. Over a period of time, it has enlarged its activity level and is emerging as a Global energy major having interest in Exploration & Production of Hydrocarbons, Refining, Petrochemicals, Power, Renewables etc. Despite the challenges of the business and its environment, ONGC group of companies has registered yet another year of stellar performance. Oil & Gas production of ONGC Group including its JVs and overseas assets for FY 17, has been 61.60 MMtoe (against 57.38 MMtoe during FY 16). The year witnessed significant turnaround in oil and gas production from domestic onland operations as well as from overseas operations. Moreover, all joint ventures of ONGC established for value-chain integration i.e. ONGC Petro-additions Ltd. (OPaL), 2 ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd. (OTPC), ONGC association with leading academic institutes, is Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. (OMPL), Petronet working on projects for development of fuel cells MHB Ltd. (PMHBL), Dahej SEZ Ltd. (DSEZ), ONGC and extraction of Uranium. Teri Biotech Ltd. (OTBL) and Mangalore SEZ Ltd. (MSEZ) are now operational. ONGC is also conscious about the adoption of COP21 Paris agreement on reduction of Greenhouse With ONGC’s continued thrust towards nation Gas (GHG) emissions to combat climate change. building and sustainable development, I am happy Sustainability is embedded in ONGC through a to present to you the eighth sustainability report series of policies and programmes for mitigating of ONGC and fourth sustainability report of ONGC climate change. group of companies comprising of ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OMPL, OPaL and OTPC. The report In-spite of declining gains in carbon markets, we adheres to ‘core’ option of latest GRI-G4 Guidelines continue to implement CDM projects. During FY for reporting. 17, we have registered two new CDM projects and are in the process of registering three more The challenges that marked the macro environment, namely, CBM Asset at Bokaro, C2-C3 Plant at viz. low commodity prices, uncertain demand Dahej and Waste Heat Recovery Unit at Mumbai outlook and slow global economic recovery in FY High Asset. Through Global Methane Initiative, 16 persisted in FY 17 as well, despite crude prices our fugitive emissions have reduced significantly today being distinctly higher than what they were to make our work places safer and pollution free in early 2016. apart from monetising natural gas thus saved. Flaring of low pressure gas has also reduced by Slowly but steadily, ONGC is also entering into 18% from 647 MMSCM to 530 MMSCM during the domain of renewable energy. ONGC has FY 17 vis-à-vis FY 16. already operationalized two wind power plants for generation of 51 MW and 102 MW of electricity in We are continuously making efforts to put in Gujarat & Rajasthan respectively. In addition, ONGC place energy efficient equipment and systems for has also ventured into solar power generation with reducing the carbon emissions which has resulted 1 MW installation at Rajahmundry and upcoming into energy saving of more than ₹ 5,000 million solar power plants at IPSHEM, Goa (1 MW) and 10 during FY 17. Direct Emissions have been reduced MW at Hazira Plant, Gujarat. Although our priority from 10.66 MtCO2e in FY 16 to 10.23 MtCO2e in lies with our core business of oil and gas exploration FY 17. Indirect Emissions also reduced from 0.55 & production, we have made forays into renewable MtCO2e in FY 16 to 0.38 MtCO2e in FY 17. ONGC’s energy space. ONGC Energy Centre (OEC), in Corporate Office at Vasant Kunj in New Delhi, is 3 operating from an energy efficient and sustainable Oil and Gas Business, Corporate” during Petrotech LEED Platinum certified Green Building. 2016, PetroFed Award for “Environmentally Sustainable Company of the Year”, “Energy and The initiative of ONGC towards paperless Environment Foundation Global Sustainability organization christened project DISHA (Digitization, Award 2016” in Gold Category, to name a few. Integration and Standardization by Harnessing ONGC also bagged the prestigious FICCI CSR award Automation) was launched by Hon’ble Prime under category “Environmental Sustainability, for Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi and it has the Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation Project” in already been rolled out at all work centers of December, 2016. ONGC. This initiative of ONGC is a major milestones in transparency, accountability and efficiency. The ONGC is committed to reduce CO2 emissions across Project translates to savings approximately 12,000 its activity chain with the objective of achieving trees every year thus sequestrating about a 1,000 carbon neutrality. The relentless efforts of ONGC ton of CO2 every year. in greening of Oil and Gas Business have been recognized and appreciated by Hon’ble Minister of United Nations Global Compact Network India Petroleum & Natural Gas, Govt. of India. Our future (UNGCNI) is the International Organization in endeavour will be to efficiently and rapidly prepare the field of Sustainable Development which a mix of fossil fuel and renewable energy with due is contributing significantly in fulfilling the protection of environment and sustainability to Sustainable Development Goals. It is a matter of support our ever expanding demand of energy. pride that such a prestigious institution is steered in India by ONGC. The persistent efforts of the company in sustainability have been recognized through different Awards and Accolades during FY 17. ONGC Shashi Shanker received the Special Technical Award “Greening of Chairman, ONGC & ONGC Group of Companies 4 Message from the Managing Director — ONGC Videsh Dear Stakeholders, I present to you the fourth consecutive sustainability report of ONGC Videsh as part of the ONGC group report. Through this report, we aim to communicate our sustainability performance to all our stakeholders and present a fair & balanced picture of the company. We strive for economic growth keeping in mind our responsibility towards environment and society. ONGC Videsh Limited, a Miniratna Schedule ‘A’ Central Public Sector Enterprise of the Government of India is the wholly owned subsidiary and overseas arm of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC). ONGC Videsh has made a Profit after Tax (PAT) of ₹ 7,010 million during FY 17 as compared to a net loss of ₹ 36,325 million during FY 16. The turnaround was mainly on account of crude oil prices, profit from acquisition of 26% stake in Vankorneft project in Russia and lower impairment during the year. Petroleum industry as 5 we know is going through a transformative and Oil plc. on 3rd October, 2017. Further on 20th critical phase, but ONGC Videsh is responding November, 2017 definitive binding agreements by enhanced efficiency, competitiveness, cowas signed with Tullow Namibia Limited (Tullow) operation among the stakeholders, financial for acquiring 15% Participating Interest in Namibia prudence and technological advancements. Petroleum Exploration License 0030 for Block 2012A and related agreements (License) from ONGC Videsh consolidated production of crude oil Tullow’s existing participating interest of 25% in and oil equivalent gas has seen a giant leap during the License. The acquisition has marked ONGC FY 17. It has produced approximately 242,702 Videsh’s entry in Namibia offshore. barrels of oil and oil equivalent gas per day during FY 17 and has oil and gas (2P) reserves of about An Indian Consortium led by ONGC Videsh, BPRL 703.805 MMtoe as on 1st April 2017. During & IOCL acquired 10% participating interest in FY 17 there has been an increase in oil and gas the ADNOC Group owned offshore Lower Zakum production by 43.6% (Oil 53.1% and Gas 28.3%) as Concession for 40 years from 2018 to 2057. This compared to FY 16 mainly on account of acquisition is the first time that Indian oil & gas companies of Vankorneft project in Russia. The company’s have been given a stake in the development of Abu consolidated net worth has increased to ₹ 460,247 Dhabi’s hydrocarbon resources. million as on 31st March 2017 as compared to ₹ 442,547 million as on 31st March 2016. ONGC Videsh is certified for Integrated QHSE Management System as per revised standards ISO ONGC Videsh Vankorneft Pte. Ltd. (OVVL), a wholly 9001:2015 (Quality Management System), ISO owned subsidiary of ONGC Videsh Singapore 14001:2015 (Environment Management System) Pte. Ltd. (OVSL) which is in turn a wholly owned & OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health & subsidiary of ONGC Videsh has acquired total Safety Management System). We are committed to 26% shares in JSC Vankorneft in two separate comply with all applicable HSE legal requirements transactions carried out during FY 17. This wherever we operate. We attach highest priority to acquisition not only strengthened our presence in occupational health, safety and protection of Russia, but also reinforced the strategic objective environment in and around our operational areas. of adding high quality international assets to our Enterprise Risk Management System has been E&P Portfolio. an integral part of the company’s system and was established in FY 12 with in-house efforts ONGC Videsh has completed the acquisition of and was further aligned with ISO 31000:2009, 30% Participating Interest in Namibia Petroleum an international standard on Risk Management. Exploration License 0037 for Blocks 2112A, 2012B The system has matured over the years and well and 2113B and related agreements (License), integrated into business processes of the company. Offshore Namibia from Tullow Namibia Limited We have implemented SAP R/3 ERP system for (Tullow), a wholly owned subsidiary of Tullow integration of various business processes and 6 strengthening internal controls. Comprehensive Hon’ble President in 2017. Further, USD 1 billion internal and external audits are carried out which dual-tranche bond deal was awarded with the Best independently evaluates adequacy of internal Corporate Bond deal from India at The Asset Triple control system. A Country Awards. ONGC Videsh, having Participating Interests in 40 As the ONGC aspires to produce 130 MMtoe of oil and gas assets in 19 countries, understands its oil by 2030, 60 MMtoe is projected to come from responsibility to contribute to the communities and ONGC Videsh. Although steep growth is required economies of the countries in which it operates. to meet the target, we believe it is eminently The company makes valuable contribution in many achievable in sustainable manner. ways by investing in education, training, improving employment opportunities for nationals, providing medical, sports and agricultural facilities to the local community. ONGC Videsh has been conferred with multiple Narendra K. Verma awards and recognitions. It bagged Scope Managing Director, Excellence Award under MiniRatna category from ONGC Videsh Ltd. 7 Message from the Managing Director — MRPL Dear Stakeholders, I present to you the fourth consecutive sustainability report of MRPL as part of the ONGC group report. Through this report, we aim to communicate our sustainability performance to all our stakeholders and present a fair & balanced picture of the company. In a dynamic and growing economy where domestic demand for energy is continuously increasing, MRPL continues to demonstrate growth trends and play a pivotal role in creating infrastructure that will facilitate logistics value additions and profitability improvements. During FY 17, MRPL has continued its excellent performance, contributing positively to our Company’s performance in the downstream segment (refining and petrochemical). A major highlight of the year gone-by is the achievement of highest-ever crude throughput of 16.27 MMT. The refining unit recorded an impressive GRM of USD 7.75 per barrel. The company has retained its highest corporate rating “[CCR AAA]” affirmed by 8 CRISIL and lrAAA by ICRA during the FY 17. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) awareness campaign, we have conducted various MRPL’s PAT surged to the highest-ever level of awareness programs in surrounding villages and ₹ 36.44 billion in FY 17 as against ₹ 11.47 billion schools on World Environment Day. We are also during FY 16. The turnover of refining operations taking necessary steps to ensure compliance with clocked at ₹ 594,150 million. MRPL continues BSVI fuel quality standards by the year 2020. to be operationally one of the most efficient PSU refineries in the country with the capacity At MRPL, we place tremendous importance on to process a wide variety of crude grades. The ensuring a safe and healthy environment for refinery also delivered its highest-ever distillate our employees. MRPL initiated the occupational yield, highest-ever diesel production as well as health profiling of employees in all process units to highest-ever LPG production. sustain healthy employees with vigour to achieve performance excellence. Periodic health analysis Despite increasing market competition, we place and check-ups for occupational diseases are a strong focus on expanding our domestic market conducted for all employees of MRPL, especially in presence through direct marketing of our products vulnerable locations of the refinery. MRPL has also Petcoke, Sulphur and Polypropylene. MRPL is devised a roadmap to achieve OHSAS certification now widening its Polypropylene product range in the coming financial year. to penetrate different market segments, thereby, securing higher margins. We have also initiated To promote inclusive human capital development, the enhancement of our refinery capacity to we have also carried out a competency mapping 18/25 MMTPA with low cost revamp and a land of the middle management employees. From time allocation of 1050 acres has already been made by to time, various skill trainings, behaviour trainings the Government of Karnataka. and paper presentations are conducted at MRPL by in-house experts as well as external trainers, Environment and sustainability continues to be an to improve the capabilities and skillsets of our important aspect of MRPL’s strategic priorities. We employees. recognize that increased focus on sustainability will create positive value of the company, especially in Your company focuses on the key areas of the light of a wider global transition towards clean education, health care & sanitation and overall energy and more stringent environment standards. development of basic infrastructure in and around We consider this transition as an opportunity and its operational area/ Dakshina Kannada & Udupi are progressing towards products that add higher District/Karnataka State. These projects are largely value to the economy as well as the environment. in accordance with Schedule VII of the Companies MRPL is incessantly working towards improving Act, 2013. Right from its inception, MRPL has been its environmental footprint. As part of the undertaking Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 9 activities under its programme “Samrakshan”. its water foot print by enhancing intake of sewage Although MRPL’s average Profit before Tax (PBT) treated water from City Corporation. Fresh water was negative for the preceding three financial was eco­ consciously replaced by treated sewage years, the Board still decided to grant ₹ 50 million water from Mangalore by a quantity equivalent to for CSR activities during FY 17. Out of the total 2 million imperial gallons per day. Your company amount, the company has spent ₹ 14.5 million for has envisaged an action plan to replace all existing various CSR initiatives and the remaining amount street lights and office lighting to low power is planned to be utilized in the next financial year. consuming LED’s in its premises. Substantial The major thematic areas for MRPL’s CSR activities progress has been made on this and we anticipate include promoting education & skill development, being 100% LED illuminated by 2018. Total saving providing healthcare, infrastructure support to of 163,500 W and future saving of 80,000 W in underprivileged communities and protection of next one year is envisaged by the scheme. Your culture and heritage. company ventured into renewable sources to supply its energy demands. Your company initiated We are committed to developing a sustainable processes for harnessing solar energy that is model for the organization and build a longavailable in abundance. A roadmap has been drawn term balanced approach with all stakeholders, in to setup 5.6 MWe of solar power plant from all alignment with the triple bottom line approach. available rooftops. Your company aims to invest up The same approach was emphasized across all to ₹ 400 million in this project. Your company had functional departments of the refinery. MRPL is in practiced and will endure to take the footpath of the process of developing strategic plans to achieve sustainability in all the upcoming endeavours. 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in line with the SDG 2030. Embracing environmentally We are determined to contribute towards the sustainable business practices were prioritized sustainability goals of ONGC group in an inclusive in all endeavours of the organization. Sustainable and sustainable manner. I request all stakeholders business processes to find novel solutions to go through this report and provide inputs to considering better and greener alternatives help us improve further. were initiated. Educating employees on ecoconscious business, sustainable business culture in all segments of company were given utmost importance. The focus on ensuring sustainability to build a culture of accountability throughout the H. Kumar organization was charted. Your company improved Managing Director, MRPL 10 Message from the Managing Director — OPaL Dear Stakeholders, We are a multi-billion joint venture incorporated in 2006, as a public limited company under the Companies Act, 1956, promoted by ONGC and co-promoted by GAIL and GSPC. We are setting up a grass root mega Petrochemical project in a special economic zone at Dahej, Gujarat. The combined advantages of adequate indigenous feedstock supplies, skilled manpower, ready market and more importantly a growing domestic market gives us a good head start. We strive to become a leader in the polymer industry as we have in us what is required to become one of the best performing operators in the global petrochemical industry.. This report reflects our efforts to conduct sustainable business operations by collaborating with business partners, demonstrating a strong leadership ability to meetstakeholder expectations. Sustainability means conducting business operations in a responsible and accountable manner. As we operate 11 in the petrochemicals industry, we are aware of growth in the national GDP. India will continue to be its dynamic nature as well as the changing needs in deficit of polyethylene in the foreseeable future. and expectations of stakeholders. The reporting Moreover, this works as a perfect downstream period for this sustainability report is financial year integration for ONGC — the key promoter that will 2016‒17 in line with the requirements of the GRI be supplying the feedstock required for this project G4 guidelines to measure and communicate our from its Hazira, Uran and Dahej facilities. We are current performance. We believe that sustainability promoting a substantial part of its produce in the reporting will enable us to introspect our existing international market. It intends to provide worldbusiness practices and policies, and formulating a class products and services across both national sustainable business path. and international markets. To achieve this, we will be making an effective use of technology while In 2016, the global GDP grew 3.1% with resilient being considerate towards the environment. Our financial markets along with an expected recovery facilities are of the highest standards in the world in manufacturing and trade. The growth is due to the use of state-of-art technologies. In expected to be about 3.5% in 2017 and 2018. These 2016, the global nameplate capacity for benzene growth projections, however, are subject to low was 62.3 million metric tons and production was productivity growth and structural impediments 44.2 million metric tons, resulting in an operating that pose risks especially in developing countries. rate of 70.9%. Headline inflation has been picking up in advanced economies due to higher commodity prices, while We have a robust risk management committee to core inflation has largely remained subdued and assess business and operational risks, and develop heterogeneous. Brent crude oil price averaged risk mitigation measures based on risk evaluation. USD 48.6/bbl in FY 17 as compared to USD 47.5/ We strive to demonstrate a responsible conduct, bbl in the previous year. For most of the year, price take quick and appropriate action and preserve remained at about USD 45.55/bbl with prices both tangible and intangible assets through risk getting moderated in Q4 of FY 17. The global oil mitigation methods. We assess the environmental supply grew at an incremental value of 0.9 mb/d impact and comply with the applicable regulatory towards the end of the fiscal year, as both OPEC regime prescribed by the central and state and non-OPEC countries produced more. Majority governments in the areas of air and water of the gains were dominated by non-OPEC quality, noise, land use, and afforestation. We use countries, particularly the US. OPEC crude output suitable technologies to conserve energy, prevent rose, particularly in Libya and Nigeria, which are pollution, and reduce wastes and emissions. exempted from supply cuts. We have deployed environmental safeguards, recycling of resources and reutilisation of wastes The national demand for polymers continues to stay for all projects. We continuously monitor fugitive strong and is projected to further increase with the emissions of hydrocarbons, chemicals and other 12 materials to minimise the impact on flora and our organisation. We are highly committed towards fauna. protecting the occupational health of employees as well as protecting the environment and ecology. We ensure every employee is provided with a healthy and safe environment. Environmental We continue to maintain cordial relations with the performance is continually improved by local community under its sphere of operational eliminating, reducing, recycling and controlling influence by undertaking CSR activities around the pollution. We are committed to attaining best Dahej site area. practices in HSE management through continual improvement by undertaking innovative and sustainable endeavours. Our HSE policy is aimed at achieving operational excellence through robust operational management systems. The health and safety of employees is of paramount Avinash Joshi, IAS importance, which is embedded in the values of Managing Director, OPaL 13 Message from the Chief Executive Officer — OMPL Dear Stakeholders, ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL), a green field petrochemicals project, is promoted by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC) and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL), a subsidiary of ONGC. MRPL increased its equity stake to 51% in Feb 2015 thereby the company has become subsidiary of MRPL. Our mission is to provide quality products and services by means of continuous innovation, learning and operational excellence, is working tirelessly to become a world-class leader in petrochemical industry. We are working towards this mission by maintaining highest standards of safety, health and environmental protection and by sustaining maximum value for our stakeholders. At OMPL, we thrive to achieve sustainability in our business operations, as it supports us in our long-term strategy of inclusive growth. This is 14 our maiden sustainability report marking a new shortage due to the restriction imposed by the beginning in our sustainability journey. We consider district administration. We made significant achieving efficiency across the triple bottom investments to interconnect a power cable line as essential, working towards economic between OMPL and MRPL and performed a trial growth as well as creating a positive social and run of bi-directional power transfer. environmental impact. Through this report, we intend to communicate our sustainability initiatives We are committed to sustainable development to our stakeholders and further strengthen our by adopting optimisation techniques in energy commitment to sustainable development. management, as well as efficient use of production and utility systems. Environment This financial year has been significant in terms of management is a fundamental responsibility at economic growth. During the year, we achieved OMPL while carrying out day-to-day operations. a turnover of ₹ 52,565.68 million, up about 26% We monitor environment parameters to ensure over the last year. We are making further efforts reduced emissions and pollution levels in treated to increase our capacity utilisation. Both shorteffluents, ensuring the conservation of resources. term and long-term strategic interventions have Hydrocarbon leak detectors are installed across the been identified to ensure the company’s long-term plant besides the Leak Detector and Rectification success. For example, short-term interventions (LDAR) programme and air quality monitoring is include sourcing of natural gas for economical carried out manually every quarter. Liquid fuels and cleaner fuel and sourcing feedstock for 100% such as Low Sulphur Heavy Stock (LSHS) and High capacity utilisation. Long-term interventions Speed Diesel (HSD) have low levels of sulphur, 0.5 include revamping of block-01 and installation wt% and 350 ppm, contributing to environment of reformate splitter and naphtha splitter units protection and resource conservation. and undertaking R&D activities for the usage of hydrogen, raffinates and heavy aromatics for In line with our commitment to reduce carbon commercial usages. footprint, we took several initiatives such as Green Belt Development through Drip irrigation Despite several macroeconomic changes such by Gravity flow mechanism and recycling of as volatile prices of product and high crude oil treated effluent as cooling tower makeup, in prices that can significantly impact the company’s addition to engaging external stakeholders such margin, the year proved to be very successful for as neighbouring villages through community us. The low availability of feedstock affected our awareness programmes in association with the company’s profitability. To counter this, we tied up Karnataka State Pollution Control Board. We with other refineries to ensure a higher utilisation have installed heaters with burners that have of the capacity. In addition, our operations were adaptability to switch over to natural gas fuel, suspended for 20 days owing to acute water when made available to the company in future, 15 which will further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. directives to discharge social responsibility. The In addition, the installation of dynamic alarm limits CSR Policy was approved by the Board on 1st August for duel fired heaters was recognised by CPCB. 2016. We have undertaken a specific initiative on spreading public awareness through a structured Safety will always be our top priority. To enhance public awareness programme at schools, colleges safety, we took various measures including medical and communities. check-ups and regular internal mock drill exercises considering the various emergency scenarios in In recognition of our efforts, we won the second prize plant and non-plant areas. We conducted an in Best Safe Boiler Operation in ‘State level Safety offsite mock drill in the presence of the District Awards-Oil Industries’. Working in synergy with our Crisis Group (DCG) to demonstrate the emergency group of companies and strategic partners, we are preparedness of OMPL. The company achieved 521 determined to identify opportunities where we can safe working days (without lost time incident) as on leverage the expertise, knowledge and insights of 31st March, 2017. With regard to human resource our employees and stakeholders, to pioneer new development, many employee engagement ways to address current and future challenges. By activities were undertaken that included sports pushing our boundaries further than ever before, we meet, promoting employee/contract workmen will ensure the company’s long-term resilience and participation during national festivals such as sustain our competitive edge, enabling us to deliver Independence Day and Republic Day and celebration greater value to our stakeholders and shareholders. of Women’s Day. We have continued to maintain cordial and harmonious relations with the collectives and there was no industrial disturbance during FY 17. We are committed to ensuring equitable and sustainable Sushil Shenoy growth of society in and around the areas of our Chief Executive Officer, OMPL operations, besides complying with government 16 Message from the Managing Director — OTPC Dear Stakeholders, ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC) strives to be a leading player in the national power sector having presence on the global platform by being adaptive, adhering to the highest standards of integrity and emphasizing on sustainability. The aim of our company is to enhance the generation capacity and diversifying presence in both conventional and non-conventional technologies. It is contributing for harnessing the immense potential for power generation in the North Eastern Region in India. We are currently in exciting times in the Indian power sector. Several initiatives are being undertaken in the power sector where new frontiers are being opened and simultaneously the sector is undergoing a technology disruption in conventional leading to newer concepts like Electricity Storages, Electric Vehicles, Renewable technologies etc. The Government has set an ambitious target to install significant RE capacity of 175 GW by 2022. Our 17 company is among the biggest gas based power environmental and sustainability matters related plant in the North Eastern region and is considered to the plant operation and occupational health as a role model in the sector. OTPC has enabled a and safety related issues. Towards this journey, new socio-economical prospect between Northwe have established and maintained management Eastern states as they share power from a reliable certification on Quality Management System (ISO single source that has fostered a new era of growth 9001:2008), Environmental Management System and prosperity, besides improving bilateral ties (ISO 14001:2004) and Occupation Health and with Bangladesh with supply of 100 MW of power. Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001:2007). Our company not only provides electricity at a competitive price but also contributes significantly The Palatana plant of the Company is registered as in reducing energy shortages in the north-eastern a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project region. It strives to operate its power plant in with the United Nations Framework Convention the most efficient manner, as well as promoting on Climate Change (UNFCCC) since 26th December, inclusive growth of the local community and 2012 and we are proud that the Project qualifies protection of the environment. The company to be one amongst the largest CDM projects believes that the local community must be aided registered in the country. The applicable Certified and that natural resources must be utilized Emission Reductions (CERs) from the project are efficiently. dependent on the actual generation from the project and the issuance of CERs is subject to The power company has achieved excellent successful verification of the project at UNFCCC. performance on financial parameters also OTPC has concluded the first verification process during FY 17. The Company has achieved a of its CDM project for the generation period from turnover of ` 12,978.9 million during FY 17 1st January 2014 to 31st March 2015. The project up 18% from ₹ 10,994.2 million during FY 16. has been issued about 1.698 million CERs. The The company registered a net profit (after tax) Palatana plant uses a cleaner fuel (natural gas) as of ` 1,303.5 million during FY 17, up 906% as compared to traditional fossil (coal, diesel, oil) fuels compared to ` 129.7 million in the previous for electricity generation that subsequently leads year, after providing for Financing Cost of to reduction of carbon emissions from the Indian ` 2,464.8 million (` 2,783.6 million in FY 16), electricity grid. Safety and health of employees depreciation & amortization of ` 1,913.4 million at workplace has continued to stay as a focus (` 2,014.6 million in FY 16) and tax expense of ` area for your company. It periodically carries out 287.2 million. initiatives to ensure a healthy and safe workplace for its people and assigns the highest priority to OTPC is dedicated to improve consumer satisfaction safety, occupational health and protection of through continual enhancement of the quality environment in and around its working areas. of services. At the same time, the management of our company is dedicated to address Additionally, our company has installed essential 18 fire safety measures, CCTV cameras and conducts Award by South Asian Forum for Energy Efficiency regular fire and safety mock drills, training of (SAFEE) for excellence in energy efficient security personnel, health awareness programs performance, National EHS Award 2016 for and water and electricity conservation activities outstanding contribution towards reduction in at a regular interval. The Chief Security Officer carbon emission. Few of the other accolades directly supervises the security related systems at include winning best innovation in Techno the Palatana plant. Commercial category by Independent Power Producers Association of India (IPPAI) in FY 17 OTPC being a joint venture organization is also and third best Engineering Marvel Award in the supporting its promoters and investors in category of “Self Reliance” by Engineering Watch preparation of sustainability report under Global (a magazine dedicated to engineering community) Reporting Initiative. CSR has always been an integral under Engineering Excellence Awards in previous part of the Company’s business. During the year, years. the Company has undertaken a Baseline cum Need Assessment Study and based on the findings of the We as a company are in constant process of report, various CSR initiatives were implemented reviewing our goals and strategies and adopting in the field of Education, Sports, Health, Sanitation, newer technologies to remain competitive and Skill Development and Rural Development in and sustainable. Enhancing the enabling environment around the area of plant operations in Palatana, and providing incentives to invest in renewables Tripura to enhance the quality of life and economic will be critically important to meet the country’s well-being of the general public and weaker section energy strategy goals. In future, natural gas based of the society. The activities were carried out with power generation will facilitate RE based generation the involvement of local panchayats, government as envisaged. There is still much to do, but if we authorities and local villagers. During FY 17, OTPC can continue to deliver meaningful benefits to our has made an expenditure of ` 3,692,993/on CSR stakeholders as well as building a business that is Activities. These initiatives have been appreciated both economically and environmentally sound, by the local community. The CSR Policy of the then I believe OTPC can look ahead to a successful Company may be accessed on the Company’s future as a sustainable business in a sustainable website by visiting the link http://www.otpcindia. world. in/download/CSR-Policy-of-OTPC-01.04.2015.pdf. During the financial year, OTPC was recognized for demonstrating highest level of commitment to environment and was a proud recipient of several awards such as Greentech Environment Award Satyajit Ganguly 2017 in Gold category, Global Energy Management Managing Director, OTPC 19 Message from the Director (Exploration) & Director I/c Carbon Management and Sustainability Group, ONGC Dear Stakeholders, Your company has been bringing out the GRI based, externally assured sustainability report since the year 2009-10 and this is the 8th sustainability report of your company. The report brings out the social, environmental and economic contributions of your company towards creating a sustainable planet. The year 2016-17 was inspired by the Paris Agreement and the aspirations of world community to limit the global temperature rise within a maximum of 2oC and save the planet earth from catastrophic impacts of climate change. ONGC as a responsible corporate stands dedicated to these goals while pursuing passionately for energy security of the nation. Exploration and production of hydrocarbons is an energy intensive operation and ONGC has adopted a Multipronged Strategy to address the challenges emerging from the climate change. Fugitive emissions of natural gas is a common 20 phenomenon in oil and gas installations and and wind energy. The use of water sources has bottom up monitoring and leak repair can been rationalised by adopting scientific means of significantly reduce the fugitive emissions in to the conservation e.g. rainwater harvesting, sewage atmosphere. ONGC has been able to significantly treatment plants, seawater desalination plants, reduce its fugitive emissions through continuous etc. for combating threats from global warming. leak detection survey as a part of its Global Methane Initiative (GMI) programme. You will also We thank you for your confidence and investment be happy to know that so far we have registered in ONGC as we continue working every day to 15 CDM projects with UNFCCC including two achieve our vision of being the global leader in new CDM projects registered during FY 17. These integrated energy business through sustainable projects together have a potential for reduction growth, knowledge excellence and exemplary of about 2.10 million tCO2e emissions every year. governance practices. During this period through offsetting of 134,419 CERs four process installations viz. CPF Gandhar, Gandhar GGS-I, Ankleshwar CTF and Nawagam CTF were declared Carbon Neutral. Energy efficiency is another focus area where we could achieve significant progress during the year. The dedication of the Green Building at Vasant Kunj as A K Dwivedi the registered office of ONGC is another testimony Director (Exploration) & Director I/c CM&SG, towards creating energy efficient and sustainable ONGC habitat to our employees. Slowly but steadily we are adopting renewable energy resources like solar 21 From the Desk of the Author Executive Director Chief Carbon Management and Sustainability Group, ONGC Dear Stakeholders, Carbon Management and Sustainability Group (CM&SG) is happy to present you the 8th GRI based, Independently Assured Group Sustainability Report of ONGC and ONGC Group of companies. Starting from our first Sustainability Report way back in FY 10, CM&SG is responsible for reporting of the economic, environmental and social performance of the organisation in a balanced manner. The scope of the reporting was enhanced to two subsidiaries (ONGC Videsh& MRPL) in FY 14 and further to three more Joint Ventures (OTPC, OMPL and OPaL) from this year onwards. By virtue of the importance of the report, this report is presented to the diverse stake holders including central ministries, state ministries and parliamentary committees. With the rising concern towards Climate Change and Global Warming, ONGC has given due importance to pursue a low carbon high 22 growth strategy and has undertaken some path and preventing cutting down of 12,000 trees every breaking initiatives towards its carbon and year from our cultivable lands. As a new initiative, water management policy. This is reflected in we are also in to the process of aligning our the formation of a dedicated group for carbon activities with UN Sustainable Development Goals management and sustainability way back in the year to ensure Environmental and Social Governance to 2006. Since then, several new and break though each and every stakeholder. technologies were introduced with significant The symbiotic existence of society, Environment impact on sustainable development. Initiatives like and Business is our passion in ONGC Group of company vide Greenhouse Gas (GHG) accounting, companies and our sustained efforts in carbon and GHG Mitigation projects, Clean Development water management has been recognized through Mechanism (CDM) projects , Global Methane different Awards and Accolades in the year Initiative (GMI) program of US-EPA, Renewable 2016-17. The Special Technical Award “Greening Energy, Energy Efficiency, Green Buildings, of Oil and Gas Business, Corporate” during PetroWater Foot-printing, Rainwater Harvesting, tech 2016, Petro-Fed Award for Environmentally Sustainable Water Management, Produced Water Sustainable Company of the year, Energy and Management, Seawater Desalination plants etc. Environment Foundation Global Sustainability are some of the dedicated programs of ONGC in Award 2016” in Gold Category, are to name a few. its carbon and water management portfolio. All these activities are contributing immensely to I also avail this opportunity to thank all our Data protect our environment. During FY 17 we have Owners, Sustainability Officers, the Consultant, successfully registered 2 new CDM projects with Assurer, Designer and Publishers associated with the United Nations Framework Convention on this report for their sincere efforts in completing Climate Change (UNFCCC) and now the companies this report successfully. CDM kitty has a total of 15 registered CDM projects with a potential for accrual of 2,102,769 Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) every year; and the journey is still on as the company stay committed to environmental protection than monetary gains from sale of CERs. Jai Singh Executive Director The paperless office project launched by ONGC Chief-Carbon Management & Sustainability Group, during FY 17 alone has a potential for reducing ONGC emissions to the extent of 1000 tCO2e per annum 23 About the Report ONGC Group continues to communicate its Supplement (OGSS), which is applicable to ONGC, performance on environmental, economic and ONGC Videsh, MRPL, OPaL, OMPL and OTPC. The social aspects to its stakeholders through its reporting criteria of this report is ‘In Accordance eighth sustainability report. This report covers – Core’ and the reporting period is FY 17 (1st April sustainability performance of ONGC; its two 2016 to 31st March 2017). subsidiaries — ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh) and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals We engaged an independent external organisation, Limited (MRPL); and three JVs — ONGC Petro Emergent Ventures India Pvt. Ltd. to provide additions Limited (OPaL), ONGC Mangalore assurance in line with AA1000 Assurance Standard Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) and ONGC Tripura and the assurance statement is provided at the Power Company Limited (OTPC). The aspect end of the report. The GRI content index provided boundary considered is within these organizations. in the report (Page 131-135) provides a quick Throughout the report, ONGC Group refers to reference to all GRI G4 performance indicators ONGC, its subsidiaries and the three JVs. For ONGC and standard disclosures. Videsh, the boundary covers key material aspects The last sustainability report published for ONGC across its global operations (through subsidiaries Group was in the year FY 16, which can be accessed for operated and jointly operated projects) across from the following link: the following entities: h t t p : / / w w w. o n g c i n d i a . c o m / w p s / w c m / • Imperial Energy (Russia) connect/ongcindia/Home/Initiatives/ • Mansarovar Energy Colombia Ltd. (Colombia) Corporate+Sustainability/ • Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company For any further details on ONGC Group (Sudan) Sustainability Report FY 17, please contact : • San Cristobal Project (Venezuela) Executive Director, Chief CM&SG, Carbon Management and Sustainability Group, • Carabobo (Venezuela) ONGC, Tower-A, 3 Floor, Deendayal Urja rd Bhawan, 5 Nelson Mandela Marg, Vasant Kunj, This sustainability report has been prepared New Delhi – 110070 ; Phone No. 011 in accordance with the GRI G4 Sustainability 26753007; Fax : 011-26129091; Reporting Guidelines and Oil and Gas Sector e-mail : chief_cmsg@ongc.co.in 24 Organisational Profile ONGC is the flagship national oil company of India and one of the highest profit-making and India, a ‘Maharatna’, with operations in E&P, dividend-paying organisations. ONGC has the petrochemicals, LNG and power. ONGC ranks 3rd unique distinction of being a company with inin India and 220th overall in Forbes Global 2000 house service capabilities in all areas of Exploration based on sales, profit, assets and market value. and Production activities of oil & gas. The vision Acclaimed for its Corporate Governance practices, of the organisation is to be a global leader in Transparency International has ranked ONGC 26th integrated energy business through sustainable among the biggest publicly traded global giants. growth, knowledge excellence and exemplary governance practices. It is one of the most valued public enterprises in ONGC Group E&P domestic operations Subsidiaries Joint Ventures Associates Overseas E&P Refinery Pipeline Power LNG (50%) (32.72%) Services (100%) (51.11%) (71.62%) (12.5%) Petrochemicals Logistics HP: Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (50%) MRPL: Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. OPaL: ONGC Petro-additions Ltd. (ONGC: 49%, MRPL: 51%) OMPL: ONGC Managlore Petrochemicals Ltd. OTPC: ONGC Tripura Power Company Ltd. (49.36%) SEZ (49%) OTBL: ONGC TERI Biotech Ltd. MSEZ: Mangalore SEZ Ltd. DSL: Dahej SEZ Ltd. PLL: Petronet LNG Ltd. PHL: Pawan Hans Ltd. (26%) (50%) Figure 1 ONGC’s Organizational Structure ONGC has two subsidiaries — ONGC Videsh Limited (ONGC Videsh) and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) ONGC Videsh is the wholly owned subsidiary and overseas arm of ONGC. The primary business of ONGC Videsh is to prospect for oil and gas acreages outside India, including exploration, development 25 and production of oil and gas. ONGC Videsh owns Participating Interests in 40 oil and gas assets in 19 countries Myanmar (6 projects) | Russia (3 projects) | Vietnam (2 projects) | Iran (1 project) | Iraq (1 project) | Syria (2 projects) | Libya (1 project) | Sudan (2 projects) | South Sudan (2 projects) | Brazil (2 projects) | Colombia (7 projects) | Venezuela (2 projects) | Kazakhstan (1 project) | Azerbaijan (2 projects)| Bangladesh (2 projects) | Mozambique (1 project) | New Zealand (1 project) | Namibia (1 project) | UAE (1 project) and produced about 23.4% of oil and 18.9% of oil and natural gas of India’s domestic production in FY 17. In terms of reserves and production, ONGC Videsh is the second largest petroleum company of India, next only to its parent ONGC. ONGC Videsh offshore sites 26 The other subsidiary, MRPL, a Miniratna, has 6.5% enables to maximise production of premium diesel, of India’s total refining capacity, with a state-ofunleaded petrol of high octane, Polypylene and the-art 15 million metric tonne refinery with higher Mixed Xylene. Located in Mangalore, the refinery complexity and state of art secondary process has a versatile design with complex secondary units like two units of Hydrocracking, Catalytic processing units and a high flexibility to process Conversions (CCR), Petrochemical Fluidised crudes of various API, delivering a variety of quality Catalytic Cracking (PFCC), Delayed Coker Unit (DCU) products. and Poly proylene units. MRPL’s versatile design ONGC Videsh offshore sites 27 28 MRPL Refinery, Mangalore Apart from the two subsidiaries, of equity share capital of OMPL while MRPL holds 51%. The company was incorporated in December this report covers OPaL, OTPC & 2006, with a registered office in Mangalore, OMPL; the three JVs of ONGC India. OMPL’s Aromatic Complex is spread over 442 acres of land in Mangalore Special Economic ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL) is a JV Zone (MSEZ) and has a production capacity of 914 company incorporated in 2006, by ONGC and KTPA paraxylene and 283 KTPA benzene at 100% Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC) with operational load. 26% and 5% stakes respectively and co-promoted by GAIL. With a grass root mega petrochemical ONGC Tripura Power Company Limited (OTPC) is project at Dahej, Gujarat in the PCPIR/SEZ region, a Joint Venture company of ONGC, IL&FS Energy OPaL is poised to become a key player in the Development Co. Ltd., Infrastructure Fund – polymer industry. With adequate indigenous II (acting through investment manager ‘IDFC feedstock supplies, skilled manpower and ready Alternatives Limited’) and the Government of domestic and international markets, the company Tripura, owning significant natural gas reserves in has the potential to become one of the best the North-Eastern state of Tripura. The first block performing operators in the global petrochemical (363.3 MW) of the power plant was declared industry. Set up with an investment of ₹ 270,110 under commercial operation from January 2014 million, the plant is strategically located in the and the second block (363.3 MW) was declared petrochemicals and chemical hub of the country under commercial operation from March 2015. with excellent connectivity, creating an integrated The setting up of the power plant has transformed ecosystem. It will generate direct employment the power scenario of the entire north-eastern for 3,500 personnel and indirect employment for region of the country and has been a key catalyst around 10,500 people. in its rapid economic development. The generation project combined with linked transmission project ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited (OMPL) and upstream gas supply project has brought in is a green field petrochemicals JV company investments of about ₹ 100 billion in the region. promoted by ONGC and MRPL. ONGC holds 49% OTPC plant at Palatana, Tripura 29 30 OPaL plant at Dahej, Gujarat OMPL plant in Mangalore 31 The aspects of organisational profile of ONGC Group and its JVs, such as products and services, location of office and markets and ownership structure are provided below: ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Products • Crude Oil • Crude Oil • Premium • Paraxylene • High Density • Power and • Natural Gas • Natural Gas Diesel • Benzene Polythylene Generation services • LPG • Unleaded • Liquefied • Linear Low • Naptha Petrol of High Petroleum Gas Density • C2-C3 Octane (LPG) Polythylene • SKO • LPG • Fuel Gas • Polypropylene • Naptha • Hydrogen • Benzene • Poly Propyl• Paraffinic Raffi• Butadiene ene nate • Pyrolysis Gaso• Mixed Xylene line Pygas • Sulphur • Carbon Black • Pet coke Feedstock Location of Oil & Natural Gas ONGC Videsh, Kuthethoor P.O., Mangalore SEZ, 4th Floor, 35, Udaipur-KakraRegistered Corporation Tower B, Via Katipalla, Permude Village, Nutan Bharat ban Road, office Limited, DeendayDeendayal Urja Mangaluru, Mangaluru, Co-operative Palatana P.O., al Urja Bhawan, Bhawan, Karnataka Karnataka – 574509, Housing Society District Gomati, 5, Nelson Mandela 5, Nelson 575030, India India Limited, Tripura – Marg, Vasant Mandela Marg, R.C. Dutt Road, 799105, India Kunj, New Delhi – Vasant Kunj, New Alkapuri, 110070, India Delhi – 110070, Vadodara, India Gujarat390007, India Ownership • Public Sector • Wholly owned • A Schedule • A • A JV company • A JV company and legal Undertaking subsidiary and ‘A’ Miniratna petrochemicals incorporated of ONGC, form (PSU) of the overseas arm CPSE under JV company proby ONGC and IL&FS Energy Government of of ONGC the Ministry moted by ONGC Gujarat State Development India • A Schedule of Petroleum and MRPL Petroleum Co. Ltd., IDFC • A Maharatna ‘A’ Miniratna and Natural • Under the Corporation and Govt. of CPSE under CPSE under Gas Ministry of (GSPC) with Tripura the Ministry of the Ministry Petroleum and 26% and 5% Petroleum and of Petroleum Natural Gas stakes, Natural Gas and Natural respectively Gas and co-promoted by GAIL • Under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas Table 1 A summary of organisational profile of ONGC Group Memberships and Associations • Standing Conference on Public Enterprises (SCOPE) For ensuring consistent engagement with other industry players, ONGC has associations with a • Federation of Indian Petroleum Industries (FIPI) number of trade chambers and associations such It is further a matter of privilege for ONGC and an as: unflinching responsive commitment to sustainable • Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce development that Shri D. K. Sarraf, then CMD, ONGC and Industry (FICCI) was nominated as a member of the UN Global Compact Board in FY 17. • Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) 32 Corporate Governance ONGC Group believes that strong and transparent across ONGC Group, an ‘Executive Committee’ governance systems are crucial for increasing is in place that directly reports to the Board of accountability and maintaining long-lasting Directors. The key roles and responsibilities of relationships with stakeholders. Thus, ONGC the executive committees include reviewing and Group has established appropriate policies implementing risk management procedures and at the Board level to create an ethical and promoting company strategy. transparent environment in the organization. The ‘Code of Conduct’ for Board members and Annual Certification Process senior management personnel encourages and at MECL, Colombia promotes exemplary governance practices and is essential for promoting stakeholder confidence in (ONGC Videsh Asset) the organisation. Integrity and transparency are Mansarovar Energy (MECL Colombia) regarded as core values in every business activity of ONGC Group. There is a strong commitment to has established an annual certification act in compliance with the applicable laws and process about awareness and regulations without compromising honesty and application of the Code of Conduct. integrity in every aspect of the business. During said process, held in 2016, all employees had the opportunity to express situations and concerns related to aspects of compliance and ethics. MECL received 132 comments related to reports of potential conflicts of interest, environmental issues, congratulations and recommendations on the process carried out. All the submitted cases were responded to promptly based on the guidelines of the code. As a result of efforts for raising awareness, the process Figure 2 ONGC Group’s Corporate Governance Structure that managed to increase the number ONGC Group is governed under the leadership of employees certified in knowledge of of its respective board members. Under the and commitment to the Code of Conduct leadership of the Board, respective strategies, stands out (188 employees in 2015 and policies and performance reviews are undertaken. 491 employees in 2016). To streamline the effectiveness of governance 33 34 Committees of the Board ONGC Group ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPAL OTPC 1. Audit and Ethics 1. Audit Committee 1. Audit Committee 1. Committee of Directors 1. Audit Committee 1. Audit Committee Committee 2. Financial Management 2. Nomination and 2. Nomination and 2. Human Resource 2. Nomination & 2. Nomination and Committee Remuneration Remuneration Committee Remuneration Remuneration 3. Project Appraisal and Committee Committee 3. Project Review Committee (NRC) Committee HSE Committee 3. Stakeholder 3. Audit and Ethics Committee 3. CSR Committee 3. Stakeholder’s 4. Human Resource Relationship/Investors Committee 4. Marketing Committee 4. Operation Review Relationship Committee Management and Grievance Committee 4. Corporate Social 5. Financial Management Committee 4. Human Resource Remuneration 4. Project Appraisal and Responsibility Committee 5. Share Transfer and Management Committee HSE Committee Committee 6. Nomination & Allotment Committee Committee 5. Corporate Social 5. Human Resource Remuneration 5. Project Appraisal Responsibility and Management Committee Committee Sustainability Committee 7. Share Allotment 6. Health, Safety and Committee 6. Corporate Social Committee Environment Committee Responsibility and 8. Empowered Committee 7. Financial Management Sustainability 9. Corporate Social Committee Committee Responsibility 8. Committee on Dispute Committee Resolution 10. Risk Management 9. Corporate Social Committee Responsibility 11. Operation Review and Sustainable Committee Development Committee 10. Committee of Directors for Issue of Duplicate Share Certificates 11. Risk Management Committee 12. Research and Development Committee 13. Project Review Committee 14. Committee for Review of Operations 15. Committee for Review of Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures Figure 3 Committees of the Board at ONGC Group For ensuring transparency across the organization, c) Process risk for the business units across the ONGC Group has a strong and effective Whistle enterprise Blower mechanism, which was implemented in December 2009. A total of 40 Protected Disclosures ONGC Videsh has established and implemented have been processed through this mechanism till a well-documented ERM System as per ISO March 2017. The system ensures that a genuine 31000:2009, wherein risk process to identify, assess, Whistle Blower is granted due protection from record, monitor and review risks has been defined. any victimization. It is applicable to all employees Enterprise Risk Management System including its of the company and has been uploaded on the effectiveness and the risk process was audited by company website. In addition, ONGC has a fullPwC in 2017, which found the process effectively in fledged Vigilance Department headed by Chief place. ERM manual is periodically reviewed. Risks Vigilance Officer (CVO), who holds the rank of a along with their risk drivers and mitigating factors Functional Director of the company. With a view to have been mapped and Risk Registers are in place. maintain his independence, the CVO reports to the Major exercise was taken up in 2016 to map risks Chief Vigilance Commissioner of the Government of all the projects mainly through brain storming of India. [Refer ONGC Annual Report FY 17 for sessions and meetings. Risks were quantified as more details.] per approved 5x5 Risk Matrix. Risk treatments are carried out to manage high risks. ONGC Group manages existing and potential future risks through its risk management framework. This For acquisition of overseas projects, a detailed ‘Zero is in part driven by the nature of the oil and gas Based Risk Review (ZBRR)’ is prepared consisting industry, which is characterised by uncertainties of all types of risks, which helps the Management that are unique to this industry – from geological to take an informed decision considering the risk to geopolitical to price volatility of oil and gas. profile of the Project. ONGC Videsh has developed These include risks associated with acquisition, and implemented SAP GRC-Risk module for optimal partnership, country security risk, along with decision making and automated compliance. operational risks such as exploration risk, risks of Risk dashboards have been developed and rolled spillage, blowout of wells, earthquake, tsunami, out, which shows projects on a global map with terrorist activities, sabotage and pilferage. their risk scores, significant risks of projects on These inherent risks make it imperative to have global map, risk heat maps and status of quarterly an enterprise-wide effective risk management compliance. Risk Management Committee meets framework. once in six months to review the ERM System and In ONGC, a dedicated risk management cell is also framework, significant risks and emerging risks. functional with specific roles and responsibilities. ONGC Group comprises of highly diverse assets, Risk management covers three broad types of risks: systems, functions and networks. Over the years, a) Finance risk management through CSA module the Group has been consistently responding to the in SAP increasing pressures and risks pertaining to its assets and operations. The following are some of b) Strategic risk management (This is dealt the major risks faced by the group of companies separately under the domain of strategic and [Refer ONGC Annual Report FY 17 for more details]: corporate planning.) 35 Category Risk Description Economic Commodity Price Volatility in oil or natural gas prices affecting profit margins Reserves Exploration risk Dry wells, change in reserve estimates affecting development potential Environmental Natural Disaster Natural catastrophe leading to interrupted or reduced production or industrial accident Operational Industrial Accidents Major accident or oil spill resulting in loss of life, environmental damage, regulatory fines, civil liability, loss of licence to operate and reputational damage Political Geopolitical and Social risks Disruption of operations and supply due to war, civil war, terrorism or social unrest Table 2 Key Business risks of ONGC Group Risks along with risk drivers and mitigating factors Group has placed adequate emphasis on the have been mapped in risk registers for business institutionalisation of systems, practices and tools units. The responses to risk control through surveys that facilitate greater operational efficiencies and are compiled, analysed and reported to the Board workplace productivity. Revamping of the ‘Material periodically. The goal is to further improve the Management Manual’ was carried out during maturity level of risk management. the year to ensure the procurement of quality materials and services in a transparent and timely As part of its push for systemic transformation manner. and strengthening of control systems, ONGC Thought Platform at ONGC Videsh ONGC Videsh recognises the upsurge in renewable energy and organised Thought Platform on 31st March at Agra, where all ONGC Videsh employees participated on the theme ‘ ONGC Videsh @ 2022 : Strategizing for the upcoming era of Renewables’. Mr. Narendra K. Verma, MD and CEO kick started with his remarks “In day to day struggle to manage the business, we sometimes lose the long-term perspective. This is an opportunity to take stock of the things, in and around the company and globally. Forge a new team spirit, share your thoughts without any restriction, without fear of ridicule. This edition is to celebrate what we achieved in the past, to prepare ourselves for the future”. Thought Platform at ONGC Videsh, March 2017 36 Reporting What is Essential Stakeholder Engagement The engagement process consisted of four key phases — Plan, Identify, Engage and Report. In the ONGC Group believes that an effective engagement planning stage, tentative means of engagement with stakeholders is crucial, as it facilitates in were set to interact with key stakeholders identifying their needs and expectations. Many identified in the second phase. In the third phase, collaborative platforms such as customer grievance ONGC Group engaged with the stakeholders mechanisms, customer and vendor engagement, to understand their needs and concerns. The community interactions, periodic meetings and outcomes of the third phase were used to identify employee feedback mechanisms are utilised material issues that need to be communicated for maintaining constant communication with by ONGC Group to its stakeholders, in addition our stakeholders. Our stakeholder engagement to reporting its performance on the issues. strategy enables us to identify internal and external stakeholders who are affected by our business A stakeholder engagement workshop was operations and further affect our business, which conducted in FY 17, where various stakeholders enables us to develop platforms for stakeholderwere invited from different functions such as inclusive decision-making. environment, safety, human resource, CSR, administration, commercials, fire department, During the reporting year, a stakeholder legal and mechanical. The following types of engagement process was adopted by ONGC Group stakeholders were engaged during the workshop. to identify stakeholders’ needs and expectations. • Establishing the objectives and scope of the stakeholder engagement • Identifying internal and external • Shaping the strategy of the engagement stakeholders relevant to ONGC Group & JVs • Setting up tentative means of engagement (for example, surveys or questionnaires) 1. Plan 2. Identify • Ensuring effective and timely documentation of the stakeholder engagement 4. Report 3. Engage • Ensuring ongoing engagement and consultation with all process stakeholders indentified as • Exercising transparency in relevant to the organization collating the responses from different stakeholders Figure 4 Stakeholder Engagement Process 37 Stakeholder Consultation March 2016 Key Stakeholders Identiﬁed Key Functions Consulted Health, Safety & Regulatory Authorities Operations Environment Human Resources CSR Customers Administration Commercials Fire Legal Media Mechanical Technical Local Communities Coverage of Engagement Vendors/Suppliers • ONGC Trade Associations • ONGC Videsh • MRPL • OMPL Shareholders/Investors • OPaL • OTPC Employees Figure 5 Stakeholders consulted during materiality workshop 38 The stakeholder engagement workshop revealed the following topics and concerns: Stakeholder Engagement Methods Key Stakeholder Basis of identification of Channels of Expectations of Key topics and concerns discussed Group stakeholders Communications stakeholders with stakeholders Shareholder, • The economic value • Periodic organised • Business growth and • Financial performance Investor of ONGC creates and meetings stability • Risk management distributes wealth for • ONGC website: • Informative quarterly • Venturing into new markets its shareholders. investor relations reports • Cost efficiency • Expectations of • Corporate reputation • Corporate governance and investors can influence • Transparency corruption the financial strategy. in corporate governance Customer • Customers are the • Customer • Ethical and fair • Resolution of customer source of wealth engagement marketing complaints creation. • Marketing • Product quality • Product quality • Client satisfaction is • Pricing of products essential for ONGC for its long-term success. Supplier • Suppliers are important • Pre-bid conference • Fair and • Pricing, quality and timeliness of business partners for • Vendor’s meet accountable services ensuring sustainable • Contract transactions • Issues related to human rights growth. agreement • Transparency in • Trainings/ tendering process awareness programmes Employee • The capabilities and • Complaints and • Career development • Career growth prospects well-being of our Suggestion Box • Performance • Learning and development employees influence • Grievance feedback • Trainings our operational redressal • Fair evaluation and • Rewards and recognition performance. mechanism compensation • Occupational health and safety • Employees leave a • Seminars • Regard for human • Work environment and policies significant footprint in • Ongoing employee rights • Ethics, transparency and the organisational work feedback • A fair organisational accountability culture. culture Local Community • Strong and healthy • Participating in • Minimum • Community development relationships with the collaborative environmental • Minimising negative impact local communities is activities with impact on the • Livelihood opportunities essential in identifying NGOs communities • Social infrastructure needs. • Ongoing • Supporting the local • A good environmental engagement with economy and social performance local residents strengthens the • Inviting local relationship with communities to the surrounding ONGC’s events communities Regulatory • The company is • Review meetings • Compliance with • Regulatory compliance Authority affected by the on a periodic basis applicable national • Development of communities regulatory authorities and regional • Management of environmental due to enforcement legislations and social impact (biodiversity of new legislations or conservation, managing waste, changes in existing energy efficiency) legislations. Table 3 Stakeholder engagement methods at ONGC Group 39 Materiality Assessment engagement exercise has played a critical role in identifying and prioritising material issues The principle of materiality has been applied pertaining to the environmental, social and to define and report the economic, social and governance aspects. ONGC Group is faced with environmental issues that matter the most to our an extensive range of sustainability issues, which organisation and stakeholders. Material issues have been narrowed down to prioritise the are defined as those of the highest concern to the sustainability issues that are significantly material organisation and stakeholders. The stakeholder to ONGC Group and our stakeholders. Identification Arriving at the material issues and defining the • Identifying a laundry Prioritisation contents of the report. list of material issues through industry research and peer • Engaging with Validation stakeholders to narrow review down the laundry list of • Validating the identified • Utilising sources such material aspects and prioritised issues as GRI Sustainability • Prioritising the material by the senior most Topics for Sectors and issues as Low, Medium management GRI Oil and Gas sectoral and High disclosures • Preparing the materiality matrix Figure 6 Materiality Assessment Process We consider materiality assessment as the consisted of seven phases — defining the scope, foundation of forming our sustainability strategy identifying potential issues, categorising the and therefore, a well-structured approach was issues, prioritising the material issues, stakeholder adopted for the internal assessment of material feedback, management buy-in and preparation of issues. The materiality determination process materiality chart. Materiality Determination Process Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5 Phase 6 Phase 7 Key Steps Involved Defining the Identifying Categorising the Prioritising the Stakeholder Management Materiality chart scope potential issues issues material issues feedback buy-in Defining the Creating a broad Categorising Prioritising Seeking feedback Validating Finalising the scope of the list of material the identified the material from internal the identified material aspects report in terms of aspects relevant topics into issues based and external material of ONGC Group the entities to the nature environmental, on the strategic stakeholders on aspects by classfiying • ONGC of the business social and importance to the identified internally them into ‘High’, • ONGC Videsh operations of economic aspects ONGC Group and material aspects from ONGC ‘Medium’ and • MRPL ONGC and its its stakeholders Group’s top ‘Low’ categories • OPaL group companies management • OTPC through a peer Preparing the • OMPL review materiality chart Table 4 Materiality Assessment Phases 40 The results of the materiality assessment were issues and three were identified as low material analysed and subsequently placed on the grid issues. The content of this sustainability report has (see below) that depicts a dual perspective — been developed to reflect our commitment to the importance to the organisation and impact on sustainability issues identified as highly material, society. The analysis of these results revealed an where the relevant key performance indicator for interesting comparison of the aspects. each of the high material issue has been measured and reported. In comparison to the previous The materiality determination process was reporting period, three additional material issues concluded with the identification of 18 material that were identified include – product quality, issues, where 10 were identified as high material public policy and plant and system efficiency. issues, five were identified as medium material • Energy security and • Community reserve accretion engagement • Climate change and • Human rights energy High • Water management • Economic performance • Environmental protection • Business ethics and transparency Impact on Society • Supplier engagement • HSE and security Medium • Biodiversity • Workforce • Product quality cwwompetency and engagement • Geopolitics • Plant and system efficiency • Material comsumption • Technology • Public policy upgradation Low Low Medium High Impact on Business Figure 7 Material issues identified by ONGC Group 41 List of material issues identified for ONGC Group Low Medium High • Plant and System Eficiency • Business Ethics and Transparency • Energy Security • Material Consumption • Supplier Management • Climate change and Energy • Public Policy • Biodiversity • Water Management • Product Quality • Economics Performance • Geowpolitics • Environmental Protection • HSE and Security • Workforce Competency and Engagement • Technology Upgrade • Community Engagement • Human Rights Economic Environmental Social Table 5 List of material issues identified for ONGC Group Dr. Aditi Haldar (Director GRI Focal Point India) addressing stakeholders meeting 42 Creating Economic Value Economic performance of oil and oil equivalent gas (O+OEG), together with its wholly-owned subsidiaries was 12.803 MMtoe during FY 17 as compared to 8.916 MMtoe during During the reporting year, ONGC Group’s FY 16. The overall oil production increased from performance revolved around the ability to 5.510 MMt during FY 16 to 8.434 MMt during FY 17 adapt quickly and endure a challenging business (53.1% higher) and gas production was increased environment. Our continuous efforts on the to 4.369 BCM during FY 17 as compared to 3.406 production front have yielded meaningful results. BCM during FY 16 (28.3% higher). During FY 17, ONGC Videsh has made a profit of ₹ 7,010 million During the reporting period, the declining crude as compared to a net loss of ₹ 36,325 million during oil production trend was reversed as onshore previous year. The turnaround was mainly on crude production of ONGC increased to 5.97 MMT account of profit from acquisition of 26% stake in in FY 17, as against 5.83 MMT in FY 16. The slow Vankorneft project in Russia and lower impairment recovery in the global crude prices from midduring the year. 2016 resulted in a 6.6% rise in our net realisation for every barrel of crude sold. At ONGC, while MRPL’s PAT increased by over 200% to the highestrevenues from crude sales increased by 7%, low ever level of ₹ 36,437 million in FY 17 as against domestic gas prices resulted in a 23% reduction ₹ 11,469 million in FY 16. The turnover of refining in our gas sales value despite a 5% increase in operations recorded a 17% growth over FY 16 at ₹ gas sales volume. Total revenue was recorded at 594,150 million. MRPL continues to be operationally ₹ 854,559 million, compared to ₹ 847,511 million one of the most efficient PSU refineries in the in FY 16. The collective group turnover for FY 17 country with the capacity to process a wide variety was ₹ 1,421,490 million (₹ 1,356,642 million in FY of crude grades. The refinery also delivered its 16) and the standalone Profit-After-Tax (PAT) was highest-ever distillate yield, highest-ever diesel ₹ 179,000 million (up 10.9%) while the Group PAT production as well as highest-ever LPG production. was ₹ 204,979 million (up 59.2%). The standalone profit growth was attributable to higher crude price realisation and reduction in exploratory cost OMPL recorded a revenue of ₹ 52,613.79 million, write-off despite lower gas prices, provision for and has taken measures to augment the capacity past royalty expense and provision for pay revision. utilisation by sourcing heavy naphtha from other oil companies to bridge the deficit in supplies and ensure continuous feedstock for plant operation. ONGC Videsh has produced approx. 242,702 With these measures, the net loss reduced to ₹ barrels of oil and oil equivalent gas per day 3,664.33 million against the previous year’s loss of during FY 17 and has total oil and gas (2P) ₹ 6,492.53 million. In an effort to improve capacity reserves of about 703.805 MMtoe as on utilisation, OMPL is in talks with international 1st April 2017. ONGC Videsh’s share in production 43 oil companies and other domestic oil and of ₹ 129.7 million during FY 16. The increase in fuel petrochemical companies to source reformates supply and generation as well as the receipt of the and pyrolysis gasoline. final tariff order from CERC mainly contributed to the increase in revenue and profit during the year. OTPC registered a total revenue of ₹ 12,979 million as compared to ₹ 10,994 million during FY 16, OPaL’s revenue also grew significantly to ₹ 1,094.48 recording a growth of 18%. Net profit for FY 17 in FY 17 from ₹ 37.75 million in FY 16, showcasing stood at ₹ 1,303.5 million as compared to a profit a significant improvement in production. At an industry level, the petrochemical sector in the country has witnessed a robust growth of 10-12% per annum in the last decade, and is expected to grow at a rate of 12-15% in the next decade, which is expected to support the growth of OPaL. The key highlights of ONGC Group’s economic performance are provided below: ONGC ONGC MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Economic Performance FY 17 VIDESH Direct economic value generated (A) 2016‒17 (₹ million) Revenues — net sales, revenue from investments and sale 854,558.55 118,131.72 436,311 52,613.79 1138.76 12,978. 9 of assets Economic value distributed (B) 2016‒17 (₹ million) Operating costs 437,540.35 35,749.78 6,156 52,619.19 11803.40 8,792.53 Employee wages and benefits 23,986.56 2,055.61 3,520 382.84 164.06 127. 23 Payments to providers of capital (Dividend) 95,179.88 11,148.19 10,516 4,544.53 2,464.77 Payments to government (Contribution to Exchequer) 113,245.12 5,891.26 180,425 472.77 287.16 Community investments (CSR expenditure) 5,171.56 40.02 32 0.06 3.72 Economic Value Retained = (A B) 179,435.08 63,246.86 235,662 (4,932.77) (11301.53) 1303.49 Table 6 Key highlights of ONGC Group’s economic performance 44 Awards and Recognition ONGC has been recognized for its exemplary performance consultant Brand Finance. in the energy sector through the following accolades received during the reporting year: • The ‘2016 EU Industrial R&D Scoreboard’ listed ONGC at the 12th position in the list of oil and Gas • Ranked number one E&P Company in the world by companies based on Research and Development Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Rankings-2016 (R&D) expenditure. • Ranked 20th among global energy majors based on ONGC Videsh was conferred with the following awards assets, revenues, profits and Return on Invested during the year: Capital. • Conferred with ICICI Lombard & CNBC-TV-18 ‘India • The leading international business journal Forbes Risk Management awards’ 2015-16 in Public Sector ranked ONGC the 3rd largest in India and 220th Unit of the year category, at the third edition of The worldwide based on sales, profit, assets and market India Risk Management Awards. value. • Conferred with the prestigious ‘SCOPE award for • The company has strengthened its brand position Excellence and Outstanding Contribution to the in India, climbing from 10th position during previous Public Sector Management – Institutional Category II year to 7th position, according to a study conducted by (Miniratna-I & II PSEs)’ received on 11 April 2017. ONGC Videsh receives SCOPE Excellence Award – Institutional Category II (Miniratna I & II PSEs) 45 ONGC Videsh Bond Issuance Awarded the Best Corporate Bond Deal from India 2016 ONGC Videsh Vankorneft Limited’s (OVVL) USD 1 billion dual tranche bond deal has been awarded the “Best Corporate Bond” deal from India at The Asset Triple A Country Awards 2016. This was the first dual tranche issuance out of India in 2016 and executed swiftly to access a favourable market issuance window. OVVL is ONGC Videsh’s wholly owned subsidiary in Singapore and holds 26% shares in JSC Vankorneft on 19th July 2016, OVVL priced USD 1 billion Notes comprising of USD 400 million Senior Unsecured 5.5 years Notes due 2022 and USD 600 million Senior Unsecured 10 years Notes due 2026 in the international capital markets (the “Notes”). The Notes are guaranteed by ONGC. The Notes have been assigned a rating of Baa2 (Moody’s) and BBB (S&P). The transaction was the First Dual tranche issuance from India in 2016. The 5.5 yr and 10 yr Notes were oversubscribed by 2.2 and 2.3 times respectively, across 185 accounts which participated in the landmark issuance. 46 Promoting India’s Energy Security ONGC Group Remains Firmly Committed to the productivity and optimise operating costs, thereby Continued Growth and Development of the improving India’s energy performance. Upstream Arena with the Objective to Bolster During FY 17, ONGC Group contributed significantly India’s Energy Security. to improving the country’s energy security by Energy security is of utmost importance to any expanding production and exploration volumes. country, in the face of dynamic political, economic Some of the major achievements of ONGC Group and environmental situations across the world. companies are described below. In India, achieving energy security is one of the primary goals, and ONGC Group is committed to ONGC providing its support to the country in achieving • ONGC made 23 hydrocarbon discoveries with a this goal. total reserve accretion of 64.54 million Tonnes ONGC Group has a mandate of securing the of Oil and Oil Equivalent Gas (OEG), of which nation’s energy security by pursuing E&P activities 13 were onland and 10 were offshore including in India and overseas, enabled by the best-in-class four discoveries in the blocks awarded under technologies and collaboration with strategic the New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP). partners. Our primary goals in FY 17 were to keep • 8 of the 13 onshore discoveries have already up the healthy pace of project execution, improve been put on production in FY 17 itself. ONGC Group O + OEG Production (MMT) • The overall 2P Reserve Replacement Ratio (RRR) for the year was 1.45, making it the 11th consecutive year for ONGC to record an RRR in 4.37 excess of ‘one’. 3.41 8.43 5.51 1.35 1.18 • At the same time, the cost of finding new 3.28 3.56 hydrocarbons in FY 17 was 11% lower than that in FY 16. 21.18 22.09 • ONGC successfully monetised eight of the 13 onshore discoveries within the same year. 22.37 22.25 • The domestic crude oil production level stood at 22.25 MMT against 22.37 MMT in FY 16. Oil production from onshore assets increased by ONGC (Oil) ONGC (G ) C (Oil) 2.4%. C (G ) O (Oil) O (G ) Figure 8 ONGC Group performance – Production volumes 47 • Natural gas production (from domestic Good hydrocarbon shows of oil and gas were also operated fields) stood at 22.09 BCM in FY 17, encountered while drilling this section. To further an increase of 4% over 21.18 BCM in FY 16. expand its operations, ONGC Videsh signed the Onshore gas production increased by healthy following memorandum of understandings (MoUs) 9.1% whereas offshore production increased during the year: by 2.9%. • MoU with SOCAR Trading SA for cooperation ONGC Videsh in identified areas such as joint marketing of Azeri crude, other mutually agreed crude oil/ ONGC Videsh has registered presence in various oil gas (27th May 2016) provinces of the world and continues to look for attractive assets. It aspires to maintain a balanced portfolio approach by maintaining a combination • MoU with Dana Energy for the development of of: possible projects in Iran (18th August 2016) (a) Producing, discovered and exploration assets; • MoU with Roseneft, Russia for mutual (b) Risky and politically stable countries; and cooperation in the area of education and (c) Oil and gas Assets. training (15th October 2016) ONGC Videsh has a production target of 20 MMtoe • MoU with Ecopetrol, as a way-forward for of oil and gas from its overseas assets by FY 18 and realising the common intention of relinquishing 60 MMtoe by FY 30. ONGC Videsh completed the Block RC10 and transfer of pending minimum acquisition of 26% Participating Interest in Vankor financial commitments of Block RC-10 to new field in FY 17. ONGC Videsh got exploration success block(s) (8th March 2017) in well Mariposa-1 which is under drilling in CPO-5 block of Colombia (as on 31st March 2017) as the • MoU with Mubadala Petroleum for future operator of the block and holds 70% P.I. Electric Log collaboration in upstream oil and gas analysis of well.Mariposa-1 indicates the presence exploration, development and production of approximately 120 ft. of oil saturated net pay projects in third countries (6th February 2017) in the Lower Sands Unit 3 of the Une Formation. • MoU with Gazprom Neft PJSC for cooperation Oil (MMT) Gas (BCM) for geological survey, exploration, appraisal, development and production of hydrocarbons on the continental shelf of the Russian 4.37 Federation and third countries (29th March 3.34 3.41 2017) 2.87 2.92 5.49 5.53 5.51 8.43 During the year, the total production of ONGC Videsh was 12.80 MMtoe of O+OEG, up 43% from 4.34 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 8.92 MMtoe in FY 16. Figure 9 Production from ONGC Videsh 48 Mangalore Refinery and ONGC Tripura Power Company Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) (OTPC) Further contributing to India’s energy security, OTPC has set up a 726.6 MW (2 X 363.3 MW) gasMRPL continues to be operationally one of the based combined cycle power plant at Palatana, most efficient PSU refineries in the country Tripura. OTPC’s both power units of 363.3 MW with capacity to process a wide variety of crude each have been fully operational since 4th January grades. In FY 17, MRPL achieved the highest-ever 2014, and 24th March 2015, respectively. The throughput of 16.27 MMT, against 15.69 MMT in project combined with ONGC’s upstream gas FY 16. New crudes processed during the year were supply development project and associated 400 Pazflor (High TAN), Yombo & Soorosh. The refinery KV 650 km long double-circuit transmission line, also delivered its highest ever distillate yield, diesel constitute the single largest investment in the and LPG production. As per Auto Fuel Policy and North East region of India. directives from Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, the entire country has to move towards BSOTPC plant achieved the highest generation of 747 VI quality specifications from year 2020. To ensure MW (103%) on 15th February 2017. It generated a compliance with the new fuel standards, MRPL record 4,170 million units of power in FY 17. The is also undertaking projects for new Gasoline plant generates power equivalent to 30% of power Treatment Facility, Sulphur Recovery Unit, Nitrogen requirement of the north-eastern states. It became and Utilities and Revamps. the first dividend-paying standalone gas-based power generation company in India. CERC has also ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals determined tariff of OTPC till FY 2018-19. Limited (OMPL) ONGC Petro additions Limited The global demand of Para-xylene (PX), a primary (OPaL) product of OMPL, is estimated to be 39 MMT, while India is a net exporter of PX, with a capacity OPaL is a mega petrochemical project situated at of 6 MMT. During the year, OMPL’s production of Dahej SEZ for utilising in-house production of C2PX has increased from 0.57 MMT to 0.687 MMT, C3 and naphtha from various units of ONGC. The and capacity utilization has increased from 70% primary products of OPaL polypropylene, HDPE to 80%, as compared to the previous year, thus and LLDPE are well accepted by the market. All contributing significantly to India’s exports. units of OPaL, the biggest downstream integration projects of the country, were commissioned during OMPL has set up an aromatic complex with an the year and was dedicated to the nation in March annual capacity 914 KTPA of PX and 283 KPTA of 2017 by Hon’ble Prime Minister. The plant was Benzene in Mangalore Special Economic Zone dedicated to the Nation by the Prime Minister (MSEZ). During the year, OMPL has taken measures in the august presence of Gujarat Chief Minister, to augment the capacity utilization by sourcing Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, heavy naphtha from other oil companies to Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizer along bridge deficit in supplies, and to ensure continous with a host of other dignitaries. feedstock for plant operations. 49 This is the single largest petrochemical plant in used for important sectors in the country such India, and at full capacity, will annually produce 1.4 as infrastructure, housing, packaging, irrigation, MMT of Polymers viz. Linear Low Density / High automotive and healthcare. OPaL’s production of Density Polyethylene, Polypropylene and 0.5 MMT polymer will help country towards self-sufficiency of chemicals like benzene, butadiene, and pyrolysis in polymers. gasoline. The product warehouse is one of the largest in India with an area of 1,28,250 square The project will further result in the growth of metres. new downstream plastic processing industries in the country, generating further investment The average per capita consumption of polymers of ₹ 400,000 million and over 20,000 indirect in India is 10 kg, compared to a world average of employment opportunities, giving major thrust 32 kg. There is tremendous potential for growth to government’s ‘Make in India’ programme. The of the sector catalysed by growth drivers such as increased use of polymers will also reduce the increasing middle class, higher disposable income burden on traditional materials like wood, paper, and urbanization. OPaL’s projected capacity share metal and will help in conserving natural resources in the polymer sector for 2018 is 13%. The company like water and energy and promote food safety & would also contribute towards growth of polymer food conservation. consumption in the country. Its products will be Hon’ble Prime Minister at the function for dedication of OPaL to the Nation on 7th March, 2017 at Dahej, Gujarat 50 Moving towards a smaller environmental footprint ONGC Group has always ensured it protects climate change have become vital aspects of the environment and contributes positively to planning and policy making for most developing environmental conservation. The Group has countries. Since energy accounts for two-thirds an integrated HSE policy. We continually strive of the total greenhouse gas emissions and 80% of to mitigate the environmental impact that CO2, most efforts to reduce emissions and mitigate may arise from our business activities such as climate change need to be focused on the energy exploration, drilling and production by investing sector. With the formulation of India’s Nationally in state-of-art technologies, effluent and solid Determined Contribution (NDC) and global signing waste management, environment monitoring of the Paris Agreement at COP 21 in 2015, India and reporting, bio-diversity conservation efforts, is set on a transition towards cleaner modes of and upgrade and sustenance of environment energy and energy-efficient technologies. Since management systems. ONGC has a Committee of ONGC Group is the leading CPSE in the energy Directors (COD) on HSE chaired by an Independent sector of India, addressing climate change and Director. This Board Level Committee oversees and optimal energy management are issues of pivotal reviews decisions on all policy matters related to importance to the Group. HSE. In line with its commitment to environmental protection, ONGC has also implemented globally ONGC is aware of the risks arising due to climate recognised environmental management systems change and has institutionalised a Carbon ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 at all its Management & Sustainability Group (CM&SG), with operational work centres. a specific mandate to position the company as the leading organisation in sustainable development, The environmental issues that have been identified and to voluntarily take up carbon management for as high material issues in the materiality assessment addressing issues related to climate change risks exercise are climate change and energy, water and and opportunities arising from carbon mitigation waste management, and biodiversity conservation. initiatives. The management has been actively We have reported our performance on each of engaging with national and international climate these issues below: change forums to ensure the organisation stays current with global climate change negotiations Climate change and energy and India’s domestic commitments. Promoting sustainable energy and combating 51 Energy performance ONGC Group’s commitment to promote sustainable energy and combat climate change reflects heavily in its constant efforts, and is showcased through its energy performance. The energy conservation and efficiency measures taken during the reporting year have led to a significant reduction in the Group’s energy consumption, as can be seen from the table below: ONGC FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Energy Consumption (TJ) 197,040 181,093 160,552 Table 7 Energy Performance ONGC ONGC Videsh Energy Consumption (TJ) 11,503 13,637 12,912 Table 8 Energy Performance – ONGC Videsh MRPL Energy Intensity (TJ/ MMtoe of product) 67.45 111 107.9 Table 9 Energy Performance MRPL OPaL Energy Intensity (TJ/MMT) -2 17,400.31 Table 10 Energy Performance OPaL OMPL Energy Consumption (TJ) -3 1,354.08 Table 11 Energy Performance – OMPL OTPC Energy Intensity (TJ/ MU of electricity) 6.89 6.88 6.81 Table 12 Energy Performance – OTPC 2 OPaL started commercial production in the month of Jan-17, hence, energy consumption figures are not available for the past two years. 3 Since this is the first sustainability report of OMPL, the data is being reported only for FY 17. Emissions comes predominantly from our processing and downstream operations including exhaust from In oil and gas operations, business growth and combustion units and flares. consequent increase in production lead to an increase in GHG emissions and we are continuing ONGC Group is committed to consistent reporting to work for reducing emissions and offsetting of GHG emissions. We have been following World the impact of these emissions. Carbon dioxide Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business makes up most of our GHG emissions and it Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 52 GHG protocol for GHG accounting and applied sector-specific guidance provided in the Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimations Methodologies for Oil and Gas Industry developed by the American Petroleum Institute (API). The global emission factors for estimating emissions of ONGC Videsh and MRPL are sourced from the IPCC database and the grid emission factor is sourced from CEA database. ONGC Emission type FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Direct emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 11.15 10.66 10.23 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) (million tonnes of CO2e) 0.87 0.55 0.38 Table 13 Energy Performance – OTPC ONGC Videsh Emission type FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Direct emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 1.70 2.08 1.98 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) (million tonnes of CO2e) 0.07 0.11 0.10 Table 14 Direct and Indirect Emissions for ONGC Videsh MRPL Emission type FY 17 Direct emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 4.23 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) (million tonnes of CO2e) 0.01 Table 15 Direct and Indirect Emissions for MRPL OPaL Emission type FY 174 Direct emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 3.49 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) (million tonnes of CO2e) 0.05 Table 16 Direct and Indirect Emissions for OPaL OMPL Emission type FY 175 Direct emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 1.05 Table 17 Direct and Indirect Emissions for OMPL OPTC Emission type FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Direct emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 1.49 1.66 1.73 Table 18 Direct and Indirect Emissions for OTPC 4 OPaL started commercial production in the month of Jan-17, hence, emissions data is not available for the past two years. 5 Since this is the first sustainability report of OMPL, the data is being reported only for FY 17. 53 Energy conservation measures in buildings like KDMIPE (Dehradun), GEOPIC the reporting year (Dehradun), IRS (Ahmedabad), CEWELL Centre (Vadodara) and IPSHEM (Goa). We also ONGC awarded the contract for the installation of a 10 MW solar plant at Hazira. The Notification A holistic focus on sustainable growth and a strong of Award (NOA) was placed in February 2017, intent to pursue renewable sources of energy with the scheduled completion period as enable us to reduce internal carbon footprint seven months from the date of NOA. One and explore unconventional hydrocarbons. For 40 KW rooftop solar power plant at KV Hazira harnessing alternate sources of energy, the and three 20 KW rooftop solar power plants company took the following structured initiatives: were installed in Ahmedabad at IRS, Logging Section and Fire Station, during the reporting • Wind energy: In terms of the share of wind year. Solar water heaters and solar-powered energy in the energy portfolio, ONGC has street lights have been installed in many ONGC two operational wind farms with a combined residential colonies. Unmanned platforms capacity of 153 MW. The company has in offshore areas also use solar energy commissioned two energy-efficient wind for navigation lights and telemetry units. power projects — a 51 MW unit at Bhuj, Gujarat, a 102 MW Wind Farm in Jaisalmer, Energy efficiency measures: Along with the Rajasthan. adoption of cleaner modes of energy, we took several initiatives to promote energy efficiency and • Solar energy: During the year, initiatives were optimal energy utilisation. The following are some taken for the installation of solar panels at big of these measures: Wind farms at ONGC site of Surajbari, Gujarat 54 Solar panels at Rajahmundry Asset of ONGC • Replaced conventional lights with LED lights at already delivered) many work centres • Commissioned three hired gas compressors of • Organised energy conservation awareness 40,000 SCMD capacity each at Keshnapalli (W) campaigns through various activities GGS in Rajahmundry Asset in September 2016 and programmes such as month-long to reduce flaring of low pressure associated Saksham-2017, Akshay Urja Diwas and Energy gas Conservation Day • Commissioned new 16” gas trunk pipe line • Implemented Energy Management System from Geleki to Dikhow Junction Point (DJP) ISO 50001 at Uran Plant, Ahmedabad Asset in February 2017 (excess gas available, being (Group Gathering Station-II & Gas Compression flared earlier, is now being transported to Plant-Kalol), IDT Dehradun and Hazira plant Lakwa via DJP for internal consumption primarily for new GT operations) • Signed an MoU with M/s Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. (EESL) for the implementation of • Overhauled gas turbines commissioned LED lighting programme in ONGC (work centres at Geleki and Rudrasagar for continuous are in the process of obtaining sanctions/ availability of power, thereby minimising placement of orders for the replacement of shutdowns of Gas Compression Plants at conventional lights with energy-efficient LED ONGC Assam Asset lights, and around 4,000 LED lights have been 55 Transitioning towards Green Buildings LEED Certified Green Buildings of ONGC ONGC & ONGC Videsh Registered Office at New Delhi ONGC Head Office Green Hills at Dehradun ONGC Mumbai Office ONGC acknowledges that buildings have major environmental impact over their entire life cycle. Hence, the Company has taken up the initiative of constructing green building for its operations, with the vision of adopting an integrated and scientific way of constructing buildings, with due compliance to the guidelines of GRIHA (Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment). As part of our commitment to sustainable development, we have planned to build green buildings at Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Dehradun. Currently, green buildings at Delhi, Mumbai, and Dehradun house the officers of the Company. These buildings are expected to save 50% to 60% energy, save water by about 30%, harvest 100% rainwater and discharge zero sewage, as compared to conventional buildings. 56 During the reporting year, energy audits were carried out at numerous rigs/installations across Climate Change and Energy ONGC on a regular basis, through in-house Efficiency at MECL Colombia energy auditors, that provided recommendations for improving the overall energy efficiency of The accounting of Scope 1 and Scope 2 work centres. A total of 211 energy audits were emissions were done in 2016 to quantify conducted during the year, as against a target of the corporate carbon footprint pursuant to 205. the guidelines of ISO 14064 standard. The inventories for 2015 and 2016 were audited ONGC invested a total of ₹ 7.03 million in solar by ICONTEC, the organization that certify power projects during the reporting year. The the greenhouse gas management process. total generation of wind energy during the year was 237,900 MWh, while that of solar energy was Natural gas consumption continues to be 2,400 MWh. the main source of emissions with 93% of the total emissions generated, followed by ONGC Videsh emissions from electricity consumption. The actions that the company is exploring ONGC Videsh conducts exploration & production include the identification and use of activities, along with its consortium partners renewable energy, implementation of an in overseas countries abiding with the laws, energy management system (ISO 50001), regulations & guidelines of the country of operation continuous monitoring of electricity and and best international practices. Many initiatives natural gas consumption, and quantification have been taken for further improvement of of the corporate carbon footprint. It has Environmental Sustainability during FY 17. The changed conventional lighting to LED. major initiatives are: • Aligning QHSE Management System as per revised standards ISO 9001:2015 and ISO will process about 0.27 MMSCM/day of rich 14001:2015, which lay greater emphasis on gas producing LPG, condensate and lean gas. Risk Management and Life cycle assessment Implementation of this project will help in increasing production without the need of • ONGC Videsh alongwith ONGC shifted to flaring associated gas its own building, Deendayal Urja Bhawan, at Vasant Kunj, New Delhi, which is a LEED • Efforts are being made to further reduce gas certified Platinum rated Green building, adding flaring, thereby reducing carbon footprint. to environmental sustainability, by reducing its There has been reduction of 5% in total carbon and water footprints Greenhouse Gas emission (GHG) as compared to last year • APG Project has been taken up at its one of the operated Project Imperial Energy Russia • Though water requirement is increasing in at an approx. cost of USD 49 million, which depleted fields to maintain reservoir pressure, 57 efforts are being made to increase recycling • Recycling of MP condensate from Process of produced water. Saving of about 1,248 KL Steam system to Deaerator to maximise heat of fresh water has been achieved through recovery and minimise water losses recycling of produced water • Optimisation of excess air in furnaces/boilers MRPL for minimising fuel consumption During the reporting year, MRPL has undertaken • Use of steam turbine-driven pumps and the following measures for energy conservation: keeping electric motor driven pumps in standby mode • Routing of Hot Diesel from phase 1 crude distillation (CDU1) unit to Gas Oil Hydro-De • Enabling of performance controllers and antiSulphurising (GOHDS) unit, for waste heat surge automation for optimised operation of recovery big centrifugal compressors in DFCU • Slop reduction by routing of DCU blow down • Minimisation of CG compressor discharge bottom to drum quench & reducing blow down pressure for reducing power consumption overhead • Use of VFD facility in the motors in polymer • Entire phase-1/phase-2 non process plant area plants to reduce power consumption (buildings, streets, control room, offsites & township) total 7,575 nos lighting has been • Rolling out of a steam trap survey and replaced with LED. Similarly in a process unit optimisation of steam loss through good (Merox units) 250 nos lighting is replaced with engineering practices flame proof LED lighting, on a trial basis. In the • Recovery of cooling tower blowdown after new CISF town-ship only LED lightings (380 treatment in ECTS and using as a make-up nos) were installed for general lighting water for cooling towers • Impeller Trimming of CPP-3 HP BFW Pump • Recovery of surface condensate and polished These measures have resulted in energy condensate and treatment in CPU and used for consumption reduction by 3345 SRFT/Year, steam generation to minimise water usage equivalent to a net saving of ₹ 65.9 million/Year, • Continuous monitoring of flare system for with an investment of ₹ 9.8 million. troubleshooting H.C. losses and minimise OPaL steam consumption based on flame condition OPaL Petrochemical Complex has been designed In addition, a study for assessing renewable following the best technologies conducive for energy installation (25 MW rooftop solar panel) is maximum energy conservation. During the currently under progress at OPaL. financial year, the following initiatives were taken to promote energy efficiency: 58 OTPC turbine, steam turbine and cooling tower to improve performance At OTPC, energy and climate change is addressed by utilising alternative sources of energy and • Online wash of gas turbine to regain the loss promoting the use of energy-efficient technologies. of compressor discharge pressure occurring The steps taken for utilising alternate sources of during normal gas turbine operation. This energy include: online wash significantly affects gas turbine heat rate and efficiency • Use of PV cell for supplying power to weather monitoring station • COC optimisation by taking real-time decision depending on process parameters; • Procurement of solar street light has been maintaining COC on higher side to reduce raw planned to reduce the use of traditional power water consumption Initiatives taken by OTPC for conservation of energy and promotion of energy-efficient technologies OMPL include: OMPL is committed to addressing climate change • Process optimisation to conserve water and by adopting optimisation techniques in energy fuel consumption by incorporating right management, as well as using efficient production standard operating procedure and utility systems. During the reporting year, we commissioned a captive power plant successfully • Optimisation of plant start-up time and thus and achieved a peak power load of 41.5 MW. reducing start-up energy consumption Various conservation measures were taken during the design stage, which have been implemented • Replacement of all old timers for plant effectively. The following energy conservation lighting system with new and state-of-the-art measures were implemented: technology • Heat recovery from the waste process • Reduction/Removal of excess lights in indoor condensate to heat inlet DM water (increases and outdoor application and switching of temperature of DM water by 70o C) unnecessary lighting in plant areas • Condensate recovery system to minimise • Maintenance of valves and seals to prevent water usage high energy draining out by promptly attending to defects; Survey for identifying passing valve • Recovery of boiler blowdown and its use as a incorporated as routine O&M practice makeup to cooling tower • Replacement of gas turbine inlet air filters to • Installation of timers in all plant lighting minimise filter differential pressure, which systems for automatic switch on and off directly affects plant efficiency • Periodic performance assessment of gas 59 Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) With the rising concern towards climate change and global warming, ONGC has given due importance to pursue a low carbon high growth strategy and has undertaken some path-breaking initiatives towards Green House Gas mitigation. ONGC commenced its CDM journey way back in the year 2006. Currently, it has 15 registered CDM projects with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) that yield (potential) Certified Emissions Reductions (CER) of approximately 2.1 million annually. The registered CDM projects are as under: Estimated CERs/ Sl. No. Project annum 1. Waste heat recovery from Process Gas Compressors (PGCs), Mumbai High South (Offshore Process Platform) 5,320 Upgrade of Gas Turbine 1 (GT 1) and Gas Turbine 2 (GT 2) at co-generation plant of Hazira Gas Processing 2. 7,802 Complex (HGPC) 3. Flare gas recovery project at Uran plant 97,740 4. Flare gas recovery project at Hazira Gas Processing Complex (HGPC), Hazira plant 8,793 5. Amine Circulation Pumps Energy Efficiency at Hazira Plant 4,043 6. 51 MW wind power project of ONGC at Surajbari 85,762 7. Energy-efficient green building at Mumbai 544 8. Energy-efficient green building at Dehradun 735 9. Gas flaring reduction at Neelam and Heera Asset 65,811 10. OTPC natural gas-based combined cycle power plant in Tripura, India 1,612,506 11. Energy-efficient green building in Kolkata 1,881 12. Energy-efficient green building in Delhi 5,944 13. Gas flare reduction at GGS Charali, Assam 15,172 14. Replacement of MOL pumps at Neelam and Heera 10,539 15. 102 MW wind power project at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan 180,177 Total 2,102,769 Table 19 CDM Projects of ONGC Group 60 Palatana plant: One of India’s largest CDM project ONGC’s Palatana plant has been registered as a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) since 26 December 2012. The project qualifies to be one of the largest CDM projects registered in India. The applicable Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) from the project depends on the actual power generation from the project, and the issuance of CERs is subject to successful verification of the A snapshot of Palatana plant, OTPC project under UNFCCC. OTPC has undertaken the first verification process of its CDM project for the generation period from 1st January 2014 to 31st March 2015. The project is expected to generate approximately 1.73 million CERs for the said period. The plant is using a cleaner fuel (Natural Gas) as compared to traditional fossil fuels (Coal, Diesel, Oil) to generate electricity, thereby leading to reduction in carbon emissions. 61 ONGC Group’s management has been proactively reduction opportunities. This initiative has resulted engaging with national and international climate in the reduction of about 16.7 MMSCM of fugitive change forums to ensure that the organisation stays methane emissions over the years, while allowing updated with global climate change negotiations the company to earn more profit by increasing the and India’s domestic commitments. Fugitive amount of saleable gas. methane emissions from oil and natural gas systems are primarily the result of normal operations and Awards and Recognition system disruptions. These emissions can be costeffectively reduced by upgrading technologies or In recognition of our continued efforts towards equipment as well as by improving operations. ensuring sustainable development, ONGC Group has received some of the most prestigious awards: In August 2007, ONGC tied up with the Global Methane Initiative (GMI6), then known as the • ONGC received the Special technical award ‘Methane to Markets Partnership’ in association “Greening of Oil and Gas Business, Corporate” with United States Environmental Protection during Petrotech 2016. The award was Agency (USEPA), under its Natural Gas STAR presented by Hon’ble Minister of State (I/C), Program to promote development, implementation Petroleum & Natural Gas, Govt. of India, and reporting of profitable, voluntary methane Shri Dharmendra Pradhan to the then CMD, emission mitigation activities. The company has ONGC, Shri D. K. Sarraf The award is conferred formed a dedicated in-house team and procured to ONGC for excellent and outstanding methane emission detection and measurement commitment & contributions towards greening equipments. ONGC has also drawn an effective plan of oil and gas business. The relentless efforts to map all its production installations for fugitive of ONGC to promote sustainable development hydrocarbon emission and make them leak-free demonstrate the commitment in Greening by conducting gas leak surveys and using Gas Find of Oil and Gas Business, which were highly Infrared Camera to identify methane emission appreciated by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, ONGC being conferred with Petrotech Award 2016 6 The Global Methane Initiative (GMI) is an action-oriented initiative from USEPA to reduce global fugitive methane emissions to enhance economic growth, promote energy security, improve the environment, and reduce greenhouse gas emission. GMI facilitates cooperative mitigation activities that result in bringing more gas to markets through the Identification, Quantification, and Reduction (IQR) path. 62 Hon’ble Minister of State (I/C), Petroleum & towards reduction in carbon emissions Natural Gas, Government of India • It received the Greentech Environment • ONGC also bagged the noteworthy PetroFed Award 2017 in Gold Category for outstanding award for Environmentally Sustainable achievement in Environment Management Company of the year. The coveted award from Greentech Foundation, Delhi ‘Company of the year’ in Environmental Sustainability category was presented by • It received the Global Energy Management Secretary, MoP&NG, Mr. K.D. Tripathi to the Award at the South Asia Forum for Energy then CMD of ONGC, Mr. D.K. Sarraf on 8th Efficiency (SAFEE) for excellence in energyAugust 2016 efficient performance • ONGC bagged the prestigious ‘Energy and • OTPC was conferred the ‘Best innovation’ in Environment Foundation Global Sustainability Techno Commercial category by Independent Award 2016’ in Gold Category for excellent and Power Producers Association of India (IPPAI) outstanding contributions, commitment and • Moreover, ONGC is among the few Indian actions that have made a positive impact on the corporates to be featured in the Newsweek environment. The award was presented during Global 500 Green Energy Rankings the 7th World Renewable Energy Technology Congress International Conference and During the year, ONGC Videsh was also conferred Exhibition on 23rd August 2016 at Manekshaw with ‘Environmental sustainability, ICT Initiative Centre, New Delhi and Employee Productivity award’ in Miniratna-I category at the 4th edition of Governance Now PSU • OTPC was conferred with the National EHS Awards-2016. Award 2016 for outstanding contribution Sh. Jai Singh, ED-Chief CM&SG receiving ‘Energy and Environment Foundation Global Sustainability Award’ 63 Water and Waste Management Water is a necessity for all human activities and minimising the share of fresh water and increasing its accelerating rate of depletion is a major global the share of recycled water in the overall water concern. In the Indian context, availability of fresh consumption in its operations. water poses a serious challenge with the ever increasing withdrawal rate leaving little scope for Some of the operational areas of the Group the aquifers to replenish. The per capita availability are remote, where access to clean water for of freshwater is steadily decreasing with increasing communities is a challenge. The group takes due consumption levels and climate change and this cognisance of the criticality of water resources for trend is bound to continue. Thus, it is imperative the local community and the ecosystem. To track the for ONGC Group to develop new strategies for water consumption and to explore opportunities to water management in order to achieve sustainable further reduce it, regular monitoring and evaluation growth and development. is being carried out. Environmental statements are duly submitted to the respective regulatory ONGC Group is committed towards reducing the authorities to comply with statutory obligations. overall water footprint. At ONGC Group, the focus is to further efficiently manage water usage by Key highlights of our water performance for FY 17 Water Source ONGC FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Ground water (in billion litres) 3.97 1.13 3.34 Municipal water (in billion litres) 5.15 5.49 5.08 Surface water (in billion litres) 15.45 17.67 9.24 Total (in billion litres) 24.57 24.29 17.66 Table 20 Sources of water consumption at ONGC Water Source ONGC Videsh FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Ground water (in billion litres) 4.45 4.78 4.79 Municipal water (in billion litres) 0.49 0.21 0.22 Surface water (in billion litres) 0.0003 0.001 0.0007 Total (in billion litres) 4.94 4.99 5.01 Table 21 Sources of water consumption at ONGC Videsh 64 Water Source MRPL FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Surface water (in billion litres) 15.20 17.54 15.15 Collected rainwater (in billion litres) 0.40 0.34 0.38 Municipal water (in billion litres) 3.02 4.42 3.33 Total (in billion litres) 18.62 22.30 18.86 Table 22 Sources of water consumption at MRPL Water Source OPaL FY 17 Surface water (in billion litres) 9.58 Total (in billion litres) 9.58 Table 23 Sources of water consumption at OPaL Water Source OMPL FY 17 Surface water (in billion litres) 1.98 Total (in billion litres) 1.98 Table 24 Sources of water consumption at OMPL Water Source OTPC FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Surface water (River water) (in billion litres) 4.94 4.95 5.17 Total (in billion litres) 4.94 4.95 5.17 Table 25 Sources of water consumption at OTPC Produced/waste water during FY 17 Source ONGC FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Volume of produced water (billion litres) 103.94 48.92 114.49 Percentage of produce water recycled/re-used 3.98 5.78 1.62 Table 26 Produced/ waste water from ONGC Source ONGC Videsh FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Volume of produced water (billion litres) 25.67 21.47 20.80 Percentage of produce water recycled/re-used 5.00 5.00 5.71 Table 27 Produced/ waste water from ONGC Videsh 65 Source MRPL FY 17 Volume of waste water (billion litres) 6.193 Percentage of produce water recycled/re-used 53 Table 28 Produced/ waste water from MRPL Source OPaL FY 17 Volume of waste water (billion litres) 368.52 Percentage of produce water recycled/re-used 9.95 Table 29 Produced/ waste water from OPaL Source OMPL FY 17 Volume of waste water (billion litres) 376.69 Percentage of produce water recycled/re-used 58.7 Table 30 Produced/ waste water from OMPL Sustainable Water Management Water conservation through Rainwater Harvesting (RWH) ONGC is committed to the development of water management practices in a sustainable To conserve fresh water, ONGC Group has a and responsible manner as an integral part of rainwater harvesting policy that is mandatory for its corporate vision of sustainable growth. The all future projects. The details of the company’s company has rolled out a policy on Sustainable existing rainwater harvesting projects are given Water Management (SWM) in the year 2011; below: incorporating the principles of Reduce-ReuseRecharge-replenish philosophies of water • 29 ground water recharge wells at various management. Various activities like water footprint locations of Ahmedabad Asset studies, construction of sewage treatment plants, • Rainwater from rooftop and surface run off rainwater harvesting systems, feasibility studies for harvesting at Green Building, Mumbai setting up seawater desalination plants, etc. are taken up in different work centres of the company. • Percolation well for ground water recharge at a residential complex, Ankleshwar Asset The major initiatives taken by ONGC for efficient water management areas follows: • RWH system as an integral part of C2-C3 plant, Dahej, Gujarat 66 • RWH at Rajahmundry Asset Base Complex possible before effluent is discharged back into the water cycle. • 16 infiltration wells in IPSHEM, Goa ONGC Group monitors the quality of effluent • 2 ground water recharge wells at IRS, discharge to return the treated water to water Ahmedabad cycle with minimal impact on environment. The • 6 ground water recharge wells at KDMIPE, Group strives for optimal treatment of water to Dehradun recycle produced water for various operational processes, such as drilling and re-injection. To • 1 ground water recharge well at Base Complex, achieve this, 26 ETPs at different work centres to RFB, Jodhpur treat about 78,110 m3/d of waste water produced during E&P operations have been installed at • RWH system at K. V. School, NOBH and officers’ various work centres. This is done along with club at Agartala, Tripura Asset the processing of oil and gas to meet statutory • RWH system at PPCL building, Uran Plant, requirements for discharge of treated effluent Raigad, Maharashtra at surface/subsurface. In order to cope up with enhanced liquid production due to high water cut • Bhavale Hill RWH system, Panvel, Maharashtra from aging of oil fields, 17 new ETPs have been planned to be installed. • RWH system at SPIC campus, Panvel, Maharashtra Produced Water Conditioners (PWCs) have been installed for treatment of offshore effluent water • RWH systems at various locations at Western (produced water). For treatment of sewage water Onshore Basin, Vadodara being generated at living quarters in offshore • Six wells to collect the discharge water at platforms, Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) have different locations of the KDMIPE campus been installed for treatment of waste water. Waste Water Management Therefore, the waste water separated from oil and gas is treated and pollutants values are maintained The major aim of wastewater treatment is to as per prescribed limits before discharging it at remove as much of the suspended solids as onshore/offshore. Lining of drill site waste pit with high density polyethylene (HDPE) sheets To avoid contamination of ground water quality of surrounding areas, HDPE lining is laid in the waste pit at drill sites. This prevents percolation of waste water into the ground during drilling of wells, thus, helping us monitor and protect ground water quality. Effluent treatment plant at Ankleshwar 67 Offshore Monitoring to Check Marine off-shore location. Pollution at West and East Coast Waste Management To study the impact of E&P operations on Marine Waste management is included in ONGC Group’s Environment, we have instituted regular offshore policy. Environmental issues have been identified monitoring at West Coast and East Coast covering and actions have been initiated based on the the entire operational areas. The reports are management hierarchy of preventing pollution at regularly submitted to regulatory authorities. source, recycling and reuse of waste, treatment Across ONGC Group and JVs, the wastewater is and disposal of the waste. The waste production discharged in compliance with the local statutory of ONGC Group and JVs (except OPaL) is reported norms and depending on the location of the site below8: the effluent is discharged to sub-surface/ onshore/ Source ONGC FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Hazardous waste (in MT) 69,152 27,519 25,220 Non-hazardous waste (in MT) 25,583 30,193 24,157 Table 31 Waste production from ONGC Source ONGC Videsh FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Hazardous waste (in MT) 382 312 337.8 Non-hazardous waste (in MT) 1,802 851 805.7 Table 32 Waste production from ONGC Videsh Source MRPL FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Hazardous waste (in MT) 1,099 2,501 4,800 Non-hazardous waste (in MT) 1,487 2,035 1,299 Table 33 Waste production from MRPL Source OTPC FY16 FY17 Hazardous waste (in MT) 7.225 2.987 Non-hazardous waste (in MT) 8.6 7.5 Table 34 Waste production from OTPC Source OMPL FY 17 Hazardous waste (in KL) 24.8 Non-hazardous waste (in MT) 10.06 Table 35 Waste production from OMPL 8 OPaL started commercial production in the month of Jan-17, hence, there is no generation of hazardous, non-hazardous waste during FY 17. 68 ONGC Group has adopted several methods for • Manage waste & reporting scientific disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated during operations. A threeWaste generated during exploration and production pronged strategy is followed to reduce and manage operations primarily include drilling fluid and drill waste: cuttings (non-hazardous), chemical sludge and tank bottom sludge (hazardous). Drilling fluid and • Know your waste footprint – Establish the waste cuttings are disposed, re-used in land filling or sold base line to authorized vendors as per industry practices. • Undertake waste management project wherever Chemical sludge is collected in lagoons having feasible and apply A unique way of handling produced water naturally through Reed plantation at GNPOC Sudan (ONGC Videsh Asset) Bio-remediation is a technique for optimisation of natural biodegradation process in which bacteria can alter and break down contaminants, transforming them into harmless substances. The technique was used by Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company (GNPOC), Sudan to convert produced water into useful water. The Reed species used throughout the Bio-remediation sites is Phragmites australis which is indigenous and originally sourced from the banks of the river Nile in Khartoum. The species possesses an extraordinary system of regeneration with a single primary root shooting horizontal ‘runners’ in all directions thus increasing reed coverage substantially as these runners also develop primary roots. 0 Months 6 Months 12 Months 18 Months Reed Development 69 leachate collection facility where water is drained hazardous wastes such as used/waste oil, used to reduce the quantity of sludge. This chemical lead acid batteries and other non-ferrous metal sludge is disposed off by land filling in accordance waste. Such waste is sold or auctioned to only with norms of the State Pollution Control Board. those units which possess Environmentally Sound To treat tank bottom sludge, which is mainly Management (ESM) facilities and are registered organic in content, bio-remediation techniques with regulatory authorities. Similarly, for ensuring are employed. After the oil is recovered from the safe disposal of e-waste, ONGC invites tenders oily waste produced during drilling operations, from the firms registered with Central Pollution the remaining waste and oil contaminated soil is Control Board for e-waste disposal, and the items subjected to bioremediation, where the oil content of e-waste are sold to them. ONGC has updated is reduced to less than 1% TPH by using a consortium its e-waste management practices, in line with the of hydrocarbon degrading bacteria developed by requirements under the E-Waste (Management) the OTBL since March 26, 2011. During the year, Rules, 2016. 25,220 MT of oily sludge/ oil contaminated waste has been bio-remediated. ONGC has well-established systems for Imperial Energy, Russia (ONGC Videsh management of hazardous chemicals and Asset) received upgradation of hazardous materials. Separate designated areas are provided class of facilities for storage of hazardous chemicals and all Hazardous class of most of the facilities personnel are provided with Personnel Protective (OTF, CTF, wells etc.) of LLC Nord Imperial Equipment (PPE), first aid training, and training for have been upgraded from class I (extremely safe handling practices of hazardous chemicals. hazardous) to class III (moderate hazardous) ONGC Group ensures compliance with all the which will have the following advantages; requirements of the regulatory authorities, • Periodicity of state inspections/audit for which regulates the recycling/reprocessing of facilities will increase from 1 year to 3 years due to up-gradation of class of Hazardous facilities • Objects of the class III of hazard do not require development of HSE declaration for each hazardous object, which will lead to saving of time and money spent for development of declarations and then for state expert review • Significant reduction in tariffs for annual mandatory insurance for civil liability of the owner of the hazardous industrial objects (for harm infliction as a result of emergency) Bioremediation of hazardous waste at an ONGC site 70 Biodiversity Taking cognisance of biodiversity is especially Environmental Clearances were obtained for ONGC important for the oil and gas industry, as there are projects. usually overlaps between areas with significant hydrocarbon resources and areas that are of ONGC Group takes due cognisance of the fact that importance from the perspective of biodiversity there has to be a greater emphasis on the value and nature conservation. At ONGC Group, we of ecosystem-based services, which would enable work to avoid and minimise biodiversity loss and a more nuanced approach to developing resources disturbance, while improving our biodiversity in the areas that require sensitive management of management practices. ONGC Group follows an the social and environmental impacts and risks. As Environment Management System based on the a signatory to the UN Global Compact 10 principles, precautionary principle. Therefore, no activity is ONGC has adopted a two-pronged approach to carried out in areas notified as environmentally address the major issue of biodiversity: sensitive. • Assessing the risk and impacts of our activities ONGC Group carries out Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies covering impact on • Managing biodiversity and integrating it into biodiversity before initiating new projects, as Environment Management System (EMS) per compliance requirements. Every new project undertaken starts with conducting an EIA. During ONGC Group and JVs regularly organises plantation EIA study, the baseline environmental status of drives where in a variety of species are planted air, water, land and biological environment is for maintaining biodiversity and providing an carried out. Moreover, ONGC is the first PSU to aesthetic environment. Green belts are developed have mandatory NABET-QCI accreditation for and maintained around major installations to conducting EIA studies. The baseline status of retain the biodiversity of the surrounding areas, biological environment is established by studying in compliance with the stipulations of various the distribution pattern, community structure, permissions obtained from the respective population dynamics, and composition of species regulatory authorities. Tree plantation is carried of flora and fauna. This information plays a major out by selecting trees as per bio-geo-climatic role in preparing the environmental management conditions of the area to ensure a desirable rate plan for the respective site. However, sites allocated of survival. In addition, ONGC has some flagship prior to the enforcement of EIA notifications may initiatives to promote biodiversity conservation, not necessarily have the baseline assessment data. which have been described below: During the reporting period, a total number of 9 71 Ringal Plantation in the Upper Himalayas To sustain the fragile ecosystem of the Himalayas, ringal plantation in the Upper Himalayan region is being carried out by ONGC in collaboration with the Uttarakhand Bamboo and Fiber Development Board, an autonomous organisation under the Forest Department, Government of Uttarakhand. This plantation drive has a high carbon sequestering potential, water recharge and soil conservation capacity. Plantation in the Upper Himalayas is already completed in an area of 430 hectares in three phases, resulting in 1.97 million tonnes of CO2 fixation per annum. Another 0.75 million Ringal plants will be planted in two phases in an area of 300 hectares in the Upper Himalayan region, which shall result in an additional 1.37 million tonnes of CO2 fixation per annum. Plantation in 730 hectares over five years with a total cost of ₹ 39 million have resulted in annual sequestration potential of 33,458 tCO2 /annum. An agreement was also signed with the Uttarakhand Bamboo and Fiber Development Board, Dehradun in March 2016 for the fourth phase of the ringal plantation. Ringal Plantation 72 Mangrove Plantation Project For protection and stabilization of the shoreline close to ONGC Assets, a mangrove plantation project along the shores of the Dhadar river on the West Coast, Gujarat is being carried out by ONGC. More than 2 million mangroves have been planted in soil-erosion prone areas of Gandhar area and 0.15 million near the Hazira plant. To spread awareness of the significance of mangrove plantation, programmes for its protection and continued cultivation were organised among children and local communities in these areas. Mangrove Plantation Skill Development for Biodiversity be educated about the various species of flora and fauna but also sensitise them regarding the Conservation and Protection importance of biodiversity and its conservation. ONGC has taken up a CSR initiative aimed at They in turn will be the brand ambassadors of biodiversity conservation and sensitisation along environment protection and conservation. A weekwith skill development of local guides. The camp long workshop was held where the participants was kick-started by CMD, ONGC at the Sultanpur visited various national parks across the country. National Park, Haryana in association with the The initiative will focus on livelihood generation in Wildlife Trust of India. This initiative would develop this area in its next phase. the skill sets of the local guides who will not only 73 Colombian National Park recognises efforts of Mansarovar Energy Colombia Ltd. (MECL Colombia – An ONGC Videsh Asset) Colombian National Park in its annual publication 2015 “In Situ” has recognised the private-public partnership between MECL (ONGC Videsh’s subsidiary), Corpoboyaca (local authority) and the Unit for Rescue and Rehabilitation of Wild Animals for their contribution towards the preservation of natural wealth in the area of Puerto Boyaca in Colombia. As part of this partnership, a group of endemic monkeys (cebus albifrons versicolor) were released from confiscated or voluntarily delivered fauna. This partnership served as a contribution to the knowledge repository of the sub-species that conform the Colombian mega biodiversity. Program for the Liberation of White Faced Monkeys in Campo Moriche, in association with Corpoboyaca 74 Green Hub Project This is a unique initiative to train 20 youths of the North-Eastern Region every year in wildlife videography and documentation. The Green Hub project is implemented in partnership with the North East Network. The main objective of the project is to create a team of environment enthusiast having expertise in conservation. In the last two years, 40 youths have been trained. The centre has recently been conferred with Manthan Awards in the category of Environment & Green Energy for leveraging the power of youth to conserve biodiversity through a digital platform. The total cost of the project for two years is ₹ 3.94 million. Training of youth of North-East on wildlife videography Environmental Protection technologies for monitoring and controlling environmental pollution parameters such as air, Environmental protection is an integral part of water, emissions and waste. During the reporting sustainable development for ONGC Group. A year, we engaged with MOEF&CC to gain clarity holistic approach is followed across ONGC Group on the issue of replacement of Halon. It was for understanding the environmental impact, and clarified that the roadmap developed for phasing taking corrective actions, wherever necessary. out of the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in India is not applicable for ONGC Group invests in maintaining strict Halon. Therefore, the use of ONGC Group’s existing compliance with environmental laws across stock of Halon can be continued. operating sites. There were no penalties or fines paid by ONGC Group & JVs during the reporting ONGC Videsh also participated in the World period. Environment Day celebrations, to promote public awareness about nature and environment We always aim to utilize the best available conservation. 75 DISHA (Digitization, Integration & Standardization by Harnessing Automation): A Paperless Office in ONGC As a step towards environmental protection, ONGC has taken up the ambitious challenge of going Paperless with a company wide project called “DISHA” for creation of a paperless office platform. In line with the “Digital India” initiative this Paperless Office Project will eliminate paper movement within ONGC at all levels. The project was awarded on 29th Dec 2016 and is aimed at making more than 3,000 paper-based processes paperless. This initiative will be ONGC’s contribution towards our Hon’ble Prime Minister’s initiative of Digital India. This will also help us bring about a drastic reduction in the paper waste from the organization. The project covers all work centres of ONGC and will be rolled out in phases with first phase going live at Mumbai in May 2017. Subsequent rollouts are planned every quarter with scheduled Project to be completed by June 2018. The Paperless Office project envisages implementation of paperless workflows for approvals & other processes, including integration with ICE. ONGC already has a robust Digital system in place and has been credited with the biggest ERP roll-out in Asia when it launched Project ICE in the year 2003. This new initiative, along with Systems like e-tender, invoice monitoring system, grievance management and vigilance portal is another corporate governance milestone and one more step towards promoting transparency. Change management will be the biggest challenge in this project involving training of all 33,000+ employees across the organization. This project is a milestone in ONGC’s contribution towards environmental protection, with its impact translating to saving of approximately 12,000 trees every year, thus, sequestrating about a 1,000 ton CO2 every year. 76 World Environment Day at ONGC Videsh World Environment Day was celebrated at ONGC Videsh under the aegis of United Nations Environment Programme on the theme ‘Connecting people to nature’, which appeals to get outdoor into nature, to appreciate its beauty and its significance and to take forward the call to protect Earth. About the Intiative Mr. Narendra K. Verma, MD & CEO through his message to employees emphasized on making individual commitments to restore the harmony between nature and mankind. He said “At individual level, each of us must not only change overselves, but also encourage and inspire others to change their habits and behaviour by practicing 5 R (Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Recover), using energy efficient equipment like LED bulbs and BEE five star rating equipment, avoiding plastic bags and planting trees”. Key Highlights • Employees and their families participated in various activities of the World Environment Day • HSE Group carried out and awareness drive for one week on various topics related with Environment Health and Safety • HSE head made a presentation covering environmental impacts of E&P industry • A video on impact of industrial activities on nature reinforced the needs to take corrective actions 77 Our People, Our Strength Our Human Capital ONGC Group intends to build a value based workemployee hires of ONGC Group can influence the culture on the principles of transparency and strategy and ability to attract talented employees inclusivity. Key competencies of the individual have as it signifies efforts to implement inclusive been mapped to the annual goals of the functional recruitment practices. The details of our existing levels. The number, age, gender, and region of new human capital are provided below: Workforce Headcount FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 ONGC + ONGC Videsh 33,185 33,927 33,660 MRPL 1,720 1,812 1,917 OPaL 322 550 735 OTPC 68 68 66 OMPL 396 465 447 Table 36 Workforce headcount at ONGC Group Age Profile: ONGC + ONGC Videsh Age Group SC ST OBC GN Total Nos. Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % < 30 years 639 12.52 463 13.89 1,876 29.37 2,452 13.02 5,430 16.13 30-50 years 2,057 40.32 1,719 51.56 2,961 46.36 5,378 28.55 12,115 35.99 > 50 years 2,406 47.16 1,152 34.55 1,550 24.27 11,007 58.43 16,115 47.88 Grand Total 5,102 100.00 3,334 100.00 6,387 100.00 18,837 100.00 33,660 100.00 Age Profile: MRPL Age Group SC ST OBC GN Total Nos. Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % < 30 years 51 26.84 22 31.43 146 24.79 170 15.92 389 20.29 30-50 years 136 71.58 48 68.57 414 70.29 747 69.94 1,345 70.16 > 50 years 3 1.58 0 0.00 29 4.92 151 14.14 183 9.55 Grand Total 190 100 70 100 589 100 1,068 100 1,917 100 Age Profile: OMPL Age Group SC ST OBC GN Total Nos. Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % Nos % < 30 years 1 17 1 100 63 41 111 39 176 39 30-50 years 5 83 0 0 91 59 167 58 263 59 > 50 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 3 8 2 Grand Total 6 100 1 100 154 100 286 100 447 100 Table 37 Age profile of ONGC Group 78 ONGC + ONGC Videsh Workforce Strength as on 31 March 2017 Sector Gender Regular Tenure Term Deputation In Male 3,429 2 10 1 01Headquarters Female 553 01Headquarters Total 3,982 2 10 1 Male 7,094 77 1 2 02Mumbai Sector Female 608 3 2 02Mumbai Sector Total 7,702 80 3 2 Male 9,594 51 03Western Sector Female 399 2 03Western Sector Total 9,993 53 Male 6,164 15 04Eastern Sector Female 332 1 04Eastern Sector Total 6,496 16 Male 3,542 489 2 9 05Southern Sector Female 229 8 1 1 05Southern Sector Total 3,771 497 3 10 Male 1,629 7 1 3 06Central Sector Female 87 1 06Central Sector Total 1,716 7 2 3 Grand Total 33,660 655 18 16 Table 38 Workforce strength of ONGC Group ONGC Group continuously strives to improve the available workforce in different regions. It its strategy and ability to attract diverse and is essential to monitor the turnover results, as it qualified employees. We believe that it is critical can affect the company’s human and intellectual to implement inclusive recruitment practices capital and subsequently impact productivity. based on age and gender and optimally utilise 79 ONGC and ONGC Videsh Employee Turnover FY 17 Parameters Total Separations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 41 years 87 1,582 41-45 years 7 24 46-50 years 21 51 Age Group 51-55 years 47 39 56-60 years 1,910 10 Total 2,072 1,706 Attrition: 0.3% (Resignations/ Average Manpower) Male 1,960 1,625 Female 112 81 Employee Turnover: 6% Gender (Total Separations/ Average Manpower) Total 2,072 1,706 Headquarters 269 45 Average Manpower during the year : 33,668 Mumbai Sector 428 239 Western Sector 585 552 Region Eastern Sector 432 467 Southern Sector 193 228 Central Sector 165 175 Total 2,072 1,706 Total Strength as on Gender Age Group Employee Category 31st March 2017 Minorities Male Female < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years Executives 21,996 20,494 1,502 2,759 6,683 12,554 1,942 Non-Executives 11,664 10,958 706 2,671 5,432 3,561 1,037 31,452 2,208 5,430 12,115 16,115 2,979 Grand Total 33,660 93% 7% 16% 36% 48% 9% Table 39 Employee turnover at ONGC & ONGC Videsh OMPL Employee Turnover FY 17 Parameters Total Separations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 41 years 6 0 Attrition: 1.73% 41-45 years 2 0 (Resignations/ Average 46-50 years 0 0 Manpower) Age Group 51-55 years 0 0 Employee Turnover: 1.73% 56-60 years 0 0 (Total Separations/ Average Manpower) Total 8 0 Male 7 0 Average Manpower during Gender Female 1 0 the year : 461 Total 8 0 Table 40 Employee turnover at OMPL 80 MRPL Employee Turnover FY 17 Parameters Total Only Separations Resignations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 41 years 6 6 45 41-45 years 0 0 1 46-50 years 3 2 0 Age Group 51-55 years 0 0 0 Attrition: 0.44% (Resignations/ Average 56-60 years 7 0 0 Manpower) Total 16 8 46 Employee Turnover: 0.8% Male 15 7 43 (Total Separations/ Average Manpower) Gender Female 1 1 3 Total 16 8 46 Average Manpower Mangalore 13 5 44 during the year : 1833 Bangalore 2 2 2 Region Mumbai 0 0 0 Delhi 1 1 0 Total 16 8 46 Table 41 Employee turnover at MRPL OTPC Employee Turnover FY 17 Parameters Total Separations New Hires Rate of Turnover < 41 years 5 4 41-45 years 1 0 46-50 years 1 1 Age Group 51-55 years 1 0 56-60 years 0 0 Attrition: 11.76% Total 8 5 (Resignations/ Average Manpower) Male 7 5 Female 1 0 Employee Turnover: 11.76% Gender (Total Separations/ Average Total 8 5 Manpower) Headquarters 0 1 Average Manpower dwuring Palatana Tripura 8 4 the year : 68 Western Sector 0 0 Region Eastern Sector 0 0 Southern Sector 0 0 Central Sector 0 0 Total 8 5 Table 42 Employee turnover at OTPC 81 Workforce Competency and foreign faculty programmes pertaining to functional disciplines were organized by ONGC with the best Engagement of faculties from India and abroad during the year. ONGC Group attaches utmost importance to the During the year, a total of 15,846 executives and development of its human resource. A long 5,703 non-executives were imparted appropriate lasting development of professional competencies training, spanning 187,712 executive mandays is provided to employees through various and 20,548 non-executive mandays. The company training programs and workshops conducted. conducted Business Games to hone the business These trainings are conducted by the training acumen of its executives in a competitive scenario institutes ONGC Academy, IPSHEM, IOGPT, IDT, under simulated business constraints. RTIs and others. OTPC has constructed a training center and In order to absorb new and emerging technological arrangements are being done with reputed advancements pertaining to oil and gas exploration institutions for training of the employees. and production, 65 programmes including 21 MRPL OTPC Male Female Male Female Training Hours 39,416 3,096 2,412 200 Table 43 Training hours in MRPL and OTPC Type of benefits offered to full-time employees ONGC & ONGC Videsh OTPC Group Term Life Insurance Group Term Life Insurance Employee Deposit-linked Insurance Annual Health Check-Up Personal Accident Policy Personal Accident Policy Post-Retirement Medical Benefit (PRMBF) Facility Group Mediclaim Policy Medical Benefit Scheme for Regular Employees Medical Reimbursements Disability Leave Disability Leave Paternity Leave Paternity Leave Child Care leave Children Education Allowance Child Adoption Leave Leave Travel Allowance Maternity Leave Maternity Leave Superannuation Fund Shift Allowance Gratuity Gratuity Provident Fund Provident Fund Employee Pension Scheme National Pension Scheme Performance-linked Incentive Reimbursement of Newspaper and Magazine Expense Table 44 Employee benefits at ONGC, ONGC Videsh & OTPC 82 A skilled and trained workforce improves the quality of the organisation’s human capital and can also contribute to employee satisfaction, which correlates strongly with improved performance. ONGC and ONGC Videsh Non-Executives Executives No. of No. of NonName of No. of Executive Total Sl. Prgrammes NonExecutives SC ST OBC Female SC ST OBC Female Institute Executives Man-days Man-days organised Executives Man-days 1 ONGC 232 78 165 24 7 9 9 6,637 154,221 833 320 663 519 154,386 Academy 2 RTI 74 443 978 72 50 138 80 1,083 1,389 232 76 118 163 2,367 Mumbai 3 RTI 51 704 4,428 167 12 405 38 503 1,455 125 14 154 57 5,883 Chennai 4 RTI 55 1,122 3,850 106 166 557 29 409 1,068 54 62 136 15 4,918 Sivasagar 5 RTI 82 779 3,150 77 112 241 51 847 1,909 108 55 121 47 5,058 Vadodara 6 IOGPT 52 41 145 4 1 24 0 802 5,954 104 53 188 34 6,099 Panvel 7 IPSHEM 177 1,867 5,248 210 260 589 30 2,936 6,859 326 185 386 42 12,107 Goa 8 SMP 160 361 1,525 42 39 141 3 846 5,153 107 59 159 21 6,678 Vadodara 9 IDT 143 308 1,059 46 37 123 18 1,783 9,705 223 173 427 37 10,764 Dehradun Total 1,026 5,703 20,548 748 684 2227 258 15,846 187,712 2,112 997 2352 935 208,260 Table 45 Training programs at ONGC 83 ONGC Group believes that the quality of benefits Videsh employees are covered. The matters for full-time staff is a key factor in improving related to pay, allowances, perks, social security employee retention. Under the collective and employee welfare are covered under collective bargaining agreements, 34% of ONGC and ONGC bargaining agreements. OTPC Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Employee category Ratio of basic salary of women to men Management Cadre 35% Staff Cadre 35% Table 46 Salary ratio at OTPC OMPL Number of employees entitled to Number of employees who took parental Number of employees who returned to parental leave leave in FY 17 work after parental leave Male Female Male Female Male Female 15 3 15 3 15 3 MRPL Number of employees entitled to Number of employees who took parental Number of employees who returned to parental leave leave in FY 17 work after parental leave Male Female Male Female Male Female 31 10 31 10 31 3 OTPC Number of employees entitled to Number of employees who took parental Number of employees who returned to parental leave leave in FY 17 work after parental leave Male Female Male Female Male Female 61 5 4 0 4 0 Table 47 Parental leave benefits at ONGC Group During the year, programmes on women during FY 17, the internal complaint committee has empowerment and development including received and disposed two complaints on sexual programmes on gender sensitization were harassment. organized. The company actively supported and nominated its women employees for programmes A structured and a robust employee grievance organized by reputed agencies. The company has redressal mechanism is in place for employees and an Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy in place in line the CDA (Conduct, Discipline and Appeal) Rules with the requirements of the sexual Harassment of have been outlined along with the procedures Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition to support employees to communicate their & Redressal) Act, 2013. In ONGC and ONGC Videsh, grievances to the management. 84 ONGC + ONGC Videsh Sl. No. Category Grievances Received Grievances Pending Grievances Closed 1 Employee 185 08 177 2 Public 301 09 292 3 Ex-Employee 214 05 209 MRPL Sl. No. Category Grievances Received Grievances Pending Grievances Closed 1 Employee 08 05 03 2 Public 21 NIL 21 3 Ex-Employee 01 NIL 01 Table 48 Details of grievances during FY 17 Mission Mt. Everest: ONGCians Reaching New Heights ONGC has been promoting the spirit of adventure amongst its employees since 1980s, through the ONGC Himalayan Association (ONGCHA). The genesis of ONGC’s Everest Expedition began in October 2015 when ONGC Everest successfully completed the trek to Everest Base Camp (17,000 ft) with a team of 21 climbers. From here began a Mission to scale Mt. Everest in 2017. This is also an attempt from ONGC with a workforce of 33,000 to prepare a team of youngsters who had little or no formal knowledge or skills in mountaineering craft to attempt scale the highest peak on the Earth. Hon’ble Minister of State (I/C), Petroleum & Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan flagged off the ONGC Everest Expedition at a glittering ceremony held at India Habitat Center in March 2017. This is a first of its kind initiative undertaken by any corporate so far to scale Mount Everest the highest place on the Earth at an altitude of 8,848 mts. Hon’ble Petroleum Minister with the participants of ONGC Mission Everest 2017 at Delhi on 28th March 2017 85 Human Rights ONGC Group is committed to maintaining and Remuneration Act, 1976; Industrial Dispute Act, improving our systems and processes to minimise 1947; ESI Act, 1948; Employees Provident Fund human rights violations in operations and supply and Miscellaneous Act, 1952; CLRA, 1970; and chain. We ensure that regular due diligence is Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, undertaken to prevent exposure to risk arising out 1986. As a responsible principal employer, ONGC of human rights. To ensure that no child labour is Group ensures that contractual labour is treated present in the operations and suppliers, age proofs fairly and immediate corrective actions are taken (government recognised ID proofs) of workers are in response to any complaints or disputes. Various verified at the time of joining. in-house policies of ONGC Group such as service rules, leave rules, gratuity rule, CPF rules, HBA, ONGC Group believes in acting ethically and with conveyance advance and education loans also transparency in all dealings with employees and confirm to human right values. ONGC Group is contractors. Employees are encouraged to report also fully committed to the principles of United any instances of human rights violations. We Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on human rights, ensure compliance with all applicable regulations and ensures adherence to these principles, in all its related to human rights such as Payment of Wages operations. Act, 1936; Minimum Wages Act, 1948; Equal Empowering women: Lt. Shilpy Gargmukh First lady Territorial Army Officer of ONGC History was created in ONGC on 5th October 2016, when Mrs. Shilpy Gargmukh, AEE (Production) was commissioned as an Officer in Territorial Army. Mrs. Shilpy Gargmukh is the first lady ever to be inducted as an Officer in Territorial Army. This achievement of Mrs. Gargmukh will serve as an example to all women employees and will embolden their spirits to join Territorial Army. Women empowerment is not considered as an option but a necessity at ONGC. ONGC has always promoted women to achieve newer professional heights, and will continue to do so in future. 86 Safety and Security Being a high risk industry, safety of its employees the environment, mock drills, ERP upgrade, hazard is topmost priority for ONGC Group. We ensure alert card and accident/incidence reporting in SAP that all our employees/personnel have a safe place are complied as per the recommendations of the to work, and consider it as a topmost priority. The inquiry committees. aim is to strive towards continual improvement in the prevention of accidents, focused on personnel During the year, ONGC Videsh led the way in health or injury by promoting safety in the operation aligning its QHSE Management System in line with and maintenance of all plants and equipment. To new standards ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 further strengthen its safety and security practices, in 2016. In December 2016, M/s International the following key areas have been identified: HSE Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. carried out management system, HSE audits, and training recertification audit as per new standards and no & awareness programmes. All employees are non-conformity or observation was raised. In the inculcated with a sense of personnel responsibility audit report, M/s ICS appreciated Top Management in preventing injury to themselves, their fellow Commitment, Well established management workers and the public in general. They shall report system, effective monitoring and Enterprise Risk to their immediate supervisor any hazard that they Management (ERM) System as per ISO 31000:2009. themselves cannot eliminate. Strict compliance During the reporting period, ONGC developed with all statutory, regulatory and other applicable 10 lifesaving safety rules based on International requirements related to occupational health and Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) guidelines safety is ensured. and carried out analysis of the root causes of fatal Achieving the annual targets with “Mission-Zero and major accidents during the past five years. Fatality” is the theme adopted for the year FY 17 An awareness programme was launched in FY 17 for with each employee of the organization emulating creating safety awareness at the grassroot level. More the roles and responsibilities of a safety officer. than 21,000 employees (including contractual) and Globally recognized QHSE Management System 385 installations (covered at least once) have been is implemented conforming to all work centres. covered under the programme. All ONGC work centres are ISO 9001, ISO 14001 The first Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk and OHSAS 18001 complied. MRPL is also OHSAS Reduction was hosted by the Government of India in 18001:2007 certified. Corporate guidelines on online collaboration with the United Nations International incident reporting, investigation and compliance Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR) during monitoring of various rules and regulations have 3‒5 November 2016 at Vigyan Bhavan and was been developed and implemented for maintaining inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India. uniformity throughout the organization in line with ONGC showcased its capabilities in contributing international practices. towards effective disaster risk reduction, mitigation During the reporting period, a detailed HSE dossier and preparedness, with the help of two working for each work centre was shared with all asset/ models of firefighting systems of fixed oil and gas basin managers and services chiefs. This enables production installation and drilling/workover rig. A a monthly monitoring of required compliances brochure on crisis management team activities of and observations. In addition, issues related to ONGC was also released by Director (Onshore). 87 Mr. Narendra K. Verma, MD, ONGC VIdesh receiving the Integrated Management System certificate At ONGC Group, process safety is regarded as a and one due to fall from height during repairing of framework for managing the integrity of operating cementing truck at base camp. GNPOC undertook systems and processes that involve the handling of root cause analysis and took following measures to hazardous substances. This involves prevention and further strengthen road safety: control of events that have the potential to release • Launched Seatbelt Campaign ‘No Seat Belt, No hazardous materials and energy. Such incidents Move’. Advisory issued to drivers or co-passengers can result in toxic exposure, fire and explosion, for not using seatbelt leading to serious incidents including fatalities, • Speed limiters and speed monitoring injuries, property damage, lost production and • Compulsory defensive driving course environmental damage. • Safety pledge by drivers The Group takes into cognizance the impact of • Random speed violation checks at strategic incidents occurring every year and continues to put locations (Radar campaign) its efforts towards improving its safety practices. At • Journey Management System including ONGC Videsh, all the four fatalities reported (from establishment of Journey Management Center three accidents) in FY 17 were from our jointly • Repeated violators are even terminated from operated Project GNPOC, Sudan. Three fatalities service were related to road traffic accidents in the field 88 ONGC ONGC Videsh MRPL OMPL OPaL OTPC Parameter FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 FY 17 FY 17 FY 17 Fatality 3 9 6 3 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 LTIF9 0.40 0.44 0.402 0.44 0.38 0.53 0 0 0 0 0 0 TRIR 10 0.55 0.80 0.92 1.30 1.14 1.49 0 0 0.000015 0.103 0 0 Recordable incidents 358 483 755 58 44 59 0 0 02 4 3 0 Lost -days 368 818 747 458 214 220 0 0 394 0 0 0 Near-miss 5,654 6,572 7,153 2,149 11,577 15,732 11 23 11 72 116 109 214 Table 49 Incidents at ONGC Group Safety event at GNPOC Sudan (ONGC Videsh Asset) ONGC Videsh employees taking pledge on National Safety Day 2017 9 Lost time injury frequency (LTIF): The number of lost time injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases) per million hours worked. 10 Total recordable injury rate (TRIR): The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted work day cases+ medical treatment cases) per million hours worked. 11 ONGC Videsh includes reporting of unsafe acts and unsafe conditions, along with near miss incidents. 89 A snapshot of fire drill at an ONGC site Security At ONGC Group, security is a continual improvement are performed by the Industrial Security Inspection process where all the goals and targets are met team of Intelligence Bureau, and internal security within a stipulated period. ONGC has a Security audits are frequently conducted by the senior Policy at the corporate level, which guides the officers of ONGC Group to identify gaps and areas management to ensure full-proof physical security of improvements across installations. for installations and workers across all work centres. In addition, the Group’s security policy covers To promote awareness levels of employees, ONGC various aspects of cyber security as mandated in the organized a Security Awareness Week during ISMS policy. During the reporting period, corporate December 2016 where various interactive sessions security along with all the security incharges at the and programmes on security were conducted for asset level, signed a detailed performance contract employees and their families across different sites with ED – Chief Security. Periodic security audits of ONGC in India. 90 Security Awareness Week events at ONGC Office, 13-19th December’16 The initiatives taken by ONGC for improving • Security sensitization programmes conducted security conditions are: in the areas of ONGC operations with the involvement of Village Sarpanch / Panchayat • Security awareness programmes among Heads fishermen community at offshore installations • Reconstitution of OSCC for 4 locations viz. • 57 security mock drills conducted by ONGC Gujarat, Tamilnadu, Maharashtra and Offshore Security Department • Exercises including Marine Commandos • Public awareness programmes organized in workup/ Prasthan/ Sagar Kavach/ DGX were coastal villages in collaboration with Indian conducted Coast Guard / Indian Navy 91 Further, during the year, DG Shipping agreed to the contract with world renowned service provider proposal of ONGC for re-promulgation of Safety International SOS, who along with consortium Fairway, in view of the expanded activities of ONGC partner Control Risk provides ‘Comprehensive in existing Fairway. MRPL also conducted around membership for medical and security emergencies 24 mock drills (two mock drills in a month) with for ONGC Videsh expats and travelers’ along with CISF personnel during FY 17. travel tracker. As part of this contract, ISOS had tied up with our travel desk. At any given point of time ONGC Videsh has also identified security and the management knows where the employees medical emergency while posted or travelling are present with particular city locations, which overseas, as significant risks. Our officers are is very useful in case of emergencies. ISOS sends deputed to many countries where security and travel advisory to each individual based on ticket travel risk is very high such as Venezuela, Sudan, booking. Apart from this the employees can get and South Sudan. Security situations keep on latest updates through ISOS app on mobiles or changing rapidly thus making it difficult for each contacting their call centres worldwide. In case of individual and traveller to keep abreast of the any security or medical emergency, ISOS is obliged latest developments. to provide services at cost to company. To mitigate this risk ONGC Videsh has entered into Security Awareness Week events at ONGC Office, 13-19th December’16 92 Awards and Recognition CMD Award DGMS Award Corporate HSE has been selected as the best In August 2017, the Hon’ble President of India performing Strategic Business Unit (SBU) in conferred the ‘National Safety Awards (Mines) Corporate Services category during the Performance 2013’ and ‘National Safety Awards (Mines) 2014 of Management and Benchmarking Group (PMBG) Director General of Mines Safety’ to ONGC in the Award for the FY 17. CMD ONGC conferred the following categories: award on 15th August 2017 at Dehradun. National Safety Awards Sl. No. Scheme and Type Name of the Mine Longest Accident-Free Period Ahmedabad Oil Mine 1 (Oil mines producing less than 7 million cubic meter of oil or oil equivalent gas) Lowest Injury Frequency Rate Mehsana Production Oil Mine 2 (per lakh manshift oil mines) Lowest Injury Frequency Rate Krishna Godavari Drilling Mine 3 (per lakh manshift oil mines) Longest Accident-Free Period Mehsana Oil Mine 4 (Oil mines producing less than 7 million cubic meter of oil or oil equivalent gas) Table 50 National Safety Awards for ONGC Children participating in poster making competition at ONGC 93 Supply Chain ONGC Group’s supply chain consists of multiple Basins), processing plants and institutes. For the tiers of suppliers, contractors, JVs/partners and reporting year, the amount of business volume governments due to the diverse geographic with suppliers at ONGC was over ₹ 5,664 million. spread and coverage of its operations. The Group’s The details of new suppliers created by ONGC and reporting boundary comprises of ONGC’s domestic MRPL during the year are provided below: exploration and production operations (Assets and New suppliers FY 17 Sl. No. Description Indian Overseas Total ONGC 1 No. of new suppliers created during FY 17 (Goods & Services) 6,562 270 6,832 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY 17 5,664.08 2 (in ₹ million) MRPL 3 No. of new suppliers created during FY 17 (Goods & Services) 987 74 1,061 Total value of orders placed on the above suppliers during FY 17 1,589.75 4 (in ₹ million) Table 51 New suppliers and order during the year ONGC Group is highly committed to ensuring all Additionally, during the year the ‘Material vendors operate in a healthy and safe working Management Manual’ of ONGC Group was environment and maintain a high quality of revamped to ensure the procurement of quality services. A systematic approach is deployed to materials and services and identification of ensure compliance with applicable labour practice world-class vendors. ONGC also introduced regulations including child labour and human an E-Grievance handling mechanism for quick rights aspects, across our supply chain. Compliance redressal of grievances from all stakeholders to applicable legal and HSE requirements are including suppliers. The vendors and suppliers of incorporated in all of our service contract ONGC Group also have the facility of approaching agreements with suppliers and is ensured during Independent External Monitors to redress their execution. grievance. 94 Product Quality In order to create value in our products and For crude oil sales, batch-wise certificates are services, ONGC Group has embedded an issued which include various quality parameters integrated management philosophy aimed at including the BS&W. Product labelling related continuously improving the quality of products to storage procedures and safety precautions is and processes to achieve customer satisfaction. clearly indicated at ONGC installations holding the The top management’s commitment drives this crude. All natural gas supplied by ONGC to various ethos through all levels and functions throughout customers conforms to the agreed contractual the organisation. The adoption of the integrated specifications. management philosophy includes customer focus, leadership commitment, continual improvement, We also place tremendous importance on updating employee empowerment and supplier support in our product quality with evolving global and the continuous and sustainable improvement of national standards. Since automobile fuel is one products, processes and services. This commitment of our primary products, we are taking necessary delivers improved productivity, enhanced quality, steps to ensure compliance with BS-VI fuel quality increased customer satisfaction, reduced costs and standards by the year 2020. increased competitive advantage. Customer satisfaction is of paramount significance The three key products of ONGC Group are: Crude at ONGC Group. We interact with our B2B oil, Natural Gas and Liquefied Petroleum Gas. customers on a regular basis, with regard to product ONGC Group has relevant policies and guidelines quality and pricing. This kind of engagement with in place for determining and maintaining product our partners enables us to identify and address quality across all its product categories. The all concerns related to our products and services guidelines are primarily focused on satisfying by any of our customers immediately. The Group internal customers, external customers and the engages with customers and consumers in a business associates through continual excellence in manner that demonstrates best business practices the quality of products and processes. ONGC Group and is a win-win proposition for all parties doing complies with ISO 9001:2015, thus demonstrating business. ONGC’s main customers are oil refining its ability to consistently provide products and and gas marketing companies to which the services that meet customer requirements and company’s produce (oil and gas) is allocated by the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements Government of India. ONGC enters into a Crude and to enhance customer satisfaction through Oil Sale Agreement (COSA) with the Oil Marketing the effective application of the system including Companies (OMCs) and a Gas Sales Agreement processes for improvement of the system. The (GSA) with GAIL (to whom it sells crude oil, business activities are pursued and aligned to natural gas etc.), following the crude oil/gas sales ensure that E&P of natural resources is done in a allocations as done by the Government of India. sustainable manner encompassing their life cycle. The COSA/GSA of ONGC Group have been arrived 95 at in consultation with OMCs and gas marketing agreements also have a built-in mechanism for companies on mutually agreed principles. Other the redressal of stakeholders’ grievances. ONGC sales or purchase agreements are also agreed Group has a structured and dedicated marketing mutually, and are signed by the designated department/establishment to oversee the authorities after seeking approval as per the Book implementation of relevant policies. Furthermore, of Delegated Powers 2015. These agreements the general guidelines on standard terms of incorporate suitable provisions with regard to the business and also contract terms and conditions quality and quantity of the products being supplied of conducting business with ONGC are available on by ONGC. The company has, therefore, laid down the company’s website. policies and guidelines for engaging with and providing value to their customers and consumers As a result of our strong customer relations, in a responsible manner. The specifications of no incidents for non-compliance with laws and product quality and measurement in COSA/GSA regulations concerning provision of our products are in accordance with international standards and services have been reported, and no fines have and guidelines of the Government of India. The been imposed. Improving Environmental Performance of our Products At ONGC, we undertake adequate measures to maintain permissible levels of sulphur, benzene and lead in our products and also ensure satisfactory dissemination of product information to our consumers. Crude oil: ONGC supplies crude oil to PSU refiners as per the Crude Oil Sales Agreement (COSA), wherein various quality parameters are specified including sulphur. ONGC always adheres to the contractual provisions, regulatory compliance and various guidelines of the Government of India for petroleum products. Since crude oil is not a fuel product but a mixture of hydrocarbons and thus a generic product, there is no BIS standard for it and it is sold to refineries as a bulk material. Crude oil is supplied through pipeline and also through ocean tankers from Mumbai Offshore and KG area. Before dispatch, we ensure adequate testing of crude oil for various quality parameters including BS&W in batches, and issue batch-wise test certificates. ONGC has detailed procedures in place which are updated periodically with regard to storage, dispatch and handling for averting environmental impacts. Value-added products: Reduction of sulphur in value-added products is done during gas/ condensate processing to meet quality parameters mentioned in the product agreements. The products transferred through pipeline are supplied with batch-wise test reports and standard handling procedures to be followed in line with OISD/other statutory safety standards. Products delivered through road tankers and rail rakes are issued quality test reports along with other safety guidelines. These products are transferred to road tankers/rail rakes especially meant for the transportation of specified products and all statutory certificates and clearances are checked before loading of the product. Gas: All gas supplies to customers are made as per PNGRB quality norms and reduction of sulphur in gas is done as per PNGRB norms. 96 Empowering Communities ONGC Group is committed towards creating a CSR activities are identified based on stakeholder’s conducive environment to bring about an inclusive expectations and need assessment at the ground growth in the society, which is reflected in our level through a structured engagement process Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) philosophy and communication strategy. This understanding and strategy. There is a strong emphasis on is leveraged to develop and implement outcomepromoting equitable and sustainable growth, in based and impact-oriented projects in the selected addition to ensuring compliance with relevant areas. These projects are monitored continuously government directives and local requirements. through a systematic approach followed by the management, with appropriate controls and As a responsible organisation, ONGC Group is review mechanisms. committed to supporting the development of the areas and communities around which it operates. A CSR Journey of ONGC CSR and Sustainability Policy has been formulated ONGC is implementing CSR since its inception, for the respective companies within the group but its approach to CSR was streamlined after the and the JVs. The vision is to support responsible implementation of the DPE guidelines on CSR and and sustainable initiatives, taking into account the enactment of the Companies Act, 2013. To promote interests of the society and the environment. ONGC’s community development initiatives are aimed at promoting inclusiveness, social and economic upliftment of the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised section of stakeholders in order to create an equitable and sustainable society. CSR expenditure on ONGC in the last three years 10000 9000 8000 7000 in ` million 6000 5259 5000 4210 4000 3000 2156 2000 1000 0 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Figure 10 CSR Expenditure of ONGC 97 sustainable development and inclusive growth, CSR initiatives and increase the scale and number ONGC’s CSR activities are guided by a project-based of projects. The company has, for the first time, approach. During FY 17 ONGC spent ₹ 5,259 million exceeded the CSR expenditure beyond ₹ 5,000 on CSR initiatives in the areas of education, health, million during FY 17. The company had a total CSR skill development, rural development, promotion budget of ₹ 5,356.66 million for FY 17, of which it of sports and other themes covered under section spent ₹ 5,259 million, including additional overhead VII of Companies Act. expenditure of ₹ 87.4 million towards salary of the officers/personnel dealt with CSR on full time Many CSR projects of ONGC have resulted in the basis, to successfully implement major pan-India creation of social infrastructure and capacity CSR initiatives and work centre-specific projects. building of the communities surrounding its The budget utilisation for the year is 98.18% of the operations. ONGC strives to design innovative CSR Budget. ONGC’s CSR Expenditure (in ` million) Figure 11 ONGC’s CSR Expenditure across various themes in FY 17 98 CSR Expenditure (in ` million) FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 ONGC Videsh12 189.55 89.33 40.02 MRPL 48 41.1 14.5 OMPL Nil OPaL 0.06 OTPC 3.6 3.7 Table 52 CSR Expenditure of ONGC Group ONGC, through its CSR initiatives, is committed to a leading Indian corporate, ONGC is fully engaged bring a positive change in the community. Its CSR in ensuring equitable and sustainable growth in its program is a sterling example of how a corporate areas of operations. creates additional value for all its stakeholders. As ONGC’s CSR support to skill development project at Baramulla, Jammu and Kashmir 12 All OVL operations are outside india. 99 Key Highlights of CSR Projects — ONGC Group Education-Related Initiatives • ONGC has constructed a B.Ed. college in Arunachal Pradesh at a total cost of ₹ 59 million. This college is imparting training to 200 students in a year in B.Ed. and other in house training courses • In order to establish the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), Vizag which will primarily focus on teaching and research in Petroleum and Energy, ONGC has contributed ₹ 600 million • ONGC has supported Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana (VYASA) by granting ₹ 120 million towards construction of a 350 bed boy’s hostel at S-VYASA University, Bangalore • Taken up an initiative ‘Ekal Vidyalaya’ to provide education to poor children in the age group of 6-14 years who do not have access to quality education. Through this project 420 Ekal Vidyalayas have been established and 24,000 students are being addressed in the backward districts of 10 states • ONGC has set up a Super 30 center at Sivasagar to train 30 aspiring students to get admission in IITs and other premier engineering institutes of our country, with an investment of ₹ 13.2 million since 2014 • ONGC supported Lucknow University with ₹ 100 million for setting up a new academic block • OPaL has spent ₹60,000 for imparting quality education to students in Dahej, Gujarat where it is operating • In order to promote education, MRPL is supporting Mid-Day Meal programme in a school at Padubidri Skill Development Initiatives • During FY 17, a total of 5,500 students have been trained in computer literacy and soft skills through 5 centers established at a cost of ₹ 30 million • 20 youth in the FY 17 and 40 youth in the last two years have been trained under the Green Hub Project in wildlife videography and documentation 100 • Established a skill development center at Mathura to impart training in electrician, carpentry, hand-embroidery etc. • 120 youth would be trained on job oriented technical skill development training on plastic processing through CIPET in the states of West Bengal and Odisha • 50 women of Sivasagar, Assam were trained in Water Hyacinth Craft by a team of professionals through North East Development Financial Corporation Ltd • ONGC in FY 17 also approved a budget of ₹ 22.5 million for setting up of skill development institutes by M/s IOC at Bhubaneswar, by BPCL at Kochi and by HPCL at Vishakhapatnam Healthcare Initiatives • The 362 bed Multi-Specialty Hospital at Sivasagar is the largest ever CSR project to be undertaken by ONGC. The hospital will be developed in three phases at a cost of ₹ 3,123.4 million • Under Varishthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan, 11 new Mobile Medical Units (MMU) were added in FY 17 for elderly citizen. The total project cost is ₹ 363.4 million since 2010 • ONGC-MRPL had contributed for the construction of a new wing in Govt. Lady Goshen Hospital, Mangalore with a total financial support of ₹ 216.7 million. This hospital is exclusively dedicated to women patients • Supporting Integrated Muscular Dystrophy Rehabilitation Centre (MDRC) at Solan, Himachal Pradesh at a cost of ₹ 6.6 million • More than 0.1 million people have been benefited from the eye care initiative undertaken by the company in different states • The company is providing health care facilities in remote areas of Arunachal Pradesh. The financial implication of all these initiatives were ₹ 16.8 million • The company is supporting Indian Menopause Society towards undertaking urogynaecological surgeries of the underprivileged women. The cost of the project is ₹ 1.98 million and more than 90 such surgeries were carried out through this project • MRPL is running two free Public Health Centres at MRPL Rehabiliatation Colony, Chellairu 101 and Kalavar Rehab Colony, both in Magalore Taluka of Karnataka • OTPC is conducting general health checkup & free distribution of medicines for villagers at Purbo Mugpushkarni, Tripura Environmental Initiatives • ONGC is implementing an Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation Project in Kaziranga National Park. An amount of ₹ 22.65 million has been earmarked for implementing this project in three phases • The company is providing financial support worth ₹ 500 million for building the World’s largest statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel along with the development oriented initiatives in the premises • A contribution of ₹ 1,071.30 million is made towards the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna • Ringal Plantation in upper Himalayasa tree plantation project, covering 430 hectares of land area, in Uttaranchal undertaken by ONGC is sequestrating 1.97 million tonnes of CO2 per annum • Harit Moksha – Green Cremation System, a unique CSR initiative of ONGC with the investment of ₹ 91.9 million since 2010, is saving 13,700 tonnes of wood and reducing 26,500 tonnes of GHG emissions annually till date • 4,900 solar lights were installed across 10 states with a total financial implication of ₹ 98.2 million Preserving History Restoration of iconic places and monuments in Varanasi, Tirupati and Delhi with the total cost of ₹ 271.87 million 102 Swachh Bharat Initiatives Sports-Related Initiatives • Initiated Information, Communication • A stadium was constructed in Sivasagar and Education (IEC) activities under the at a cost of ₹ 15.2 million to help the School Led Total Sanitation (SLTS) in budding sportsmen of Assam 5,592 schools across India costing ₹ 70 million • The company has contributed ₹ 11.5 million to Wrestling Federation of India • Under the Open Defecation Free (ODF) initiative, 3540 individual household latrines had been constructed at a cost of ₹ 64.2 million. Another ₹ 106.80 million has been approved under this Initiatives to Benefit SC/ST Population project for Assam • An amount of ₹ 155 million is allocated • An innovative initiative called the towards scholarship for 1000 merit Swachhata Initiative in the mountain students in the SC/ST category in a ranges of Himalayas started in the last 2 period of 4 years starting from FY 17 years with a cost of ₹ 5.22 million • Development of a model village at • Five community toilets had been Korbongpara in West Tripura district constructed in Dharavi, Mumbai with a with a budget of ₹ 6.60 million. It is financial implication of ₹ 7.72 million directly benefiting the 120 inhabitants • MRPL is also actively supporting of Karbong community, which is facing the mission. It is providing financial the threat of extinction assistance for Swach Mangaluru Abhiyaan by Ramakrishna Mission • Company is investing towards construction of multi-purpose • MRPL is also providing support for community hall, school buildings and construction of toilets in Govt. schools school toilets in Tripura and Arunachal under Swacch Vidyalaya Abhiyan Pradesh Water Related Initiatives • 7 mobile water ATMs have been constructed at a cost of ₹ 1.97 million • Six deep water tube wells are being constructed in Assam to curb the acute shortage of drinking water • 400 hand-pumps have been installed in different locations at an amount of ₹ 23.6 million 103 Linkage with Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) Introduced as part of the 2030 Agenda for agenda is serving as a reference framework that Sustainable Development, the SDGs are aimed at is supporting ONGC in improving its Corporate eradicating extreme poverty, fighting inequality and Social Responsibility (CSR) engagement in a way tackling climate change. It provides opportunities that contributes to sustainable development. In to companies like us to deliver global solutions. To the following section, the major CSR initiatives of engage with societal stakeholders and get involved ONGC and its JVs are mapped against the SDG’s in with sustainable development, SDG’s as a global which they are contributing. • Varisthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan • Healthcare initiative in Arunachal Pradesh • Support to Lady Goschen Hospital • Support to Indian Menopause Society • Multi-speciality hospital in Sivanagar • Support to Integrated Muscular Dystrophy Rehabilitation Centre • Eye care initiative in three states • Setting up of B. Ed. College • Smart Balwadi Project • ONGC Super 30 • Establishment of Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), • Ekal Vidyalaya Visakhapatnam • Skill development • Mobile water ATMs in Assam programme for girls in Jammu and Kashmir • Installation of 400 hand pumps • Water Hyacinth Craft • Deep water tube wells in Assam • Installation of 4,900 solar street lights • Scholarship to SC/ST meritorious students for pursuing higher professional courses • Development of Model Village at Karbongpara, Tripura • Multi-purpose skill development and community center in Assam 104 CSR Activities of ONGC Providing Health Facilities in the NorthEastern States The following CSR thrust areas of ONGC are aimed at resolving specific social and community The largest CSR project in the history of ONGC issues and enabling the beneficiaries of these is being undertaken in the health and hygiene programmes to secure a better future. thrust area of CSR of the company. This project is to construct a 362-bed multi-speciality hospital at Health and Hygiene Sivasagar, Assam. The hospital will be developed in three phases at a cost of ₹ 3,123.4 million. This ONGC strives to improve the health and hygiene project is being rolled out with Dr Babasaheb conditions in the country by providing better health Ambedkar Vaidyakiya Pratishthan (BAVP), which facilities in remote areas; establishing mobile is the Construction, Operation and Management medicare units for elderly people; improving (COM) partner for this project. The prime objective access to toilets; and creating awareness through of the hospital is to provide quality health care education campaigns on the importance of services to the people of the North-Eastern States health, hygiene and good sanitation facilities. Its at an affordable cost. The charges for treatment will contribution to Swachh Bharat Abhiyan envisages be as low as 70% of the market price and further the promotion of health of the community by discount of 50% will be provided to economically providing clean environment and thus breaking the disadvantaged people. cycle of disease. Some of the major initiatives in this field are: CMD, Director HR, Ex. Director Onshore, ED Chief CSR, Asset Manager, Assam Assest present at MoA signing for multispecialty hospital at Sivasagar, Assam 105 Providing Dignified Lives to Elderly People This is a flagship programme of ONGC Varishthajana ₹ 199 million, adding to the existing fleet of 20 Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan (VSSA) is ONGC’s joint MMUs. initiative with an NGO, HelpAge India to implement Mobile Medicare Units (MMUs) across India. This The MMU free services for elderly includes project was initiated in 2010. The major objective medical consultation, medicines, basic diagnostics of this project is to make India’s excluded elderly test, home care visits for bedridden elderly, in the operational area who have limited or no physiotherapy care, organise speciality health access to healthcare delivery facilities either due camps, palliative care and health education & to poor services by the existing healthcare facilities awareness in the community. or inaffordability due to lack of financial resources The MMU Team comprises of a Medical Consultant, or other physical / mobility reasons. In 2016‒17, a Social Protection Officer, a Nurse, a Driver and a 11 new MMUs were commissioned at the cost of Physiotherapist. Elderly people getting treated under Varishthajana Swasthya Sewa Abhiyan (VSSA) through Mobile Medical Unit 106 Indian Menopause Society Joint CSR Initiative with MRPL ONGC has undertaken an innovative initiative by supporting the Indian Menopause Society ONGC has undertaken a joint CSR towards undertaking urogynaecological initiative with MRPL for the construction surgeries. These surgeries were performed of a new ‘ONGC-MRPL Wing’ for by organizing three mobile surgical camps Government Lady Goschen Hospital, across five states for the benefit of the Mangalore, with financial support of ₹ 127.8 million. This wing was scheduled underprivileged women who otherwise to be commissioned in August 2017. remain deprived from getting medical MRPL has contributed ₹ 88.9 million facilities. More than 90 such surgeries have towards this project. been carried out through this project. The company has contributed ₹ 1.98 million towards this project. Facilitating Quality Medical Care for Women Lady Goschen Hospital was established in Mangalore in the year 1849 to cater to the people of Konkan region. This 170 years old hospital, exclusively dedicated to the treatment of women patient was in need of help. Not because there was low footfall of patient but it was the other way round. The inflow of patient were so high that there was an urgent need for expansion of the hospital building. More than 75,000 patients are admitted to this hospital, and 1.5 lakh OPD patients are provided treatment every year. About 75% of these patients receiving treatment at Lady Goschen Hospital belongs to BPL families. The hospital has the record for attending to 7,000 delivery cases annually, which mean more than 19 deliveries every day. As the hospital specially takes care of the underprivileged people, the number of needy people arriving at the hospital were very high. The current capacity of 260 beds were falling short. ONGC decided to take up this initiative and fill this gap. The new building of the hospital will be catering to the growing demand of the society, especially the 107 underprivileged. The new wing will be giving the 170 years old building not only the much needed restoration, but also will become a medium to reach the society for greater good. The new building has already garnering goodwill from the nearby community. Considering the need of the people of Konkan area, ONGC CSR stepped in to construct the New Wing of Lady Goschen Hospital. ONGC Board in its 268th meeting held on 29th April 2015 approved an amount of ₹ 127.8 million towards construction of a new wing at the iconic Lady Goschen Hospital. The news of ONGC’s commitment to help construct the new wing of the hospital was welcomed by all section of the society especially the women, as Lady Goschen Hospital is exclusively committed towards treatment of female patient. MRPL has also extended financial support of ` 90 million for construction of the new wing of the hospital. The New Wing of Lady Goschen Hospital in the final stage of completion 108 Sanitation ONGC has initiated various projects under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan such as Swachh Vidhyalaya Abhiyan, Open Defecation Free (ODF) Initiatives, Swachhta initiative in Himalayas etc. Major emphasis was laid towards taking up various Swachhta projects at a cost of ₹ 1,542.30 million during the year FY 17. Efforts have been made by the company in not only constructing the toilets but also creating awareness about health and hygiene issues in the society. Hon’ble Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India cleaning a road as part of the Swachh Bharat mission event conducted by ONGC Spreading Awareness and Bringing Long-Term Behavioural Change ONGC has initiated Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities in schools across India. The company has taken a step forward by carrying out the School-Led Total Sanitation (SLTS) initiative through the Auroville Foundation in 5,592 school across India under the Swachh Vidhyalaya Abhiyan. The project is aimed at the behavioural and habitual changes among the students and local public. A total of ₹ 70 million has been earmarked towards implementing this project. 109 Constructing Toilets to Curb Open Defecation Eliminating open defecation has been exceptionally challenging. The company has undertaken an initiative for making villages near its operational area Open Defecation Free (ODF). In the last one year, more than 3,540 Individual House Hold Latrine (IHHL) had been constructed in the operational areas at a cost of ₹ 64.20 million. The company has also constructed five community toilets in Dharavi, Mumbai, which is the largest slum in Asia. This project is being implemented through Sulabh International Social Service organisation with a financial implication of Toilet constructed with the support of ONGC ₹ 7.72 million. One Step Towards Improving Menstrual Health of Young Girls and Women According to research, only 12% of India’s 355 million menstruating women use sanitary napkins. Over 88% of women resort to shocking alternatives like unsanitised cloth, ashes and husk sand. Incidents of Reproductive Tract Infection is 70% more common among these women. ONGC understanding the need of the hour, came up with two innovative initiatives to improve this situation. In the first project an amount of ₹ 300,000 has been sanctioned for the installation of a sanitary napkin making unit at Koyyalagudem village to cater to the needs of school/college-going girls in tribal areas and women in tribal villages. The napkins being made are of superior quality. It is planned to provide them at the price of about ₹ 5. This activity is also generating direct employment for 10 females in the area, which in turn will lead to women empowerment. The major objective of this initiative is to generate awareness amongst women about menstrual hygiene. 110 Additionally ONGC has taken up another unique initiative called Mission-AAA. This mission basically aims at increasing Awareness, Availability and Affordability of sanitary napkins to promote women healthcare, hygiene, gender sensitivity and women empowerment. CSR Research Foundation is the implementation agency for this particular project. As part of the mission, 20 Sanitary Napkins vending machine were installed outside 20 Ladies Restrooms during India International Trade Fair, 2016 held at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi. Free distribution and easy availability of these napkins during the fair helped women in maintaining their personal hygiene. This initiative of ONGC and CSR Research Foundation was highly appreciated by the beneficiaries. Swachhta Initiative in Himalayas ONGC became the leading company to spearhead the Swachhta initiative in the Himalayas. The project is being implemented in partnership with the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF). Through this project, tonnes of garbage is being brought down from the high mountain ranges of Uttarakhand with the help of specialised trained mountaineers. The company has undertaken this project at a cost of ₹ 5.22 million. Glimpses of ONGC’s Swachhta Initiative in Himalayas 111 Promoting Education, Skill Development and Livelihood Enhancement ONGC’s initiatives promote education and covers a wide range of subjects from promoting Sanskrit language to setting up a B. Ed. college. Another major aim of the company under this thrust area is to improve the literacy rate of Arunachal Pradesh. ONGC has undertaken various projects for the promotion of education, skill development and enhancement of livelihood. Some of the major initiatives in the field of education and skill development are as follows: Super 30 ONGC has set up a Super 30 center at Sivasagar to train 30 aspiring students to get admission in IITs and other premier engineering institutes of our country. Two batches had already completed the course successfully since 2014 with financial implication of ₹ 13.2 million. The 3rd batch of 30 students for the year FY 17 is currently undergoing training with the financial implication of ₹ 6.33 million. The project is being undertaken in partnership with Center for Social Leadership. 112 A snapshot of students participating Super 30 in FY 17 Smart Balwadis for Stronger Foundation and Brighter Future Balwadi is an Indian pre-school pre-dominantly run by Government for the children of economically weaker sections of the society. Vadodara city has 68 Balwadis being run by Prathmik Shikshan Samitithe primary school education committee of the Vadodara Municipal Cooperation. Children being the foundation of society, are a special focus of ONGC and the company believes in nurturing them and inculcating right values in them from the very beginning. For this ONGC is supporting Prathmik Shikshan Samiti in transforming all the Balwadis to Smart Balwadis. The project includes providing digital education – LED screen, projector and computers, Balwadi course software, activity tables and books, educational paintings, color works etc. to all the Balwadis. In the coming years the outcome and impact of the project will be evaluated. 113 Uplifting Women in Arunachal Pradesh As part of ONGC’s interventions of upliftment of North-Eastern States, a B.Ed. college has been set up in Arunachal Pradesh in this financial year. This is being done in association with Vivekanand Kendra Vidyalaya, Arunachal Pradesh Trust at a cost of ₹ 59 million. This college is imparting training to 200 candidates in one year and shall also conduct other in-house training activities. Going Back to the Roots To revive the Sanskrit language, the company has taken up an initiative through the Sanskrit Promotion Foundation with a total financial implication of ₹ 50 million. This project includes the development of online tools and tutorials for students, teachers and guardians at formal and in-formal school levels. This project is a step-forward towards the revival of Sanskrit in India and abroad. Research on Sanskrit education, nationwide survey and data collection are some highlights of this project. Green Hub Project ONGC in association with Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan (BVB) has undertaken a project titled ‘Free Job/ Entrepreneurship Oriented computer education and soft skill development’ for students mainly belonging to the weaker sections of the society. This project kick-started in the year 2010 and the total cost of the project is ₹ 100 million. During FY 17, an amount of ₹ 30 million was released and more than 5,500 students were provided computer literacy training across the five centres. Green Hub project for training youth of North East in Wildlife videography and conservation Another innovative skill-based initiative undertaken by the company is the Green Hub Project. Under Building lives together Sankalp and this initiative, 20 youths of the North East are being ONGC trained every year in wildlife videography and documentation. The main objective of the project is ONGC has been supporting Sankalp, which is to create environment enthusiasts having expertise running a centre for underprivileged children in conservation. with disabilities in Vadodara, Gujarat. It is being 114 managed by Matushree Prasanba Charitable Trust. have a unique scientific system for assessing the Sankalp has 45 children on its roll out of which 13 level of disability of each child and thereafter make are girls and 32 boys. More than 90% of the children a plan with micro details for rehabilitation. have multiple disabilities which need professional Sankalp also takes complete care of the children treatment and care. by bringing them in their bus, providing nutrition, It is equipped with Sensory Integration Room, supplements, uniform besides specialized training Physiotherapy and Audiology units managed and therapy. ONGC has been associated with by professionals. It has on its board medical Sankalp for the last two years. In FY 17, ONGC had specialists, retired dedicated volunteers and social contributed an amount of ₹ 0.81 million under the workers who render voluntary services to ensure CSR programme. that best practices are adopted at Sankalp. They Water Hyacinth Project Under this unique project, 50 women in Sivasagar district, Assam, are being trained in Water Hyacinth Craft and 20 best-performing women amongst them undergo an advance training programme through the National Institute of Design, Ahmadabad. The total cost for providing this training is ₹ 3.2 million. A snapshot of woman trained under the Water Hyacinth Craft Inauguration of Water Hyacinth Craft Project 115 Ensuring Environmental helping in the conservation of endangered species from extinction. It is also helping Manas National Sustainability and Ecological Park maintain its population of swamp deer and Balance retain its position as a ‘World Heritage Site’. The company has assumed principal responsibility Statue of Unity at Gujarat for assuring environmental management, and is focused on creating and preserving a safe To boost tourism in the Narmada district of Gujarat environment. and to facilitate development in surrounding tribal areas, ONGC has extended a support of ₹ 500 Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation Project million towards the construction of 392-feet tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the Sadhu Bet This project was initiated with a vision to protect Island. The project will have development-oriented the swamp deer in Kaziranga National Park in initiatives such as development of banks of River partnership with the Wild Life Trust of India. This Narmada up to Bharuch; clean technology research project was in the third phase of implementation park and agriculture training centres, schools, in FY 17. In this phase, 17 eastern swamp deer colleges and universities for tribal development; were translocated from Kaziranga National Park Education Research Centre and Knowledge City etc. to Manas National Park, creating an alternate The project activities will boost tourism and facilitate breeding ground for swamp deer. This project is development in the surrounding tribal areas. Snapshot of a swamp deer at Manas National Park, Assam 116 Solar Installation outside the Mega Solar Kitchen for welfare of Leprosy patients and underprivileged at Anandvan Eco-Friendly Solar based Mega Kitchen – an objective to consolidate preparation of food A unique CSR project at one place for the benefit of 2,500 leprosy and other physically disabled people of Anandwan. Eco-Friendly Solar based Mega Kitchen is one of The Mega Kitchen is being run by the villagers the most innovative eco-friendly CSR project of wherein around 4,000 meals (2,000 lunch +2,000 ONGC implemented during FY 17. This CSR project dinners) are being cooked daily. The exact per had dual impact on the society, firstly serving day consumption / major raw material consumed the underprivileged community of Anandwan in Mega Kitchen is 354 kg. Prior to setting up the and secondly protecting the environment. ONGC solar cooking facilities, about 23 LPG cylinders of supported Maharogi Sewa Samiti (MSS) in setting 14.2 Kgs were consumed per day. up a solar based cooking system for the Mega community Kitchen at Anandwan, in Chandrapur ONGC supported MSS in setting up a solar based district of Maharashtra. The solar cooking system cooking facilities with a mission to reduce their has the capacity to create heat output up to 3.80 dependence on conventional fuel (LPG). This lac kcal/day (at peak solar radiation). unique project is not only helping MSS in bringing down the cost of its cooking fuel, but also is The ultra-spacious Mega Kitchen was set up with benefiting the environment in the long run. 117 Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna Through this project, ONGC is supporting the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas for providing LPG connections to BPL families free of cost. The company has contributed 20% of its CSR budget towards this. This project aims at environmental sustainability and social upliftment by providing smokeless clean fuel in rural/underserved areas so that standard of life in rural areas improves and dependency on fire wood reduces in these areas of the country. In the year FY 17, the company has contributed ₹1,071.3 million towards this initiative, which has been implemented by IOCL. ONGC turns Pansoli into a Smoke Free Village Despite profoundly negative health consequences of indoor air pollution, about half of the households in the world use solid biomass fuels for cooking. The situation is much worse in India where majority of rural households still use firewood or animal dung as the primary source of energy for cooking. Burning these unprocessed biomass fuels in traditional open fire burners or chulhas, results in an estimated half a million premature deaths and nearly half a billion illnesses each year. Pansoli is a small hamlet of around 150 households where a number of producing wells of Ahmedabad Asset (ONGC) are located. Like many of the other villages, Pansoli was also deprived from the facility of clean cooking fuel. Taking a leaf out of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojna, Ahemdabad Assest identified Pansoli village to be one of the villages to be taken up for distribution of LPG connections to the BPL women and their families. A need assessment was conducted and 112 such families were identified. A distribution camp was organized in the village in the month of March’17 in which LPG connections were given to 112 identified beneficiaries wherein ONGC as part of its CSR initiative sponsored the cost of ₹ 6,000 for each beneficiary. This cost covered the Deposit fees for two cylinders and one regulator, Consumer Card, Suraksha Hosepipe (1.5mts), Government Stamp Duty, Installation Charges, Administrative Charges, Hot Plate (Ujjwala Scheme) – dual burner and refill charges for two cylinders. As part of ONGC’s environmental protection and sustainability initiative, this CSR initiative has turned village Pansoli into a smoke free village. This is a step towards empowerment of women of BPL families in Pansoli village as these women will no longer have to invest their time in carrying the load of firewood and work in a kitchen filled with sooty smoke. 118 Restoration of monuments and iconic installed across 10 states. This project has places been implemented by availing services of MNRE channel partners empanelled at a total The company has taken up multiple projects for financial implication of ₹ 98.2 million. restoration and beautification of iconic places, including restoration of four ancient Kunds of CSR initiatives exclusively for the benefit Varanasi; cleanliness drive at Tirumala Tirupati of SC/ST and tribal population Devasthanams, Tirupati; and rejuvenation of a ONGC is constantly working towards park near Jantar Mantar, Delhi. The company identification and implementation of CSR has designated a total budget of ₹ 271.87 projects meant exclusively for the benefit of million for these activities. SC/ST in the country. During FY 17 projects Green Rameshwaram Project worth ₹ 152.9 million were implemented for the same. With the objective to improve the solid waste management system in Rameshwaram, Following are some of the major initiatives the company has undertaken an innovative undertaken for the SC/ST and tribal initiative to improve door-to-door garbage population: collection, waste segregation, waste recycling • Development of Model Village at etc. in Rameshwaram. Karbongpara, Tripura Harit Moksha • Construction of multipurpose skill development and community center at Green Cremation System is a unique Natun Jelom in Dhemaji district, Assam. CSR initiative of ONGC to reduce wood Natun Jelom has more than 98% tribal consumption during traditional cremations. population This project was commenced in 2010. Under this project, 30 units of green cremation In addition, community halls and systems have been installed across eight cities school building and 12 units of school in seven different states to date. This project toilets were constructed in West Siang has helped in saving 13,700 tonnes of wood district of Arunachal Pradesh at a cost and reduced 26,500 tonnes of GHG emissions of ₹ 4 million annually to date. Considering the impact of this project, four new centres have been installed • Infrastructure development for Rongagora in Pilibhit and Delhi at a cost of ₹ 13.8 million. Junior College, Golaghat • Development of infrastructure for schools Installation of Solar Lights and hostel facilities for tribal students of More than 4900 solar street lights have been Kanchacherra, Tripura 119 Water-Related Initiatives ONGC believes that collaboration and information sharing is the key to improving water and sanitation. In its vision to deliver safe drinking water, the company has established seven water ATMs. Under this initiative, seven persons with disability (PwDs) have been trained and employed to operate each mobile ATM. These people collect the water from the centralised RO plant and sell it to on-the-go commuters in various locations in Lucknow. The total project cost of this initiative is ₹ 1.97 million. Water ATM at Lucknow Water ATM at Varanasi 120 From Disabled to Differently Abled This CSR pilot project of ONGC starts with 33-year old Sunita Devi, a physically disabled women of Aliganj Lucknow who until recently was under depression for not being able to make ends meet. Sunita Devi, despite being an educated women, was deserted by her husband due to her disability and was neither able to get a job nor any other livelihood because of her disability. Her life has been completely changed, with the launch of ONGC CSR project for Eco-friendly Mobile Water ATM at Lucknow. Through this project Sunita Devi and 6 other persons with disability (PwD) have become economically independent for the first time in their lives. They are expected to earn a minimum of ₹ 5,000/per month by operating these mobile water ATM. Being a part of this initiative, has increased the confidence of Sunita Devi by manifolds. Due to her ability to contribute to household needs, sees herself as a hard-working contributor. The local community no longer treat her as a differently abled person and is now dependent on her services for safe and clean drinking water. This initiative by ONGC has not only brought smiles on the faces of some economically deprived disabled people but has also helped common citizens of the city by providing them affordable fresh plastic free drinking water, who were otherwise dependent on low quality, unsafe plastic water pouches. ONGC Mobile Water ATM on the road 121 Promotion of Sports ONGC sees sports as a viable and budding thematic area of investment. With the introduction of a broader spectrum to invest in sports as per the CSR rules, which come under the purview of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 ONGC is taking up several ambitious projects in this segment. Sports has the power to attract and unite individuals within communities and create environments for enhancing social capital. To help budding sports persons, the company invested ₹ 15.2 million for the construction of an indoor stadium called Chau Lung Syukapha Indoor Stadium in Sivasagar, Assam. ONGC has also contributed ₹ 11.5 million to the Wrestling Federation of India towards the development of wrestling in the country. Chau Lung Syukapha Indoor Stadium constructed by ONGC at Sivasagar, Assam CSR Activities of ONGC Videsh Limited For the FY 17, the company spent a total of ₹ 40.02 million towards CSR activities outside India directly All of ONGC Videsh’s operations are based outside or through its JVs. During FY 16, its CSR expenditure India. The eligible ‘Net Profit’ for the purpose of was ₹ 89.33 million. CSR was nil for the FY 17. However, ONGC Videsh initiated community development projects in and Carrying forward the spirit of parent company around its project locations (i.e. outside India) towards CSR, Imperial Energy (part of ONGC as per local requirements/guidelines/practices Videsh), Tomsk organized several welfare related prevailing in the countries of operations. events in Tomsk region of Russia during the FY 17. 122 The CSR programmes being implemented at Tomsk In March, 2017, yet another initiative was region are focusing on education and health care taken in Parabel town by the company. Under which are the primary areas of concern for the this initiative, a modern exercise bike with company. Three of the major projects undertaken electrical drive were provided to children at by company are as follows: the centre. It is allowing children to exercise & develop legs mobility without putting much • Donation of household equipment to Child efforts Care Home, Tomsk for children with damage of Central Neural System (CNS) and psychic • Donation of special equipment for children disorders: The company donated two washing with disabilities to Tomsk Centre for machines and a refrigerator in August’16 for Restorative Treatment of Children, Tomsk: storage of baby food in the Child Care Home. Since 1990, Tomsk Centre for Restorative This Child Care Home accommodates 120 Treatment of Children has been taking care babies left out without parental care and for rehabilitation of children, suffering from suffering from CNS disorders various musculoskeletal and central nervous system disorders • Donation of special purpose cycle ergometer for children with locomotion system disabilities The company donated two low-frequency to local public organization of disabled apparatus (Amplipulse) for physiotherapy to children of Parabel area “We are together” in Tomsk Centre for Restorative Treatment of Tomsk: Two years ago, the company initiated Children. These apparatus will help to restore a project to help a public association of health of hundreds of children. Through handicapped children of Parable district “We the use of low-frequency currents, doctors belong together!” rendering help to local kids, efficiently restore peripheral circulation of suffering from cerebral palsy and other serious muscles by healing pain and motion activity diseases. Today, 70 kids are getting benefited disorders from this project CSR activity by Imperial Energy at Tomsk 123 Community Development Projects in Fama from North to South. Post cessation of Nomad entry Village by GNPOC Sudan in South Sudan, grazing area has been reduced drastically/ restricted to Heglig surrounding, which Community development for GNPOC, which is has been their final destination. the Sudan’s energy anchor, is not only a business imperative but also a pathway for efforts towards GNPOC started to contribute more effectively Sadaqat (charity). It is shouldering responsibility to in community development programs to settle play key role in contributing to the national vision of Nomads. Under the Government guidance sustainable development. In main operational area education, healthcare hospital, water and of Heglig, it has been successful in partnering with agriculture are the key resources being created and locals and Nomads, who keeps seasonal shifting maintained to settle Nomads in Fama village. School building (caters seasonally up to 800 students) Health care 124 CSR Activities of MRPL Operating Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) Since its inception, MRPL has been undertaking MRPL is running two free PHCs at Chellairu Rehab CSR activities under the name ‘Samrakshan’. Colony and Kalavar Village. The company is also Pursuant to the introduction of the Companies promoting preventive healthcare by taking steps Act, 2013 followed by the release of Company (CSR towards making Bala, Jokatte, Permude, Soorinje Policy) Rules, 2014 by the Ministry of Corporate and Chellairu Grama panchayaths smoke-free Affairs and Guidelines on CSR and Sustainable villages. Development (SD) for CPSEs by the Department of Swachhata Mission Public Enterprises (DPE), MRPL is rededicating itself to ensuring sustainable and equitable development MRPL is actively supporting the Swachh Bharat through a well-orchestrated CSR programme. Mission. It is providing financial assistance for Swachh Mangaluru Abhiyaan by Ramakrishna MRPL’s social welfare and community development Mission and Mata Amritanandamayi Math, initiatives are focused on education, healthcare and Mangalore. MRPL is also providing support for sanitation, and the overall development of basic the construction of toilets in Government schools infrastructure in and around its operational area/ under the Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyaan and taking Dakshina Kannada and Udupi District/Karnataka care of maintenance of these toilets. State. Education MRPL’s CSR Expenditure Under the focus area of education, MRPL is working MRPL’s average PBT during the last three financial for the betterment of schools by distributing years was negative but the Board decided to grant scholarship to the students of neighboring schools, ` 50 million for CSR activities during FY17. Of the facilitating mid-day meals in schools, distributing total amount, the company has spent ` 14.5 million books and building toilet blocks in schools located for various CSR activities. The rest of the amount around the refinery. MRPL has also organised will be utilised in the next financial year. a programme on environment protection and CSR in the Area of Health and Sanitation emergency, LPG safety for 4 Pre-University Colleges and High Schools around the refinery. The company MRPL’s CSR initiative has been successfully adopted has also aided in development of Science Lab at by the community. This has resulted in significant Govt. PU College, Krishnapura. improvements in the area of health and sanitation in rural and downtrodden communities. The quality CSR Activities of ONGC Petro of living with regard to hygiene has improved in Additions Limited (OPaL) rural SC/ST communities. The company’s smokeOPaL aims to harmonise its core values and free village programme initiative has helped in business operations to meet the expectations improving the health condition of the women of all the stakeholders. Since its inception, OPaL in village. MRPL has provided artificial limbs/ has been implementing numerous social welfare caliper/hands to physically handicapped persons. activities for the benefit of the local population. In addition, the company has provided doctor‘s However, with the issuance of DPE guidelines on services and free medicines at neighbouring two CSR for PSUs, OPaL has re-invigorated the CSR villages. programme in right 125 earnestness. OPaL’s CSR objective is to continue The company believes that giving back to society and strengthen the neighbourhood development is not a mandate but something which is integral programme (NDP)/CSR activities for achieving to its beliefs. inclusive growth of the surrounding population. During FY 17, OTPC conducted a Baseline/Need For its CSR programmes, OPaL has identified three Assessment Study. Based on the findings of this key areas — education including skill development, study, the company took various CSR initiatives in healthcare and infrastructure development for the fields of education, sports, health, sanitation, improving the quality of life of the local population near Dahej site. Over the past years, OPaL has contributed towards Education is one of the focus areas providing drinking water facilities, organising for OTPC. In the FY 17, OTPC worked health camps in villages, and providing school bags and other articles for school students. In the on constructing infrastructure for last financial year, OPaL spent ₹ 60,000 for the schools at various locations. The upliftment of education in Dahej region where it company aided in construction of is operating. During the year, it contributed ₹ 5.1 million towards Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. dining hall at Dudhpushkarini school and Khilpara Gram High School CSR Activities of ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Ltd. (OMPL) and cemented seating platform at Murupara Shastri colony school. OMPL is fully committed to ensuring equitable The company also donated study and sustainable growth of society in and around the area of its operations besides complying material to Dudhpushkarini BPL with government directives to discharge its school students and sports materials social responsibility. CSR activities are essentially to BPL students at Kakraban girls guided by project based approach in line with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 promulgated by higher secondary & Jamjuri higher Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Companies (CSR secondary school. It also renovated Policy) Rules, 2014 as amended from time to time. schools as well as distributed water OMPL has also formed a CSR Committee as per the requirements of Companies Act, 2013, but it has purifiers, furniture, ceiling fans not made any provision for CSR activities during FY and computers at several schools. 17, as there was no average net profit during the OTPC with prior understanding of immediately preceding three financial years. needs of the community organised CSR Activities of ONGC Tripura training on sewing machines at Power Company (OTPC) West Khilpara Gram Panchayat. OTPC has always considered CSR as a voluntary activity as part of its extended business activity. 126 skill development and rural development in and category for the Eastern Swamp Deer Conservation around the areas of plant operations in Palatana, Project in December 2016. FICCI annually confers Tripura to enhance the quality of life and economic CSR awards under eight different categories to well-being of the general public and weaker both public and private sector companies for their section of the society. The activities were carried exemplary work in the field of CSR. out with the involvement of local panchayats, government authorities, bodies and local villagers. Bhamashah State Level Award for Smart Class These initiatives were appreciated by the local community. The total CSR budget of OTPC was ₹ ONGC has been awarded the prestigious Bhamashah 3.8 million for this financial year. State Level Award 2016 by the Government of Rajasthan for setting up of smart class rooms in In addition, OTPC organised general health checkeight government schools in the Alwar district of ups and free distribution of medicines for villagers Rajasthan. This CSR initiative is a part of Project at Purbo Mugpushkarni Gram Panchayat of Gomati Ekta, in which a PPP model has been adopted district, Tripura. to strengthen elementary education in Alwar, Rajasthan, to achieve the target of universalisation The company has a keen interest in working of elementary education and enhance gender towards the betterment of sports in the country. In equality in education. Under this project, over 300 order to strengthen sports in schools, the company schools have been adopted by various corporates, is laying a strong foundation by distributing sports NGOs, social organisations, individual donors, etc. items at Jamjuri Higher Secondary School and to date, with financial support of ₹ 2.5 million from Kakraban Girls Higher Secondary School in Tripura. ONGC. Awards and Recognition Delhi Management Association Awards As a public sector enterprise, ONGC has a long and The Delhi Management Association conferred cherished tradition of commendable initiatives, ONGC with the ‘Outstanding CSR Project Award’ in institutionalized programmes and practices of July 2016. The award was conferred for one of the Corporate Social Responsibility which have played most unique CSR projects implemented by ONGC a laudable role in the development of several on vocational training programmes for women of underdeveloped regions of the country. This vision Sivasagar and Pilihbhit in Water Hyacinth Craft. of the company can be seen in the implementation of on-ground projects and their positive impact on Hindustan Ratna PSU Awards the communities. Various projects of ONGC have been recognised over the years for their innovative ONGC was conferred with Excellence in CSR practice nature and extraordinary impacts. During FY 17, Award for the year 2017 on 13th April 2017 by ONGC received following awards in the field of CSR: Hindustan Times. The award was received by CMD from Hon’ble Minister of Road Transport Highways FICCI Award and Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari in presence of Hon’ble Minister of State (Independent Charge) ONGC bagged the prestigious Federation of Indian Shri Dharmendra Pradhan. Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) CSR Award under the ‘Environmental Sustainability’ 127 Jorhat and Golaghat district authorities applauded ONGC for timely help in flood relief ONGC has got accolades from the district administration of Jorhat as well as Golaghat for extending a helping hand towards flood relief operations undertaken at Majuli and Golaghat areas. Flood affected many areas of Upper Assam, among which Jorhat and Golaghat districts were the worst hit. Many villages around Majuli (the largest riverine island of Asia) and Jorhat were completely inundated because of overflowing Brahmaputra River which resulted in the loss of lives and livelihood of people. It had also caused massive displacement of people from their homes to temporary camps till the flood-hit areas were marked safe for the people to return. In this situation, the biggest problem for district authorities was to provide food, shelter and necessary commodities of daily use. In such a time of distress, ONGC Jorhat extended a helping hand to the Jorhat district authorities by providing food and relief materials including soyabean, peas, mosquito coil, sugar, potato, onion, soap, tea, matchstick etc. ONGC’s efforts to arrange relief materials for distribution on such a short notice, where a large number of displaced people were dependent on such help for their survival, were highly appreciated. In addition, ONGC Jorhat provided adequate quantity of cattle feed to the district administration for distribution at the most deprived locations in and around the inundated areas. ONGC was profusely appreciated by the district staff of Jorhat for its timely and valuable help in saving cattle, which are precious for people in rural areas. 128 Summary of Performance Business Performance Indicator Unit FY 15 FY 16 FY 17 Crude Oil Production A MMT 22.26 22.36 22.25 B MMT 5.53 5.51 8.43 Natural Gas Production A BCM 22.02 21.18 22.09 B BCM 3.34 3.41 4.37 Oil and Gas Reserves (Proved) A MMtoe 711.24 691.28 710.93 B MMtoe 202.34 201.70 271.23 Economic Value Retained A Billion ₹ 164.21 196.10 179.43 B Billion ₹ 75.89 47.81 63.25 C Billion ₹ (21.00) 15.77 235.662 D Billion ₹ E Billion ₹ (4.932) F Billion ₹ 1.303 Environmental Performance Total Primary Energy Consumption A TJ 1,93,245 1,78,671 160,552 Total Energy Consumption B TJ 11503 13637 12,912 Energy Intensity C TJ/ MMtoe 67.45 111 107.9 of product Energy Intensity D TJ/ MMT 17,400.31 Energy Consumption E TJ 1,354.08 Energy Intensity F TJ/ MU of 6.89 6.88 6.81 electricity Fossil Fuel Direct Emissions A MtCO2e 11.15 10.66 10.23 B MtCO2e 1.70 2.08 1.98 C MtCO2e 3.99 4.37 4.23 D MtCO2e 3.49 E MtCO2e 1.05 F MtCO2e 1.73 Electricity Indirect Emissions A MtCO2e 0.87 0.55 0.38 B MtCO2e 0.07 0.11 0.10 C MtCO2e 0.03 0.01 0.01 D MtCO2e 0.053 E MtCO2e F MtCO2e Total GHG Emissions A MtCO2e 12.02 11.21 10.61 B MtCO2e 1.77 2.19 2.08 C MtCO2e 4.02 4.38 4.24 D MtCO2e 3.53 E MtCO2e 1.05 F MtCO2e 1.73 Total Water Usage A Billion litres 24.57 24.29 17.66 129 B Billion litres 4.94 4.99 5.01 C Billion litres 15.60 17.88 18.86 D Billion litres 9.58 E Billion litres 1.98 F Billion litres 5.17 People Performance Number of employees A and B Nos. 33,185 33,927 33,660 C Nos. 1720 1812 1833 ¬ D Nos. E Nos. 461 F Nos. 68 Turnover of employees A and B Nos. 1,559 1,744 2,072 C Nos. 43 22 16 D Nos. E Nos. 8 F Nos. 8 Employee Wages and Benefits A Billion ₹ 16.95 18.21 23.98 B Billion ₹ 4.45 5.27 2.05 C Billion ₹ 2.41 2.85 3.52 D Billion ₹ E Billion ₹ 0.38 F Billion ₹ 0.12 LTIF A Factor 0.40 0.44 0.402 B Factor 0.44 0.38 0.53 C Factor 0 0 0 D Factor 0 E Factor 0 F Factor Total Fatalities A Nos. 3 9 6 B Nos. 3 2 4 C Nos. 0 0 0 D Nos. 0 E Nos. 0 F Nos. Social Performance Community Investments A Billion ₹ 2.16 4.21 5.17 B Billion ₹ 0.19 0.09 0.04 C Billion ₹ 0.05 0.02 0.032 D Billion ₹ 0.00006 E Billion ₹ F Billion ₹ 0.0036 0.0037 Legend A: ONGC B: ONGC Videsh C: MRPL D: OPaL E: OMPL F: OTPC 130 Content Index GRI G4 Description Page Section/Report Section Remarks Disclosure G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Page 02-20: Messages from Management organisation. G4-3 Name of the organisation. Page 24 : About the Report G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Page 32: Organizational Profile G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Page 32 : Organizational Profile G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates, Page 25-26: Organizational Profile and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 32 : Organizational Profile G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, secPage 25-32 : Organizational Profile tors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. Page 43-44 : Economic Performance G4-10 Total number of employees. Page 78 : Our Human Capital G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by Page 82-85 : Workforce Competency collective bargaining agreements Engagement G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. Page 94 : Supply Chain G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regardPage 94 : Supply Chain ing the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach Page 51-62 : Climate Change and Energy or principle is addressed by the organisation. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and Page 25-32 : Organizational Profile social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry Page 25-32 : Organizational Profile associations) and national or international advocacy organisations. Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 Entity included in the organisation’s consolidated finanPage 43-44 : Economic Performance cial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Details on report content and aspect boundaries. Page 24 : About the Report All material aspects identified in the process for definG4-19 Page 40-42 : Materiality Assessment ing report content. G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation Page 24 : About the Report G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation. Page 24 : About the Report Restatements of information provided in previous G4-22 Page 40-41 : Materiality Assessment reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in G4-23 Page 24 : About the Report the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Page 37-38 : Stakeholder Engagement Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders G4-25 Page 37-41 : Stakeholder Engagement with whom to engage. 131 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-26 group, and an indication of whether any of the engagePage 37 : Stakeholder Engagement ment was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including Page 39 : Stakeholder Engagement through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for G4-28 Page 24 : About the Report information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Page 24 : About the Report FY 16 Report G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Page 24 : About the Report Provide the contact point for questions regarding the G4-31 Page 24 : About the Report report or its contents. G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option the organisation has chosen. Page 24 : About the Report Policy and current practices with regard to seeking G4-33 Page 24 : About the Report external assurance for the report Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. G4-34 Page 33-34 : Corporate Governance Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms G4-56 of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of Page 33-36 : Corporate Governance ethics. ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-DMA G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 43-44 : Economic Performance Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan G4-EC3 Page 43-44 : Economic Performance obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Page 43-44 : Economic Performance Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and Page 47 : Promoting India’s energy Not applicable for G4-OG1 production security MRPL, OPaL, OMPL Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Development and impact of infrastructure investments G4-EC7 Page 97-128: Empowering Communities and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the G4-EC8 Page 97-128: Empowering Communities extent of impacts LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-DMA Total number and rates of new employee hires and G4-LA1 Page 80-81 : Our Human Capital employee turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Page 82 : Workforce Competency G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Engagement significant locations of operation Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Page 84 : Workforce Competency G4-LA3 by gender Engagement 132 Labour/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, Page 86: Workforce Competency 21 days as per the G4-LA4 including whether these are specified in collective Engagement Industrial Disputes Act agreements 1947 Occupational Health and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Page 87-89 : Safety and Security work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by Page 82-83 : Workforce Competency G4-LA9 gender, and by employee category Engagement Programmes for skill management and lifelong learning Page 82-83 : Workforce Competency G4-LA10 that support the continued employability of employees Engagement and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Page 82-85 : Workforce Competency G4-LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by Engagement employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, Page 78-81 : Workforce Competency G4-LA12 age group, minority group membership, and other Engagement indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to G4-LA13 Page 84 : Workforce Competency men by employee category, by significant locations of Engagement operation Number of grievances about labour practices filed, Page 85 : Workforce Competency G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Engagement mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-DMA Total number and percentage of significant investment G4-HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights Page 86 : Human Rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights poliNot reported for this year, systems are cies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights being developed for reporting this in the G4-HR2 that are relevant to operations, including the percentnext reporting year age of employees trained Total number of incidents of discrimination and correcNot reported for this year, systems are G4-HR3 tive actions taken being developed for reporting this in the next reporting year Child Labour Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to G4-HR5 Page 86 : Human Rights contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Forced or Compulsory Labour Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and Page 86 : Human Rights G4-HR6 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms Page 94 : Supply Chain of forced or compulsory labour 133 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organNot reported for this year, systems are G4-HR7 isation’s human rights policies or procedures that are being developed for reporting this in the relevant to operations next reporting year. Total number and percentage of operations that have Not reported for this year, systems are G4-HR9 been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessbeing developed for reporting this in the ments. next reporting year. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-HR10 Page 94 : Human Rights human rights criteria Local Community G4-DMA Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Page 97-128 : Empowering Communities development programmes Number and description of significant disputes with Not reported for this year, systems are G4-OG10 local Communities and indigenous peoples being developed for reporting this in the next reporting year. Number of sites that have been decommissioned and Not reported for this year, systems are G4-OG11 sites that are in the process of being decommissioned being developed for reporting this in the next reporting year. Total number and percentage of operations assessed Not reported for this year, systems are G4-SO3 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks being developed for reporting this in the identified next reporting year. Communication and training on anticorruption policies G4-SO4 Page 33-36 : Corporate Governance and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Page 33-36 : Corporate Governance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws Page 75 : Environment Protection and regulations Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, Details for individual the number of households resettled in each and how sites are provided in G4-OG12 their livelihoods were affected in the process Page 71-75 : Biodiversity EIA Reports, which can be accessed from CPCB website. G4-OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity Page 87-89 : Safety and Security Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting Not reported for this year, systems are G4-OG14 sustainability criteria being developed for reporting this in the next reporting year. G4-DMA G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Page 42-54: Climate Change and Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity Page 42-54: Climate Change and Energy G4-OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy Page 42-54: Climate Change and Energy G4-OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source Page 42-54: Climate Change and Energy Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Page 55-61: Water & Waste Management Percentage and total volume of water recycled and G4-EN10 Page 55-61: Water & Waste Management reused Biodiversity Number and percentage of significant operating sites G4-OG4 in which biodiversity risks has been assessed and Page 62: Biodiversity monitored 134 Biodiversity Number and percentage of significant operating sites G4-OG4 in which biodiversity risks has been assessed and Page 71 : Biodiversity monitored Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or G4-EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Page 71-75 : Biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Page 53 : Climate Change and Energy Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope G4-EN16 Page 53 : Climate Change and Energy 2) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Not reported for this year, systems are G4-EN18 being developed for reporting this in the next reporting year. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Page 53 : Climate Change and Energy G4-EN20 Emissions of ozonedepleting substances (ODS) Page 75 : Environment Protection NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Not reported for this year, systems are G4-EN21 being developed for reporting this in the next reporting year. Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Page 65-66 : Water & Waste Management G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Page 68 : Water & Waste Management G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Page 64-70 : Water & Waste Management G4-OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water Page 52-59 : Water & Waste Management G4-OG6 Volume of flared or vented hydrocarbons Page 52 : Climate Change and Energy Amount of drilling waste (drill mud & cuttings) and G4-OG7 Page 69-70 : Water & Waste Management strategies for treatment and disposal Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions G4-EN29 Page 75 : Environment Protection for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulphur content in fuels Page 95-96 : Product Quality Total environmental protection expenditures and Page 51-60 : Climate Change and Energy G4-EN31 investments by type Page 64-70 : Water & Waste Management 135 Assurance Statement 136 137 Abbreviations List of Abbreviations API American Petroleum Institute BCM Billion Standard Cubic Meter CDM Clean Development Mechanism COD Committee of Directors CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CVO Chief Vigilance Officer DFCU Dual Feed Cracker Unit DGMS Directorate General of Mines Safety DPE Department of Public Enterprise EMS Environment Management System ETP Effluent Treatment Plant ETCS Effluent Treatment and Collection System FIPI Federation of Indian Petroleum Industries FY Financial Year GHG Greenhouse Gas GOHDS Gas Oil Hydro-De – Sulphurising GMI Global Methane Initiative GRM Gross Refining Margin GRI Global Reporting Initiative GNPOC Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company HPDE High Density Polyethylene HSD High speed diesel HSE Health, Safety and Environment IPPAI Independent Power Producers Association of India IPSHEM Institute of Petroleum Safety, Health and Environment Management ISO International Organisation for Standardisation JV Joint Venture KDMIPE Keshav Dev Malviya Institute of Petroleum Exploration LNG Liquefied Natural gas LPG Liquefied PetroleumGas MCA Ministry of Corporate Affairs MECL Mansarovar Energy Columbia Ltd. 138 MMSCM Million Metric Standard Cubic Meters MMT Million Metric Tonnes MMtoe Million Metric Tonnes of Oil and Oil Equivalent Gas MMTPA Million Metric Tonnes per annum MRPL Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited MSEZ Mangalore Special Economic Zone NELP New Exploration Licensing Policy NGO Non-Governmental Organization OGSS Oil and Gas Sector Supplement OHS Occupational Health and Safety ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation ONGC Group Refers to ONGC group of companies ONGC, ONGC Videsh, MRPL and Joint VenturesOMPL, OPaL and OTPC OMPL ONGC Mangalore Petrochemicals Limited ONGC Videsh ONGC Videsh Limited OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate OPaL ONGC Petro additions Limited OTBL ONGC Teri Biotech Ltd. OTPC ONGC Tripura Power Company OVVL ONGC Videsh Varkorneft Pte. Limited O+OEG Oil and Oil Equivalent of gas PMHBL Petronet MHB Limited PPE Personal Protective Equipment PX Para-xylene PWC Produced Water Conditioner SCOPE Standing Conference on Public Enterprises SDG Sustainable Development Goal SKO Superior Kerosene Oil UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNISDR United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI World Resource Institute ZBRR Zero Based Risk Review 139 re is in Our utu H F Ou ds r an Oil and Natural Gas ONGC Videsh Limited Mangalore Refinery ONGC Mangalore ONGC Petro ONGC Tripura Power Corporation Limited Deendayal Urja Bhawan & Petrochemicals Limited Petrochemicals Additions Limited Company Limited Deendayal Urja Bhawan 5, Nelson Mandela Marg Kuthethoor P.O. Via Katipalla Limited 4th Floor, 35, Nutan Udaipur-Kakraban Road 5, Nelson Mandela Marg Vasant Kunj Mangaluru 575030 Mangalore SEZ Bharat Co-operative, Palatana P.O. District Gomati Vasant Kunj New Delhi 110 070 www.mrpl.co.in Permude Village Housing Society Limited Tripura 799105, India New Delhi 110 070 www.ongcvidesh.com Mangaluru R.C. Dutt Road www.ongcindia.com Karnataka 574509 Alkapuri ONGC Head Office: India Vadodara, Gujarat Tel Bhavan 390007, India Dehradun 248 003 Uttarakhand 140
