NEUBERGER BERMAN UN Global Compact Communication on Progress January 2019 Neuberger Berman COP Submission January 10, 2019 Systems, Procedures and Performance Highlights from Principle Commitment Values FY18 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses An essential part of the firm’s  Neuberger Berman  Neuberger Berman has not should support and respect equal employment opportunity Business Principles identified any evidence of the protection of policy is to provide a working  Neuberger Berman complicity in human rights internationally proclaimed environment for all employees Global Code of Conduct abuses human rights; and that is free of harassment,  Neuberger Berman  Awarded Pensions and intimidation or retaliation. Employee Policy Investments (P&I) Top Three Principle 2: make sure that Sexual, racial and other forms Guidebook Best Places to Work 2018 they are not complicit in of harassment based on any  We provide high quality, human rights abuses criteria prohibited under comprehensive applicable law are expressly healthcare and childcare prohibited. leave to all employees starting from their first day Neuberger Berman has a vital of employment interest in ensuring safe,  Neuberger Berman healthy and efficient working Europe 2018 Slavery and conditions for employees. In Human Trafficking addition, as a federal Statement contractor, the firm has a duty to safely and efficiently provide the public with quality goods and services at a reasonable cost. 1 Systems, Procedures and Performance Highlights from Principle Commitment Values FY18 Labor Principle 3: Businesses Neuberger Berman aims to be  Neuberger Berman  Added Head of Diversity role should uphold the freedom a best in class employer in the Affirmative Action Plan to lead firm-wide Diversity & of association and the investment industry. We are  Neuberger Berman Equal Inclusion initiatives effective recognition of the committed to the ongoing Employment Opportunity  Delivered firm-wide right to collective development of our Policy unconscious bias training bargaining; employees and aligning their  Neuberger Berman  Provided in-person, success with our clients’ Business Principles interactive (case study Principle 4: the elimination success. We continue to  Neuberger Berman based) manager training on of all forms of forced and assess all of our employment Global Code of Conduct professionalism, respect and compulsory labour; practices to achieve these  Neuberger Berman non-harassment training goals. Employee Policy  Assembled six diversity task Principle 5: the effective Guidebook forces abolition of child labour; and Neuberger Berman’s policies  Dedicated Diversity &  Developed Neuberger are designed to adhere to all Inclusion team and six Berman Vendor Diversity Principle 6: the elimination applicable laws regarding task forces established Statement of discrimination in respect labor and employment and responsible for  Committed to tracking and of employment and practices. In the U.S. we are actionable reporting Human Capital occupation. an affirmative action employer recommendations Management metrics and and maintain an affirmative  Annual Neuberger completed this exercise for action plan. As an equal Berman mandated antithe first time in 2018 opportunity employer, our discrimination and anti Organized CEO-led policies and practices prohibit harassment training discussions on racial discrimination against any  Neuberger Berman diversity employee or applicant for Europe 2018 Slavery and  Launched Advocacy Walk in employment because of race, Human Trafficking NY HQ – a permanent art color, creed, ethnicity, Statement exhibition centered around religion, gender, sex, national human rights topics to origin, veteran status, encourage transparency, disability, age, citizenship, open dialogue and reinforce marital or domestic/civil Neuberger Berman is a firm partnership status, sexual where employees are orientation, gender identity or supported and encouraged to expression, pregnancy status, share their ideas and or because of any other perspective criteria prohibited under  Received 2018 National applicable law. Hiring Association of Investment processes outside the U.S. Companies (NAIC) are designed to meet specific Pacesetter Award, which requirements in each recognizes individuals and respective jurisdiction. organizations whose efforts towards supporting diverse investment managers have created new paradigms, accelerated the flow of capital to diverse-owned firms and demonstrated a clear recognition of the talent, leadership and capabilities residing within these businesses 2 Systems, Procedures and Performance Highlights from Principle Commitment Values FY18 Environment Principle 7: Businesses Neuberger Berman is  Neuberger Berman New  Drafted our first firm-wide should support a committed to acting in a York headquarters is Climate-related Strategy, precautionary approach to responsible manner as a firm. LEED (Leadership in with formal Board oversight environmental challenges; Energy and  Implemented top-down Neuberger Berman’s Board of Environmental Design) climate scenario analysis Principle 8: undertake Directors (“the Board”) certified and equipped  Became a founding member initiatives to promote oversees climate-related risks with high-efficiency LED of the US Alliance for greater environmental as a subset of all enterpriselighting and automatic Sustainable Finance responsibility; and wide risks and has formal lighting controls to reduce (USASF) a Bloomberg oversight of the firm-wide electricity consumption, initiative convening 15 Principle 9: encourage the Climate-related Strategy in as well as water refill founding members to drive development and diffusion line with the stations to replace the investment in clean energy of environmentally friendly recommendations of the use of plastic water and climate resilience technologies. TCFD. bottles  Became an ally of the World  Neuberger Berman Benchmarking Alliance, Neuberger Berman supported conducts regular Ewhich is developing a the Financial Stability Board’s Recycle campaigns to benchmark with information Task Force on Climate-related encourage responsible that indicates how Financial Disclosures (TCFD). and environmentally companies are contributing friendly electronics to the Sustainable Neuberger Berman is a disposal and have a Development Goals signatory and active supporter Recycling Initiative Task  Developed analyst-led of stewardship codes across Force proprietary ESG ratings multiple geographies: US, UK  Neuberger Berman offers across equities and fixed and Japan. NY employees income investment strategies membership in Katchkie which include environmental Neuberger Berman is a Farm’s Community and social factors signatory to the Principles for Supported Agriculture  Ensured 100% of investment Responsible Investment, the farm, which supports the teams have access to ESG Carbon Disclosure Project local food movement and research and 53% of assets (CDP), the CDP’s Water good environmental are managed with consistent Disclosure Project and the practices and demonstrable ESG Forest Footprint Disclosure  As a firm, Neuberger integration Project. Berman is committed to integrating Environmental, Neuberger Berman is a Social and Governance signatory to the Investor (ESG) factors into the Statement on Climate investment process. More Change, which recognizes information is included in that environmental issues are our ESG Policy relevant across all industries. 3 Systems, Procedures Performance Highlights from Principle Commitment and Values FY18 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses Neuberger Berman is strongly  Neuberger Berman Group  Implemented the Beneficial should work against committed to complying with LLC Global AntiOwner rule, which requires corruption in all its forms, statutory and regulatory Corruption Policy & Neuberger Berman to including extortion and requirements designed to Procedures (the “Policy determine individuals who bribery. combat money laundering, and Procedures”) are own and control the firm’s terrorist financing, and designed to: (1) reiterate legal entity customers, into corruption. In order to detect our commitment to Neuberger Berman’s antiand prevent the use of honesty and fair dealing; money laundering policies Neuberger Berman services, (2) explain the specific and procedures products, or personnel to requirements and  Enhanced Neuberger facilitate such criminal activity, prohibitions of applicable Berman gift and Neuberger Berman has laws that reinforce and entertainment policies and implemented regional money police our commitment; procedures to ensure laundering prevention policies and (3) ensure continued compliance with and procedures. compliance with anti-bribery and corruption applicable anti-corruption laws laws and regulations  Remained in full compliance  The Policy and with AML and Anti-Corruption Procedures contains laws and regulations mechanisms designed to ensure accurate disclosure and/or preapproval of these activities 4 2018 Firm Stakeholder Metrics EMPLOYEE METRICS COMMUNITY METRICS Global Corporate charitable giving (foundation, gift matching, disaster relief) $2,553,479 Total employees, full-time 2,036 Total employees, part-time 44 Firm-Sponsored Volunteerism Senior investment professional retention rate 95% Employee volunteer hours 5,738 Employees with access to benefits (full-time) 100% Employee volunteer participation (#) (not unique) 1,861 Percentage of firm owned by employees 100% Unique volunteer participation 64% Employees with firm ownership1 (#/%) ~500/~25% Firm and regional headquarter locations participating in volunteerism 100% Portfolio Managers whose compensation is tied to multi-year performance 100% Number of projects 166 Employees with access to skills based training 100% Beneficiaries Employees with access to promotion opportunities 100% Organizations reached through giving 752 Employees with access to educational assistance 100% Organizations reached through volunteerism 111 Staff diversity (women %) Number of children/youth/students impacted through giving and volunteerism 496,557 Total staff 35% Number of employees sitting on charitable boards 407 Senior staff2 26% U.S. Minority Women-owned Business Enterprise (MWBE) New hires (% women, 3 year average) 39% suppliers 5% U.S. Total US employees 1,578 ENVIRONMENTAL METRICS Employees with 15% 401K firm contribution (no required match) 99% Global Staff diversity (ethnic minority %) Employees using public transportation 88% Total staff 29% GHG emissions from business air travel (Metric tons CO2e) 4,096 Senior staff2 20% Ethnic minority hiring (% of new hires, 3 year average) 35% NY Headquarters Our equity ownership program is voluntary and all employees at the SVP level and higher are eligible to participate 1 Square footage as percentage of total global office space 64% and acquire equity at their discretion. Currently, women and minority representation among U.S. equity owners is generally consistent with women and minority representation among employees eligible to purchase equity. LEED certification 7 Silver VP level and above. Total energy used (gigajoules) 40,430 2 Electricity used (gigajoules) 13,440 CLIENT PORTFOLIO METRICS Steam used (gigajoules) 26,991 Teams with access to environmental, social and GHG emissions from energy used (Metric tons CO2e) 431 governance (ESG) research 100% Total water used (million gallons) 8.6 Assets managed with consistent and demonstrable ESG integration3 53% Waste recycled (diversion rate) 47% Shareholder meetings voted4 (#/%) 4,894/99% LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) is an internationally recognized green building certification 7 Total number of engagement meetings with system, providing third-party verification that a building or community was designed and built using strategies aimed corporate management teams at improving performance across all the metrics that matter most: energy savings, water efficiency, CO2 emissions reduction, improved indoor environmental quality, and stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their impacts. Number of equity engagements held 1,324 Number of credit engagements held 1,728 Percentage of UCITS and mutual funds with 3+ Globes on Morningstar Sustainability Ratings5 50% Median stock turnover ratio for equity mutual funds 6 35% Instances in which our marketing communications were materially noncompliant with applicable regulations or our policies 0 As of 9/30/2018. 3 In limited circumstances we do not submit a vote if trading restrictions or administrative costs outweight the benefit 4 to the client. 5 Excludes funds not rated by Morningstar for sustainability. Excludes funds with less than 5 yrs. of history, closed end funds, fixed income, alternative and specialty funds 6 (12 months through 11/30/2018). Source: Neuberger Berman. Please Note: Employees are not legally required to self-identify their race/ethnicity or gender and race/ethnicity data is not tracked in the US. Accordingly, the information contained in this chart is provided only as an overview of the estimated race/ethnicity and gender makeup of our current employees. 5 ABOUT NEUBERGER BERMAN Founded in 1939, Neuberger Berman is a private, 100% independent, employee-owned investment manager. From offices in 33 cities worldwide, the firm manages a range of strategies—including equity, fixed income, quantitative and multi-asset class, private equity and hedge funds—on behalf of institutions, advisors and individual investors globally. With more than 500 investment professionals and over 2,000 employees in total, Neuberger Berman has built a diverse team of individuals united in their commitment to delivering compelling investment results for our clients over the long term. Our culture has afforded us enviable retention rates among our senior investment staff and has earned us a citation from Pensions & Investments as a Best Place to Work in Money Management for five consecutive years. The “Neuberger Berman” name and logo are registered service marks of Neuberger Berman Group LLC. T0374 01/19 ©2019 Neuberger Berman Group LLC. All rights reserved.
