HISTORY STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies and corporate culture. They are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance through our philosophy of Catur Sila. Irwan Kamdani President Director PT. Datascrip HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip continues to instill its corporate culture (through games, sharing sessions, gimmicks, etc.) to benefit not only the company but also our employees as well. The core values of our corporate culture (Catur Sila) are: • Succeed above Success • CARE (Customer Interest, Attentive, Responsive, Enthusiasm) • SMILE (Share, Motivate, Improve, Lead, Efficient) • CoCoCoCo (Communication, Cooperation, Coordination, Commitment) • As part of its initiative to support the surrounding neighborhood, Datascrip donated cows to be distributed to the surrounding underprivileged residents during Eid al-Adha. • Datascrip continued to hold its quarterly blood donation program, which were held in March, May, August, November, all with full attendance. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • On August 25, 2018, Datascrip conducted a social activity at Wisma Tunda Palsigunung, Panti Asuhan Bhakti Luhur, Panti Asuhan Aisyiyah and Panti Asuhan Adil Bahagia. In this activity, Datascrip donated several items such as stationery, clothing, food and money. • Datascrip has a concern for cancer sufferers by donating books, toys (action figure) and money to the Yayasan Kasih Anak Kanker Indonesia, in November 2018. • The solution to agrarian conflict is the certification of community land Datascrip contributed to this government's conflict resolution program by supporting the Indonesia National Agency Project for Massive Land in the form of providing training and supporting equipment to the Indonesia Certified Surveyor. • Datascrip's concern for tertiary education was demonstrated by collaborating and providing general photography and videography lectures with the Padangpanjang Indonesian Art Institute HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • The impact of the Palu earthquake spread to the community, including the business sector. On November 14-15, Datascrip helped local business in Palu to recover by donating some electronic products and free maintenance to replace the damage or losses suffered by some dealers due to the earthquake. • Freedom of expression is everyone's right. Datascrip held a cultural festival with the theme Indonesia X Japanese Culture last November which aimed to promote freedom of expression in creativity to Indonesian youth. • SMILE is the company's internal website that presents information about the company, self-development and employee rights as a manifestation of rights to employee information and company transparency. • Datascrip fulfills the rights of employees to develop themselves by creating an HRO E-Learning application LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip provides its employees healthcare, social security (BPJS Kesehatan) and pension benefits (BPJS Ketenagakerjaan). • Achievements made by Datascrip’s employee are generously rewarded with bonus, incentive, promotions and/or recognitions. • Datascrip’s Employee Guidelines clearly stated its position as an equal opportunity employer against any discrimination on race, religion, sex, age, nationality, disability and veteran status. • Datascrip is OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) certified, to ensure safe and healthy working environment. • SIMPONI is an employee evaluation software, to measure the performance of all employees against objective standards from ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake inittiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilty and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Energy-efficient lighting and ventilation system are incorporated into Datascrip’s main warehouses in Pulogadung and Cikarang. • Glass walls are used in Datascrip’s head office, thus eliminating the need to turn on the lights during daytime. • As part of Datascrip’s initiative to lower its carbon footprint, the HVAC system used in Datascrip Building is only activated on Monday through Friday, from 07:00 to 17:30. • Datascrip participated in the IGCN’s initiative, “Save Water Campaign” starting from mid of 2013. The stickers are installed throughout Datascrip’s offices and warehouses. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake inittiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilty and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip held a program Mari Tanam 1000 Lubang Biopori involving all employees in the celebration of 50 years of PT. Datascrip. • As part of our concerns for the environment, Datascrip is ISO 14001 • Datascrip continually develops new IT solutions to streamline its business process and moving closer toward a paperless office. • Dpay is an internal application Datascrip that is used to make payments for goods and services. This web-based application replaces the process that previously a paper-based work. • Marketeer of the Year (MOY) application to register, monitor and evaluate the performance of the marketers in Datascrip’s. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake inittiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilty and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip is also a member of Green Building Council Indonesia (GBCI), an independent body which is fully committed to educate the public of environmental best practices and to facilitate the transformation of the sustainable building industry. • Datascrip continues its commitment to add more environmentallyfriendly products to its assortments: • Paper Clip Dispenser is made from 45% of its raw materials using plastic recycling products. • Pulse colored pencil is made from 0% wood raw material. • The Desk Organizer is made from 78% of its raw materials using plastic recycling products ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake inittiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilty and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continues its recycling initiatives through Customer Loyalty Program and Canon Recycle Program, where used and worn-out cartridges, toners, digital cameras, printers, scanners and other electronic equipments are collected from customers and sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. • Matahari Alka, a part of Datascrip’s group of companies, is one of the Circle Founder of Green Product Council Indonesia (GPCI) which is an independent, non-profit-organization and voluntary scheme for the certification of environmentally preferable products. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • We have created an online system to facilitate tender support letter request. With this system, we check the legality of our business partners prior to giving them letters to participate in government tender. The process is impartial and transparent. • The price list of Datascrip products is available for all to access through its online store, located in http://store.datascrip.com. This further reduces the potential for corruption through price transparency. • Datascrip’s Company Rules and Regulation clearly stated its commitment against corruption. • Datascrip has issued “Business Engagement Guidelines” which governs employees conduct in government tender, anti-trust issues, promotion of fair business competition and anti-corruption. MEASUREMENTUREMENT The followings are the measurements of the outcomes of the four principles of Global Compact in 2018. Human Rights: Environment: • Number of quarterly blood donation: 4 times • New environmentally conscious products : 3 • Social Charity: 3 times product groups • Education-related charity 1 times • New initiatives to reduce paper usage: 2 systems • Inclusive business program: 2 times • Recycling initiative & Save Water Campaign • Employee rights fulfillment program: are maintained. 2 programs • Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 and government regulations are maintained. • Environmental Program (CSR): 1 programs Labor: Anti-Corruption: • Employee composition (by religion) which • Price list availability at website is maintained. represents a more balanced mix than of Indonesian population: Islam (1134), Christian (219), Catholic (127) ,Buddha (40) and Hindu (8). • Compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 and government regulations are maintained.
