CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 The CSR Steering Group Charlotte Stocklund, Frank Overby, Chanette N. O. Pedersen, Marjanne Grønhøj, Lars Gravholt Not pictured: Anne Diness Introduction I am pleased to confirm that DEIF A/S reaffirms its support of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour rights, safety & environment and anti-corruption. DEIF is a socially responsible and environmentally In 2019 we will increase focus on UN’s Sustainable conscious company. Based on UN’s general principles Development Goals to identify how and where DEIF can related to how companies work with social responsibility support these vital ambitions. and sustainability, we have implemented a structured way of handling our CSR activities and our Code of Conduct in This CSR report describes what we focus on in our CSR DEIF’s entire global organisation. activities in general, achievements throughout 2018 along with our aims for the coming period. Of course, we are 2018 showed a good activity level and well implemented eager to share everything with all our stakeholders using processes within our CSR focus areas. The awareness of DEIF’s primary channels of communication. our Code of Conduct and CSR objectives is present in all companies, and the follow-up and assessments keep us on track. Yours sincerely, TOKE FOSS Group CEO N SWA ECO AL PR I N T C ED TR NOR LA DEIF Group and our core values 4 C O2 N EU DI BEL T TE R MA UN Global Compact 6 DEIF Code of Conduct 7 This printed matter is carbon compensated Printing house CSR organisation 8 according to ClimateCalc. Offsets purchased from: South Pole Carbon. 5041 0751 Cert. no. CC-000033/DK Ambitions, objectives & activities 9 CASE Terra-Gen (wind power) 10 CSR management 12 CASE La Méridionale (marine) 14 Human & labour rights 16 Customer satisfaction 18 Safety & environment 20 FOCUS Energy & waste 22 Anti-corruption 23 3 DEIF Group Business model and core values Established in Denmark in 1933, today DEIF is a global supplier of green, safe and reliable control solutions for decentralised power production on land or at sea. Business model DEIF develops, manufactures and markets green, safe and The DEIF Group has it´s headquarter in Denmark and 12 reliable control solutions and products for decentralised subsidiaries with training centers in Americas, Europe and power production, marine & offshore and wind turbines. Asia. Additionally, we have close cooperation with a number Our business is organised in three business areas: of distributors around the world. Since DEIF operates in an increasing number of countries, we’re particularly focused • Land Power on ensuring that DEIF conducts its business responsibly, • Marine & Offshore globally. • Wind Power Our business approach is based on the presumption that culture, practice, ethics and moral standards differ from one Development and manufacturing takes place mainly in the country to the next. Despite the differences, our actions and parent company, while sales, customisation and advice business practices are always based on DEIF’s values and regarding the Group’s products are provided by both the Code of Conduct. We want to be recognised for our responparent company and subsidiaries. sibility, honesty and integrity in all markets and in everything we do. DEIF’s main objective is to provide technology that helps improve the environment and which supports green growth. The overall goal of DEIF is to develop the company’s value In recent years, DEIF has invested heavily in developing in the long term, always based on high ethics in relation to renewable energy control systems particularly for wind our employees, business partners and society. To be the turbines and hybrid energy technologies that combine preferred global supplier of green, safe and reliable energy different energy sources, including solar cells and batteries. control products and solutions is central to the DEIF Vision. By means of our products and services, DEIF contributes to optimising fuel efficiency for decentralised power plants and Our core values ships and supports clean technologies, such as conversion Our three values respect, ambition and perspective have to bio-based fuels. been developed, defined and implemented in a process involving employees from all parts of our global organisation. The increased electrification requires a high level of energy As a result, the values represent the core characteristics of and cyber security. DEIF contributes by delivering technolDEIF globally and the way we work and have been working ogy for complex emergency power systems protecting for for more than eight decades. This is a strong foundation for instance data centres, hospitals and vital infrastructure our CSR approach and activities. from blackouts. Since its inception, DEIF has acted socially responsible aiming to positively impact society on all levels – for example through the innovation of new products and services that “The overall goal of DEIF is to are beneficial to society and enterprises themselves – and develop the company’s value in the to minimise and prevent negative environmental impacts. long term, always based on high Acting not just in active compliance with the spirit of the law, ethics in relation to our employees, ethical standards, and international norms in our business business partners and society as dealings, DEIF’s goal is to move beyond compliance with a a whole.” particular emphasis on environmental concerns. TOKE FOSS Group CEO 4 DEIF’s core values spect Re ► Respect the whole person Persp ► Respect cultural differences ec ► Respect agreements t ► Respect individual contributions to the entirety ive it Amb ion it Amb ion ► Do it better than yesterday Persp ► Do it better than our rivals n ek bi tio ti ► Do it better than our customers expect us to v Am ► Show initiative and face challenges Re t ec rspective Pe sp ► Show a holistic understanding ► Be open to possibilities ► Seek insight into customers’ and users’ situation ► Focus on knowledge sharing 5 UN Global Compact DEIF works continuously according to the 10 principles expressed in the UN Global Compact. A full-fledged member of the UN Global Compact program, In addition, we also expect our suppliers and their subDEIF has long defined where we want to make a differsuppliers to produce and deliver sustainable solutions that ence within the natural context of our business: Employees, live up to our principles for ethical business practices. We business partners and the local & global community. continuously evaluate our own business and the business of our partners on the principles of the UN global Compact All employees are expected to understand the basic prinwhich establish and describe the ethical and legal standciples of UN Global Compact and to work towards impleards we are committed to comply with. menting sustainable solutions whenever possible. DEIF’s Code of Conduct lays out our interpretation of the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. Human rights: Labour rights: 1. We support and respect internationally proclaimed 3. We uphold the freedom of association and recognise human rights effectively the right to collective bargaining 2. We ensure that we are not complicit in human rights 4. We support the elimination of all forms of forced and abuses compulsory labour 5. We support the efforts to abolish child labour 6. We eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 6 DEIF Code of Conduct To ensure a globally aligned perception of DEIF’s values and principles, we have laid them out in the “DEIF Code of Conduct”. The DEIF Code of Conduct covers the areas of human rights, labour rights, safety & environment, and anticorruption fully in line with the 10 principles expressed in the UN Global Compact. »We want to be recognised DEIF Code of Conduct is the fundamental document for for our responsibility, honesty and our CSR activities and it forms the basis for our guidance high integrity in all markets and in in advancing our CSR approach (ambitions and actions). everything we do.« DEIF’s international management group has signed the document, and it has subsequently been implemented in all new employment contracts and in local employee handbooks in our subsidiaries. Safety & environment: Anti-corruption: 7. We support a precautionary approach to safety and 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, including environmental challenges extortion and bribery 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 7 CSR organisation Appointed by the Executive Board, a cross-functional CSR Steering Group is responsible for setting directions and objectives regarding our CSR ambitions, and for coordinating and following-up on initiatives and activities in the DEIF Group To monitor our progress within the agreed initiatives, the Furthermore, all managers are responsible for continuous CSR Steering Group has created a governance overview follow-up and improvements on CSR within their area of the person/function responsible for each action and of responsibility – among others based on structured the person/function responsible for following up on these discussions of CSR experiences and dilemmas. actions. Consequently, in addition to the members of the Steering Group, a number of employees have been A responsible mind-set with focus on CSR issues and appointed and included in the governance overview, thus activities has been anchored in all DEIF companies. CSR ensuring that all KPI’s and actions are defined, monitored experiences, initiatives and improvements will be reported and reported back to the CSR Steering Group on a annually to the CSR Steering Group. regular basis. The CSR Steering Group follows an annual cycle with regular meetings, internal and external communication and general reporting to the Executive Board. Executive Board Toke Foss Group CEO Executive Board Legal Matters Safety & Environmental Mgmt. Anne Diness Chanette N. Oksborg General Counsil SVP Global Operation Human & Labour Rights Marjanne Grønhøj CSR Steering Group Sales & Business Areas Charlotte Stocklund SVP HR & Communication Marjanne Grønhøj Business Specialist SVP HR & Communication, Chairman Communication & Reporting System Management Lars Gravholt Frank P. Overby Corporate Communication Specialist VP Business Processes & Systems CSR in Subsidairies Subsidiary Manager + local CSR responsible 8 CSR management system integration CSR monitoring and follow-up The DEIF Code of Conduct’s focus areas (human rights, Conducted on a regular basis, CSR self-assessments labour rights, safety & environment and anti-corruption) are, ensure continuously improvements of our CSR efforts, and to the extent possible, managed under existing organisathey also constitute an important tool for the subsequent tional structures within the DEIF Group, e.g. Health, Safety selection of specific CSR objectives. & Environment (HSE) and Human Resource Development. Correspondingly, we have trained our internal audit team to also conduct audits within the CSR area. Ambitions, objectives & activities In late 2018, the CSR Steering Group and Executive Board identified a number of objectives within each of the following four CSR areas: Management, human & labour rights, safety & environment and anti-corruption. We will follow-up during 2019 on these primary objectives. The following pages contain a brief presentation of our CSR ambitions, the activities conducted in 2018 and our plans for 2019 within the four CSR areas. 9 Terra-Gen chooses DEIF for controller CASE upgrades on Pacific Crest Wind Farm The independent power producer Terra-Gen upgrades 20 Vestas* V47 wind turbines on their Pacific Crest wind farm located in Tehachapi, California, with a control retrofit solution from DEIF. The increased demand for competitive power production and the rapid development in the wind industry necessitates that older turbine models such as the Vestas V47 are equipped to meet today’s performance standards. DEIF’s control retrofit solution extends the turbine lifetime and optimizes the turbine performance in terms of variable speed concepts, extended cut-out and adaptive power setpoint. DEIF’s solution is the only one offering this at a very competitive cost, reducing the need for external financing. So far, 20 Vestas V47s on the Pacific Crest Wind Farm will be retrofitted. “ I am convinced that we will extend turbine lifetime, reduce our downtime and increase the revenue of the total wind farm”. WARD SCOBEE Chief Operating Officer Terra-Gen Read the entire Terra-Gen case story: www.deif.com/terra-gen or scan the QR code: *Vestas is a trademark of Vestas Wind Systems A/S. The Trademark owner is not associated with DEIF’s products or services. 10 11 CSR management To manage our global CSR performance, we have conducted the following main activities in 2018. The primary focus in 2018 was the continued implementation of structured CSR risk assessment, structured communication of CSR activities, additional self-assessments and targeted supplier management. Achievements & activities in 2018 • DEIF has implemented processes ensuring regular • This year four non-EU suppliers have been subjected review of the risk, opportunity and impact of our busito a DEIF CSR audit to ensure compliance with the 10 ness operations and activities, based on a review of principles. We found no major non-conformities. sound data and a deep understanding of emerging • CSR is part of our structured supplier evaluation trends. The review processes have been included in process for the most important suppliers. the annual cycle of work prescribed for relevant departments. • 99.5% of the suppliers to DEIF’s production line have confirmed that they live up to the 10 principles of the • The overall risk evaluations have showed no major and UN Global Compact. severe CSR risks related to our business. The risk of corruption when dealing with many parties in many differ• We conducted a global customer satisfaction survey in ent cultures has been our main focus, and we carry out 2018, which included questions about our customers’ initiatives on a continuous basis to mitigate this risk. perception of our CSR activities and profile. The total score among 540 respondents on the CSR part was • All contract partners have confirmed in writing that 6.0 (on a 1-7 scale). See more on page 18. their business practices comply with the 10 UN Global Compact principles. • New questions have been added to the internal 4-month interview to follow-up and ensure that all • A tool for annual review of dealers, including a basic risk new employees have been introduced to our Code of assessment has been introduced. Conduct and CSR approach. By doing this we have a • Commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact principles structured process for ensuring that this is implemented has been included in the template for the business plan in all corners of our company. to be prepared by all DEIF dealers each year. (Dealer Business Plan). • Yearly self-assessments of the impact of our CSR activities, based on UN´s evaluation criteria, have been conducted again in our companies in Denmark, China and Singapore. Further, new self-assessments were conducted in Brazil and India along with internal training, and appointment of local drives for next “It is a great pleasure to experience years assessments. the positive way our suppliers respond to our CSR requirements and dialogue”. CHANETTE N. OKSBORG PEDERSEN Senior VP Global Operation 12 1 3 Plans & main focus for 2019 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 2030 Targeted supplier management DEIF supports the global sustainability agenda and the We want to continue our structured evaluation approach UN Sustainable Goals 2030 (SDG’s). We believe that towards our suppliers in relation to our Code of Conduct DEIF can positively influence the realisation of selected principles. We will continue to follow up on suppliers and goals. During 2019 we want to assess each goal and their conduct selected audits and we will make sure 100% of all derived targets and decide for which goals we can make new suppliers to DEIF’s production line confirm that they the biggest contribution. And we want to work with ways live up to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. In to bridge our 10 principles to the SDG’s and communicate addition to this, we continue the process of getting committhis internally and externally. ment from our suppliers of consumables as well. 4 Continuous assessment We will continue to follow-up on the impact of our CSR activities via yearly self-assessments, which will also serve as input for our future CSR work. An overall assessment 2 report based on these will contain improvement suggestions and include the key findings in the activity plan for the Master Class on SDG’s coming year. DEIF will enter a cooperation with Dania Academy (EA Dania) in Skive with the purpose of developing a Master Class around the 17 SDG’s and how to work with them. Dania Academy is one of nine regional academies of higher education in Denmark and has campuses in eight different Danish cities, and DEIF will both contribute to and learn from the project. Ambition We want to ensure a high degree of awareness of and commitment to our Code of Conduct and CSR objectives throughout the global DEIF organisation. Moreover, we want to secure continuous improvements within all CSR areas through a structured CSR approach. 13 Several thousand cars’ emissions CASE saved at each stopover When La Méridionale decided its Marseilles-Corsica ferry, Automated PMS Girolata, was overdue for a retrofit of its power management AMM’s Gérard Leynaud says there was no question of system (PMS), it had some demands for AMM Electricité whom to call for the PMS equipment. Marine, the naval electro service contractor. “We called DEIF firstly to get advice about the equipment to choose,” he says. “The main solution consisted of DEIF’s First, the new PMS must be less manual and more autoPPM 300 intelligent controller platform for power managemated, so that it could better manage energy. Second, it ment and generator control. The PPM 300 system would had to have a similar look and feel as the old one – efficient automate power management not only while the Girolata and easy to use. Third, it had to incorporate a new shore was at sea but also while it was at berth with the shore power connection, so that when the ship was at dock, it was connection,” says Gérard Leynaud. not burning diesel fuel. 14 “It saves us around 30% on fuel “DEIF gave us the systems to connect supervision to the consumption because of the system ship’s equipment,” says Christophe Séguinot. “Having an automatic power management system allows us all year automation. That’s the equivalent of long to reduce the generators’ working time,” he adds. several thousand cars’ emissions saved at each stopover”. 30% less fuel CHRISTOPHE SEGUINOT The PPM 300’s “dock mode” allows La Méridionale to Technical Director connect its ships to electricity when berthed. “It saves us La Méridionale around 30% on fuel consumption because of the system automation,” Séguinot says. “That’s the equivalent of several thousand cars’ emissions saved at each stopover.” 15 Human & labour rights We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that we do not in any way contribute to the violation of human rights. DEIF and our suppliers must protect employees against to collective bargaining. We respect and comply with relevant physical, sexual or mental abuse of any kind. DEIF upholds labour regulation in the countries where we do business. the right to freedom of association and recognises the right Achievements & activities in 2018 • The total share of women in leadership positions in the • DEIF sponsored a range of sports clubs and culture DEIF Group reached 21.9% (19.8% in 2017). For the top institutions both in Denmark and abroad in support of management (Executive Board), the share was 33.3% the local community. For example DEIF is sponsoring and in the next level management, the share was 15%. the local culture centre (Kulturcenter Limfjord), and the benefits received because of the sponsorship are going • We repeated our sponsorship and participation in an IT to our employees. Camp for women in cooperation with Aalborg University. The share of trainees, apprentices and PhD students in • 2018 also comprised a variety of initiatives supporting a Denmark increased from 4.7% in 2017 to 5.2% in 2018. healthy and social work environment, such as a morning workout at Skive headquarters, team building and • DEIF participated in “speed-dating events” and coopsports activities. DEIF AP in Singapore participated in eration with various schools in Skive. 2018 SingTel: RACE AGAINST CANCER. • As a special initiative for colleagues who were dismissed • The amount saved by sending Christmas greetings as part of unfortu­nate but necessary reductions in DEIF, on-line was donated to the children’s charity organisawe held after-work meetings twice in 2018. The purpose tion UNICEF. of the meetings was to introduce the employees to representatives from various companies who were all interested in helping them find their next job. Further, all dismissed employees were offered outplacement in cooperation with an external consultant. 16 1 Plans & main focus for 2019 Women in leadership positions The number of women in leadership positions must UN´s Sustainable Development Goals will be part of the continue to increase at all management levels. We will agenda, and DEIF is also actively participating in a local increase focus on our internal pipeline of female candinetwork in Skive with focus on the SDG’s and with particidates for management positions and carry out initiatives pants from the council, educational institutions and busito support this. nesses. The percentage of trainees, apprentices and PhD 2 students in DEIF is to remain above 4.5% in Denmark regardless if the total number of employees increases in The society the years to come. 3 In 2019 we have joined the Danish initiative “Code of Care” and we participate in the local task-force in Skive. Code of Care inspires, informs and creates innovation within Business and human rights social economic responsibility in Danish companies to We want to ensure continued compliance with the UN’s the benefit of young people on the edge of the job market. guiding principles on business and human rights (UNGPs). This includes identifying, planning and implementing We will enter into a cooperation with FAIR Denmark. FAIR improvements, among others based on annual evaluations is a non-profit organization providing schools in developing of the guiding principles in a DEIF context by means of the countries with IT equipment by collecting used equipment UN Global Compact self-assessment tool. from Danish companies. Our goal is to contribute with 20-30 PCs and laptops 1-2 times per year. In May 2019 DEIF will actively participate in the “Skivemødet”, a 3 day event in Skive with focus on a balanced Denmark. “We have joined the Danish initiative “Code of Care” and we participate in the local taskforce in Skive. Code of Care inspires, informs and creates innovation within social economic responsibility in Danish companies to the benefit of young people on the edge of the job market”. MARJANNE GRØNHØJ Senior Vice President Human Resource & Communication 17 Customer Satisfaction FOCUS Customer satisfaction in 2018 • In 2018 we conducted our global customer satisfaction • In total 537 contact persons have filled-out the quessurvey by sending out questionnaires to almost 4000 tionnaire giving us valuable feedback, and we are still customer contact persons. doing very well. The overall satisfaction and loyalty is at a very high level, and we only see minor changes • The feedback from our customers is regarded a highly within the underlying themes. important tool for us in our efforts to optimise our relations with our customers and our general way of doing • In this survey we included questions about our custombusiness. ers’ perception of our CSR activities and profile. The total score among 540 respondents on the CSR part was 6.0 (on a 1-7 scale). Overall satisfaction 2018 6,1 2016 6,1 Loyalty 2018 6,1 2016 6,0 Corporate Social Responsibility (2018) DEIF is acting as a socially 6,0 responsible company DEIF’s focus on CSR is 6,0 important for our cooperation We prefer doing business with a company that have a green 6,1 and sustainable profile Online greeting cards – a greener choice In 2018, we decided to send out our Christmas greetings online as we consider it a greener choice due to the paper and emissions saved. The costs saved for printing cards and postage, we donated to the children’s charity organisation UNICEF to support them in helping children around the world. 18 Social engagement 2018 World Cup in Skive? Coinciding with the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, DEIF was the proud sponsor of a local soccer tournament taking place in Skive primarily for foreigners living in Denmark without a Danish passport. Teams of nationals from countries such as Somalia, Eritrea, Ukraine, Poland, Romania, Syria – and a few from Denmark – competed at the local sports centre in Skive. The tournament aim was to help integrate all foreign newcomers in Danish society through spare time activities. Social environment We strive to be a good place to work. We take pride in establishing a social environment in DEIF that foster new social relationships between colleagues and support cooperation in daily work. 2018 comprised a variety of initiatives such as a morning workout at Skive headquarters, team building and sports activities, and DEIF AP participated in 2018 SingTel: RACE AGAINST CANCER and supported the charity organisation Willing Hearts with preparing dinner. Sponsorships DEIF supports a range of leisure activites, including the following sports clubs in the vicinity of DEIF’s headquarters: Skive fH Skive Atletikog Skive IK (handball) Motionsklub (football) (athletics) KIS House In 2014 DEIF partnered up with more than 30 local companies in Skive to establish the “KIS House” (Career in Skive). It’s a housing environment for students and highly qualified new employees in the companies in the Skive area. In 2018 a total of nine DEIF employees and trainees stayed in the house, and 4 of these came from abroad. 19 Safety & environment Aiming for zero work-related injuries, DEIF and our suppliers place the safety of employees before everything else. We expect our customers to provide a safe working environment that prevents accidents and do not expose our employees to health & safety risks when working at customer sites. We want to increase the level of safety and environmental protection through continuous measurements and improvements, and our approach to all aspects of business Ambition is ‘green’. As a result, DEIF develops energy-efficient We want to be a safe workplace for products and solutions that reduce fuel consumption, cut everyone who work for or visit us. We want to emissions and costly maintenance intervals. It is central be recognised for being a green company that to DEIF’s green vision that new product developments, delivers environmentally optimised solutions meeting specifications and designs meet and exceed a number of customer expectations for performance, cost strict self-imposed targets. reductions and uptime. Achievements & activities in 2018 Safety Environment • Again in 2018 we have kept a very high focus on all safety • DEIF continues to be an active partner in “GreenLab related matters. Skive” which is a unique park in Denmark for businesses working actively with integrated renewable energy, ener• Safety training has been conducted in all companies. gy storage and resource efficiency. DEIF is contributing • Fire drills have been conducted in all DEIF buildings in with knowledge about hybrid solutions combining wind Denmark. energy, solar energy and batteries. • New measurements and goals implemented on all daily • DEIF was in 2018 certified according to the ISO management boards – near accidents are followed and 14001:2015 environmental standard. discussed on a daily basis. • Waste handling is being monitored every quarter and the • New guideline for safety in relation to work-related driving awareness and focus on waste fractions remains high. has been developed. • Awareness of the use of chemicals has been increased • Uniform marking has been introduced in all relevant areas to a very high level. Communication about the new CLP of production, type test, service repair and laboratories. (Classification, Labelling and Packaging) of chemicals It is now clearer when you are entering and leaving ESD has been carried out effectively. protected areas. • The amount of salt spreading outdoors during winter time • One minor work-related accident causing absence was has been substantially reduced. registered. • Our canteen in Denmark is increasing the share of organic food year by year. 20 Plans & main focus for 2019 1Safe workplace We will optimize the registration and evaluation of near accidents and utilize this in our aim to reach zero workrelated injuries. Safety during on-site service will get even more attention in the HSE group, by adding a new member from this part of the organization. We will get inspiration from other companies, and strengthen the internal communication on this issues. A new APV (Workplace evaluation) will be carried out in Denmark in 2019. 2Green company Beginning of 2019 we will install charging stations for electric cars on our Skive premises. An analysis of the idle/baseline energy consumption in DEIF HQ has been carried out by two marine engineer trainees in 2018, and the report will be finalized in the beginning of 2019 – highlighting which actions could be relevant. 21 Energy & waste FOCUS Heat usage Electricity usage Waste amounts generated 75 75 6.250 6.250 5.775 50.000 50 50 KWh/m2 KWh/m2 Kg 31.345 31.345 73,99 69,96 75,63 73,61 72,09 28.864 70,50 25.000 25 25 22.085 22.085 20.531 0 kg 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Heat KWh/m2 Electricity KWh/m2 Household waste Reusable Other The DEIF Group’s headquarters in Skive, Denmark, has an advanced and comprehensive green energy system that includes a carbon neutral Aqua Thermal Storage System, a micro CHP plant and a comprehensive Energy Optimisation System that spots and eliminates energy waste. DEIF headquarters in Skive, Denmark 22 Anti-corruption DEIF refrains from corruption, bribery, extortion and use of other methods that may create conflicts of interest related to our business. We request DEIF colleagues only to accept or give minor gifts and only to participate in meetings, events, etc. that are within the scope of normal business practices. If in doubt about issues concerning gifts and entertainment, the individual employee is required to consult his/her manager for clarification. Any decisions, actions or behavior compromising DEIF’s stance on anti-corruption will have consequences for the employee(s) involved. Our contracts are always prepared in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we make sure our contracts with suppliers, consultants and other cooperation partners include sections on anti-corruption. DEIF has a zerotolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion of any kind “Internal workshops for relevant managers and key employees Ambition We will not participate in any regarding anti-corruption will be kind of corruption. held during 2019”. ANNE DINESS General counsil DEIF Achievements & activities in 2018 • The risk of corruption has been mapped for all coun• A list of “Most corrupt countries”, i.e. countries with a tries where DEIF is active. corruption index score of ≤40 where DEIF is active (and Transparency International’s world map show• For countries/markets with a corruption index score of ing the corruption perception index for each country) ≤40 (according to Transparency International’s Corruphave been published on DEIF’s Intranet. tion Perceptions Index 2017), a possible deployment of further CSR evaluation criteria has been discussed • New corruption dilemma cases have been added to with the sales responsible. our collection for internal training. • An e-learning tool has been decided upon. Plans & main focus for 2019 1 2 Continuous avoidance of corruption We want to secure that all employees in the global DEIF In addition, internal workshops for relevant managers Group continuously refrain from engaging in any corrupt and key employees regarding anti-corruption will be held activities. In order to do so, we want to implement an during 2019, among other things based on new dilemma 3 e-learning course for relevant employees on anti-corruption cases. and ensure that all relevant employees have accomplished the e-learning module before end of 2020. A whistle-blower system for global internal use will be developed and implemented during 2019. 23 DEIF A/S Frisenborgvej 33, 7800 Skive, Denmark Tel. +45 9614 9614 DEIF.com/About/Corporate-Social-Responsibility
