Our footprint for a sustainable world CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 WE SUPPORT REPORT 2018 1 2 REPORT 2018 Progressive Thinking Innovation Hard Work 3 CONTENTS Message from the CEO 2018 6 1 GOLDAIR HANDLING: AN OVERVIEW 8 2 GOLDAIR HANDLING BULGARIA 34 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values How we operate 12 2.1 Categories of services offered by Goldair Handling Bulgaria 36 1.2 Areas of activity 14 2.2 Membership in associations 37 1.3 Goldair Handling Services 16 2.3 Corporate Governance 37 1.4 Strategic priorities and Business Model 18 2.4 Monitoring of Corporate Performance 37 1.5 The implementation of our strategy 20 2.5 Financial information 38 1.6 ground.net Alliance 22 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria 38 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy 22 1.8 Customer and passenger personal data protection 26 1.9 Assurance of quality of service 28 1.10 Responsible supply chain 30 1.11 Membership in associations and organisations 33 5 OUR PEOPLE 70 6 HEALTH AND SAFETY 84 5.1 Promotion of employment 72 6.1 Occupational Health and Safety management 86 5.2 Training and development of employees 78 6.2 Cargo and mail handling 88 5.3 Evaluation and recognition 80 6.3 Ground support equipment management 89 5.4 Open communication and additional benefits 82 6.4 Security programme against acts of unlawful interference 90 6.5 Emergency Response Plan ERP 91 6.6 Promotion of a Health and Safety culture 92 6.7 Participation in Health and Safety conferences and events 94 4 REPORT 2018 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 42 4 RESPONSIBLE OPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT 52 3.1 Corporate Governance and organisational structure 44 4.1 Sustainable Development Management 54 3.2 Management committees 45 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to Sustainable 3.3 Internal audit 48 Development Goals (SDGs) 55 3.4 Effective risk management 49 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders 58 3.5 Transparency and conflict management 50 4.4 Materiality analysis 63 4.5 Goals achieved in 2018 and targets for 2019 68 7 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 96 8 GOLDAIR HANDLING’S SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 106 7.1 Management of environmental issues 99 8.1 Support of vulnerable social groups 109 7.2 Lifelong learning on environmental awareness 100 8.2 Employee volunteerism 110 7.3 Environmental performance 101 8.3 Event for employees’ children 111 7.4 Environmental investments 103 8.4 Actions to support Society 111 7.5 Environmental actions 104 8.5 Sports 112 REPORT INFORMATION 114 About the Report 116 Table of Compliance with the Greek Sustainability Code 117 GRI Content Index 119 Independent Limited Assurance Report to Goldair Aviation Handling S.A. 133 Report evaluation form 135 5 “We consider sustainability, innovation and extroversion as key elements to consistent growth. We are operating based on best practice models, setting our strategic priorities and strengthening our social solidarity and environmental awareness actions”. 6 REPORT 2018 Message from the CEO With the aim of responding substantially to global challenges, we remain dedicated to the Principles of Sustainable Development, and we are pleased to present the 3rd Goldair Handling Corporate Responsibility & Sustainable Development Report. The Report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and all contents have been validated by an independent external body. In 2018, we restated the Company’s vision based on our business operation and expansion to new countries. Recognising the value of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we focused on and worked towards 11 goals, making every effort to achieve them. Goldair Handling’s steady growth, which continued in 2018, can be attributed to the good performance of Greek tourism, new operations and services, as well as strategic partnerships and alliances. Greek tourism, in 2018, saw yet another record-setting year for airport traffic growth, where Goldair Handling served over 160,000 flights – a record number in the 20 th year of its operation. The increasing number in flights had significant benefits for passenger and ramp handling services, where we made new investments in ground equipment, and for cargo and mail handling, inaugurating the refurbished facilities of our cargo department. At the same time, persisting in our efforts to further expand our services, we participated, jointly with our Swiss partners AAS, in a tender to provide Passengers with Reduced Mobility (PRM) services at the Zurich airport, which, among others, significantly raises our Company’s profile in the international market. Moreover, in line with our corporate policy on provision of quality services to our valuable customers, we have upgraded our lounge facility in Heraklion Crete, and have introduced “Our Gold Services” to passengers looking for comfort and luxury before their flight. Maintaining our longstanding collaboration with our customers, we achieved to renew our contracts expiring in 2018, while proceeding with a strategic partnership in India. Last, we established our subsidiaries, Goldair Handling Croatia and Goldair Handling Serbia, with the aim of expanding our regional presence. We consider sustainability, innovation and extroversion as key elements to consistent growth. We are operating based on best practice models, setting our strategic priorities and strengthening our social solidarity and environmental awareness actions. Making our mark on a sustainable world – as attested to by the visuals in this year’s report – we are stressing that sustainable development is the key to an enterprise’s long-term success, therefore, we will continue to work with our stakeholders to this end. Dimitris Papamichail Chief Executive Officer 7 8 REPORT 2018 1 Goldair Handling: An Overview Goldair Handling is the first private ground handling services company in the Greek market, operating since 1999 and providing passengers, aircraft, cargo and mail services. It is a member of the Goldair Group, which was founded by Dimitrios Golemis in 1955 and consolidated through many years of ongoing development. 9 HR RS BG GR CY 160,724 Cyprus flights internationally 5,000 employees Presence at 31 in airports 5 countries 37.8 million passengers 10 REPORT 2018 >31million The Group expanded its activities in Central and Eastern European countries through an unprecedented move on the part of its founder, Over bags 160 to exclusive representation of airline companies in Greece, foreseeing the important role of air transport on a global level. customer airlines Greece (GR) Bulgaria (BG) 67,274 Athens (ATH) Sofia (SOF) Thessaloniki (SKG) Burgas (BOJ) Cargo and Mail Corfu (CFU) Varna (VAR) Handling Heraklion (HER) Rhodes (RHO) Cyprus (CY) Chania (CHQ) Larnaca (LCA) Kos (KGS) Paphos (PFO) Zakynthos (ZTH) Santorini (JTR) Croatia (HR) Mykonos (JMK) Zagreb (ZAG) Kefalonia (EFL) Dubrovnik (DBV) OM Aktion/Preveza (PVK) Split (SPU) Skiathos (JSI) Kalamata (KLX) Serbia (RS) Chios (JKH) Belgrade (BEG) Samos (SMI) Mytilene (MUT) Kavala (KVA) Karpathos (AOK) Araxos (GPA) Alexandroupoli (AXD) Croatia Limnos (LXS) Serbia Nea Anchialos/Volos (VOL) Bulgaria Ioannina (IOA) Skyros (SKU) Paros (PAS) Greece Certified Handling Provider 11 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values How we operate Vision Our vision is to remain the leading and preferred ground handling services Company, not only in Greece but also in the international network in which the Company operates, providing consistent value for customers, shareholders and employees. 12 REPORT 2018 Our Values How we operate With Consistency I am consistent in my actions and obligations. With Team Spirit I am an integral part of the team. With Immediacy/Adaptability I respond immediately and efficiently to challenges. With Respect I respect everyone’s opinion and work. Mission Our mission is to focus constantly on providing high quality ground handing services and innovative solutions, offering added value to our customers and ensuring immediate, safe and reliable operations. 13 1.2 Areas of activity Goldair Handling is one of the top ground handling services companies in Greece and Southeast Europe. As a responsible company, Goldair Handling aims at business excellence and, in this context, applies international and european standards, as well as best practices, striking a balance between financial robustness and the growth of its employees, environmental protection and social contribution. More information on Goldair Handling can be found on the Company website: http://www.goldair-handling.com Ground Handling Services In 2018, Goldair Handling continued to grow steadily both in Greece and abroad, providing services to over 160 thousand flights and achieving a 10% increase in the total number of its human resources compared to 2017, leading the Company to be hailed as one of the top employers in Greece. Cargo Handling Services Goldair Handling has 3 Cargo Stations at ‘El. Venizelos’ airport in Athens, ‘Makedonia’ airport in Thessaloniki and ‘N. Kazantzakis’ airport in Heraklion. The Company also handles cargo and mail, in accordance with the National Civil Aviation Security Regulation, at 18 outstation airports. More information on the Cargo Stations and their certifications can be found on page 88 Consulting Services At the same time, in the context of its extroversion, Goldair Handling has developed new partnerships in the field of providing consulting services and know-how to companies entering the sector of ground 3 Cargo Stations handling services in emerging markets and, specifically, in Ethiopia and Oman. Cooperation More information regarding the alliance on page 22 Training Exchange of Know-How 14 REPORT 2018 FLIGHT MANAGEMENT 2007-2018 GR CY BG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Certified Handling Provider for Athens and Thessaloniki Airports 15 1.3 Goldair Handling Services Goldair Handling cooperates with the largest airlines internationally and provides the following services in each area of activity: Ground Handling Services: Management functions and supervision, Passenger handling, Baggage handling, Ramp handling, Aircraft services, Flight operations, Surface transport, Services for passengers with reduced mobility (PRM), Our Gold Services, Cargo and Mail Handling: Cargo and Mail Handling, Consulting Services. More specifically, the Company’s services include: Management functions and supervision Management functions and supervision include representation services and contact with local authorities or with any other person, payments that are carried out on behalf of the user and the provision of spaces to their representatives, supervision of loading, marketing and telecommunications, processing, storage, use and management of loading units, every other supervisory service prior to, during, and following the flight, as well as every other management service requested by the airlines. Passenger handling Passenger handling services pertain to passenger handling during departure, arrival, transit, or connection. They mainly include check-in, inspection of travel documents, baggage check-in, and transport of baggage up to the airport baggage sorting systems. Baggage handling Baggage handling services include the entire process of baggage handling in the sorting belts. These services are mainly related to the screening and preparation of baggage ahead of departure, loading and unloading from the aircraft, and transport from the screening room to the sorting room. Ramp handling Ramp handling services mainly pertain to the handling of aircraft, including: marshalling of aircraft during arrival and departure, servicing of parked aircraft, organising communication with aircraft, loading and unloading of aircraft. Ramp handling services also include transport of the crew, passengers, and baggage between the aircraft and the terminal, handling during engine start, push-back of the aircraft during departure as well as arrival; the implementation of the necessary measures, transfer, loading, and unloading of food and beverages from the aircraft. Aircraft services Aircraft services include: interior and exterior cleaning of aircraft, maintenance of sanitary areas, provision of water, air-conditioning and heating of the cabin, removal of snow and de-icing aircraft. Flight operations Flight operations include: preparation of the flight at the airport of departure, or at any other location, in-flight service, which potentially includes an in-flight change of course, services after the flight. Surface transport Surface transport services include the transport of passengers, crew, baggage, cargo and mail between the various terminals of the same airport, except for any transport between the aircraft and any other spot within the boundaries of the same airport. It also includes any special transport requested by the airline. 16 REPORT 2018 Services for passengers with reduced mobility These services pertain to various arrangements implemented by Goldair Handling in order to improve the travel experience of passengers with reduced mobility. These passengers may request assistance at each airport in order to be transfered from a specified location to the check-in counter, to go through ticket and hand baggage control, and to board the aircraft once they have completed customs, and security procedures. They may also seek assistance in boarding and disembarking the aircraft, with ambulifts, wheelchairs, or any other necessary aid, as applicable, to get to their seat, to stow and recover their baggage inside the aircraft. Once they have arrived at their destination, they can travel from the baggage claim area to a specified location, board their connecting flights and, if the need arises, be transported to the restrooms. Cargo and Mail handling Cargo and mail handling services are mainly related to the day-to-day handling of freight and mail, preparation of the required documents, customs procedures, etc. Goldair Handling operates a Cargo Station at Athens Airport and at two additional airports, in Thessaloniki and Heraklion Crete, providing cargo and mail services on a 24/7 basis. In 2018, the necessary preparation procedures for CEIV Pharma certification by IATA on the handling of pharmaceutical products began at the Athens Cargo Station. In this context, new refrigeration chambers were installed to ensure more effective handling of pharmaceutical cargo. Our Gold Services In recent years, Goldair Handling has strategically invested in the airports of Athens, Heraklion Crete, and Mykonos, creating Lounges and offering high-quality services. In 2018, the Company invested in the creation of a new Lounge at the ‘N. Kazantzakis’ airport in Heraklion, Crete. Consulting services Goldair Handling has developed consulting services to convey know-how to emerging ground service markets through its specialised staff. A typical example is the successful partnership with the company ICAS, which is active at the Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa airports in Ethiopia. 17 1.4 Strategic priorities and Business Model In order to provide all corporate services in a safe and high-quality manner, Goldair Handling integrates important factors into its business strategy, including meeting customer needs, maintaining and developing its competitive advantages, and charting a course for growth in the domestic and international markets. Through the above, the Company aims at creating added value for all stakeholders, while at the same time pursuing responsible corporate growth and development. All the above factors are important components of the business model of Goldair Handling. The strategic priorities of Goldair Handling Combined with the application of the business model, the Company’s operation is based on progressive thinking, innovative action and hard work. These values serve as the basis for setting the Company’s strategic priorities, which bring it closer to achieving its corporate vision. A top priority is the continuous improvement of the services provided by Goldair Handling through the constant growth of its human resources and the optimisation of its procedures and systems. Another important strategic priority for the Company is launching its operations in an additional international market by 2020. Financial growth Expansion into new markets Meeting Provision customer of high-quality expectations services Reliability throughout and innovation the network in provision of services “We do not rest on our laurels. We try to fortify our Company and remain ever-ready to face new challenges. We believe that the current investments and the ones to come in the near future in Greece will lead us to new levels of providing high quality services and to further growth”. Dimitrios Papamichail, Chief Executive Officer of Goldair Handling, Fortune Greece 18 REPORT 2018 BUSINESS MODEL STRATEGIC MAIN VALUE PROPOSITION & KEY ELEMENTS CUSTOMER PARTNERSHIPS ACTIVITIES USEFULNESS OF CUSTOMER CATEGORIES • Hellenic Civil • Passenger • Provision of high-quality RELATIONS • Airlines Aviation Authority Handling Ground Handling Services • High level of • Airport Authorities (HCAA) • Aircraft Services • Contribution to development customer service, • Passengers • Athens • Baggage Handling and support of the local exemplified • Visitors to VIP International • Cargo and Mail community by safety and Lounges Airport (AIA) Handling • Our Gold Services immediate response • Wider public (for • Fraport Greece • PRM Services • Lifelong Learning Skills to customer needs cargo and mail (FG) • VIP Lounges • Raising employee and local • Complaint services) • Cargo Stations community awareness of Management • Transportation environmental protection issues Procedures companies • Customer Satisfaction Survey KEY RESOURCES/ASSETS COMPETITIVE VITAL TO PERFORMANCE ADVANTAGES COMMUNICATION CHANNELS OF THE COMPANY’S ACTIVITIES IATA-ISAGO Certification WITH EXISTING AND POTENTIAL • Ground Handling Equipment CUSTOMERS (push-back, belt loaders, boarding Customer-centred Approach • Airports ramps, etc.) • Cargo Stations Implementation of • Vehicles (passenger transport • Commercial Department Management Systems with vehicles, vehicles for transporting ISO9001, 14001 & 22000 • Sector media personnel to the airport apron, etc.) certification • Strategic Alliances (ground.net) • Operating Systems • Participation in International (ALTEA, FlightTracker, Framework) Conferences COST STRUCTURE REVENUE STRUCTURE • Employee salaries • The Company’s earnings and benefits come exclusively from • Ground handling equipment the activities it carries out operating costs (maintenance & fuel) • Third-party contractor salaries • Personnel training • Operating system upgrades Business Model Template Generation by Alexander Osterwalder & Yves Pigneur 19 1.5 The implementation of our strategy All the above from the vision and values of Goldair Handling to the provision of high-quality services and strategic priorities, due to the scale of and cooperation between the departments are implemented through the invaluable contribution of all the departments of the Company. The management and operational departments plan and guide the effective implementation of the strategy of Goldair Handling, which is based on continuous improvement and aims at business excellence. The Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Senior Management Members make up the Management Team, tasked with drawing up the strategy of Goldair Handling, as well as implementing and updating the Company’s targets. Additional information concerning the CVs of the Management Team of Goldair Handling can be found on the Company website: www.goldair-handling.com. The Ground Operations and Ground Operations Outstations Airports departments are responsible for ensuring the seamless provision of ground handling services and the operations of Goldair Handling. The main duties of these two departments are the following: • Ensuring that operations at outstation airports meet the requirements set by Goldair Handling for the safety and quality of the services provided, the health and safety of employees, legal requirements, Company policies, as well as the requirements of customer airlines. • Ensuring compliance with all legal requirements and provisions concerning issues of Safety and/or Quality in relation to ground handling services. • Planning, developing and implementing the Company strategy for operational management, aiming at achieving the Company’s operational goals and contractual obligations within the budgets and schedules agreed upon. • Operating as a hub for internal communication and coordination on issues relating to human resources, supplies and maintenance, as well as commercial issues. • Communicating with stakeholder groups (customer-airlines, airport authorities and bodies, regional authorities, etc.) on operational issues. 20 REPORT 2018 BOD CEO Legal Personal Internal Sustainability IT Department Assistant to Auditor/DPO Committee Department CEO Commercial Operations Quality & Project Human Ground & Business Finance Manager Environment Manager, Resources Operations Development Director Oustations Manager/CSO International Director Director Director Airports Network Administrator Network Quality, Payroll & Station Coordinator Environment & Ground Engagement & Personnel Manager & Planning Sustainability Handling Development Manager ATH Manager Department Agreements Manager Sales Senior Senior Cargo Executive Purchase Finance Payroll Recruitment & Services Administration & Contract Executive Specialist Development Manager Officer Management Specialist Fleet Senior Planning & Manager Warehouse Payroll Station Administration Bookkeeping Recruiters Development Billing & Supply Specialist Managers* Manager Senior Section Store Manager Market Safety & Fixed ATH Analysis, Technical Occupational Assets Planning & Planning Development & Support Health Manager, Accounting Implementation & Slot Engagement Manager Emergency Specialist Manager Director Outstations Safety Commercial Planning & Altea Advisor Budgeting & Department Reporting Implementation Department in Russia Specialist Emergency HR Training Coordinator TAX Administration & Filling Manager Security Accounts Manager Receivable & Uniform Training Credit Department Department Control Marketing & Communications Accounts Manager Payable & Cost Control Cash & Banks * AOK, AXD, CFU, CHQ, EFL, GPA, HER, IOA, JKH, JMK, JSI, JTR, KGS, KLX, KVA, LXS, MJT, PAS, PVK, RHO, SKG, SKU, SMI, VOL, ZTH 21 1.6 ground.net Alliance The expansion of Goldair Handling to new markets renders it a desirable associate for the search and development of new partnerships, aiming at the exchange of know-how. In this context, in 2013, Goldair Handling and AeroGround, the ground handling subsidiary of Munich Airport, took the initiative to create the ground.net alliance, an institution of major strategic importance for the provision of high-quality ground handling services in Europe. Three additional ground handling services companies – Airline Assistance Switzerland (AAS), Aviator (Scandinavia), and GH Italia – have joined the alliance, expanding the network coverage to more than 67 airports in 11 countries. The ground.net alliance enables the member companies to offer aircraft services, joint actions in sales, marketing, exchange of know-how, education, best practices, etc. through a wider network. More information on the ground.net alliance can be found on the website www.ground.net.com 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy Goldair Handling has the training and know-how, as it partners with many of the largest airlines internationally, offering a wide spectrum of ground handling services. Goldair Handling’s main customers include airlines that carry out commercial flights, general aviation, cargo and mail transport. Continuous communication with customer airlines and passengers through the Company’s communication channels as well as the provision of high quality services tailored to their needs and capacity are the main characteristics of Goldair Handling’s strategic approach to the management and service of its customers. A characteristic feature of Goldair Handling’s customer-oriented philosophy is its commitment to continuous improvement of the services provided in order to reliably serve existing customers and attract new partnerships. This commitment is reflected in the Company’s Quality Policy and every aspect of its day-to-day operations. Excerpt from the Quality Policy Goldair Handling operates with a view to ensuring the necessary conditions and requirements in order to provide high-quality services, to continuously improve and evolve, to fully satisfy its customers and to strengthen its status. The Company meets all the challenges and successfully advances in the demanding environment of ground handling services. The Company’s management always invests in quality by providing the necessary resources and recognising that their insistence onthe provision of qualitative services characterises the Company’s diversification from its competitors. Goldair Handling always aims to offer services that comply with the relative laws, regulations, standards and with the continuously increasing market needs. The Company takes into consideration the expectations and responds effectively to the needs of its customer airlines through communication. Goldair Handling also receives feedback related to its services from passengers, through printed forms found at ‘El. Venizelos’ Athens International Airport and from all its stakeholders through e-mail and social media. 22 REPORT 2018 Responsible communication For Goldair Handling, responsible communication and marketing practices not only serve as a tool for developing a relationship of trust with all its stakeholders, but also contribute to the responsible promotion of its services. In this context, the Company applies a Marketing and Communications Policy, aiming to promote transparent and sound advertising and communication. Excerpt from the Marketing and Communications Policy The Company’s philosophy with regard to marketing takes into account the interests of the local communities in which it operates, believing that responsible marketing represents an element of commitment with regard to the economic, environmental, and social impact of its operations, since it enables it to boost the confidence of society and adapt its services to the needs of its customers. Goldair Handling is committed to responsible Marketing services in all areas in which it is active and for all methods of advertising. Goldair Handling’s Marketing Programme, including advertising, promotional activities and sponsorships, takes into account the applicable laws on communication, standards and, in particular, the Greek Code of Advertising and Communication, which it adheres to and implements in developing every related programme. Goldair Handling has created four different communication channels through which customer – airlines, passengers and all bodies cooperating with the Company can directly submit their comments. The feedback Goldair Handling has received through these channels is an invaluable tool for further improvement in the services provided. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE CustomerCustomer satisfaction Service survey Third-party Report comments Happy or Not 23 Customer Service Application: Goldair Handling has developed the Customer Service Application, aiming to directly record and monitor comments. Through the Customer Service Application, the Company’s Quality Department manages and analyses all the data emerging in relation to customer service on a monthly basis. The Department then prepares the Customer Service Report, which is immediately forwarded to all the departments involved for information purposes and further investigation of the comments. Customer satisfaction survey: The satisfaction survey is conducted annually and aims to gauge the satisfaction of Goldair Handling’s customer airlines. The most recent survey was conducted between 6/2/2019 and 31/3/2019 and concerned the evaluation of the services provided over the course of 2018. The e-questionnaire used was revised, aiming to better record the needs of the Company’s customers. In total, 46 customer airlines in Greece were surveyed, 50% of whom responded. SATISFACTION SURVEY RESULTS (IN %)* Does Goldair Handling meet your operational Does Goldair Handling 96% requirements? meet your passenger 80% service requirements? How would you describe Goldair Handling, based on your collaboration with the company? 56.67% 40% 43.33% 13.33% Reliable Effective Customer-centred Innovates and anticipates *Results extrapolated on the basis of 50% of the responses to the e-questionnaire at the airports managed by the Company in Greece. 24 REPORT 2018 Customer-passenger satisfaction survey “Happy or Not”: Additionally, Goldair Handling installed the “Happy or Not” electronic platform in its CIP Lounges to gauge the satisfaction of its passengers with the services they received during their stay at the airports of Athens, Heraklion and Mykonos. Goldair Handling received 17,758 responses in total, of which 15.872 (89%) were ‘Very pleased’. 5% 5% + 1% 89% Third-party comments: The Company also receives comments on the quality of its services from third parties, such as the companies managing the airports where it carries out its activities. In 2018, the Company received 181 comments from passengers, of which 120 pertained to Goldair Handling’s customer airlines. The comments were evaluated and communicated directly to the customer airline the comments concerned. The remaining 61 comments pertained to issues directly attributed to Goldair Handling, which in turn took immediate action to resolve the issues in question, where this was deemed necessary. 83% increase in positive comments 25% increase in negative comments During 2018, the Company received a total of 242 positive comments on the courtesy of its staff, the speed with which flights are serviced, and the quality of the services it provides. 25 1.8 Customer and passenger personal data protection 5 The personal data managed by the Company (customer airlines and Data Protection passengers) during the provision of ground handling services are Committee utilised exclusively to provide services for airlines and passengers, and for internal analysis, in absolute compliance with EU regulation 2016/679 (GDPR). During 2018, a Data Protection Officer (DPO) was appointed within the Company, while the Policy and Regulation on Protection of Personal Data entered into effect, underscoring the commitment to their protection. Excerpt from the Data Protection Policy 4 Goldair Handling attaches great importance to the protection of Development personal data and is committed to conducting its business in of GDPR Policy accordance with all applicable Data Protection Laws and Regulations, and Regulation such as EU 2016/679 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). on Protection The aim of Goldair Handling is to process the personal data lawfully, of Personal Data 2019 fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to individuals. Moreover, the data are being handled in a way that ensures appropriate security, using suitable technical and organisational measures, in regard to data minimisation, accuracy, archiving, removal, etc. The Company’s Management recognises and respects the data subject rights as presented in this Policy: 1. Right of information/update 2. Right of access 3. Right to rectification 4. Right to erasure 5. Right to restriction of processing 6. Right to data portability 7. Right to object 8. Rights against automated individual decision-making and profiling 9. Right of withdrawal of consent In the event of a breach of security leading to the unlawful or unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, personal data, the Company ensures the prompt assessment of the risk to people’s rights and freedoms and appropriate report of this breach to the relevant Authority. Goldair Handling commits to act with responsibility towards individuals and their personal data by adapting or creating corporate procedures in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Moreover, the Company commits to provide training and support for employees who handle personal data, so that they can act confidently and consistently. This Policy applies to all Goldair Handling personnel and stakeholders, such as customers, subcontractors, suppliers, etc. 26 REPORT 2018 GDPR MILESTONES During 2018, Goldair Handling did not receive any complaints or reports related to the violation of the privacy of its customers or the violation of the privacy of its customer airlines’ passengers. 3 Beginning of Action Plan Implementation 1 DPO appointed 2 Data Mapping and analysis of Data Protection Impact Assessment 2018 27 1.9 Assurance of quality of service The sector in which Goldair Handling is active is characterised by high technology and quality requirements, as well as fierce competition. Therefore, the Company’s application of certified management systems satisfying the requirements of international standards is a significant factor for maintaining its competitive advantage and for its momentum and continued growth. Goldair Handling effectively manages the quality of its services: Developing policies Constant auditing Revising and procedures and assessment and improving policies throughout the breadth of the results and procedures of its operations of the implementation whenever and ensuring of the Integrated deemed necessary their implementation Management System Integrated Management System Through the Integrated Management System, the Company continuously monitors the flow of the services it provides and effectively responds to any problems that might arise, taking corrective actions immediately. All employees also undergo relevant training on all individual topics of the Integrated Management System. Fully aligned with the principle of prevention, the Company implemented scheduled internal inspections, checking the operation of the Integrated Management System. In this context, Goldair Handling developed the AuditUp application, aiming at the electronic monitoring of internal audits, the monitoring of non-compliance and the dispatch of notifications pertaining to inspections. During 2018, a total of 44 internal inspections were carried out throughout the Company’s operational and administrative units. In addition to internal audits, during 2018, Goldair Handling underwent 170 external audits by airlines, airport authorities and auditing firms, thus strengthening the continuous monitoring and evaluation of the Integrated Management System. Moreover, as a result of the monitoring of the Integrated Management System, the Company issued 3 new corporate manuals and carried out 28 revisions to existing manuals. 28 REPORT 2018 Certifications ΙSO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015, ISO 22000:2005 ISO Goldair Handling adopts and certifies an Integrated Quality, 9001 Environmental, and Food Safety Management System for “the HACCP provision of Ground Handling Services for Aircraft, Passengers, 22000 Freight and Mail”, in accordance with the standards EN ISO 9001:2015, EN ISO 14001:2015, and EN ISO 22000:2005. Through ISO these certifications, the Company undertakes to comply with all the 14001 procedures defined by the Quality, Environmental and Food Safety standards. ΙΑΤΑ-ISAGO In 2009, Goldair Handling became the first Greek ground handling company to obtain international certification IATA-ISAGO (IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations Program) for the services it provides. The aim of the certification is the improvement of operational safety in ground services and the reduction of damage to aircraft and ground service equipment. Regulated Agent Goldair Handling has developed strict procedures and is certified as a Regulated Agent for the 3 Cargo Stations and the 18 outstation airports where it handles cargo and mail, in accordance with the National Civil Aviation Security Regulation. This certification is granted by the Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority (HCAA), once it has approved the Company’s Security Programme for each area where cargo and mail handling is conducted, and is required for the transport of cargo on aircraft carrying out flights within the territory of the European Union. More information related to investments on the part of the Company in Cargo Stations for 2018 under “6.2 Cargo Station Security” in Chapter “6 Health and Safety Management”. AEOF: Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) Full Certificate Goldair Handling holds an Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) Full (AEOF) Certificate. Companies holding this certification are reliable business partners in the international supply chain and are entitled to specific benefits, depending on the type of certificate they hold. The main advantages of this certificate involve the reduction of administrative costs, simplification of customs procedures, acceleration of cargo and mail flows, improvement and strengthening of customers’ trust and, consequently, increased efficiency and competitiveness. Known Supplier of Airport Supplies Security Programme During 2018, Goldair Handling was certified for the Athens International Airport as a Known Supplier of Airport Supplies, complying with the security measures defined by the Airport and the applicable legislation. 29 1.10 Responsible supply chain The Company’s priority is, to create relationships of trust and mutually beneficial relations with the suppliers it cooperates with and, to support the economic growth and prosperity of the regions where it operates. In this context, Goldair Handling prioritises regional suppliers, providing effective support to smaller markets near the 26 airports where it is active. The Company’s tools for the responsible management of the supply chain and all related issues are the Procurement Regulation, which is communicated to all interested departments of Goldair Handling and revised on an annual basis, and the Supplier Code of Conduct, which was completed in 2018. The Code of Conduct is communicated to suppliers with whom the Company partners and aims at ensuring smooth cooperation. Furthermore, in order to guarantee sound management of the supply chain, the Company evaluates its suppliers through a revised e-questionnaire and has created an electronic database for contract management. Our tools for responsible management of the supply chain Evaluation of suppliers through a revised Procurement questionnaire, Regulation to which Supplier social criteria contracts Supplier have been added management Code of Conduct platform The Company’s suppliers in 2018 During 2018, the Company partnered with 1,553 suppliers, both from Greece and abroad. By mainly supporting the regions near the airports where it is active, the Company partners with suppliers from local communities, who account for 93% of all suppliers. 1,553 active suppliers* 1,441 domestic 112 domestic suppliers (93%) suppliers (7%) 86% of total payments 14% of total payments to domestic providers to foreign providers *Active suppliers are those that the Company had transaction within 2018. 30 REPORT 2018 Distribution of local suppliers by region 2017 vs 2018 8% 12% 46% 2017 9% 25% 9% 11% Athens Thessaloniki 45% 2018 8% Crete Greece’s island regions 27% Rest of Greece Distribution of international suppliers by region 2017 vs 2018 83% 2017 9% 8% 85% 2018 Europe United States Other 5% 10% Evaluation of suppliers The suppliers who work with the Company are evaluated on the basis of economic, qualitative and environmental criteria, as well as criteria that concern the health and safety of their employees. In this context, new suppliers, at the beginning of their cooperation with the Company, have to provide all necessary certifications for confirmation and review. The supplier evaluation procedure, as well as consideration of supplier disqualification, is described in the Company’s Procurement procedure. 31 Being an environmentally responsible company, Goldair Handling emphasises on the environmental evaluation of suppliers, with a view to further motivating its suppliers and to improving their e-questionnaire environmental performance. In this context, the Company’s for the evaluation Environmental Policy is sent to active suppliers, along with an of suppliers environmental self-assessment questionnaire, in order to identify the potential impact of their operations on the environment. The questionnaire also covers actions and programmes implemented by the Company’s suppliers regarding environmental management, 52.87% such as energy conservation, proper waste management, recycling of products and packaging, as well as staff environmental of suppliers awareness training. During 2018, this questionnaire was revised, and participated the distribution of an e-questionnaire was launched. On the basis of in the evaluation this e-questionnaire, a total of 87 suppliers with whom transactions 56.32% process took place during the year were evaluated; 46 of them filled out our of suppliers e-questionnaire, while 52 sent a signed copy of the Supplier Code of implement Conduct to the Company. certified systems Supplier Evaluation Results (in %)* Do you implement a documented Quality Management Have you been awarded a System/Quality Procedures for your operations? Management System certificate? 14% 8% YES YES NO NO 86% 92% Is your company staff Do your products meet any international properly trained? specifications/standards? 2% 13% YES YES NO NO 98% 87% 32 REPORT 2018 1.11 Membership in associations and organisations With a view to achieving constructive cooperation on issues of sectoral or broader business interest and to promoting issues of sustainability and exchanging views on such issues, Goldair Handling actively participates in a number of professional organisations, associations and institutions. INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS United Nations Global Compact ΙΑΤΑ (International Air Transport Association) ASA (Airport Services Association) IGHC (International Ground Handling Council) ΙΑΤΑ (International Air Transport Association) NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) Greek Tourism Confederation (SETE) Association of Chief Executive Officers (EASE) Global Sustain CEO Clubs (Chief Executive Officers Clubs) 33 34 REPORT 2018 7 Goldair Handling Bulgaria Goldair Handling Bulgaria Ltd was founded in 2010 and is a 99.99% owned subsidiary of Goldair Handling. The Company operates at three airports in Bulgaria Sofia, Burgas and Varna providing high-quality ground handling services. 2 35 The competitive advantages in which Goldair Handling Bulgaria has invested stem from the strategic priorities set by Goldair Handling. BULGARIA Presence at all High level High-quality Cost advantage 3 International Airports of training in regards and safety De/ Anti-icing through increased in Bulgaria, serving over to employees. services with the use operating effectiveness. 2 million passengers of additional modern every year. units. 2.1 Categories of services offered by Goldair Handling Bulgaria Ramp Handling Passenger Handling Baggage Handling Management Functions and Supervision Aircraft Services Flight Operations Surface Transport Detailed information on the description of services under “1.3. Goldair Handling Services”, p. 16. 36 REPORT 2018 2.2 Membership in Associations Burgas Chamber of Commerce and Industry Hellenic Business Council in Bulgaria 2.3 Corporate Governance Goldair Handling Bulgaria is continuously working to improve its performance and strengthen its competitive advantage. The Company has adopted sound Corporate Governance practices to safeguard the shareholders’ interests, compliance with the applicable legislation and the regulatory framework in force, as well as its operations. By following the practices of Goldair Handling, its parent company, Goldair Handling Bulgaria has incorporated practices for responsible business operations, which serve as the basis for addressing the challenges of modern entrepreneurship. To this end, the Board of Directors of Goldair Handling Bulgaria, as the supreme Corporate Governance body, is charged with setting and achieving the Company’s strategic goals. The Board of Directors consists of the following members: • Kalinko Kallinikos Kallinikos, Director & Shareholder • Dimitrios Papamichail, Director • Andreas Fotakis, Director • Anastasios Basdekis, Director The Board of Directors of Goldair Handling Bulgaria is responsible for taking measures to prevent and/or address cases of conflict of interest and for implementing the values and principles of the Company. Data Collection 2.4 Data Analysis Monitoring of Corporate Performance Presentation of Results Company Performance Indicators Aiming at recording the Company’s performance in regard to strategic development and operational performance, Goldair Handling Bulgaria established Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in Corrective Actions order to ensure continuous and proper monitoring of the Company’s Establishment of Key performance. In this context, the Management of Goldair Handling Performance Bulgaria scheduled monthly meetings to assess the Company’s Indicators (KPIs) performance. 37 2.5 Financial Information +107%* +497%* 93% Taxes paid Total investments Local Suppliers +40%* +312%* 7% Payments Payments Foreign to local suppliers to local suppliers Suppliers *Compared to 2017 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria Goldair Handling Bulgaria places the philosophy of sustainable received “thank you” letters from customer airlines regarding the development at the heart of its activities, acting responsibly in provision of high-quality ground handling services. every aspect of its business operations. Following the directions of Goldair Handling S.A., its parent company, Goldair Handling Distinctions and Awards Bulgaria focuses on building relationships of trust with customer Continuously striving to improve the services it provides and airlines, with passengers and with its employees, on protecting the achieve growth for its human resources, Goldair Handling Bulgaria environment and on reducing its environmental footprint. has been acknowledged by its stakeholders as a valuable partner. This acknowledgement is underscored by the distinctions and Relationship with Customers awards the Company has received from its partners. Focusing on providing high-quality services to its customers and continuously improving the services it offers, Goldair Handling Bulgaria has strengthened its communication channels with its customers. In this light, the Company developed and conducted a customer satisfaction survey in order to listen to its customers’ needs and focus on improving the services it provides. The questionnaire was sent to 26 customer airlines, and the participation percentage came to 23.07%. Apart from the customer satisfaction survey, Goldair Handling Bulgaria also handles any comments it receives pertaining to the services it provides via the “Customer Service” application which has been developed on the corporate platform “Compass”. During 2018, Goldair Handling Bulgaria received 17 comments, of which 7 came from customer airlines and 10 from customer Easy Jet – Hands Free passengers. Apart from comments, Goldair Handling Bulgaria also Procedure Champion 38 REPORT 2018 Protection of Personal Data The personal data managed by Goldair Handling Bulgaria are Union regulation 2016/679 on the Protection of Personal Data. The utilised exclusively to provide efficient service for airlines and processing of passengers’ personal data is carried out via secure passengers and for internal analysis. applications that belong to either the customerairline or to Goldair The Company takes into consideration and conforms with European Handling. 83% 86% VERY GOOD/ GOOD YES How would you rate the staff of Goldair Handling Bulgaria Does Goldair Handling Bulgaria in terms of disposition, training cover your operational and skills? requirements? Customer satisfaction survey BULGARIA How would you rate Goldair Does Goldair Handling Bulgaria Handling Bulgaria employees cover your requirements in terms of their attitude, in terms of customer service? prevention and coordination? 83% 67% VERY GOOD/ YES GOOD 55% increase in the number of employees, while 68% of staff contracts are permanent Human Resources As Goldair Handling Bulgaria employees are the key to the Company’s success, every effort is made to maintain a meritocratic and safe work environment. In the context of the robust corporate Easy Jet UK Home Office – Approved culture of Goldair Handling, the Management communicates with gate check status in recognition of high standards of document checking, employees through monthly departmental meetings, e-mail, the training, diligence and excellent cooperation with the Home Office corporate platform, as well as corporate events. 39 GOLDAIR HANDLING BULGARIA PERSONNEL DATA By gender By region 2017 2018 2017 2018 Men 213 353 Sofia 143 295 Burgas 214 242 Women 150 210 Varna 6 26 By employment contract 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Permanent 84 70 154 207 146 353 Fixed term 129 80 209 146 64 210 Total 213 150 363 353 210 563 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Full time 211 147 358 347 198 545 Part time 6 4 10 2 12 18 Total 217 151 368 353 210 563 By age 2017 <30 31-50 51+ 2018 <30 31-50 51+ Men 98 81 34 Men 178 133 42 Women 69 69 12 Women 109 84 17 Total 167 150 46 Total 287 217 59 2017 2018 Hierarchy Men Women Total Men Women Total Area Manager 1 1 Airport Operations Manager 1 1 Station Managers 2 2 Administrative staff and supervisors 3 6 9 48 61 109 Workforce 23 13 36 304 147 451 Total 26 19 45 354 210 564 Training Goldair Handling Bulgaria has acknowledged that the education and Goldair Handling Bulgaria employees, depending on their growth of its people enhances their professional competence and specialisation, in full compliance with international standards, and personal skills, and enables them to meet successfully all types before being assigned operational duties, attend an initial training of challenges at their workplace. In this context, various training programme that includes, but is not limited to, the following topics: programmes are implemented at the Company, encouraging all employees to participate. Familiarisation Passenger with the use Awareness Dangerous service of equipment raising During 2018, 443 employees Goods Regulation on disability were trained (DGR) and equality 40 REPORT 2018 In addition to initial training and in accordance with the above Employee Participation requirements, employees attend recurrent training, when and The employees of Goldair Handling Bulgaria are vitally important where necessary, at least once every three years. for the Company’s development policy and business excellence. Additionally, ‘On the job training’ has been established at Goldair In this context, they are actively involved in the promotion of Handling Bulgaria as a practical training method involving guidance improvement proposals. by a co-worker. The process of approval of improvement proposals involves, initially, the submission of the proposals to the departments More information on the on the job training programme in section 5, involved and, subsequently, meetings with the members of “Our People”, p 70, subsection 5.2, “Training”, page 78. the relevant Departments in order for a decision on whether to implement them or not to be made. Ensuring health and safety in the workplace During 2018, 100% of the improvement proposals submitted were Goldair Handling Bulgaria takes care to provide a safe work approved by the Company’s Management. environment characterised by compliance with rules on health and safety, and continuous training. To accurately monitor all issues Emergency Response Plan (ERP) related to Health and Safety, the Company has appointed a Health Recognising the importance of providing high-quality ground and Safety Coordinator for the three airports in Bulgaria who handling services, Goldair Handling Bulgaria has developed a reports to the Health and Safety Director in Greece, and a specific mechanism for dealing with emergencies. In collaboration with the incident-management procedure is implemented. Additionally, airline companies and other organisations at the airports where an Occupational Risk Assessment (ORA) is implemented every it operates, the Company participates in emergency exercises for two years, the findings of which serve as a basis, where deemed incident/ accident involving aircraft. necessary, to revise the safety procedures and take corrective During 2018, 3 emergency exercises were carried out throughout actions. the network of Goldair Handling Bulgaria, in cooperation with At every airport where the Company offers its services, 2 boxes customer airlines. have been installed for the anonymous suggestions of employees. During 2018, the Company’s Safety Management System (SMS) Environmental Awareness and Safety Policy were revised, as provided by Goldair Handling in The Company’s environmental responsibility is demonstrated Greece. through the environmental programmes it implements with The Company implements ongoing specialisation and job-specific regard to energy and fuel consumption, as well as through training for all of its employees to ensure that they receive training recycling programmes. The Company conforms with the in the safe use of equipment and personal protective equipment applicable legislation and regulations, and adopts practices based before they take up their duties. on the principle of prevention in order to continuously reduce its Additionally, during 2018, the Company implemented Health and environmental footprint. Safety investments worth approximately €85,000 concerning the In this context, during 2018 the Company successfully handled 6 procurement/renewal of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), incidents of leaks at the airports where it operates. the operation of the Health and Safety Department, as well as consulting services. It should be noted that no accidents involving Goldair Handling Bulgaria employees occurred during 2018. More information in chapter “6. Health and Safety Management” on page 86. During 2018, 38 seminars were held specifically on work safety and were attended by 431 employees. The total hours of training on health and safety matters came to 2,586. 41 42 REPORT 2018 3 Corporate Governance Goldair Handling has acknowledged that responsible corporate growth is the mean of addressing the challenges of modern entrepreneurship. In this context, and given that the Company operates in a particularly competitive environment, its operation is based on a robust financial structure, transparent operation and respect towards all stakeholders. The Company’s goal is the adoption of sound Corporate Governance practices by the Management and the continuous improvement of financial results by strengthening its competitive advantage. 43 3.1 Corporate Oversight of activities Governance and organisational Guidance Decision -making structure Aiming at safeguarding the interests of shareholders, at conforming The Management Team with the applicable legislation and the Regulatory Framework, as The Management Team consists of executives with extensive well as adopting responsible operation practices throughout the experience in their field. Among its other duties, the Management spectrum of its activities, Goldair Handling is structured on the basis Team is charged with organising and supervising the day-to-day of corporate policies, procedures and systems. operation of the Company and with identifying and managing risks In the broader context of sound Corporate Governance and with a at the initial level. Additionally, the Management Team ensures view to transparency and responsibility in the decision-making compliance with laws and regulations in every area of activity. process, Goldair Handling ensures the timely provision of valid More specifically, each member of the Management Team of Goldair information to its shareholders and all stakeholders via: Handling is tasked with limiting, prioritising and managing risks • The Management and committees. related to the activities of the Department they are responsible for, • The effective internal audit system. and ensuring compliance with the provisions of laws, regulations • The risk management system. and the best practices adopted. • The safeguards for promoting transparency and addressing As a result of all the actions taken at the administrative level and cases of conflict of interest. the efforts made by all Goldair Handling employees, no sanctions were imposed on the Company in 2018 for non-compliance with the The Board of Directors and the Management Team applicable Environmental Legislation. The Board of Directors is the supreme governing body of the Company, charged with directing and supervising its activities, Additional information concerning the CVs of the Management Team aiming at achieving its strategic goals. It convenes once per month of Goldair Handling can be found on the Company’s website: www. and is competent for drawing up the strategy and making decisions goldair-handling.com concerning the operation of Goldair Handling. It is briefed by the competent Committees and the Management Team on major issues, including the performance of key Health and Safety, Environment and Human Resources indicators. The members of the Board of Directors are elected by the General Meeting of the shareholders of the Company; the Board is composed of the following Members: 1. Stylianos Golemis, Chairman of the Board 2. Kalinko-Kalliniko Kallinikos, Executive Vice-President 3. Glykeria Tsernou, Member Environmental 4. Alexandros Fourlas, Vice-President Legislation 5. Dimitrios Papamichail, Chief Executive Officer 6. Dimitrios Katsilas, Member 7. Garyfallia Pelekanou, Member The Board of Directors operates as required by law and the Articles Audit Procedure of Association of the Company and is responsible for preventing and advisory efficacy and/or addressing cases of conflict of interest and for formulating, services assessment disseminating and implementing the key values and principles of Goldair Handling. 44 REPORT 2018 3.2 Management committees Aiming at further safeguarding its activities and avoiding related risks, Goldair Handling has established committees consisting of both executives and employees. Combined with the application of policies and procedures, these committees actively support the organisational structure of the Company. Extended Management Committee The Management Team meets on a weekly basis with the participation of an extended management group, aiming at cross-departmental provision of information and decision-making regarding both management and operational issues. Sustainability Committee and Core Team The Sustainability Committee meets regularly and informs the Board of Directors, presenting to the annual General Shareholders’ Meeting the overall performance of the Company with regard to sustainable development issues, as well as the following year’s targeting. The Committee is essentially ultimately responsible for strategic planning, monitoring of performance, targeting, and ensuring the necessary investments for sustainable development issues. Responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee: • Responsible for developing the Sustainable Development Strategy. • Responsible for engaging stakeholders and ensuring dialogue with them. • Contributes to defining Goldair Handling’s sustainable development goals. • Plans the programmes and actions required to achieve the above goals. • Helps prepare the Company’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report. Goldair Handling’s Sustainability Committee consists of the Vice President of the Board of Directors, the CEO, and seven officials from the following departments of the Company: Human Resources Department Finance Department Commercial & Business Development Department Sustainability Ground Operations Department Committee Ground Operations Outstations Department Quality, Environment & Sustainability Department Marketing Department International Network Projects Department The Core Team is composed of representatives of all the foregoing departments and reports to the Sustainability Committee. With a view to successfully implementing Goldair Handling’s sustainable development strategy, this team regularly updates the Sustainability Committee on progress with regard to the goals and actions on these issues. The Team is complemented by individual subgroups from each Company department, which it directs and coordinates through regular meetings. Responsibilities of the Core Team: • Collects and analyses data on sustainable development and corporate social responsibility from all Company departments. • Coordinates and monitors the implementation of actions and programmes for sustainable development. • Follows the stages of attainment of goals and takes corrective measures where this is deemed necessary. • Monitors developments in the field of corporate social responsibility at national and international levels. • Submits proposals for actions and initiatives for sustainability, with a view to their inclusion in the Company’s sustainable development strategy. • Prepares and publishes Goldair Handling’s Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainable Development Report. 45 Quality, Environment and HACCP Committee Health and Safety Committees A specific Quality and Environment Committee has been established The Company has established two more committees, in accordance in the Company and is responsible for monitoring the course of the with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) requirements, environmental plans of the Company and for the periodic review of concerning the proper management of Health and Safety issues. the Integrated Quality, Environment and Food Safety Management System. It meets up to three times per year in order to evaluate Safety Review Board (SRB) the adequacy and effectiveness of the system. Its composition, Description depending on the station, is as follows: The Safety Review Board (SRB) concerns all airports where Goldair Athens Airport: Quality, Environment & HACCP Committee Handling is operating. At the Athens airport, it comprises senior • Chief Executive Officer Management executives who are responsible for Health and Safety • CSO, Quality & Environment Manager management in their area of responsibility, and meets once a month • Managers and Supervisors except for August under the CEO. • Athens Station Manager At outstation airports, the Board meets once every quarter, and • Process owners the minutes of the meetings are sent to the Health and Safety The results of reviews are always communicated to the Board of Director. Directors of the Company through the Chief Executive Officer. Responsibilities Outstation airports: Quality & Environment Committee The Safety Review Board: • Station Manager • Is responsible for monitoring correct implementation • Station Environmental Coordinator of the Health and Safety procedures at the Company. • Section Supervisors • Reviews and evaluates the results of the Health The review of the outstation airports is performed on two levels. and Safety indicators. The results are communicated — initially at the local level — to the • Examines the circumstances of any accidents that occur Company’s Board of Directors through the Management Review in the workplace. performed at the Athens Station. • Communicates Health and Safety matters requiring special attention to Senior Management. SAFETY REVIEW BOARD (SRB) CEO CSO, Quality & Environment Safety Manager Manager Safety Officer Fleet Planning & Operations Manager Internal Auditor Ground Operations Finance Director HR Director Development Outstation & DPO Director Senior Manager Airports Network Planning ATH Cargo Services Training & Coordination Station Manager Manager Manager Manager 46 REPORT 2018 GROUND SAFETY ACTION GROUP (GSAG) Station Manager ATH Ramp Operations Safety Manager Manager Safety Officer Business Aviation Ramp Agents Aircraft Loaders Cleaners Drivers Load Control GSE Operators Section BHS Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Loaders Team Cleaners Team GSE Operators Ramp Agents Drivers Leaders Leaders Leaders Ground Safety Action Group (GSAG) Description The Ground Safety Action Group is responsible for the implementation of safety procedures at the Athens Airport and reports to the Safety Review Board. The Group meets on a weekly basis and is directed by the Ramp Operation Managers. All Directors and the Supervisor of ramp departments participate in this committee. The Health and Safety Director of the Company in Athens coordinates all actions, and minutes are kept. Responsibilities The Ground Safety Action Group: • It is a source of advice, support and know-how. • It analyses incidents and takes corrective actions. • It takes the suggestions of the SRB into consideration. • It assists in identifying potential risks at the workplace. • It submits proposals regarding Health and Safety matters. Data Protection Committee During 2018, the Company established a Committee on personal data protection, aiming at the more effective organisation and monitoring of the Company’s conformity with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The Coordinator of this Committee is the Vice-President of the BoD of the Company and its members are the Internal Auditor & DATA Protection Officer (DPO), the CSO, Quality and Environment Manager, the Information Technology Manager, the Legal Advisor and an Executive from the Quality and Environment Department. The Committee monitors the Company’s conformity with the requirements of the Regulation and advises Management on personal data protection issues. The Personal Data Protection Council convenes regularly, as well as in the event of a personal data breach, in order to handle crises and recommend measures and actions to the Board of Directors. Furthermore, when deemed necessary, the Committee recommends improvements or corrective actions. 47 3.3 Internal audit The Internal Audit Department of Goldair Handling provides Internal Audit Standards. In this context, the Internal Audit Unit aids independent, objective assurance aiming at the effective control of the Board of Directors in the discharge of its duties, and adopts a all activities and operations of the Company in order to ensure its systematic, sensible approach to the assessment and improvement smooth and efficient operation. of the efficacy of the Company’s risk management, internal audit and The Internal Audit Department carries out actions with a view to compliance processes. achieving the qualitative and quantitative goals of the Company, as well as its development strategy. The scope of the Internal Audit Department’s work includes assessing the adequacy of all the procedures and policies followed, identifying and addressing the main risks, and providing assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve the Company’s procedures and Day-to-day Risk operations in general. work management The Internal Audit Unit is also charged with monitoring procedures that allow employees to report potential violations of the Company’s Compliance Code of Conduct and Transparency Policy confidentially. The Internal Audit Department always discharges its duties in compliance with the applicable legislation and the International 48 REPORT 2018 3.4 Effective risk management The Company places great emphasis on the effective monitoring and management of risks that might arise and threaten the stability of its activities and the continuity of its operations. In this context, the Company has taken actions for the effective recording, analysis and avoidance of risks. The risk management methodology used consists of identifying, recording, monitoring and assessing financial and non-financial risks in all Company activities and facilities. Non-financial risks By applying systems under the ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 22000:2005 Standards, the Company carries out a non-financial risk analysis in order to address potential threats. More specifically, the following are implemented at the Company: Food safety Quality With respect to Food Safety issues, the Company applies and holds certification under ISO 22000:2005. In the framework of this system, Management the Company has recognised potential threats and takes the measures In the framework of its Quality Management System, the Company necessary in order to ensure the quality of the services it provides. has implemented a ‘Process Analysis and Improvement Risk For this purpose, the Company has implemented the ‘HACCP Study Analysis/Assessment and Evaluation of Quality-Related Threats Hazard Analysis of Critical Control Points’ process, whereby risks and Opportunities’ process, which includes the manner in which are identified and assessed and critical control points are identified the Company records and analyses potential threats and opportunities in order to ensure more effective food management. for the entire range of its activities, as well as the precautions taken to avoid these threats. Environmental Management In the framework of the Environmental Management System that the Company applies under ISO 14001:2015, an ‘Actions to address threats and utilise opportunities concerning the Environment’ process has been implemented, and an Environmental Impact Assessment is conducted for each station of the network, as described in the ‘Identification of Environmental Aspects and Environmental Impact Assessment’ process of the Integrated Management System. Additionally, through the Risk Assessment carried out for the entirety of its network, Goldair Handling acknowledges the importance of recording and analysing threats that arise during the execution of relevant work. Based on the analysis that has taken place, the actions necessary to avoid risks are planned and implemented, while their efficacy is periodically inspected 49 3.5 Transparency and conflict management Enhancing transparency is an important issue in the global business community, as it is integrally linked to the concept of trust between investors, customers, employees and society at large. Goldair Handling is committed to defending transparency through the way it operates and, in the context of sound corporate governance it has developed a Transparency Policy in addition to its other Policies. Through the aforementioned Policy and the practices and procedures adopted by Goldair Handling, there is zero tolerance for any issues relating to corruption, bribery and extortion. The Company places particular emphasis on actively and proactively addressing such issues, and has established a framework for avoiding conflict of interest in both the Internal Workplace Regulations and the Employee Code of Conduct. Excerpt from the Transparency Policy Goldair Handling is committed to defending transparency through the way it operates. More specifically, the Company is committed to showing zero tolerance in its relations with its customers, suppliers, State and public bodies, and employees to instances of: corruption bribery extortion The Company’s commitment is not merely limited to the avoidance of such behaviours, but extends to actively and proactively addressing them through internal audit procedures and corresponding policies. The Company’s goal is to completely eradicate such behaviours in anyone representing the Company and in any of the suppliers, who make up its supply chain, the ultimate goal being to aid the growth and improvement of the local economy and society in each country where it carries out its activities 50 REPORT 2018 51 52 REPORT 2018 Responsible operation and development Goldair Handling recognises that business excellence is inextricably linked to its responsible operation. More specifically, the Company has incorporated the principles of Sustainable Development into its development strategy, thus promoting responsible behaviour and operation in all business activities. 4 53 4.1 Sustainable Development Management The Company’s commitment to sustainable development is reflected in its internal procedures and policies, as well as in the actions, corporate objectives set, and evaluation of Company results on an annual basis. The Sustainable Development policy that has been adopted by Goldair Handling clearly outlines the Company’s position and the main courses of action with regard to issues of responsible operation. • We invest in partnerships with • We seek to develop and expand the societies in which we operate, our portfolio of customers promoting their development. by helping to strengthen the • We integrate a culture of business ethics markets in which we operate. and accountability into all structures • We continuously improve of our corporate governance. our services, as customer We Grow • We research, preventively evaluate, satisfaction is our top priority. Responsibly and manage potential risks, thus • We are uncompromising when it safeguarding the smooth continuation comes to respecting all laws and of our operations. regulations that govern • We communicate all information the services we provide. pertaining to our services and actions responsibly and with transparency. • We ensure the protection of human • We invest in internal rights within our Company and communication and inspire along our logistics chain so as to our people through innovative create a work environment with We invest work practices, fair treatment, equal opportunities for all. in our people respect and trust. • We utilise modern tools and • Health and safety at work methods to ensure optimal is our top priority. working conditions. • We continue to maintain our legislative compliance at all levels We seek to minimise our Environment of Company hierarchy and across environmental footprint, aiming and society the full range of our business at reduced energy consumption operations. and efficient management • We invest in open dialogue with of all types of waste. Our sustainable our stakeholders, recognising world their expectations for a sustainable future/world. In order to ensure integrated management and monitor the Company’s performance in both sustainable development issues and the aforementioned courses of action, in particular, Goldair Handling has established a specific organisational structure that is based on the Sustainability Committee and the Core Team. More information on the Sustainable Development Committee and the Core Team and their competencies in the chapter titled “Corporate Governance” on page 42. 54 REPORT 2018 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In the context of integrated management of Sustainable Development issues, Goldair Handling has recognised the significance and value of the Sustainable Development Goals and focuses on those which are most relevant to its operations. To this end, the Company has linked its contribution to the targets of each Goal and makes every effort for their achievement. Sustainable Sustainable Target The Company's contribution Development Goal Development Pillar • By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people The responsibility of Goldair Handling is directly linked everywhere, currently measured as people living on to the implementation of actions aiming at aiding less than $1.25 a day. vulnerable social groups. • By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living in poverty The Company endeavours to contribute towards in all its dimensions according to national definitions. achieving Goal 1 by supporting structures and NGOs Environment that help our fellow citizens in need and aim at and society reducing poverty in our country. Our sustainable world More information in sections “2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and “8. Goldair Handling’s social contribution”. • By 2030, ensure that all youth and a substantial Goldair Handling offers a work environment affording proportion of adults, both men and women, achieve opportunities not just for ongoing education, but for literacy and numeracy. growth of employees and development of their skills. • By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable By implementing diverse training programmes in We invest in our people development. every aspect of its activities, the Company incorporates • By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth the values of education and lifelong learning in its dayand adults who have relevant skills, including technical to-day operations. and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and Environment and society entrepreneurship. More information in sections “2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria”, Our sustainable world “5. Our people” and “7. Environmental responsibility”. • Ensure women’s full and effective participation The Company affords equal opportunities to all and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of employees, regardless of rank, and there is no decision-making in political, economic and public life. discrimination on the basis of gender or any other criterion. The Company also ensures equal pay for employees holding the same posts. Goldair Handling also supports maternity and the Company continues to employ new mothers. We invest in our people More information in sections “2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and “5. Our people”. 55 Sustainable Sustainable Target The Company's contribution Development Goal Development Pillar • By 2030, improve water quality by reducing In order to achieve goal 6, Goldair Handling controls, pollution, eliminating dumping and minimising release monitors and improves, where necessary, its network of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the at all airports where it operates, aiming at proper proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially use of water and, consequently, reduction of its water Environment and society increasing recycling and safe reuse globally. footprint. The Company also ensures the proper management of its waste. Our sustainable world More information in section “7. Environmental responsibility”. • Promote development-oriented policies that Providing an excellent work environment, with support productive activities, decent job creation, opportunities for ongoing education and growth, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and acknowledging the dedication and contribution of encourage the formalisation and growth of micro-, employees, is a key priority for the Company. Working smalland medium-sized enterprises, including towards achieving Goal 8, the Company is one of the through access to financial services. top employers in Greece; in 2018 alone, it created We Grow Responsibly • By 2030, achieve full and productive employment 1,927 new jobs in all the regions in which it operates. and decent work for all women and men, including It should be noted that during the summer months, young people and persons with disabilities, and equal due to seasonality, the Company’s staff numbered pay for work of equal value. approximately 3,500 employees. • By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of Furthermore, through the procedures and actions it We invest in our people youth not in employment, education or training. implements, the Company incorporates the value of • Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure safe work in all aspects of its activities. Based on the working environments for all employees, including Company’s Safety Policy, protecting the health and migrant employees, in particular women migrants, safety of its employees is a top priority. Environment and society and those in precarious employment. More information in sections “2.6 Sustainable Our sustainable world Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and “5. Our people” and “6. Health and Safety” • By 2030, empower and promote the social, The Company makes every effort to support Goal 10 by economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of offering equal employment opportunities to all. age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status. More information in sections “2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria”, We invest “5. Our people” and “8. Goldair Handling’s social in our people contribution”. • Support positive economic, social and The Company operates at 25 outstation airports in environmental links between urban, peri-urban and Greece and 3 in Bulgaria. The policies and procedures rural areas by strengthening national and regional of Goldair Handling apply in every region, and We Grow development planning. responsible behaviour and operation is the standard Responsibly throughout the organisation, contributing to the achievement of Goal 11 concerning the creation of links and partnerships at the local level. Environment and society More information in sections “1. Goldair Handling: An Our sustainable Overview”, “2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and world “7. Environmental responsibility”. • Encourage companies, especially large and The Company’s commitment to sustainable transnational companies, to adopt sustainable development is reflected in its internal procedures and practices and to integrate sustainability information policies, as well as in the actions, corporate objectives into their reporting cycle. set, and evaluation of Company results. The overall framework of Goldair Handling’s We Grow responsible activities is reflected in the Corporate Responsibly Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report, published on an annual basis. 56 REPORT 2018 Sustainable Sustainable Target The Company's contribution Development Goal Development Pillar • Improve education, awareness-raising and human The Company aims at saving energy and reducing and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, its environmental footprint, at increasing recycling adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. actions, and at promoting proper water use. This commitment is reflected in both the Company’s Environment Environmental Policy and the ISO 14001:2015 certified and society environmental management system applied. Our sustainable world More information in sections “2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and “7. Environmental responsibility”. • By 2030, combat desertification, restore degraded Goldair Handling contributes to Goal 15 via the Green land and soil, including land affected by desertification, Team and the voluntary actions it implemented drought and floods, and strive to achieve a land throughout Greece and near the airports where it degradation-neutral world. operates. The main objective of the Green Team is Environment the restoration of beaches and forests, as well as the and society removal of waste from them. Our sustainable world More information in section “7. Environmental responsibility”. • Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all Goldair Handling places particular emphasis on their forms. the principles of sound corporate governance, the • Develop effective, accountable and transparent ultimate goal being transparency in management institutions at all levels. and independence in the exercise of management • Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and and control. Through the risk management and representative decision-making at all levels. internal audit system, the organisational structure of the Company contributed to the achievement of both We Grow shortand long-term goals. Measures are also taken Responsibly to avoid cases of conflict of interest and to manage transparency and corruption issues effectively. More information in section “2.3 Corporate Governance” and “3. Corporate Governance” 57 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders Dialogue and exchange of views with stakeholders are important tools for Goldair Handling, enabling the Company to identify issues that are important to each group and incorporate them into its strategic plan for the management of sustainable development issues. Stakeholders are defined as groups consisting of natural or legal persons Ως ομάδες κοινωνικών εταίρων ορίζονται όλες εκείνες οι οποίες αποτελούνται από φυσικά και νομικά πρόσωπα που επηρεάζονται ή directly or indirectly impacted by or impacting the operation of the Company. επηρεάζουν με άμεσο ή έμμεσο τρόπο τη λειτουργία της Εταιρείας. Goldair Handling has identified its internal and external stakeholders, taking into account their sector, region, and size. Internal stakeholders are those who have frequent direct contact and act within the environment of the Company, whereas external stakeholders are those with whom the Company has an indirect relationship/contact and who act in the Company’s external environment. Specifically: Customers Passengers Shareholders Suppliers Employees The State and regulatory and Trade Union authorities Local communities & NGOs Institutional bodies External Partners Financial institutions Framework of communication with stakeholders The main element of the process for identifying the needs and expectations of the stakeholders is the systematic dialogue fostered by the Company. Through the communication channels it has established, the Company records and identifies all the important issues that concern them, aiming at responding to them in the best manner possible. A detailed presentation of Goldair Handling’s response to the various issues and its corporate social responsibility actions is listed in the individual chapters of this Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report. The framework of communication between the Company and its stakeholders, their expectations and the main issues that concern them, as well as the way the Company responds to these issues are presented below in detail. 58 REPORT 2018 FREQUENCY OF COMMUNICATION: 1=ON AN ANNUAL BASIS, 2=PERIODICALLY, 3=REGULARLY, 4=CONTINUOUSLY OR ON A PERMANENT BASIS GROUPS OF STAKEHOLDERS AND CONTEXT OF INTERACTION Key issues Communication channels • High quality of services provided • Meetings on a monthly basis, telephone and electronic • Maintaining a good reputation communication (4) Shareholders • Reliability and transparency • Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting (2) • Invest the • Character and integrity • Annual Sustainable Development Report (1) necessary funds • Company growth, profitability, and expect a return and sustainability • Are paid dividends • Expansion into new markets • Determine the • Proper corporate governance, Company’s budget risk management, and an active and strategy role in decision-making • Decide on the • Dividend yield expansion or • Transparency in relations with restriction of the stakeholders Company’s operations (products, stations, How the Company responds etc.). • Publication of results, announcements and financial statements, with sufficient information provided to shareholders • Publication of an annual Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report Details are included in sections: “2.3 Corporate Governance” and “3. Corporate Governance”. Key issues Communication channels • Recognition, equal • Middle management meetings with the Management team opportunities, and equal each quarter and via Skype with headquarters, twice per Employees treatment month (3) and trade union • Workplace health and safety • Human Resources Department (4) • Offer their labour • Education, development • Annual assessment of staff (1) and knowledge of personal skills and • Employee satisfaction survey every two years (2) • Are paid salaries advancement • Telephone and electronic communication (3) • Receive additional • Information related to the • Information via mobile text messages SMS (3) benefits Company’s development and • Communication via Social Media (3) • Are provided with progress • Corporate events (2-4 events per year at various levels) (2) equal opportunities • Stable working environment • Weekly presence of a member of the personnel office at an for professional • Transparent and merit-based airport office for direct service (3) advancement system for internal promotion • Implementation of the regional station inspection programme and personal for proper compliance with the procedures and contact with development employees (1) • Intranet (4) 59 GROUPS OF STAKEHOLDERS AND CONTEXT OF INTERACTION How the Company responds The Company’s overall organisational and response framework on Human Resources issues is included in sections: “2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and “5. Our people”. Key issues Communication channels • High quality of services • Corporate website (2) and innovation • Telephone and electronic Customers • Reliability and character communication with the Commercial • Purchase Company services • Satisfaction and safety Department and other Company • Determine the size of the • Immediate response to incidents departments (4) Company’s operational task • Responsible communication • Annual customer satisfaction • Rely on the Company to maintain and advertising survey (1) their reputation and the level of • Compliance with the laws and • Meetings and events (3) service offered to their individual regulations of the market • Participation in fairs (2) customers • Immediacy of service • Presentations and printed material (2) • Supervise, through periodic • Resolution of complaints • Communication via Social Media (2) inspections, compliance with the agreed mechanisms and How the Company responds safety procedures • IATA ISAGO certified service provider • ISO 9001 Quality Management System • ISO 14001 Environmental Management System • Application of ISO 22000 Food Safety Standard Details are included in sections: “1. Goldair Handling: An Overview” and “2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria”. Key issues Communication channels • Safety and service • Corporate website (4) • Immediate response to requests • Press releases and advertising (3) Passengers and complaints • Procedure for managing • Receive direct services from • Protection of personal data complaints (4) the Company (Lounges) • Responsible Advertising • Communication via Social Media (4) • The volume of the travelling public determines the size of How the Company responds the operational task • The satisfaction of the travelling • IATA ISAGO certified service provider public affects the Company’s • ISO 9001 Quality Management System relationship with the airline • ISO 14001 Environmental Management System • Application of ISO 22000 Food Safety Standard Details are included in sections: “1. Goldair Handling: An Overview” and “2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria”. 60 REPORT 2018 GROUPS OF STAKEHOLDERS AND CONTEXT OF INTERACTION Key issues Communication channels • Transparency and reliability • Telephone and electronic • Compliance with the laws communication (4) Suppliers and regulations of the market • Procurement Department (3) • Provide materials and services • Information related to the services • Meetings (2) for the day-to-day operation of the Company • Company web page (2) of the Company • Communication via Social Media (4) • Are paid for the products and services they supply How the Company responds • Regulation of Procurements Details are included in section: “1. Goldair Handling: An Overview”. Key issues Communication channels • Compliance with the requirements • Telephone and electronic of legislation communication when required (3) The State and regulatory • Transparency and reliability • Meetings (2) authorities • Collect taxes and levies • Outline the legislative and regulatory framework for How the Company responds Company activity • Full compliance with legislation Details are included in sections: “1. Goldair Handling: An Overview”, “2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and “3. Corporate Governance”. Key issues Communication channels • Corporate volunteerism • Partnership in joint actions (2) • Promoting and supporting • Corporate website (4) Local communities and NGOs their social work • Advertising and press releases (2) • Relationships of mutual benefit, • Cooperation and information • Events and meetings (2) trust, and respect • Communication via Social Media (4) • Returning a portion of the Company’s added value to society How the Company responds • Recognition of the Company’s contribution • Job creation • Support of vulnerable social groups • Voluntary employee actions Details are included in section: “8. Goldair Handling’s Social Contribution”. 61 GROUPS OF STAKEHOLDERS AND CONTEXT OF INTERACTION Key issues Communication channels • Transparency and information • Meetings and events (2) • Participation in initiatives and • Telephone and electronic communication Institutional bodies actions (3) • Determine the Company’s • Communication via Social Media (4) framework of operation • Supervise compliance with procedures and regulations • Provide the Company’s operating How the Company responds license • Certification bodies monitor Audits by bodies on compliance with the ISO 9001, ISO 14001 & ISO 22000 systems. compliance with ISO system standards (management Details are included in section: “1. Goldair Handling: An Overview”. systems) Key issues Communication channels • Information related to the services • Telephone and electronic and activities of the Company communication when required (4) External Partners • Reliability and consistency • Advertising (2) • Cooperate with the Company • Corporate website (4) as they provide services that • Events (2) Goldair Handling does not offer • Communication via Social Media (4) through its own means How the Company responds Details are included in sections: “1. Goldair Handling: An Overview”, “2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria” and “7. Environmental Responsibility” . Key issues Communication channels • Reliability, integrity, • Telephone and electronic and transparency communication (4) Financial institutions • Updating on Company • Meetings (3) • Provide financial tools that are performance essential to the operation • Consistency with the obligations of the Company of the Company • Receive the required capital • Risk Management and Company provision remuneration Growth How the Company responds Details are listed in section “3. Corporate Governance”. 62 REPORT 2018 The Company is one of the largest employers in the country, offering and maintaining numerous Goldair Handling responds to its stakeholders’ jobs, both seasonal and permanent. Goldair needs and creates value through all its business Handling also procures products and services and social actions. The “added value” of Goldair from domestic suppliers, demonstrating its Handling the Company’s social product support for domestic production and activities in contributes to both the country’s broader economic practice. More specifically, the added value created development and the more specific support of all by Goldair Handling over the last two years (2017groups of stakeholders. 2018) includes the following: During 2018, the Company’s social product grew by about 15% compared to 2017. SOCIAL PRODUCT (in euros) 2017 2018 Worker wages and benefits 45,139,504 51,187,979 Taxes paid 23,447,172 28,569,590 Purchases by domestic suppliers (incl. VAT) 23,240,529 24,851,715 Purchases from external suppliers 2,619,414 4,055,172 TOTAL 94,446,619 108,664,456 4.4 Materiality analysis Applying the GRI Standards, Goldair Handling focuses on identifying the most fundamental sustainable development issues related to and affecting both the Company’s operation and its stakeholders. These issues, which emerge from the materiality analysis process, cover a range of topics and are incorporated in both the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report and the annual corporate action plan of Goldair Handling. During the evaluation process, those issues which could lead to a wide range of changes in Goldair Handling’s performance were taken into account as key topics/issues. The process of defining material topics (materiality analysis) STEP 5 STEP 4 Ranking of topics STEP 3 Consolidation of pressure from on the materiality map STEP 2 Assessment of the risks each group of stakeholders, STEP 1 Recording of the material associated with each based on an assessment Gathering of the issues issues of the Company’s material issue survey on the material issues that have been raised industry by our stakeholders, through their communication with the Company 63 The process of evaluating and prioritising material topics contributes to: • Recognising strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities. • Recording and assessing risks related to the pillars of the Company strategy. • Evaluating performance in order to take actions for improvement. By recognising its material topics and acting on them, Goldair Handling aims at increasing its competitive advantage and producing value for its stakeholders. In 2019 an exercise was carried out to confirm the material issues that had emerged in the past. In this context, an assessment of existing material issues regarding their impact on the Company was carried out. This exercise resulted in the ratification of the majority of existing issues and the emergence of the theme ‘Environmental protection and awareness’. The Company’s executives from both Greece and Bulgaria participated in the evaluation. MATERIALITY MAP OF GOLDAIR HANDLING 6 10 3 18 12 7 1 4 STAKEHOLDERS’ PRESSURE 9 8 20 17 15 19 14 16 11 2 13 SIGNIFICANCE FOR THE COMPANY 64 REPORT 2018 a/a GOLDAIR HANDLING MATERIAL ISSUES 2018 a/a 1 Economic performance 11 Training and education Expansion into new markets and strengthening 2 12 Employment current market presence/Business development 3 Transparency and anti-corruption 13 Labour/ Management Relations 4 Business Continuity (BCM) 14 Diversity and equal opportunities Customer service and customer satisfaction 5 15 Dialogue with stakeholders (corporate customers and passengers) 6 Passenger’s Health and Safety 16 Marketing communication 7 Customer and Passenger Privacy 17 Development of social actions and volunteerism 8 Responsible supply management 18 Environmental and socio-economic compliance 9 Company’s response to high tourism 19 Environmental protection and awareness 10 Employee Health and Safety 20 Energy consumption and saving 65 LINK BETWEEN THE MATERIAL ISSUES AND STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ShareEmployees Customers Passengers Suppliers The State Local Institutional External Financial holders and trade and communities bodies partners institutions MATERIAL ISSUES union regulatory and GOLDAIR HANDLING authorities NGOs Economic Performance Expansion into new markets and strengthening current market presence/Business development Transparency and Anti-Corruption Business Continuity BCM Customer service and customer satisfaction (corporate customers and passengers) Passenger Health and Safety Customer and passenger privacy Responsible supply management Company’s response to high tourism activity Employee Health and Safety Training and education Employment Labour-Management relations Diversity and equal opportunities Dialogue with stakeholders Marketing Communication Development of social actions and volunteerism Environmental and socio-economic compliance Environmental protection and awareness-raising Energy consumption and saving Inside & outside corporate boundaries Inside corporate boundaries Outside corporate boundaries 66 REPORT 2018 Link between material issues and Sustainable Development Goals In this year’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report, the Company linked the material topics it has recognised to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in order to take more targeted actions on each topic. This link serves the comprehensive recognition of the points of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to which the Company can make a positive contribution through the programmes, investments and actions it implements, and also covers its material issues. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) MATERIAL ISSUES GOLDAIR HANDLING Economic Performance Expansion into new markets and strengthening current market presence/Business development Transparency and Anti-Corruption Business Continuity BCM Customer service and customer satisfaction (corporate customers and passengers) Passenger Health and Safety Customer and passenger privacy Responsible supply management Company’s response to high tourism activity Employee Health and Safety Training and Education Employment Labour-Management relations Diversity and equal opportunities Dialogue with stakeholders Marketing Communication Development of social actions and volunteerism Environmental and socio-economic compliance Environmental protection and awareness-raising 67 4.5 Goals achieved in 2018 and targets for 2019 Goldair Handling monitors and gauges performance in all areas of activity, having prioritised continuous improvement and contributing to the needs and expectations of its stakeholders. In this context, the Company sets specific goals and, by implementing them, covers the material topics it has already recognised. Phase of Goals Year of completion implementation 2018 Corporate Governance & Risk Management Creation of a Corporate Governance Code 2020 Establishment of a Corporate Governance Committee 2020 Creation of an integrated risk management and business continuity system 2020 Market Development of procedures aiming at compliance with the General Data 2018 Achieved Protection Regulation (GDPR) Revision and development of an e-questionnaire for the evaluation of suppliers 2018 Achieved and the evaluation of major suppliers on the basis of the new criteria Investment in the construction of new refrigeration chambers at the Athens 2019 Cargo Station Investment in the expansion and full renovation of the office facilities at the 2019 Thessaloniki Cargo Station Human Resources Staffing of Safety Department at Rhodes and Heraklion airports 2019 Promotion of the Corporate Health & Safety Culture through participation 2019 in the Health & Safety Awards 2019 Creation of the internal campaign “Safety First: Zero Aircraft Damage” 2019 Environment Translation of the Environmental Management System Manual into English 2019 Creation of the e-learning programme “Environmental Awareness” 2019 to support training on topics of environmental management 68 REPORT 2018 69 70 REPORT 2018 5 Our people The people of Goldair Handling are the driving force for the achievement of its strategic goals, as well as its success and development. The Company maintains an excellent work environment by providing opportunities for education, continuous growth, benefits and open dialogue. 71 All the above were recorded as important advantages in the annual employee satisfaction survey for 2017-2018, answered by almost 51% of all staff members. This survey is conducted every two years and is used to draw useful conclusions and pinpoint areas in need of improvement in the work environment. Goldair Handling through the eyes of its people Christina Mantziou Giota Mystridou Georgia Christidi Recruiter Deputy Station Manager Personal Assistant to the CEO 97% of employees say they Being a member of Goldair Handling means that you are given the opportunity to add value to your Company which is continuously developing. Thessaloniki Airport From part-time c/i agent, 20 years later, to Station Manager at Thessaloniki Airport. If you work As a member of Goldair Handling, I am afforded the chance to work for a Company with values. Respect, trust, a friendly work The alignment between personal hard and stay focused on your goals, environment, transparency want to stay and corporate goals contributes to the you move forward and develop. and teamwork are my inspiration development and implementation This is my professional story in the to offer more, to try harder with Goldair Handling of new ideas. and to further develop my skills Goldair Handling family. while building a promising career. 5.1 Promotion of employment The main activity of Goldair Handling is directly linked to airlines, General Collective Agreement or the Corporate Collective the number of flights and the number of passengers served, Agreement. therefore the number of its employees is seasonal, particularly As regards hiring from the local communities, Goldair Handling during the summer months due to increased tourism activity. ensures the staffing of all posts, including station managers The Company creates new jobs annually both in Athens and at of its regional stations, by employees from each area where it outstation airports, depending on the needs that arise. Taking the operates, so as to support the local labour market and economy. seasonality of services offered into consideration, during 2018, the Of the total number of 1,927 hirings that took place during 2018, Company employed a total of 3,818 staff. 1,165 (60%) concerned hirings at the outstation airports where It should be noted that all Goldair Handling employees are the Company operates, while 762 (40%) concerned the region of covered, at a minimum, by fees set forth either in the National Attica, where Goldair Handling has its headquarters. Number of employees Total on 31 December employees 2018 1,821 2018 employees 3,818 39 persons 2,258 1,927 on permanent contracts 1,997 new jobs employed employees in 2018 by the Company on fixed-term as interns contracts 72 REPORT 2018 The station managers at 16 out of the 25 regional airports where Goldair Handling operates mainly hail from the local communities. 90% of employees would recommend the Company as a good employer KEY HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION Total employees Personnel employed as of 31 December 2018, by region by gender 1,447 2,152 1,898 1,666 1,575 811 2017 2018 Attica Rest of Greece Men Women Age distribution of employees Age distribution of employees 2017 2018 1,474 1,598 791 865 474 357 494 270 403 331 107 127 <30 30-50 51+ <30 30-50 51+ Men Women Men Women 73 KEY HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION Total employees by gender Total employees by gender and employment contract 2017 and employment contract 2018 1,191 1,232 1,048 1,170 765 691 630 564 Permanent Fixed term Permanent Fixed term Men Women Men Women Total employees by region Total employees by region and employment contract 2017 and employment contract 2018 1,371 1,211 1,216 1,174 781 687 450 401 Permanent Fixed term Permanent Fixed term Attica Rest of Greece Attica Rest of Greece 74 REPORT 2018 HIRINGS Hirings by gender Hirings by gender and age 2017 and age 2018 692 652 370 391 349 366 295 260 169 176 89 61 <30 30-50 51+ <30 30-50 51+ Men Women Men Women Hirings by age Hirings by age and region 2017 and region 2018 673 618 410 400 361 345 299 269 202 171 59 63 <30 30-50 51+ <30 30-50 51+ Attica Rest of Greece Attica Rest of Greece 75 DEPARTURES Of the total number of 1,842 departures that took place during 2018, 1,331 (72.3%) concerned the expiry of contracts due to the seasonality of airport activity and operational needs (73% for outstations and 27% for the region of Attica). Departures by gender Departures by gender and age 2017 and age 2018 482 634 308 272 373 334 185 246 126 170 65 85 <30 30-50 51+ <30 30-50 51+ Men Women Men Women Departures by age Departures by age and region 2017 and region 2018 533 625 283 382 257 146 322 258 174 196 45 59 <30 30-50 51+ <30 30-50 51+ Attica Rest of Greece Attica Rest of Greece 76 REPORT 2018 Equal opportunities and diversity The Company cultivates an environment of respect and decency, where the equal treatment of all employees, irrespective of gender, racial origin, religion or any other type of discrimination is non-negotiable. Goldair Handling is also opposed to child labour and any form of forced labour. During 2018, no incidents of discrimination took place within the Company. Distribution of employees Distribution of employees by rank and gender by rank and gender 2017* 2018* Board of Board of Directors Directors Management Management Team Team Management Management Office Office employees employees Workers Workers Drivers Drivers Operators Operators *BoD and Management Team members are not included in employees total number. Moreover, 2 BoD members are also included in the Management Team. For the 4th consecutive year, Goldair Handling was included in the business edition of the ICAP Group titled “Leading Employers in Greece”. More specifically, it was ranked 25th among the top 500 employers for 2017 (in 2016 it was ranked 27th). During 2018, the Company increased the number of its workforce by 7%, which came to 3,500 employees during the summer months (high seasonality due to tourism activity). This number of employees makes Goldair Handling one of the largest employers in the country. The excellent work environment is maintained through the adoption and implementation of the Employee Code of Conduct, the Internal Workplace Regulations, as well as the corporate principles, which are followed by all employees and serve as a basis for the smooth operation of the Company. 77 5.2 Training and development 76% of employees say they are satisfied with of employees the level of theoretical training they receive The education and development of its people is a key priority providing ground handling services, depending on their type of for Goldair Handling, as the continuous improvement of their work and specialisation, must receive special training before professional and personal skills helps them meet successfully all being assigned duties. More specifically, the employees of Goldair types of challenges at the workplace and in society. Handling attend an introductory training programme that includes, Apart from the technical training required for the safe performance but is not limited to, seminars on passenger service, emergency of the employees’ duties, education aims at their development and response plan, dangerous goods regulation (DGR), familiarisation growth as professionals. Most topics relating to the Company’s with equipment, environmental awareness, first aid, as well as area of activity are covered through the e-learning educational disability awareness. system that successfully supports training needs at stations. In addition to initial training, employees attend recurrent training at Under the provisions of Article 22 of the Basic Ground Handling least once every two years. Regulation (BKEE), as well as international standards, employees During 2018, 1,657 in-house seminars and 218 outsourced seminars were held. 78% of employees say they are satisfied with the level of practical training they receive Allotment of training hours by topic (%) 5.9% 12.1% 1.9% Emergency Response 19.5% Plan 9.9% 19.9% Passenger Handling 4.9% First Aid Environmental 2017 6.4% 2018 awareness Familiarisation with GSE 25.0% Dangerous Goods 9.0% Regulations 28.5% 49.3% 5.3% 2.4% Disability awareness 78 REPORT 2018 During 2018, the Company updated 6 training programmes. On the job training Goldair Handling has established the institution of “On the job training”, In the context of the systematic training of a practical training method in which, after having passed theory the employees, an airplane simulator has exams during the initial hiring process, employees are required to been installed at the Athens station, used apply the theory in their day-to-day work. During the first days and/ for the training of GSE operators and aircraft or weeks, depending on the post, experience and knowledge of each loaders, in the proper placement of the employee, they undergo practical training under the guidance and ground service equipment in the aircraft. supervision of an “on the job trainers”, internal trainers with at least 5 years of experience. They are appointed by the training department to guide new colleagues in practice, having undergone relevant training themselves. The internal trainer base at the Athens station was further expanded in 2018 to 24 trainers.. TRAINING ACTIONS IN 2018 “Customer Service” training programme Hire of two trainers Development of a new customer service to the Training Department. training programme for all corporate departments. Launch of special training programmes • Lufthansa operations at Thessaloniki Station: 6 ramp agents were trained. Moreover, training New facilities was also carried out at Mykonos, Corfu and New facilities were delivered in 2018, Heraklion Stations • Emirates cutover to AS connect, 37 employees Employee with the addition of two training rooms trained training with a 50-person capacity. • Wizzair Operations at Sofia Airport, 214 employees attended initial training programmes • Vueling cutover to DCS GoNow • Training created by Goldair Handling On the Job Training Push-back Operations Outstations Airports Provision of support for On the job training Training of 36 operators and ramp agents at the Athens Station. In total, 926 hours were devoted in implementing Push-back procedures, to On the job training and guidance of employees at 5 regional stations. at the Station. 79 Detailed training data 2017 Average hours of training per employee Total hours of training Employee by employee category category Men Women Total Men Women Total Management 104.00 3.00 107.00 14.86 3.00 13.38 Office employees 21,040.35 42,454.40 63,495.15 40.86 44.88 43.46 Employees 30,663.35 4,394.00 35,057.35 25.49 18.70 24.38 Drivers 2,987.00 29.00 3,016.00 21.04 9.67 20.80 Operators 8,071.15 55.00 8,126.15 34.35 55.00 34.43 Total 62,866.25 46,935.40 109,802.05 29.91 39.57 33.39 2018 Average hours of training per employee Total hours of training Employee by employee category category Men Women Total Men Women Total Management 1,907.30 2,367.30 4,274.60 31.27 26.30 28.31 Office employees 18,318.45 36,085.00 54,403.45 35.30 36.75 36.24 Employees 31,603.45 4,167.00 35,770.45 22.80 14.22 21.30 Drivers 3,380.00 60.00 3,440.00 0.05 0.07 0.05 Operators 8,912.45 0.00 8,912.45 37.61 37.61 Total 64,121.65 42,679.30 106,800.95 26.91 31.18 28.47 5.3 71% Evaluation of employees like the way the Company and recognition is developing As a responsible employer, the Company recognises effective evaluation process and by employing transparent procedures, the work, cooperation and teamwork on a daily basis. Company enables employees, irrespective of experience, to transfer within the Company, filling new jobs. Evaluation At Goldair Handling, employees who have been working with the Company for at least one year undergo an annual evaluation through • Training of all existing evaluators by an external trainer the Development and Performance Dialogue process. With this on the targeting method and technique. process, the Company aims at honest dialogue between superiors • Training of all new evaluators by an external trainer and subordinates as regards areas for improvement of skills and/ on the evaluation rules, points of attention, the evaluation method, etc. or behaviour, as well as setting goals for the next year. During the evaluation, one-to-one meetings are held between each employee • All existing and new evaluators from the Athens and the department head and/or the duty officer, who are responsible Station and the Regional Stations participated in the training. for the evaluation. During 2018, a total of 1,944 employees were evaluated, accounting for 98% of the staff evaluated. Through the 80 REPORT 2018 During 2018, the Company’s staff evaluation platform (Performance Appraisal App) was upgraded. Recognition The Company recognises the contribution of its employees to issues of corporate behaviour, safety, social responsibility, as well as issues of excellent passenger service, thus bolstering the workplace culture at Goldair Handling. More specifically, during 2018, 169 Goldair Handling employees received a “thank you” letter, signed by the CEO of the Company, for their excellent handling of demanding situations and appropriate actions during the provision of services under particular conditions. Furthermore, the following awards were presented: Goldair Handling Values Award, Customer Service Excellence Award, Social Responsibility Award and Safety Award. Goldair Handling Values (Consistency, Team Customer Service spirit, Immediacy/ Excellence Award Adaptability, Respect) 4 employees 34 17 employees Promotions to Operational Positions 14 1 Renaming Social Responsibility New Job of Job Safety Award Positions Award Position 2 employees 7 employees The Company also presents awards to regional stations and employees on an annual basis, in recognition of their exceptional performance in specific areas: Heraklion Zakynthos Paros Kefalonia Chania Rhodes Santorini Mykonos Best Outstation Best Outstation Best Best On Time of the Year 2018 Best Outstation of the Year 2018 Best Productivity Customer Performance Special (over 5,000 flights) of the Year 2018 (under 1,500 flights) Performance Station Excellence Station Achievement (between Station of the Year Award of the Year Award 1,500 and 4,999 of the Year 2018 2018 flights) 81 5.4 Open communication and additional benefits At Goldair Handling, open, two-way and transparent communication 87% between employees and the Management of the Company, as well as the ‘open door’ practice, are the key tools for establishing a culture of trust and mutual respect. The Company’s communication of employees say channels are used not only for expressing new ideas and proposals, they are informed about the Company’s but also for identifying areas for further improvement. The internal actions communication channels include: Operational staff meeting Interactive semi-annual Annual events Biennial satisfaction survey with the Management meeting of middle for our people and submission Team, 3 times a year and upper Management and their children of ideas Notification Daily Regular Electronic “Conference” via Intranet communication communications platform for written (Compass) and Read via e-mail through messages and anonymous & Sign app (SMS) submission of employee complaints Improvement proposals to Management With a view to improving the ‘open door’ practice, employees can visit, representatives of the HR department visit their colleagues submit improvement proposals to the Management. During 2018, during as many shifts and at as many sites as possible, in order to 33 proposals were submitted, of which 13 were approved, 5 were speak with as many employees as possible. rejected and 15 are under evaluation. Furthermore, in the context of its excellent relationship with the Furthermore, twice a week, a representative of the HR department Management, the trade union of the Company employees is able is present at all departments at Athens airport at specific times in to directly and openly communicate with them, whenever deemed order to be able to speak with everyone in person and to listen to any necessary. During the course of 2018, the Management of Goldair concerns or questions. In addition to the aforementioned weekly Handling met 5 times with representatives of the trade union. 82 REPORT 2018 72% of employees feel they can express Employee suggestions for improvements their opinions freely 22% increase 26 27 33 2016 2017 2018 The Company’s framework of transparent communication also The Company offers the following additional benefits, beyond those includes the Employee Complaints Policy, which is communicated required by law, to all employees, regardless of their position: to all staff members and includes the ways in which employees • Private insurance for permanent staff members can express any complaint. • Interest-free financial assistance • Coverage of costs, as applicable, for acquiring professional Excerpt from the Employees’ Complaints Policy accreditation These complaints may relate to behaviours and actions related to: • Additional leave in the event of serious and extended • Discrimination defined as the different treatment of people illnesses arising from prejudice or interest. • Harassment defined as behaviour that disrupts or annoys, Furthermore, in the context of assisting employees, the Company and is characteristically repeated. This behaviour is perceived has prioritised maternity support, in compliance with the applicable as annoying or threatening. legislation. In 2018, the total number of female employees on • Bullying defined as an aggressive, purposeful act or behaviour maternity leave amounted to 34. 9 of them (26%) had received manifested by an individual or group of individuals repeatedly, maternity leave since 2017 and returned within 2018, while the which endures over time. It may concern physical or remaining 25 (74%) requested the maternity leave in 2018. Of the psychological violence. 25 employees who received maternity leave during 2018, 11 (44%) • Injustice defined as an act characterised by lack of justice or returned to work within the year, while 14 (56%) are expected to an act opposing justice, in relation to a specific person. return in 2019. Up to the date of the Report (July 2019), of the 20 The injustice burdens or favours someone unfairly compared employees who returned to work after maternity leave in 2018, to somebody else, and violates the principles of meritocracy those who continue to work for the Company even 12 months after or equality. their return are 6 (30%). Additional benefits In the aforementioned context of relationships of trust and harmonious communication and collaboration with its people, Goldair Handling aims not only to ensure fair and competitive wages, but also to ensure that its people receive additional benefits. 83 84 REPORT 2018 Health and Safety A key pursuit of Goldair Handling is safeguarding the health and safety of its employees for the entire range of its activities. Recognising the importance of providing a safe work environment, the Company ensures unfailing compliance with Safety rules, continuous training of employees, as well as monitoring and upgrading of facilities and equipment. The actions it implements include its contribution to Sustainable Development Goal 8. 6 85 All the Company’s actions in this context are supported by the Occupational Health and Safety System, the Company’s Health and Safety procedures, as well as the Safety Policy, which was revised during 2018. Excerpt from the Safety Policy Our commitment is to: • Provide appropriate resources – human and financial – to support the implementation and management of safety • Ensure that the management of safety and security is a primary responsibility of all managers and employees • Clearly define, for all staff, managers and employees alike, their accountabilities and responsibilities for the delivery of the organisation’s safety performance and the performance of our SMS • Establish and operate hazard identification and risk management processes, including a safety reporting system – Mandatory and Voluntary in order to eliminate or mitigate the safety risks resulting from our operations or activities, in order to achieve continuous improvement in our safety performance • To minimise the possibility of an injury, due to an accident, not only for Company employees but also for any third parties, e.g. customers • Ensure that no action will be against any employee who discloses a safety concern through the hazard reporting system, unless such disclosure indicates, beyond any reasonable doubt, gross negligence or a deliberate or wilful disregard of regulations or procedures – “Just Culture” • Comply with and, wherever possible, exceed, legislative and regulatory requirements and standards and adopt best industry practices on safety • Ensure that all staff are provided with adequate and appropriate aviation safety information and training, are competent in safety matters, and are allocated only tasks commensurate with their skills • Ensure that the facilities, equipment and services provided by external suppliers or contractors meet the safety performance standards and requirements of our organisation • Establish and measure our safety performance against realistic safety performance indicators and safety performance targets • Continually improve our safety performance through continuous monitoring and measurement, regular review and adjustment of safety objectives and targets, and diligent achievement of these; and • Preserve our good reputation that might be disturbed by unprofessional employee actions 6.1 Occupational Health and Safety Management The Company has established a Safety Department to monitor all Safety indicators, supervising all workplaces, taking corrective issues relating to Health and Safety and to eradicate any incident actions and submitting proposals to Management. or accident. The station manager is responsible at each regional airport, in cooperation with the Local Health and Safety Manager. More information on the Health and Safety Boards in chapter During 2018, independent Health and Safety Departments started to “Corporate Governance”, page 42 be set up at the outstation airports in order to identify any problems immediately and provide direct information and guidance to Monitoring Health and Safety indicators employees. These departments started operating at the outstation In the context of proper Health and Safety management, the airports of Thessaloniki and Corfu, always under the supervision of Company has established specific Safety Performance Indicators the Corporate Health and Safety Manager. (SPIs) with the purpose of recording and effectively monitoring The proper application of the Health and Safety procedures and safety incidents, acting proactively and taking actions for the Safety Policy is overseen by the Safety Review Board (SRB) improvement, as well as preventing the repetition of any incidents. and the Ground Safety Action Group (GSAG), which were set These indicators, which are evaluated on a monthly basis, concern up by the Company according to the International Civil Aviation any incidents and accidents (whether of a pathological nature or not) Organization (ICAO) requirements. The duties of these Boards which may occur in all the facilities where the Company provides include monitoring and evaluating the results of the Health and its services, throughout the spectrum of its operations. 86 REPORT 2018 The below tables present selected occupational health & safety indicators LTIs SR Men Women Total Men Women Total 2017 49 11 60 2017 312.2 84.1 231.7 2018 39 9 48 2018 209.3 49.2 152.6 LTIFR AR Men Women Total Men Women Total 2017 16.1 6.7 12.8 2017 0.46% 0.36% 0.42% 2018 11.2 4.7 8.9 2018 0.54% 0.42% 0.50% LTIs Rate: (Number of incidents) LTIFR Rate: (Number of incidents / manhours) *106 SR Rate: (Number of calendar days of absence from work due to accident/ manhours) *106 AR Rate: (Number of days of absence from work due to any inability other than accidents and illness / manhours (%)) In 2018, the LTIFR indicator dropped by about 30%, while the SR indicator dropped by about 50%. Incident reporting and monitoring Should an incident or accident occur, the Company implements a specific incident-management procedure in order to record them consistently and identify areas for improvement in a timely manner. Incidents and/or accidents in all Company facilities are reported and recorded via “flightracker”, a specialised system specifically designed to cover Goldair Handling’s needs. INCIDENT MANAGEMENT PROCEDURE 1 Drafting of report to the supervisor 2 Thorough consideration of the details of the incident and the Health of the department or the shift manager and Safety Manager’s report 3 Evaluation of incidents 4 Taking corrective and assessment of risk and improvement actions 87 6.2 Cargo and Mail Handling Goldair Handling offers high-quality cargo and mail-correspondence services to customer airlines under contracts and to consumers through its three Cargo Stations in Athens, Thessaloniki and Heraklion, Crete. Although the Company does not have privately owned facilities, it ensures the application of the Health and Safety rules and procedures in all areas where it operates. The Athens Cargo Station, with the largest volume of cargo and mail going through it, is a well-guarded 6,000 m2 facility, designed for the quick unloading of any type and size of cargo using state-of-the-art equipment, directly serving both agencies and private costumers. Evacuation Plans have been prepared and, in case of emergency, will be applied at the Cargo Stations in Athens, Thessaloniki and Heraklion. Investments in the safety Training of Cargo Station of Cargo Station facilities employees During 2018, the following were implemented at the All employees at the Athens Cargo Station are Athens Cargo Station: trained according to the Goldair Handling safety • Following the purchase of 6 new electric, programme, as well as the new e-learning course environmentally-friendly forklifts of all categories, designed especially for the Cargo department. an order was placed for an additional forklift with a lifting capacity of five and a half tons, aiming at Furthermore, the security personnel of the Cargo increasing warehouse productivity and decreasing Station receive continuous training and are certified manual labour for employees. by the Civil Aviation Authority in security checks. • Floor markings, aiming to maximise safety. During 2018, following European requirements for upgrading and systematising customs transactions, the ‘Goldfreight’ cargo management system was implemented at eight regional stations where Goldair Handling handles cargo and mail (Rhodes, Mytilene, Chios, Santorini, Corfu, Chania, Samos, Kos). This is a comprehensive cargo and mail management system, holistically approached and based on automations, aiming at more effective communication between customer airlines and all Company departments (system to system). 88 REPORT 2018 6.3 Goldair Handling invested more than Ground support 3,100,000 euros in the requisition of ground equipment management services equipment. Goldair Handling owns a wide range of ground handling equipment, aiming to provide high-quality services to its customers. The Company fleet consists of seventeen different categories of equipment, ensuring that aircraft service requirements are met. In this light, during 2018, Goldair Handling procured new aircraft push-back towing machinery, investing €289,560 for the outstation airports of Chania, Kos, Mykonos, Zakynthos and Skiathos and €634,800 for the purchase of aircraft de-icing equipment at the Athens airport. The Company’s Ground Support Equipment (GSE) Department is responsible for the management and maintenance of the fleet. Ground Support Equipment – GSE Department: The GSE Department of Goldair Handling is responsible for purchasing and maintaining the Company’s ground equipment and for examining the selection criteria for supplies on the basis of the AHM (Airport Handling Manual) of IATA. The Department also conducts market surveys and sets a plan for the Company’s procurement of new equipment to meet its operational needs and technical characteristics, taking environmental criteria into consideration, where feasible. Equipment safety and employee training on its proper use is a priority for Goldair Handling. In this context, the Company makes sure that the transport vehicles, machinery and other equipment for the performance of tasks are always adequate and appropriate. The maintenance and continuous improvement of the vehicles and other equipment is monitored by the GSE Department of Goldair Handling, with the help of an electronic platform (Framework) specifically designed for the organisation’s needs. Furthermore, the GSE Department works closely with the Safety Department of the Company to take measures for the safe performance of tasks and for ensuring business continuity. In the context of continuous improvement, the GSE Department implements on the job training for operators of ground service machinery and ramp agents on the use of existing and new equipment at airports. These specialised employees also undergo further training by both airport management bodies and customer airlines. Moreover, as regards maintaining the safety of the Company’s equipment: • All Goldair Handling employees, regardless of their position and rank in the hierarchy, attend training on fire safety, evacuation drills, First Aid and Dangerous Goods, as well as training on safety on the airport ramp, in accordance with the requirements of the Main Ground Handling Regulation, as well as the regulations of IATA (International Air Transport Association). • As regards the maintenance logs of the Company’s ground handling vehicles and equipment, a specially designed IT system is used. This system records and monitors the maintenance schedules, including all information related to them (frequency, adequacy and suitability of maintenance, etc.). The Company has a risk identification mechanism in place, including the safety report system, with the purpose of eliminating or limiting dangerous incidents that may emerge from the services provided. 89 6.4 Security Programme against acts of unlawful interference In addition to the foregoing safety programmes and actions, Goldair All employees are familiar with the legislative requirements, Handling has developed and maintains a Security Programme regulations, procedures and the content of the programme in against acts of unlawful interference, in accordance with the question concerning the discharge of their duties. Furthermore, requirements of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme, day-to-day tasks and functions are performed in compliance Technical Security Directives 1 & 2, and the Security Programme of with the law, policies, rules, instructions and procedures of the each airport. These security procedures reflect the security rules Company, the National Security Rules of the CAA, as well as the at each airport and comply with the requirements of the security supplementary Technical Directives. programmes of both civil aviation and airlines. The security programme has been established for: Guidance on the applicable and required security measures Compliance with the applicable Protection legislation of facilities, aircraft, equipment and individuals 90 REPORT 2018 6.5 Emergency Response Plan ERP Goldair Handling’s Emergency Response Plan is based on international regulations and standards and includes a series of procedures that must be followed immediately in case of an incident involving aircraft During 2018, 9 ERP or any other emergency incident (fire, extreme weather phenomena, etc.). Through the ERP implementation, the Company aims at the coordination of the required actions by the employees involved in order training sessions took place to address such incidents appropriately. with the participation of All employees in a position of responsibility at all airports are trained in emergency response issues so as to be able to handle emergencies 110 employees. in the most effective manner. Finally, Goldair Handling, in collaboration with the airline companies and other airport organisations, participates in emergency exercises and drills to address incidents involving aircraft. Emergency exercises and drills The Company regularly implements readiness exercises and drills on addressing emergencies. The emergency exercises and The Company has set up fire safety teams drills are planned and conducted either by the Company itself or at 20 regional stations. in collaboration with external bodies (airport management bodies, These teams consist of 3 to 11 individuals, Specialist Disaster Management Units [SDMU], etc.). depending on the size of the airport. More specifically, in 2018, the following took place: • 17 drills on addressing leaks • 5 drills on addressing aircraft accident • 3 fire drills • 2 drills on handling suspicious packages • 1 earthquake drill • 1 evacuation drill EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN 5 22 “table top” emergency training drills by Goldair seminars Handling 7 Proper Restoration preparation of smooth 34 drills in collaboration /ongoing operation training with the airport Prevention authorities and Effective emergency services emergency handling (SDMU) drills 91 6.6 Promotion of a Health and Safety culture Through continuous training and various actions, Goldair Handling exercise organised by Fraport at the airports of Thessaloniki, ensures the promotion of a safety culture throughout the Rhodes and Chania. organisation. • Educational ‘table top’ exercise, with the participation of Goldair The Company provides training for all employees, depending on Handling’s employees and airline representatives, aiming at their specialisation and position, so that they remain up-to-date analysing an incident and exchanging views. and fully trained. All employees receive training in the safe use of equipment and personal protective equipment before they take up Task force groups their duties. During 2018, the Company set up special task force groups on safety issues, led by the Health and Safety Manager, aiming at Training and seminars exchanging views and finding solutions for safety issues. These • Training for middle management executives on the Company’s groups, depending on their department, were attended by front Safety Management System (SMS). 7 seminars were held, attended line staff, ramp agents, operators and aircraft loaders. During their by 73 individuals. meetings, these task force groups analysed safety incidents that • Seminars for employees on passenger service, proper and occurred in the past (e.g. unsafe removal of the boarding ramp timely identification and reporting of risks, whether by name or from the aircraft door) and engaged in constructive dialogue to find anonymously. solutions and formulate proposals to improve safety conditions, • Familiarisation seminar of newly recruited aircraft loaders with even for customer airlines. their workplace at Athens airport, focusing mainly on safe driving on the ramp. In this context, the Company prepared and handed out a map with the locations of aircraft parking positions and taxiways, as well as the buildings of Athens International Airport, to all aircraft loaders. 298 2,478 Health and Safety participating • Special seminar for aircraft loaders on safe ramp driving. seminars employees • Participation of Goldair Handling employees in the emergency 11,941 hours 7 seminars on the Safety of training Management System, 73 executives trained 92 REPORT 2018 In the context of the exchange of views and open communication, it should be noted that in the facilities of Goldair Handling at “El. Venizelos” Athens International Airport, 6 safety boxes have been placed for the anonymous proposals / suggestions of employees regarding Health and Safety issues. Awareness-raising campaigns The awareness-raising campaigns implemented by Goldair Handling aim at educating employees on health and safety issues in order to avoid the repetition of incidents or unsafe actions. More specifically, during 2018, the Company implemented the following campaigns: • The ‘loading discrepancies’ campaign, implemented at Athens Airport and all outstation airports, involved a presentation, in workshop form, for ramp agents and aircraft loaders on loading errors that occurred during the year. • A campaign was implemented at Athens airport, in workshop form, on incidents and accidents that occurred during the year. This campaign concerned aircraft loaders and was implemented several times in order to cover 100% of aircraft loaders, depending on their shifts. The presentations included an analysis of the causes of each incident/accident and the actions that could be taken to avoid repeating each incident/accident. • A campaign was implemented, in workshop form, for GSE operators on damage caused to aircraft during the year and how this could have been avoided. • A safety performance campaign was implemented at the Thessaloniki airport on any damage to aircraft. The campaign concerns aircraft loaders, ramp agents, as well as station managers, and involved 2 seminars with the participation of 40 individuals. • Two FOD campaigns were implemented in Athens on the collection of foreign objects from the apron area. • Participation of shift representatives in the FOD Campaign at Athens International Airport on the last Friday of each month. The campaign is accompanied by a briefing about the immediate identification and proper collection of foreign objects (such as pieces of plastic, wood, etc.), which may be found on the apron area. Throughout the campaign, any objects found on the apron area are collected in special packaging in order to be disposed of safely. In total, there were 13 campaigns on the avoidance of damage to aircraft, addressed to GSE operators, with the participation of 84 individuals. Informational action The Health and Safety department of the Company regularly issues at work titled “Fatigue Management in ground handling services”, aiming Safety Bulletins, Ground Safety Alerts and Safety Notices, informing at raising the awareness of employees regarding the causes of fatigue, employees about the safety measures that must be observed, about such as sleep disorders and working in shifts, in order to promptly the incidents / accidents that occurred, and a description of the safety inform their Supervisor. procedures. A noise study was also carried out at the Company, at the two baggage Goldair Handling has issued a special manual for employees on fatigue sorting areas of Athens Airport to assess noise levels. 2018 20 20 20 Ground Safety Safety Safety Alerts Bulletins Notices 93 6.7 Participation in Health and Safety conferences and events Represented by the Health and Safety Manager, Goldair Handling Additionally, in 2018, Company employees filled out a questionnaire participates in conferences and related events, presenting the for a survey conducted by the University of Amsterdam on safety in particularities of airport facilities and the ground handling services the airline sector. sector. This way, the Company promotes its actions in this area, Goldair Handling also participated in the Rigour partnership on the while also staying up-to-date regarding the trends of its industry. contribution of Human Factors to accidents, incidents or unsafe More specifically, during 2018, the Company took part in the actions. EASA (the European Union Aviation Safety Agency), following conferences: airlines, ground handling services companies and the University of • Aviation Safety Day organised by Athens International Crete also participated in this partnership. Airport, which included awards to 5 employees of Goldair As a result of the above efforts, Goldair Handling was presented Handling. with an award in the ‘Service Providers, Health & Safety in our • The 7th consecutive “Ground Damage Stakeholders Workplace’ category at the Health & Safety Awards 2018, organised Conference”, which the Company’s Health and Safety Manager by Boussias Communications. attended. The Corporate Health and Safety Manager also sits on the IATA The allocation of investments carried out annually by the Company Airside Safety Group in order to exchange know-how and remain for the promotion of health and safety across the full spectrum of up-to-date on developments in the industry. Moreover, in 2018, the its operations is presented next. Director participated in two meetings of the Accident Investigation and Flight Safety Committee. 94 REPORT 2018 HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS (%) 10.5% 14.0% 17.3% 2018 3.6% 0.8% 53.8% Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Space signage 11.1% 4.3% Fire safety/fire protection works Janitorial works 20.3% 2017 Consulting services Miscellaneous 8.8% 1.2% 54.2% 95 96 REPORT 2018 7Environmental responsibility Goldair Handling aims to continuously reduce its environmental footprint by implementing actions and programmes at all the airports where it operates. The Company’s environmental programmes are based on the principle of prevention and involve the recycling of materials, combined with continuously raising the awareness of employees and stakeholders. 97 Goldair Handling’s priority is not limited to complying with the applicable legislation and regulations but extends to the adoption of best practices related to the Company’s area of activity and global initiatives, such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To this end, the Company’s Environmental Policy reflects the Management’s Commitment and the principles according to which Goldair Handling operates. There is also specific reference to Goldair Handling’s goals concerning actions related to energy conservation, Taking measures Implementation of for the protection an Environmental use of natural resources, minimisation of environmental impact of the environment, Management related to waste management, as well as noise and air pollution. in full compliance System for the The principles governing the Company’s policy include the with the applicable entire range of following: environmental activities related legislation to the production process Development Adoption Implementation of systems for of regular of lifelong measurement, environmental learning and evaluation and audits in regards awareness continuous to corporate schemes for improvement of operations the staff on environmental environmental performance issues 98 REPORT 2018 7.1 In 2018, Management the Environmental Management System Manual of environmental was prepared in English. issues Aiming at the effective management of all environmental issues Strengthening its environmental strategy, during 2018, the Company and threats, Goldair Handling has adopted and implements an invested in the creation of environmental applications to record and Environmental Management System certified in accordance monitor its environmental performance at all the airports where it with the ISO 14001:2015 and includes all the airports where the operates. Company operates. Through its Environmental Management More specifically, the Company uses the ‘Compass’ corporate System, the Company focuses on the continuous improvement of platform and customised environmental applications to services provided, always with respect for the environment and its systematically record and monitor all environmental programmes commitment to sustainable development. and the extent of their implementation, waste management, as well Aiming at compliance with Regulations and the effective as the replenishment and replacement of fire extinguishers. development of communication channels with its stakeholders, the Company submits environmental reports to the Airport Authorities on an annual basis. More specifically, the environmental applications of Goldair Handling are designed for: Through the Environmental Through the Waste Management Through the Fire Extinguishers Programmes application, Goldair application, the waste handled by the Application, Goldair Handling Handling sets and monitors Company at all airports where it operates is electronically records and monitors fire environmental performance indicators electronically recorded. extinguishers at all airports where it (EPIs) for the entirety of its network. operates. Programmes are approved Goldair Handling uses this application to This application enables the Company to electronically, and the application is monitor and effectively record the quantities check its compliance with the applicable linked to waste management in order and types of waste in the Company’s legislation and ensure the functionality to be automatically updated on waste Network. of the fire extinguishers under its quantities. responsibility. GreenIT WaMa Application FIREx Application Environmental Programmes Application Waste Management Applications Fire Extinguishers Application Environmental incident management procedure environmental incident sets out all the actions taken to limit and In the context of the Environmental Management System, Goldair subsequently stop environmental pollution through the timely and Handling has developed and implements a special procedure for the correct handling of the incident in question. management and limiting of potential leaks of hazardous materials (oil, During 2018, Goldair Handling used a special powder for handling spills fuel, hydraulic system acids, etc.). to clean 17 leaks at the airports where it operates, ensuring timely and The procedure for handling and further management of the effective handling of hazardous material leak incidents. 99 7.2 Lifelong learning on environmental awareness In the context of the Environmental Management System, Goldair Handling annually implements training programmes for its employees, aiming at informing them and raising their awareness on environmental issues. The Company has invested in boosting the environmental awareness of its employees through the ‘Environmental Awareness Seminar’, which is part of the basic training for newly recruited staff and is mandatory for Section Supervisors throughout the Company’s entire network on an annual basis. During 2018, Goldair Handling revised the training material, creating a training programme that meets the Company’s needs and enhances the environmental awareness of employees through the addition of new sections. Goldair Handling also aims at raising the environmental awareness of its suppliers. In this context, the Company created an environmental training programme for its subcontractors. For the first time in 2018, the sanitation services subcontractor at Athens Airport and their Headquarters received environmental training from the Training Department of Goldair Handling, which presented the categories of waste and their proper management, the Company’s environmental strategy, as well as the recycling and environmental protection programmes implemented at Goldair Handling. A total of 23 employees attended the 2018 training session, and the Company aims to implement this training on an annual basis. Strengthening its communication with stakeholders on topics of environmental awareness, Goldair Handling annually communicates its environmental commitment through a corporate environmental responsibility letter sent to a large number of stakeholders aiming to present the Principles governing the Company’s Environmental Policy on: • Compliance with the applicable environmental legislation • Proper Energy Management • Implementation of the Environmental Management System for the entire range of activities related to the Company’s production process • Development of systems for measurement, evaluation and continuous improvement of environmental performance • Adoption of regular environmental audits in regard to operations • Implementation of lifelong learning and awareness schemes for the staff on environmental issues Energy Management Athens Station Petrol (lt) 2018: 27,836.15 Lt 2017: 12,782.92 Lt Electricity 2018: 1,575,359 kWh 2017: 1,418,058 kWh Natural gas** 2018: 41,509 Nm3 -13% 2017: 47,941 Nm3* Oil (lt) 2018: 908,100.04 Lt 2017: 782,539.32 Lt * Compared to 2017 ** Natural gas consumption refers solely to the Athens station 100 REPORT 2018 7.3 Environmental performance Goldair Handling aims to minimise the adverse effect on the environment and to conserve natural resources, systematically monitoring and analysing the possible environmental effects that may arise from its business operations. To this end, reduction of energy consumption and responsible waste management are the Company’s top environmental priorities in all its operations. Energy There is annual monitoring of the Company’s energy consumption, and energy performance improvement targets are set. During 2018, Goldair Handling conducted an Energy Efficiency Audit on the proper energy performance regarding its activities. The energy efficiency audit involves a thorough examination of the energy consumption structure and is based on updated, periodically measured and verifiable operation data on energy consumption. The facilities included in the energy audit cover 90% of the Company’s total annual energy consumption and include the airports of Kos, Chania, Rhodes, Heraklion, Thessaloniki and Athens. The energy efficiency audit report was submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Energy in December 2018, and proposals were submitted for energy conservation measures through the effective monitoring of energy performance indicators (EnPIs). In all its areas of operation, Goldair Handling uses the Public Power Corporation (PPC S.A.) power grid to cover the electricity needs of its facilities, as well as quantities of oil, petrol and natural gas. The energy consumption of the last two-year period, for the Athens and outstation airports, is reported as follows: Energy Management Outstations Petrol (lt) Electricity** 2018: 16,173.34 Lt 2018: 360,529.67 kWh -42%* 2017: 27,770 Lt -29%* 2017: 505,069 kWh Oil (lt) 2018: 930,989.58 Lt 2017: 887,000 Lt * Compared to 2017 ** Electricity data for 2018 were collected from measurements conducted by the Airport Authorities of the Outstation airports, as well as by Goldair Handling. 101 Waste management The increase of the rate of recycling solid waste per type, and hence the reduction of the waste produced constitutes a long-standing objective of Goldair Handling. Through actions and cooperation with Airport Authorities and the customer-airlines, the Company aims to adopt best practices to reduce waste and increase the quantity of recyclable materials. During the course of 2018, in an effort to further reduce the waste produced, the Company focused on monitoring recycling at the Athens station in order to improve it and further increase the percentages of materials handled through recycling, concerning both the facilities and the waste originating from aircraft in-flight. In the context of the initiative, the staff of Goldair Handling were briefed on in-flight recycling and recycling management at the airport. Athens Airport* Non-hazardous materials Type 2017 2018 Management method Urban waste (kg) 136,860 316,413 Disposal to landfills Paper (kg) 16,010 17,971 Recycling Plastic (kg) 17,901 22,843 Recycling Aluminium (kg) 129 84 Recycling Glass (kg) 2,470 3,343 Recycling Wood (kg) 59,810 60,509 Recycling Construction material (kg) 12,540 5,920 Recycling Animal by-products (kg) 1,525 2,771 Recycling Metal** 20,598 18,221 Recycling Hazardous materials Type 2017 2018 Management method Used oil and lubricants (lt) 4,400 5,700 Recycling Oil filters (kg) 850 226 Recycling Transport to airport Used workshop batteries (kg) 17,255 14,360 facilities Used household-type batteries (kg) 27 0 Recycling Toner (kg) 1 280 Recycling Tyres (kg) 180 1,260 Recycling Fluorescent lamps (kg) 35 45 Recycling * For Athens airport, the quantities of hazardous and non-hazardous materials are provided by Athens International Airport. ** The Company manages quantities of metal for Athens airport and the outstation airports. These quantities concern the recycling of Ground Support Equipment, which is performed centrally at Athens Airport. Outstation airports* Non-hazardous materials Type 2017 2018 Management method Paper (kg) 59,876 65,757.9 Recycling Plastic (kg) 1,072 2,329.1 Recycling Aluminium (kg) 164 184 Recycling Hazardous materials Type 2017 2018 Management method Used oil and lubricants (lt) 4,087 6,037 Recycling Oil filters (kg) 55 Transport to airport Used workshop batteries (kg) 7,426 4,534 facilities Used household-type batteries (kg) 75 35 Recycling Toner (kg) 449 470.2 Recycling Tyres (kg) 1,485 Recycling Fluorescent lamps (kg) 208 * For the outstation airports, where information on the management method is not available, the management of the quantities reported is performed by the local authorities. 102 REPORT 2018 Water management The Company applies the principle of prevention to all environmental management issues and, therefore, to water consumption. Goldair Handling continuously controls, monitors and improves, where necessary, its network at all airports where it operates, aiming at minimising its water footprint. Outstation Athens airports Airport 2018: 2,795 m3 2018: 6,619 m3 -37%* 2017: 5,113 m3 2017: 4,430 m3 * Compared to 2017 7.4 Environmental investments The Company systematically invests in a number of other environmental actions and improvement measures, as presented below: 1.3% 0.1% 28.8% 32.2% 0.7% 0.6% 2017 2018 0.8% 0.7% 69.9% 64.9% Waste management by duly licensed contractors Certification costs Waste management by duly licensed contractors Environmental restoration works or new environmental works Certification costs Coverage of public transport costs* Environmental restoration works or new environmental works Refilling of fire extinguishers and purchase of new ones Coverage of public transport costs* Programme for collection and management of plastic bottle caps * Coverage of the transportation costs of a large number of employees using mass transportation is implemented in the context of reducing the environmental footprint of the Company in terms of staff transport. In the context of its investments to reduce its environmental footprint, the Company has established a five-year plan on replacing tractors featuring conventional engines with electric tractors. During 2018, 20% of the investment was completed. 103 7.5 Environmental actions Goldair Handling has established the “Goldair Handling Green Team”, which is actively involved in recycling programmes and initiatives for the redevelopment and cleaning of public spaces. The Company’s goal is to implement as many environmental actions as possible in the vicinity of Athens and the outstation airports. The Company’s environmental actions are outlined below: Beach cleaning: During 2018, volunteers from the airports of Skyros, Chania, Aktio, It” in which volunteers/employees of Goldair Handling participated. Kefalonia, Mytilene, Santorini and Alexandroupoli proceeded with The campaign to clean, beautify and aesthetically upgrade beaches, the cleaning of beaches. coasts and public spaces in the municipality of Kissamos was yet another organised voluntary action of the municipality. Mytilene: In August 2018, the beach in the ‘Katia Kratigou’ area was cleaned by employees of the Mytilene station. The voluntary Kefalonia: During 2018, Goldair Handling employees participated cleaning was a success for yet another year, covering a beach area in three environmental actions. The first action took place along of over 2km, with a large quantity of waste and abandoned plastic the coastline of Koutavos lagoon, during which approximately 30kg craft collected. of plastic and 10kg of paper were collected, while the second took place at the Koutavos environmental training park, during which Chania: The cleaning initiative in the municipality of Kissamos was approximately 40kg of plastic and 10kg of paper were collected. a success, held in the context of the national campaign “Let’s Do Furthermore, the Megali Ammos beach was cleaned. 104 REPORT 2018 Forest cleaning: Volunteers/employees in Ioannina participated in the cleaning of a forest, during which 24kg of waste were collected, of which 6kg were plastic. The plastic waste collected was deposited in recycling bins of the municipality of Ioannina. Tree planting: Goldair Handling employees planted fifteen trees in the broader region of Chrysoupoli, in the context of the annual environmental actions of the municipality of Kavala. Playground cleaning: Volunteers/employees at the regional airport of Araxos, in cooperation with representatives of the municipality of Achaia, participated in cleaning and collecting waste at the beach playground in lower Achaia. The action resulted in the collection of 15 bags of waste from the playground and the adjacent beach. Furthermore, the “Green Team” participated in an action organised by Athens International Airport for World Environment Day. Participation in Earth Hour: All it took was participation in Earth Hour for Goldair Handling to send a message against climate change. At the same time, people around the world participated in the action by switching off their lights, thus expressing their contribution to environmental protection. 105 106 REPORT 2018 Goldair Handling’s social contribution With a view to supporting vulnerable social groups and protecting the environment, Goldair Handling implements social and environmental actions throughout its network of activities. Through targeted actions, the Company contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 8 107 To this end, the Company encourages all employees to participate in voluntary actions and foster an attitude of volunteerism and solidarity, while adopting an environmentally friendly lifestyle in their work spaces. Important Social Issues Development of social Marketing actions & Communication volunteerism In this context, Goldair Handling carries out environmental protection actions, such as beach cleanings and recycling programmes, through the “Green Team” volunteer group, as well as sponsorships to support Non-Profit Organisations (NPOs) and other bodies. More specifically, the actions of Goldair Handling comprise the following contribution pillars: Support of vulnerable social groups Sports Environmental actions 108 REPORT 2018 8.1 Support of vulnerable social groups Goldair Handling ensures that vulnerable social groups are supported by actively contributing to charities and Non-Profit Organisations (NPOs). Through targeted actions implemented by the Company, employees are provided with the opportunity to participate in a variety of social actions as active citizens. More specifically, the actions implemented by the Company in order to contribute to the work of social bodies and NPOs include: Hellenic Red Cross Goldair Handling carried out a voluntary blood drive donation to support the work of the Hellenic Red Cross. Plane Pull with the Smile of the Child For the third consecutive year, Goldair Handling participated in the Plane Pull competition at “El. Venizelos” Athens International Airport, with the support of DHL (Transport Company), in order to support the organisation “The Smile of the Child”. In the context of broader cooperation, the Company has provided long-standing support to the needs of “The Smile of the Child”. I collect bottle caps, I make a child smile Employees at all airports where the Company operates collected approximately 390 kg of bottle caps, thereby contributing to the purchase of a wheelchair. Food Collection for Dourahani Monastery in Ioannina On New Year’s Eve, all employees at the Ioannina station collected food and delivered it to the Monastery of Dourahani in Ioannina, which hosts orphans and organises soup kitchens for families in need. To show its respect and solidarity to the victims of the devastating fire that took place in Attica in the summer of 2018, Goldair Handling donated a monetary sum to aid the work of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV) and necessities to the Municipality of Nea Makri. Furthermore, the Company supported employees who reside in the areas ravaged by the fire in every possible manner. 109 8.2 Employee volunteerism Goldair Handling has developed a strong culture of volunteerism, and the actions implemented during 2018 include: School painting: A group of volunteers at the station of Kefalonia participated in painting the 3rd Secondary school of Argostoli. Visit to Samos Special Education School: Goldair Handling employees at Samos airport participated in an educational action of the Samos Special Education Primary school. The action was part of a broader educational programme and concerned environmental awareness raising on recyclable materials, focusing on travels to various destinations and simulating the aircraft boarding process. This activity was great fun for the children and was particularly innovative and interesting. Renovation of the Heraklion Child Protection Department: Goldair Handling volunteers participated in the renovation of two spaces of the Child Protection Department in Heraklion, Crete. More specifically, 43 volunteers painted the dining room and the hobby room, adding colour and shapes to the children’s everyday lives. The Department provides permanent room, board, clothes, medical care, education and career opportunities, where possible, to the children it hosts. At present, it accommodates 27 girls, 4 of whom are university students. It also hosts many children who are foreign, abused, delinquent, intellectually disabled or facing psychological problems. Employee participation in a Sustainable Voluntary blood donation: Development Forum: Goldair Handling has created a blood bank called “Positive Energy,” In recognition of the contribution of employees at outstation to which employees contribute through voluntary donations at the airports to Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainable Red Cross Hospital. The Company’s blood bank supplies both Development issues, the Company supported their participation Goldair Handling employees and their families. in the Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainable Development Panorama, held in Thessaloniki. In collaboration with Ethelon and Steps, the Goldair Handling team cooked meals for a good cause! In collaboration with Ethelon and Steps, the Goldair Handling team cooked meals for a good cause! Our employees lovingly handed out 150 meals to fellow citizens living in poverty in the centre of Athens. 110 REPORT 2018 8.3 Event for employees’ children During the Christmas season, the Human Resources Department of Goldair Handling organises an event for the children of its employees, which includes special activities for both parents and children. At the end of the event, Christmas gifts were handed out. 8.4 Actions to support Society Support for the ‘Virtual Enterprise’ of the SEN/Junior Achievement Greece Goldair Handling participated for the first time in the ‘Virtual Enterprise’ programme of SEN/Junior Achievement Greece, with Mrs Eirini Georgantopoulou, Marketing & Communications Manager, volunteering as a mentor. In cooperation with the ‘Nea Genia Ziridis’ school, the Virtual Enterprise ‘Toho, Having Fun is for Everyone’ was set up, offering novel board games for children with special needs to entertain them during a flight or while waiting at an airport. The virtual enterprise was presented with a Social Entrepreneurship award by SEN. Goldair Handling & Knowl Social Enterprise for Education and Lifelong Learning The programme was implemented in Greece by the Prince’s Trust International Leadership Programme of Prince Charles, in cooperation with the Bodossaki Foundation and Knowl social enterprise for lifelong learning, in cooperation with Goldair Handling. Furthermore, Goldair Handling was one of the companies that participated in the #Get_Into programme in Greece, and attended the Open Day held on Thursday, 31/05/2018, presenting the Company’s activities and performing interviews. Goldair Handling participated in Career Days for the third consecutive year Goldair Handling participated in the Career Days organised by Kariera.gr at Technopolis in Gazi, Athens on Saturday, 13 October and Sunday, 14 October. Representatives of the Human Resources department attended the event and spoke with hundreds of candidates. 111 8.5 Sports Goldair Handling eagerly supports voluntary and sports actions, as it can actively aid our fellow citizens in need through sports. The Goldair Handling Running Team participated in the 1st Airport Run in Kefalonia: The Goldair Handling Running Team participated in the 1st Airport Run organised by Fraport Greece at ‘Anna Pollatou’ airport i n Kefalonia. Our presence contributed to an important social goal, as all the revenues from the race were donated to support the programme ‘Oli Mazi Boroume’ (We Can Do It Together). Participation in the ‘Trehoume Gia ti Floga’ event: A special event was held on the waterfront of Volos for the 6th consecutive year, with the slogan “Trehoume Gia ti Floga” (Running for FLOGA). The event was organised by ‘FLOGA’, the Association of Parents of Children with Cancer, and the Directorate of Sports of the Municipal Organisation for Children’s Education, Sports and Culture (DOEPAP) Municipal Regional Theatre (DIPETHE) of Volos, with the support of the Volos Health Runners Club and the Special Forces Club of Magnesia. Two Goldair Handling employees from the Volos regional station participated in the run, supporting the action of ‘FLOGA’ Association of Parents of Children with Cancer. Participation in the Skyros Semi-Marathon: Goldair Handling volunteers participated in the 2018 Skyros Semi-Marathon to show their support in practice. Goldair Handling football team: The Company’s football team, which participates in the Corporate Champions League every year, was crowned the champion for the 2nd consecutive year (2017-2018). 112 REPORT 2018 113 114 REPORT 2018 REPORT INFORMATION 115 About Methodology: Goldair Handling’s 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility and the Report Sustainable Development Report has been drawn up in accordance with the 2016 GRI Standards of the International Organisation “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI) at the Core level, in line with the principles Report Profile: determining the content and the quality of the Report set forth in the Goldair Handling’s 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility and instructions. Sustainable Development Report is the third consecutive Company Additionally, in preparing the 2018 Corporate Responsibility and Report, covering the period from 01/01/2018 to 31/12/2018. Sustainable Development Report, the Company has been made aware of the provisions of Directive 2013/34/EU, Law 4403/2016 and Circular In this annual publication, the Company presents the way it responded Ref. No 62784/07-06-2017 of the Ministry of Economy, Development to various economic, social and environmental challenges, as well as and Tourism on issues concerning the disclosure of non-financial the expectations/requirements of its stakeholders. The Report also information. contains the policies, procedures, strategy, management approach, targeting and Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development programmes implemented. The Company discloses its performance in each sustainability pillar, ultimately aiming at open The Report was drawn up with the support and scientific guidance and transparent dialogue with its stakeholders. (collection of data, evaluation and authoring) of the company Grant Thornton (www.grantthornton.gr). The terms “Company” and “Goldair Handling” refer to “Goldair Ground Services Société Anonyme,” with the distinctive title Goldair Handling Sources of information: S.A. and the English name Goldair Aviation Handling S.A. The data and the information published in the Report have been collected on the basis of recording procedures applied by Goldair Handling, as well as from the databases which are maintained Goldair Handling’s 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility within the framework of implementing the Company’s management and Sustainable Development Report can be found on the systems. At points where data are provided which have resulted Company website (http://www.goldair-handling.com) in the following processing or which are based on assumptions, the mode or “Social Responsibility” section. method of calculation is referred to, in accordance with the instructions of the GRI standards. External quality assurance: Scope and limits: In order to ensure the accuracy, completeness and reliability of the There are no restrictions in terms of the scope or limits of the Report Report and being fully committed to the objectivity and reliability of that would affect the comparison of year-on-year information. This its data, the Company assigned the external quality assurance of report contains information pertaining to Goldair Handling’s overall the data contained in the Report to the independent body KPMG. The operations in Greece and summarised data related to the operations conclusions and comments resulting from the external verification of Goldair Handling Bulgaria, its subsidiary in Bulgaria. Where there procedure are utilised by the Company to improve the quality of the are revisions, specific reference is made to the individual sections, Reports it issues. The 2018 Independent Limited Assurance Report for tables, or diagrams, and the reasons for revision are specified at the Goldair Handling can be found on page 133 of this Report. respective points in the text. Communication with regard to the Report: Project Team: Please send any observations or proposals to the following address: The Company’s Core Team is charged with collecting and recording all the necessary data and information on Goldair Handling’s performance Eirini Papoutsi, in terms of the Sustainable Development pillars. Its members come Chief Sustainability Officer, Quality & Environment Manager from all departments of the Company and its work is coordinated by Athens International Airport, Building 24, 1st floor, 19019, Spata the Quality and Environment Department. Telephone: +30 210 354 3850 / Email: e.papoutsi@goldair-handling.gr 116 REPORT 2018 Table of Compliance with Πίνακας Συμμόρφωσης με τον Ελληνικό Κώδικα Βιωσιμότητας the Greek Sustainability Code GOLDAIR HANDLING Πίνακας Συμμόρφωσης με τον Ελληνικό Κώδικα Βιωσιμότητας PILLAR CRITERIA REFERENCE TO REPORT SECTIONS 1. Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values Strategic Analysis & How we operate (p. 12), 1.2 Areas of Company activity (p. 14), 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), Action 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.6 ground.net Alliance (p. 22), 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.11 Membership in Associations and Organisations (p. 33), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria § 2.2 Membership in Associations (p. 37), 4. Responsible operation and development (p. 52), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55) STRATEGY 2. 4. Responsible operation and development § 4.4 Materiality analysis (p. 63) Materiality 3. 4. Responsible operation and development § 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Objectives Development Goals (SDGs) (p.55), 4.5 Goals achieved in 2018 and targeting for 2019 (p. 68) 4. 1.2 Areas of Company activity (p. 14), 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), 1.4 Business Model and Value Chain Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.10 Responsibility in the supply Management chain (p. 30), 4. Responsible operation and development § 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54) 5. 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.11 Responsibility Membership in Associations and Organisations (p. 33), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria § 2.2 Membership in Associations (p. 37), 3. Corporate Governance § 3.2 Management Committees (p. 45), 4. Responsible operation and development (p. 52), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5. Our people (p. 70), 6. Health and Safety (p. 84), 7. Environmental responsibility (p. 96), 8. Goldair Handling’s social contribution (p.106) 6. 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values How we operate (p. 12), 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities Rules and Processes (p. 18), 1.5 The implementation of our strategy (p. 20), 1.8 Customer and passenger personal data protection (p. 26), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34), 6.4 Security Programme against acts of unlawful interference (p. 90), 6.5 Emergency Response Plan ERP (p. 91), 7.1 Management of environmental matters (p. 99) Quality Assurance Policy, Marketing and communication Policy, Personal Data MANAGEMENT PROCEDURE Protection Policy and Internal Regulation, Code of Conduct, Transparency policy, Sustainable Development Policy, Safety Policy, Employee Complaints Policy, Internal Workplace Regulations, Environmental Policy, Procurement Regulations, Supplier Code of Conduct 7. 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.10 Responsibility in Monitoring the supply chain (p. 30), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34), 5. Our people (p. 70), 6. Health and Safety (p. 84), 7. Environmental responsibility (p. 96), Independent Limited Assurance Report for Goldair Handling S.A. (p. 133) 8. 1.4 Business model and strategic priorities (p. 18), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Incentives and reward Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72) systems for Sustainable Development 9. 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders (p. 58) § Framework of communication with stakeholders (p. 58) Stakeholder Engagement 10. 1.2 Areas of Company activity (p. 14), 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), 1.4 Business Model and Product Responsibility Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.6 ground.net Alliance (p. 22), 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22) Goldair and Innovation Handling Bulgaria § 2.1 Categories of Services offered by Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 36) 117 GOLDAIR HANDLING Table of Compliance GOLDAIR HANDLING with Πίνακας Συμμόρφωσης με τον Code the Greek Sustainability Ελληνικό Κώδικα Βιωσιμότητας PILLAR CRITERIA REFERENCE TO REPORT SECTIONS 11. 7. Environmental responsibility § 7.3 Environmental Performance (p. 101) Usage of natural resources ENVIRONMENT 12. 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), Resource Management 7. Environmental responsibility § 7.1 Management of environmental matters (p. 99), 7.2 Lifelong learning on Environmental Awareness (p. 100), 7.3 Environmental Performance (p. 101), 7.5 Environmental actions (p. 104) 13. 7. Environmental responsibility § 7.1 Management of environmental matters (p. 99), 7.3 Environmental Climate relevant Performance (p. 101), 7.4 Environmental investments (p. 103) emissions 14. 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria § 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria § Human Employment rights Resources (p. 39), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5. Our people (p. 70) § 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72), 5.4 Open communication and additional benefits (p. 82), 6. Health and Safety (p. 84) 15. 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria § 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria § Human Equal Opportunities Resources (p. 39) 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5. Our people (p. 70) § 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72), 5.2 Training and development of employees (p. 78), 5.3 Evaluation and recognition (p. 80), 5.4 Open communication and additional benefits (p. 82) 16. 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria § 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria § Human Qualifications Resources (p. 39) 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5. Our people (p. 70) § 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72) SOCIETY 17. 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30) Human Rights in the Supply Chain 18. 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30), 5. Our people (p. 70) § 5.1 Promotion of employment Corporate Citizenship (p. 72), 7. Environmental responsibility § 7.5 Environmental actions (p. 104), 8. Goldair Handling’s social Contribution (p. 106) 19. 1.11 Membership in bodies and organisations (p. 33), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria § 2.2 Membership in Initiatives and Political Associations (p. 37) Influence 20. 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria § 2.3 Corporate Governance (p. 37), 3. Corporate Governance (p. 42) § Preventing and 3.1 Corporate Governance and organisational structure (p. 44), 3.2 Management Committees (p. 45), Combating Corruption 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49), 3.5 Transparency and Conflict of Interest (p. 50) 118 REPORT 2018 GRI Content Index GRI External Disclosure Page number or reference Omission Standard assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures (“core” option) Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the Goldair Handling, full-name in English “Goldair Aviation Handling S.A. organisation (Société Anonyme)” 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8) 4 http://www.goldair-handling.com/about-us/ 102-2 Activities, brands, 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.2 Areas of Company activity products and (p. 14), 1.3 Services of Goldair Handling (p. 16), 1.4 Business Model and services Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.6 ground.net Alliance (p. 22), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34), 2.1 4 Categories of Services offered by Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 36) http://www.goldair-handling.com/our-services/ http://www.goldair-handling.com/network/ 102-3 Location of the Athens International Airport, Building 24, 1st floor, 19019, Spata headquarters 4 102-4 Location of 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.6 ground.net Alliance (p. 22), operations 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34), About the Report (p. 116) 4 102-5 Ownership status 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 2. Goldair Handling and legal form Bulgaria (p. 34), About the Report (p. 116) 4 102-6 Markets served 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.2 Areas of Company activity (p. 14), 1.3 Services Goldair Handling (p. 16), 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.6 ground.net Alliance (p. 22), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34), 2.1 Categories of Services offered by Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 36) 4 http://www.goldair-handling.com/our-services/ http://www.goldair-handling.com/network/ http://www.goldair-handling.com/about-us/OurClients 102-7 Scale of the 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.4 Business Model and Strategic organisation Priorities (p. 18), 1.6 ground.net Alliance (p. 22), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34), 2.5 Financial Information (p. 38) § Goldair Handling Bulgaria personnel data (p. 40), 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72) 4 http://www.goldair-handling.com/ http://www.goldair-handling.com/network/ 102-8 Information about 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria personnel and other (p. 34) § Goldair Handling Bulgaria personnel data (p. 40), 5.1 Promotion of employees employment (p. 72) The amount of the organisation’s work that is executed by subcontractors 4 is very small and concerns security and cleaning services. The Company monitors and records all the relevant data. 119 GRI External Disclosure Page number or reference Omission Standard assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures (“core” option) Organisational profile 102-9 Supply chain 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30) 4 102-10 Significant changes to About the Report (p. 116) the organisation and There were no significant changes in the size, structure, ownership or the supply chain supply chain of the organisation during the reporting period. 4 102-11 Precautionary 1.5 The implementation of our strategy (p. 20), 1.7 Customer-oriented principle or approach philosophy (p. 22), 1.8 Customer and passenger personal data protection (p. 26), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30), 2.4 Monitoring of Company Performance Indicators (p. 37), 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38), 3.2 Management Committees (p. 45), 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49), 3.5 Transparency and Conflict of Interest (p. 50), 4. Responsible operation and development (p. 52), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5.2. Training and 4 development of employees (p. 78), Improvement proposals to Management (p. 82), 6.1 Occupational Health and Safety Management (p. 86), 6.2 Cargo and Mail Handling (p. 88), 6.3 Ground Handling Equipment Management (p. 89), 6.4 Security Programme against acts of unlawful interference (p. 90), 6.5 Emergency Response Plan ERP (p. 91), 6.6 Promotion of a Health and Safety culture (p. 92), 7.1 Management of environmental matters (p. 99), 7.2 Lifelong learning on Environmental Awareness (p. 100), 7.4 Environmental investments (p. 103) 102-12 External initiatives 1.6 ground.net Alliance (p. 22), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55) 4 102-13 Membership of 1.11. Membership in bodies and organisations (p. 33) associations 4 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior Message from the CEO (p. 6) decision maker 4 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, 1.1. Vision, Mission and Our Values How we operate (p. 12) standards and norms Quality Assurance Policy, Marketing and communication Policy, Personal of behaviour Data Protection Policy and Internal Regulation, Code of Conduct, Transparency Policy, Sustainable Development Policy, Safety Policy, Employee Complaints Policy, Internal -Workplace Regulations, 4 Environmental Policy, Procurement Regulations, Supplier Code of Conduct http://www.goldair-handling.com/about-us/ Governance 102-18 Governance structure 3. Corporate Governance (p. 42) § 3.1 Corporate Governance and organisational structure (p. 44), 3.2 Management Committees (p. 45) 4 120 REPORT 2018 GRI External Disclosure Page number or reference Omission Standard assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures (“core” option) Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders (p. 58) groups 4 102-41 Collective bargaining 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72) agreements 4 102-42 Identifying and 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders (p. 58) selecting 4 102-43 Approach to 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders (p. 58) § Framework of communication stakeholder with stakeholders (p. 58) 4 engagement 102-44 Key topics and 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders (p. 58) § Framework of communication concerns raised with stakeholders (p. 58) 4 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included No entities other than Goldair Handling S.A. included in the Financial in the consolidated Statements 4 financial statements 102-46 Defining report About the Report (p. 116) contents and topic 4 Boundaries 102-47 List of matelial topics 4.4 Materiality analysis (p. 63) 4 102-48 Restatements of About the Report (p. 116) information 4 102-49 Changes in reporting About the Report (p. 116) 4 102-50 Reporting period 01/01/2018 31/12/2018 4 102-51 Date of most recent 01/01/2017 31/12/2017 report 4 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 4 102-53 Contact point for About the Report (p. 116) questions regarding 4 the report 121 GRI External Disclosure Page number or reference Omission Standard assurance GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures (“core” option) Reporting practice 102-54 Claims of reporting in About the Report (p. 116) accordance with the This publication is the third consecutive Corporate Responsibility and GRI Standards Sustainable Development Report by Goldair Handling, as well as the second one to be drawn up in accordance with the guidelines of the GRI 4 Standards 2016 of the international organisation Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) at the Core level. 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index (p. 119) 4 102-56 External assurance Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report for Goldair Handling S.A. (p. 133) 4 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Customer service and customer satisfaction (corporate customers and passengers) 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p.6), 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values the Material Topic and How we operate (p. 12), 1.2 Areas of Company activity (p. 14), its Boundary 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.8 Customer and passenger personal data protection (p. 26), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34) 103-2 The 1.4. Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.7 CustomerManagement oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.8 Customer and passenger personal Approach and its data protection (p. 26), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), components 1.10 Responsibility in the supply Chain (p. 30), 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38) § Relationship with Customers (p. 38) § Protection of Personal Data (p. 39) GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22) § Responsible the Management Communication (p. 23) § Satisfaction survey results (p. 24), Approach 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38) § Goldair Handling Bulgaria customer satisfaction survey (p. 39), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of communication with stakeholders (p. 58) Goldair Handling 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22) § Responsible Indicator: Customer Communication (p. 23) § Satisfaction survey results (p. 24), satisfaction surveys 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38) (corporate customers § Goldair Handling Bulgaria customer satisfaction survey (p. 38) and passengers) § Distinctions and Awards (p. 39) 122 REPORT 2018 GRI Standard External Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Environmental and socio-economic compliance 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p.6), 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values the Material Topic and How we operate (p. 12), 1.4. Business model and strategic its Boundary priorities (p. 18) 103-2 The 2.4 Monitoring of Company Performance Indicators (p. 37), Management 3. Corporate Governance (p. 42), 3.2 Management Committees GRI 103: Approach and its (p. 45), 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), 3.4 Effective risk management Management components (p. 49), 3.5 Transparency and Conflict of Interest (p. 50), Excerpt Approach from the Transparency Policy (p. 50), Excerpt from the Safety Policy (p. 86), Excerpt from the Environmental Policy (p. 98) 103-3 Evaluation of 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of the Management communication with stakeholders (p. 58) Approach 307-1 The Company regularly monitors national and community GRI 307: Non-compliance with environmental legislation and complies with all legal and Environmental compliance environmental regulatory requirements. During the reporting period of the laws and regulations Report (2018), no complaints were filed and no fines concerning environmental matters were imposed on the Company. Environmental protection and awareness-raising 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 2.6 Sustainable Development the Material Topic and at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38) § Environmental Awareness its Boundary (p. 41), 3.2 Management Committees (p. 45) § Quality, Environment and HACCP Committee (p. 46), 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 7. Environmental responsibility (p. 96), 7.1 Management of environmental matters (p. 99) 103-2 The 7.1 Management of environmental matters (p. 99), 7.2 Lifelong Management Learning on Environmental Awareness (p. 100) 4 Approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of the Management communication with stakeholders (p. 58), 5.2 Training and Approach development of employees (p. 78), 7.2 Lifelong Learning on Environmental Awareness (p. 100), 7.4 Environmental investments (p. 103) Goldair Handling 5.2 Training and development of employees (p. 78), Indicator: Lifelong 7.2 Lifelong Learning on Environmental Awareness (p. 100), Learning on 7.4 Environmental investments (p. 103) Environmental Awareness GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type 7.3 Environmental performance § Waste management (p. 102) Effluents and disposal method and 4 waste 123 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.4 Business Model and Strategic the Material Topic and Priorities (p.18), 2.4 Monitoring of Company Performance its Boundary Indicators (p. 37), 2.5 Financial Information (p. 38), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of communication with stakeholders (p. 58), § Social Product (p. 63) GRI 103: 103-2 The 2.5 Financial Information (p. 38), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s Management Management stakeholders § Framework of communication with stakeholders Approach Approach and its (p. 58), § Social Product (p. 63) components 103-3 Evaluation of 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of the Management communication with stakeholders (p. 58) Approach 201-1 Direct 2.5 Financial Information (p. 38), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s GRI 201: economic value stakeholders § Framework of communication with stakeholders Economic generated and (p. 58) § Social Product (p. 63) Performance distributed More information on the Company’s economic performance can be found in the financial statements published: http://www.goldair-handling.com/about-us/FinancialStatements Employee Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values the Material Topic and How we operate (p. 12), 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair its Boundary Handling Bulgaria (p. 38) § Ensuring health and safety at work (p. 41), 3.2 Management Committees § Health and Safety Committees (p. 46), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 6. Health and Safety (p. 84) 103-2 The 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38) Management § Ensuring health and safety at work (p. 41), 3.2 Management GRI 103: Approach and its Committees § Health and Safety Committees (p. 46), Management components 6.1 Occupational Health and Safety Management (p. 86) 4 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of communication the Management with stakeholders (p. 58), 6.2 Cargo and Mail Handling (p. 88), Approach 6.3 Ground Handling Equipment Management (p. 89), 6.4 Security Programme against acts of unlawful interference (p. 90), 6.5 Emergency Response Plan ERP (p. 91), 6.6 Promotion of a Health and Safety culture (p. 92), 6.7 Participation in Health and Safety conferences and events (p. 94) 403-2 Types of 6.1 Occupational Health and Safety Management § Monitoring of injury and rates of Health and Safety Indicators (p. 86) GRI 403 injury, occupational Occupational diseases, lost days, Health & and absenteeism, 4 Safety and number of workrelated fatalities 124 REPORT 2018 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Passenger Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of 1.1. Vision, Mission and Our Values How we operate (p. 12), the Material Topic and 1.4. Business model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.7 Customerits Boundary oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54) 103-2 The 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), 2.6 Sustainable GRI 103: Management Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria § Relationship with Management Approach and its Customers (p. 38), 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49) Approach components 103-3 Evaluation of 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22), 1.9 Assurance of Quality the Management of Service (p. 28), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders Approach § Framework of communication with stakeholders (p. 58), 6.5 Emergency Response Plan ERP (p. 91) 416-2 Incidents of During 2018, there was no occurrence of non-compliance with GRI 416: non-compliance regulations or voluntary codes related to passenger health and Customer concerning the health safety. Health and and safety impacts Safety of products and services Expansion into new markets and strengthening current market presence/Business development 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values the Material Topic and How we operate (p. 12), 1.4. Business Model and Strategic its Boundary Priorities (p. 18), 1.5 The implementation of our strategy (p. 20) 103-2 The 1.4. Business model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), GRI 103: Management 1.5 Implementation of our strategy (p. 20), 4.1 Sustainable Management Approach and its Development Management (p. 54) Approach components 103-3 Evaluation of 1.4 Business model and strategic priorities (p. 18), 4.3 Goldair the Management Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of communication with Approach stakeholders (p. 58) Goldair Handling 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities § The strategic Indicator: Expansion priorities of Goldair Handling (p. 18) into new markets and strengthening of current market presence 125 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Employment 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.1 Vision, Mission and Our Values the Material Topic and How we operate (p. 12), 1.4. Business model and strategic its Boundary priorities (p. 18), 5. Our people (p. 70) 103-2 The 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 5. Our people GRI 103: Management (p. 70) Management Approach and its 4 Approach components 103-3 Evaluation of 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of the Management communication with stakeholders (p. 58), 5. Our people (p. 70) Approach § Goldair through the eyes of its people (p. 72) 401-1 Total number of 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72) employees and rate of employee 4 turnover (hires, GRI 401: departures) Employment 401-3 Parental leave 5.4 Open communication and additional benefits § Additional benefits (p. 83) 4 Customer and passenger privacy 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.8 Customer and passenger the Material Topic and personal data protection (p. 26), 2.6 Sustainable Development its Boundary at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38) § Protection of Personal Data (p. 39) 103-2 The 1.8 Customer and passenger personal data protection (p. 26) GRI 103: Management § Personal Data Protection Policy and Internal Regulation (p. 26), Management Approach and its 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria Approach components § Protection of Personal Data (p. 39) 103-3 Evaluation of 1.8 Customer and passenger personal data protection (p. 26) the Management § Personal Data Protection Policy and Internal Regulation (p. 26), Approach Data Protection Committee (p. 47), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of communication with stakeholders (p. 58) 418-1 Substantiated During the reporting period, Goldair Handling did not receive complaints any complaints or reports related to the violation of the privacy concerning breaches of its customers or the violation of the privacy of its customers’ GRI 418: of customer privacy passengers. Customer and losses of privacy customer data 126 REPORT 2018 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Transparency and Anti-Corruption 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.4 Business Model and Strategic the Material Topic and Priorities (p. 18), 2.3 Corporate Governance (p. 37), its Boundary 2.4 Monitoring of Company Performance Indicators (p. 37), 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38), 3. Corporate Governance (p. 42) § The Board of Directors and the Management Team (p. 44), 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49), 3.5 Transparency and Conflict of Interest (p. 50), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54) GRI 103: 103-2 The 2.3 Corporate Governance (p. 37), 2.4 Monitoring of Company Management Management Performance Indicators (p. 37), 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), Approach Approach and its 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49), 3.5 Transparency and components Conflict of Interest (p. 50) § Transparency Policy (p. 50), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55) 103-3 Evaluation of 3.5 Transparency and Conflict of Interest (p. 50) § Transparency the Management Policy (p. 50), 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Approach Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of communication with stakeholders (p. 58) 205-3 Confirmed During 2018, no cases of corruption were recorded/reported. incidents of GRI 205: corruption and Anti-corruption actions taken Business Continuity BCM 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.2 Areas of Company activity (p. 14), the Material Topic and 1.5 The implementation of our strategy (p. 20), 1.9 Assurance of its Boundary Quality of Service § Integrated Management System (p. 28), 2.3 Corporate Governance (p. 37), 3. Corporate Governance § 3.1 Corporate Governance and organisational structure (p. 44), 3.2 Management Committees (p. 45), 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49) GRI 103: Management 103-2 The 2.3 Corporate Governance (p. 37), 3. Corporate Governance § 3.1 Approach Management Corporate Governance and organisational structure (p. 44), 3.2 Approach and its Management Committees (p. 45), 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), 3.4 components Effective risk management (p. 49) 103-3 Evaluation of 3.2 Management Committees (p. 45), 3.3 Internal Audit (p. 48), the Management 3.4 Effective risk management (p. 49) Approach Goldair Handling 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of Indicator: Business communication with stakeholders (p. 58), 4.5 Goals achieved in Continuity 2018 and targeting for 2019 (p. 68) The Company has set itself the goal of creating an integrated risk management and business continuity system by 2020. 127 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Responsible supply management 103-1 Explanation of 1.4. Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), the Material Topic and 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30), its Boundary 4.1.Sustainable Development Management (p. 54) 103-2 The 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30), Procurement GRI 103: Management Regulations (p. 30), Supplier Code of Conduct (p. 30) Management Approach and its Approach components 103-3 Evaluation of 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain (p. 30), 4.3. Goldair the Management Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of communication with Approach stakeholders (p. 58) 308-1 New suppliers 1.10 Responsibility in the supply chain § Evaluation of suppliers who were screened (p. 31) using environmental criteria Goldair Handling sends the Company’s Environmental Policy to GRI 308: active suppliers along with an environmental self-assessment Supplier environmental questionnaire. The questionnaire also reflects the actions and programmes implemented by the Company’s suppliers assessment regarding responsible environmental management, such as energy conservation, proper waste management, recycling of products and packaging, and training of employees in environmental matters. Energy consumption and saving 103-1 Explanation of 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria the Material Topic and § Environmental Awareness (p. 41), 3.2 Management Committees its Boundary § Quality, Environment and HACCP Committee (p. 46), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 7. Environmental responsibility (p. 96) GRI 103: 103-2 The 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Management Management Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 7. Environmental responsibility Approach Approach and its (p. 96) § Environmental Policy (p. 98), 7.1 Management of components environmental matters (p. 99) 103-3 Evaluation of 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of the Management communication with stakeholders (p. 58), 7.2 Lifelong Learning Approach on Environmental Awareness (p. 100), 7.3 Environmental Performance (p. 101) 302-1 Energy 7.3 Environmental Performance § Energy (p. 101) consumption within the organisation It is noted that biofuels, ethanol and hydrogen are not purchased by Goldair Handling. It should also be mentioned that the Company does not produce or sell energy. The mix GRI 302: Energy of electricity generation from the provider, the Public Power Corporation (PPC), for 2018 included 19.89% renewable energy sources. In particular, the fuel mix for the entire country during 2018, as published by the PPC, was as follows: Lignite: 30.85%, Natural Gas: 31.01%, Hydroelectricity: 6.51%, RES: 19.89%, Interconnections: 11.74%. 128 REPORT 2018 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Diversity and equal opportunities 103-1 Explanation of 2.6 Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria the Material Topic and § Human Resources (p. 39), 4.1 Sustainable Development its Boundary Management (p. 54), 5. Our people (p. 70) 103-2 The 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable GRI 103: Management Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5.1 Promotion of employment Management Approach and its § Equal Opportunities and Diversity (p. 77) Approach components 103-3 Evaluation of 4.2 Goldair Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable the Management Development Goals (SDGs) (p. 55), 5.1 Promotion of employment Approach § Equal Opportunities and Diversity (p. 77) 405-1 Diversity of 2.3 Corporate Governance (p. 37), 3.1 Corporate Governance governance bodies and organisational structure § The Board of Directors and the GRI 405: and employees Management Team (p. 44), 5.1 Promotion of employment (p. 72) § Diversity Equal Opportunities and Diversity (p. 77) and equal opportunity Dialogue with stakeholders 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 4 Responsible operation and the Material Topic and development (p. 52), 8. Goldair Handling’s social contribution its Boundary (p. 106) 103-2 The 3.2 Management Committees § Sustainability Committee and GRI 103: Management Core Team (p. 45), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management Management Approach and its (p. 54), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders (p. 58) Approach components 103-3 Evaluation of 3.2 Management Committees § Sustainability Committee and the Management Core Team (p. 45), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management Approach (p. 54), 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders (p. 58) Goldair Handling 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of Indicator: Dialogue communication with stakeholders (p. 58), 8. Goldair Handling’s with stakeholders social contribution (p. 106) 129 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Training and education 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), the Material Topic and 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 2.6 Sustainable its Boundary Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria § Training of employees (p. 40), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 5. Our people (p. 70), 6. Health and Safety (p. 84), 7. Environmental responsibility (p. 96) 103-2 The 5.2 Training and development of employees (p. 78), Management 5.3 Evaluation and recognition (p. 80), 6.2 Cargo and Mail Handling Approach and its (p. 88), 6.3 Ground Handling Equipment Management (p. 89), components 6.4 Security Programme against acts of unlawful GRI 103: interference (p. 90), 6.5 Emergency Response Plan-ERP (p. 91), Management 6.6 Promotion of a Health and Safety culture (p. 92), 7.2 Lifelong 4 Approach Learning on Environmental Awareness (p. 100) 103-3 Evaluation of 4.3 Goldair Handling’s stakeholders § Framework of the Management communication with stakeholders (p. 58), 5.2 Training and Approach development of employees (p. 78), 5.3 Evaluation and recognition (p. 80), 6.2 Cargo and Mail Handling (p. 88), 6.3 Ground Handling Equipment Management (p. 89), 6.4 Security Programme against acts of unlawful interference (p. 90), 6.5 Emergency Response Plan (p. 91), 6.6 Promotion of a Health and Safety culture (p. 92), 7.2 Lifelong Learning on Environmental Awareness (p. 100) 404-3 Percentage of 5.3 Evaluation and recognition (p. 80) GRI 404: employees receiving Training and regular performance 4 education and career development reviews Labour-Management relations 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 2.6 Sustainable Development at the Material Topic and Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38), 3.2 Management Committees its Boundary (p. 45), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 5. Our people (p. 70) GRI 103: 103-2 The 5.3 Evaluation and recognition § Recognition (p. 81), 5.4 Open Management Management communication and additional benefits (p. 82) § Improvement Approach Approach and its proposals to Management (p. 82) components 103-3 Evaluation of 5.3 Evaluation and recognition § Recognition (p. 81), 5.4 Open the Management communication and additional benefits (p. 82) § Improvement Approach proposals to Management (p. 82) Goldair Handling 5.4 Open communication and additional benefits (p. 82) Indicator: § Improvement proposals to Management (p. 82) Development and maintenance of communication channels with employees 130 REPORT 2018 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Development of social actions & volunteerism 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 4 Responsible operation and the Material Topic and development (p. 52), 8. Goldair Handling’s social contribution its Boundary (p. 106) 103-2 The 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54), 4.2. Goldair Management Handling’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Approach and its (SDGs) (p. 55), 7.5 Environmental actions (p. 104), GRI 103: components 8.1 Support of vulnerable social groups (p. 109), 8.2 Employee Management volunteerism (p. 110), 8.3 Event for employees’ children (p. 111), Approach 8.4 Actions to Support Society (p. 111), 8.5 Sports (p. 112) 103-3 Evaluation of 7.5 Environmental actions (p. 104), 8.1 Support of vulnerable the Management social groups (p. 109), 8.2 Employee volunteerism (p. 110), Approach 8.3 Event for employees’ children (p. 111), 8.4 Actions to Support Society (p. 111), 8.5 Sports (p. 112) Goldair Handling 7.5 Environmental actions (p. 104), 8.1 Support of vulnerable Indicator: Development social groups (p. 109), 8.2 Employee volunteerism (p. 110), of social actions & 8.3 Event for employees’ children (p. 111), 8.4 Actions to Support volunteerism Society (p. 111), 8.5 Sports (p. 112) Marketing Communication 103-1 Explanation of 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), 1.4 Business Model and the Material Topic and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy its Boundary (p. 22) § Responsible Communication (p. 23), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p.28), 2.6. Sustainable Development at Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 38), GRI 103: 103-2 The 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22) § Responsible Management Management Communication (p. 23), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service Approach Approach and its (p. 28) components 103-3 Evaluation of 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28) the Management Approach 417-3 Incidents of 1.7 Customer-oriented philosophy (p. 22) § Marketing and non-compliance communication Policy (p. 23) concerning marketing GRI 417: communications During the reporting period, no incidents of non-compliance Marketing with communication and marketing regulations and voluntary and Labelling codes were recorded at the Company. 131 External GRI Standard Disclosure Page number or reference Omission assurance Material Topics Company’s response to high tourism activity 103-1 Explanation of Message from the CEO (p. 6), 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview the Material Topic and (p. 8), 1.2 Areas of Company activity (p. 14), 1.3 Goldair Handling its Boundary Services (p. 16), 1.4 Business Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.5 The implementation of our strategy (p. 20), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34) 103-2 The Management 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.2 Areas of Company Approach and its activity (p. 14), 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), 1.4 Business GRI 103: components Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.5 The implementation of Management our strategy (p. 20), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), Approach 2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria (p. 34), 4.1 Sustainable Development Management (p. 54) 103-3 Evaluation of 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8), 1.2 Areas of Company the Management activity (p. 14), 1.3 Goldair Handling Services (p. 16), 1.4 Business Approach Model and Strategic Priorities (p. 18), 1.5 The implementation of our strategy (p. 20), 1.9 Assurance of Quality of Service (p. 28), 4.1. Sustainable Development Management (p. 54) Goldair Handling 1. Goldair Handling: An Overview (p. 8) § Flight management Indicator: Seamless 2007-2018 (p. 15) management of flights, http://www.goldair-handling.com/ passengers, baggage, cargo and mail 132 REPORT 2018 Independent Limited Assurance Report to Goldair Aviation Handling S.A. We were engaged by the Board of Directors of Goldair Aviation subsidiaries or joint ventures of the Company mentioned in the Handling S.A. (referred to as “the Company” or “Goldair Handling”) Report. to provide limited assurance over selected aspects of the Greek Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation version of the sustainability report titled “Corporate Responsibility of the Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting and Sustainable Development Report 2018” (referred to as “the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (referred to as “GRI”) Report”) of the Company for the reporting period 1 January 2018 as described in the Report and relevant internal guidelines – 31 December 2018. as well, and the information and assertions contained within Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance it; for determining the Company’s objectives in respect to in accordance with ISAE 30001 on the following aspects of the sustainable development performance and reporting, including Report (hereinafter “assurance scope”): the identification of stakeholders and material issues; and 1 The reliability of the General Disclosures of the Global for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards for the “Core” option marked management and internal control systems from which the with the symbol “4” in the GRI Content Index table of the Report. reported performance information is derived. 2 The reliability of the following Topic Specific Disclosures as Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement selected by the Company’s Management and marked with the and to express a conclusion based on the work performed for the symbol “4” in the GRI Content Index table of the Report: agreed assurance scope, as described above. We conducted our • Environmental Effluents and Waste: Management Approach engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000. That Standard requires -“MA”and Disclosure GRI 306-2. that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including • Social Occupational Health and Safety: MA and Disclosure independence requirements and that we plan and perform the GRI 403-2. engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether selected • Social Employment: MA and Disclosure 401-1. aspects of the Report referring to the period 1 January 2018 – • Social Employment: MA and Disclosure 401-3. 31 December 2018 are free from material misstatement. KPMG • Social Training and Education: MA and Disclosure 404-3. applies ISQC 12 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive Our work for the above assurance scope concerned the system of quality control including documented policies and operations and activities of the Company (parent company) in procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Greece for its entire network within Greece. We have not been professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory engaged to provide assurance over any prior reporting period requirements. We have complied with the independence and data or information presented in the Report. In addition, the other ethical requirements of the International Code of Ethics assurance scope excluded the operations of the Company outside for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Greece, as well as the information and performance indicators of Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), which is founded 1 International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Accounting Standards Board. 2 International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1): Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. 133 on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional Financial Statements 2018 of Goldair Aviation Handling S.A. to the competence and due care, confidentiality and professional relevant -within our agreed scopesections of the Report. To obtain behaviour. a thorough understanding of the Company’s financial results and A limited assurance engagement on a sustainability report financial position, the 2018 audited financial statements should consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible be consulted. The scope of our work did not include the review / for the preparation of information presented in the sustainability testing of the operating effectiveness of the information systems report, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering used to collect and aggregate data in relation to the agreed procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: assurance scope. • Inquiries of Management to gain an understanding of the The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a Company’s processes, on a sample basis, for determining the limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable material issues for its key stakeholder groups. assurance engagement, and therefore a lower level of assurance • Interviews with relevant staff at the Company level on a sample is provided. basis, concerning sustainability policies for material issues, and Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing the implementation of these across the business. has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the • Interviews with relevant Company staff responsible for General Disclosures and the Topic Specific Disclosures marked providing information in the Report, during which we also with the symbol “4” in the GRI Content Index table of the Report, reviewed on a sample basis, systems and/ or processes for for the period 1 January 2018 – 31 December 2018, are not fairly information management, internal control and processing of the stated in all material respects. qualitative and quantitative information, at the Company level. Our assurance report is made solely to the Company in In this context, we tested on a sample basis, the reliability of the accordance with the terms of our engagement. Our work has been underlying text and/ or data references mentioned in the General undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters Disclosures and the Topic Specific Disclosures of our agreed we have been engaged to state in this assurance report and for assurance scope. no other purpose. We do not accept or assume responsibility to • Visits to the central offices of the Company in Athens, where anyone other than Goldair Aviation Handling S.A. for our work, for we reviewed, on a sample basis, the procedures of developing this assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. and managing the content of the Report, as well as the current structure of the Corporate Governance in sustainability issues. • Comparing the information presented in the Report within our agreed assurance scope to corresponding information in the relevant underlying sources, on a sample basis, to determine whether the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included in the Report. • Reading the information presented in the Report within our agreed assurance scope, to determine on a sample basis, KPMG Advisors Single Member S.A. whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of the Company. Where financial information (text and/ or data) subject to the statutory auditor’s scope has been utilised within the agreed George Raounas assurance scope, our work was limited to the reliability check of Partner the transfer of these text/ data from the audited and published Athens, 25 July 2019 134 REPORT 2018 Report Evaluation Form By filling out the evaluation form to let us know what you think of the 2018 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report, you are actively contributing towards improving our future Reports. What is your opinion of Goldair Handling’s 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Report, taking the following criteria into account? No opinion / Probably Probably Disagree Agree do not know / disagree agree no response The Report provides an overall picture of Goldair Handling’s activities in Sustainable Development areas The information included in the Report is comprehensive and easy to understand The Report covers the information you need What is your opinion of the sections of the Report? Please choose accordingly: (1) Improvement required, (2) Good, (3) Very Good, (4) Excellent 1 2 3 4 1. How would you rate section “1. Goldair Handling: An Overview”? 2. How would you rate section “2. Goldair Handling Bulgaria”? 3. How would you rate section “3. Corporate Governance”? 4. How would you rate section “4. Responsible operation and development”? 5. How would you rate section “5. Our people”? 6. How would you rate section “6. Health and Safety”? 7. How would you rate section “7. Environmental responsibility ? 8. How would you rate section “8. Goldair Handling’s social contribution”? 9. General Overall impression of the Report 135 Please indicate any issues which were not included in the Report and which you would like to see included in the next edition: Please provide any additional comments or proposals for the Report: Solely for statistical purposes, please indicate to which group of Goldair Handling’s stakeholders you belong: Employee Supplier – External partner Shareholder Media representative Customer airline Representative of a financial institution Member of the local community Member of a non-governmental organisation Representative of a regulatory body / Customer (passenger) Institutional body Other: (please fill in) Please send the completed evaluation form (by post or e-mail) to the following address: Eirini Papoutsi, Chief Sustainability Officer, Quality & Environment Manager Athens International Airport, Building 24, 1st floor, 19004, Spata Telephone: +30 210 354 3850 Email: E.papoutsi@goldair-handling.gr 136 This printed material is FSC®-certified. This means that all raw paper materials used are sourced from responsible forestry. For more information visit www.fsc.org Athens International Airport “El. Venizelos”, Building 24, 1st floor, 19019 Spata. Tel: +30 210 3543000 www.goldair-handling.com
