2019 Statement of continued support RESPONSIBLE & SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS As a collective of engineers, consultants and project managers, Royal HaskoningDHV has a deeply rooted understanding of the physical and social environment. In our everyday work we digitally transform this ingrained knowledge to create efficient designs that both minimise negative environmental impacts and maximise positive social impacts and society’s resilience to climate change. We recognise that the challenges the world faces, as captured in the UN Sustainable Development Goals, need to be addressed urgently, and can only be tackled by enacting systemic change in the way we conduct business. We aim to have a direct impact on society by going beyond the Triple Bottom Line framework:  From managing stakeholders, to partnering with stakeholders.  From managing environmental impacts, to improving the environment.  From saving money, to creating economic value for the community. Our promise is to ‘Enhance Society Together’ with our clients and other stakeholders through innovation and co-creation. This is a commitment we choose to make; because we believe this is the only viable business model. Business has an instrumental role to play in shaping a society that is good for people, the environment and the economy. We focus our impact in areas that we master and can actively influence to contribute to a relevant selection of UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our ambition is to leverage our Products & Services and our own Operations to contribute to inclusive sustainable development with our clients and partners. We set targets, measure performance and report on Responsible & Sustainable Business (RSB) globally. Our ambitions are described in the Sustainability Policy Statement and RSB Charter, and in the RSB Plans and Actions of our businesses and supporting units / corporate groups. As concern mounts over the accelerating impact of climate change and the urgent need for energy transition, our mission is more relevant than ever. Coupled with our multidisciplinary expertise across water, energy, industry and transport, our company is in an excellent position to deliver distinctive new services and solutions to meet these challenges and enhance society. Our policies and Global Code of Business Principles incorporate and support the ten principles of UN Global Compact. This is also reflected in our CR policy, integrity management system and our HR policies and practices. Erik Oostwegel CEO Royal HaskoningDHV Amersfoort, 21 May 2019 1 The Responsible & Sustainable Business Update is an integrated part of our Annual Report and provides further information on topics contained in the Annual Report 2018 website and Financial Statement. It provides additional detail and depth to ensure transparency on progress and performance from 1 January to 31 December 2018. For more information and examples we invite readers to visit our website, www.royalhaskoningdhv.com, and view our news, annual reports and policies. We are always interested in your feedback. Please contact us on info.cr@rhdhv.com. Company Profile Royal HaskoningDHV has been connecting people for 135 years. Together, through our expertise and passion, we have helped contribute to a better society and improved people’s lives with work underpinned by our sustainable values and goals. We are an independent, international engineering and project management consultancy leading the way in sustainable development and innovation. Our ambition is to run a financially healthy business by putting our collective intelligence into practice with clients and partners to have a positive impact on people, our living environment and the economy. We are commercial savvy engineers, project managers and consultants who design smart cities, airports, ports, buildings and more; making them more environmental friendly and healthier. We reinvent industries through co-creation, for example clean energy and fresh water. We use smart data and we digitise information flows and models connecting the digital world with the physical world we live in. We drive inclusive sustainable development with our clients in areas that we master and can actively influence. Our purpose is to Enhance Society Together. 6,000 colleagues, working from around 100 permanent offices in more than 30 countries on projects in some 150 countries, are committed to our purpose to enhance society together. We are eager to co-create and benefit from the latest technology in order to grow our collective societal intelligence. We put this intelligence into practice to have a positive impact on people, the economy and the environment. As innovators, being smart with resources and digital technology, we challenge the status quo, ask questions, Connecting lives is our history and our future. We are connected through a passion to work on projects that matter and to engineer solutions for our clients that go beyond the original brief. We are connected through work that is enhancing society, contributing to a more sustainable future for our children and our children’s children. 2 Communications on progress 2018 – UN Global Compact Principles (from 1-1-2018 to 31-12-2018) Acting Responsible and Sustainable Progress Update & Cross references Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update GENERAL  The UN Global Compact principles are included in our CR 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI and Integrity policies and management systems, and in our Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how Global Code of Business Principles. we Enhance Society Together in practice.  Royal HaskoningDHV continuously raises awareness and In 2018 SGS, an external audit firm, has reviewed monitors compliance with the management systems Royal HaskoningDHV’s Integrity Management System (including but not limited to Integrity, Labour, Health and and Program as required by the Anti-corruption Safety, Environment) and the Global Code of Business Compliance System Certificate. It means that the Principles worldwide. company continues to work under this prestigious  The Global Code is available in 10 languages and 'best practice' certificate that is managed by ETHIC distributed to all staff. Intelligence. The certificate includes commitment to all  The governance of CR and Integrity is described in the CR aspects of the UN Global Compact. Statement.  Issues and incidents are reported at least quarterly and investigated and responded to – under supervision of the Links cross references: www.royalhaskoningdhv.com: Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. Global Code of Business Principles  Third party due diligence is executed to work on a clean Business Principles for Partners and Suppliers supply chain. CR / Responsible and Sustainable Business Policy  In all meetings an Integrity Moment is mandatory to Statement stimulate transparency and to share lessons learnt (Prevent Integrity Management System (Anti-Corruption and Protect). Management System)  In the Annual report and the additional Responsible and Speak Up Line Sustainable Business Update, the program and actions for 2018 are presented and evaluated. Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy/UK In addition, the plans for the coming year (2019) are Modern Slavery Act shared. This covers all items of the UNGC principles. Link: ETHIC Intelligence Anti-Corruption Compliance System Certificate. 3 Principle 1:  Respecting human rights is a business condition to our Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Businesses company. In our Global Code and in the Business Principles 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI should support for Partners and Suppliers human rights are included. Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how and respect the  However, permanent monitoring related to human rights we Enhance Society Together in practice. protection of conditions take place in all countries in which we do In all countries, were Royal HaskoningDHV has internationally projects, to ensure we act according to our principles and to permanent presence, are Local Compliance Officers proclaimed try to have a positive effect, even if our impact is small. (LCO’s) appointed. human rights.  To take our responsibility in the supply chain we assess the No violations have been reported in 2018. policies and operations of our Third Parties. Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’  Monitoring and audit of the protection of human rights are fully integrated in our Integrity Management System. The system is independently audited and awarded with the ETHIC Intelligence Certificate.  Providing healthy and safe working conditions are key values in our human resource management. Worldwide we are OHSAS 18001 – International Health and Safety standard – certified. This management system includes Travel security and incident management. Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 2: In the compliance reports and through the Speak-up line. 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses We will continue to execute and develop our Integrity Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how should make sure Management System and reporting, and also to raise we Enhance Society Together in practice. that they are not awareness on the importance of speaking-up (directly, or No violations have been reported in 2018. complicit in through our anonymous reporting system). human rights By executing frequent internal audits in our operations and Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ abuses . project locations RHDHV prevents for abuse. Third party integrity risk assessments are executed on the start of all new projects. Monitoring during the project execution is integrated with the Integrity Moments. At the project closure an integrity evaluation takes place. Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 3: We subscribe to the conventions of the International Labour 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses Organisations (ILO). Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how should uphold the We have a global HR policy and an international HR we Enhance Society Together in practice. freedom of management team and system, which enables us to UPDATE: In 2016 the worldwide employee association and recognise labour related issues worldwide. engagement survey took place. Employees could the effective A global job positioning system (GPS) is in place to create freely give their impressions and meanings. In 2018 recognition of the transparency and equal opportunities for careers for all we performed regularly pulse checks to monitor right to collective staff. progress, on topics mentioned in the Employee bargaining. Our works councils and representatives are actively Engagement Survey, where employees could freely engaged. express their opinion. No violations have been reported in 2018. Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 4:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses system as well as through our Integrity Management System Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how ensure the (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of forced we Enhance Society Together in practice. elimination of all labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. No violations have been reported in 2018. forms of forced Neither this accepted from any of our clients or Business and compulsory Partners and Suppliers. Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ labour.  The content of the UK Modern Slavery Act applies to all our operations worldwide. Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 5:  This is managed and monitored with our HR management 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses system as well as through our Integrity Management System Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how ensure effective (Speak up). We work in countries in which forms of child we Enhance Society Together in practice. abolition of child labour do occur. We do not accept any involvement in this. No violations have been reported in 2018. labour. Neither this accepted from any of our clients or Business Partners and Suppliers. Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ 4 Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 6:  Diversity and equality is a key value in our company and 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses reflected by our Global Code of Business Principles. It is Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how should eliminate part of our HR management and Integrity Management. we Enhance Society Together in practice. discrimination in  The Supervisory Board sees inclusion and diversity as one Two incidents have been reported in 2018 to the respect of of its focal points. Local Compliance Officer. Investigation by Group employment and Our global career positioning system (GPS) supports Integrity & Compliance took place and sanctions occupation transparency and equal opportunities for careers. were given. Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 7: We actively promote taking a precautionary approach to 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses environmental challenges in our projects in cooperation with Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how should support a clients and partners. It is part of our business approach as is we Enhance Society Together in practice. precautionary illustrated in our annual report (enhancing society together) No violations have been reported in 2018. approach to and CR Statement. environmental Links cross references: This is included in our ISO14001 certificate. We were the challenges; first engineering and consultancy company in the See ‘GENERAL’ Netherlands to be successfully audited against the new Our regular communication channels: ISO 14001:2015 Our RHDHV website: To walk-the-talk and embed Enhancing Society Together 1. Projects Highlights in our daily practice, we ask 4 Questions in every project 2. News Room to keep our focus on sustainable growth. By asking these 3. Papers & Articles four simple questions, we go beyond the original brief and • Via Social Media: encourage our clients to join us in identifying how we can 1. LinkedIn do things better and more sustainably, for their benefit 2. Twitter and for society to Enhance Society Together. These 4 3. Facebook Questions have been integrated in the work procedures. In our operations, we measure the ecological footprint of our offices and business travel; we set targets and carry out action plans for the reduction of CO2 equivalent emissions. Enhance Society Together is promoted via our regular communication channels and social media. 5 Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 8: The SDG match with our CSR Priorities. We focus where we 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses can add most value. Key to our CSR strategy is the desire to Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how should undertake focus our impact in areas that we master and actively influence we Enhance Society Together in practice. initiatives to and, through that impact, contribute to particular UN Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ promote greater Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in our Projects and in environmental our Operations. responsibility; The 4 Questions continued to support our teams to discuss better solutions with the client. Our on-going projects, the SDGs and the 4 Questions which we ask in every project to keep our focus on sustainable growth to Enhance Society Together are all interrelated. Under the coordination of the Operational Excellence Steering Committee and the hackathon teams, we continuously look for new solutions and technologies, with the ambition to increase environmental efficiency and performance and sustainable digital solutions. Within our businesses we employ environmental specialists that integrate environmental management in our engineering consultancy projects. They share knowledge internationally (Knowledge Management program). As is custom, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (people, planet, profit) were included in many training modules, to develop skills and awareness, and to communicate our ambition of showing leadership in sustainability. Principle 9: With our businessand market position, we are very well able Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Businesses to distribute environmentally friendly technologies across the 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI should encourage globe. You could say that this is our core business. Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how the development we Enhance Society Together in practice. Besides distribution, we focus on development of new and diffusion of We continued our long-term relationship with solutions as well (innovation): environmentally several universities. To make our SDG contribution relevant and actionable we friendly Our partnership (SDG17) strategy focuses on use our 4 Questions to Enhance Society Together technologies influencing policy frameworks and cross-industry Innovation is steered by the Technical Directors (tools and transformation. support for innovation across market sectors). Royal HaskoningDHV earned several awards in Our cleaner technologies are shared and promoted 2018 for clean technologies, and promoted new and internationally and implemented worldwide (e.g. Nereda, an cleaner technologies at conferences and events. innovative and efficient water treatment technology). Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ See our website: awards & nominations and our news pages. 6 Our Responsible and Sustainable Business Update Principle 10: Integrity and anti-corruption is key to our business and 2018 (CSR/Sustainability Update) including GRI Businesses our (moral) license to operate. We have zero tolerance Table 2018 and Our Annual Report 2018 show how should work towards corruption. This vision is translated in, and we Enhance Society Together in practice. against corruption safeguarded by our Integrity management system, which UPDATE: In 2018 the integrity and anti-corruption in all its forms, includes clear instructions and guidelines, definitions, the and anti-bribery was continuously promoted and including extortion role of our Group Compliance Officer and Local communicated internally during on boarding and bribery Compliance Officers, reporting structures, anonymous sessions with new employees, interactive sessions SpeakUp line, a living IMS Reference Book, training, and with project managers and during the mandatory an integrated approach to internal and external auditing. Integrity Moment in all our management meetings. Local Compliance Officers reported on issues quarterly to In 2018 special focus is given to anti-corruption their Resident Director and the Group Integrity & initiatives in our supply chain which will be Compliance Officer. The GCO reported monthly to the continued in 2019 by implementing an automated Executive Board and quarterly to the Supervisory Board. support system for third party due diligence. Third Party Due Diligence is made an essential part of We continue creating awareness on risks and to comply our Pre-qualification and Proposal process. with the requirements of our externally provided AntiIn 2018 a mandatory e-learning for sub-contractors corruption compliance certificate. and suppliers is introduced. It covers all aspects of responsible business and the Principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2018 several incidents of violations and noncompliances were reported by our Compliance Officers during the year. Most issues were minor concerns that have been evaluated and/or investigated, and appropriate mitigating measures have been taken for correction and prevention. The company was in none of the reported issues actively involved in corrupt practices, extortion or bribery. The company, nor its executives or other staff were subject to investigations or prosecution by any Authority. No violations have been reported in 2018. Links cross references: See ‘GENERAL’ 7
