A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 B f a i t h Jason Marine Group Limited ANNUAL Report 2018 C Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d The world today thrives on real-time connectivity with split-second communications and data flow to improve productivity and efficiency. Wi-Fi services for passengers on board aircraft have already revolutionised the airline industry. With the rising trend of digitalisation now unlocking many opportunities for the marine and offshore oil & gas industries, Jason Marine is wellpositioned to become a key services provider in this area. Backed by our solid track record, Jason Marine continues to expand its partnerships and capabilities as an integrated marine electronics solutions provider to remain relevant, more than able to meet the growing demand for digital connectivity at sea. Faith in our people, capabilities, network and partners, and more importantly, their faith in us, have taken our Jason Marine reputation to new shores. God has blessed our every endeavour and we look to the future with faith as we persevere to further entrench our name and build on our foundation for sustainable growth. CONTENTS Corporate Profile 1 Financial & Operations Review 14 Our Vision, Our Values 1 Corporate Structure 16 Our Business Model 2 Key Partner 18 Our People, Our Sectors 4 Sustainability Report 19 Chairman’s Statement 8 Corporate Information 35 Board of Directors 10 Service Centres 36 Management Team 12 This annual report has been reviewed by the Company’s sponsor, CIMB Bank Berhad, Singapore Branch (the “Sponsor”) for compliance with the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”) Listing Manual Section B: Rules of Catalist. The Sponsor has not independently verified the contents of this annual report. This annual report has not been examined or approved by the SGX-ST. The Sponsor and the SGX-ST assume no responsibility for the contents of this annual report, including the correctness of any of the statements or opinions made or reports contained in this annual report. The contact person for the Sponsor is Ms Tan Cher Ting, Director, Investment Banking, CIMB Bank Berhad, Singapore Branch, at 50 Raffles Place, #09-01 Singapore Land Tower, Singapore 048623, Telephone (65) 6337 5115. A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 1 Corporate Profile Jason Marine Group Limited (“Jason Marine” or the “Company”) is a leading marine electronics systems integrator and support services provider for the marine and offshore oil & gas industries. The Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) have established a track record of delivering quality results safely and efficiently which has enabled it to become one of the industry’s key players in Singapore and forging lasting relationships with a global customer base. Established in 1976 with its headquarters in Singapore, Jason Marine has since expanded to Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and into key shipbuilding markets such as South Korea and China. It carries an extensive range of supplies from renowned manufacturers and continues to add products chosen to meet customers’ exacting requirements. The Group’s proven expertise in marine communication, navigation and automation systems enables it to offer one-stop solutions that span design, supply, integration, installation, testing, commissioning and maintenance. Jason Marine also provides certification services and sells satellite airtime services to complement its communications business. our vision To be a Global World Class Company in Marine Electronics our Values CHARACTER COMPETENCE COMMITMENT Integrity and honesty Excellent quality work Passion and drive Positive attitude Deliver expected results Walk the extra mile Excellent teamwork Innovation and creativity Seek opportunities OUR Business Model 2 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Diverse Clients but Skilled People, Wide Network, ONE Team Timely Response Since 1976, Jason Marine has been putting together and Our highly trained people are based in different service servicing data and communications electronic equipment, centres located in various major ports in East Asia. This customising integrated solutions that make these machines allows us to respond quickly to our customers (vessel work together in line with our clients’ requirements. owners, operators and managers) in this part of the world. We work on merchant ships for the marine sector and In order to be even more effective, we intend to set up exploration & production platforms for the oil & gas sector more service centres in Asia, namely India and which operate under very different conditions and have the Middle East market. different requirements. The Group thus works through various internal business units but as ONE team. South Korea+ • Busan China+ • Shanghai • Guangzhou • Tianjin • Dalian India+ ThailanD+ Malaysia* Indonesia+ Singapore • Mumbai • Bangkok • Klang • Jakarta Headquarters • Songkhla Notes: + Branch Offices and Service Centre * Service Centre only OUR Business Model A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 3 Integrated Solutions 1 2 3 sale of goods rendering of services airtime Our integrated solutions target the following sectors Oil & gas, petrochemical, Sector Marine – Services Marine – Leasing energy and marine Customised Integrated Marine electronics Innovative and reliable Marine electronics Solutions solutions for navigation products, systems and solutions for navigation Hardware sales and communication solutions for all types and communication systems Maintenance systems for all types of applications for all types of commercial, and of commercial, fishing fishing and naval vessels, support services and naval vessels, Services include: mostly retrofitted (24/7) including newbuilds • End-to-end services Airtime services • Turnkey project systems Also does leasing for • Front-End Engineering VSAT1 and ECDIS2 equipment Design (FEED) • Consultancy • Project management • Installation and commissioning • Training • Virtual Network Operator services • Flexible VSAT1 bandwidth packages • Installation of hardware • Maintenance & repair Notes: 1 VSAT – Very Small Aperture Terminal 2 ECDIS – Electronic Chart Display and Information System Our Competitive Edge The 3Cs – Character, Competence and Commitment define the Jason Marine Group and give us a competitive edge in the industry. Character Competence Commitment Upholding integrity, reliability and Staying on top of technological Caring for our people and their enthusiasm; going the extra mile advancements; in-depth training; thriving on teamwork • product knowledge • We strive to remain trustworthy • We leverage on one another’s in our relationships with partners We develop innovative and strengths in getting the job done and clients who have grown to customised solutions for various well to deliver high customer rely on us and our willingness to electronic equipment to work satisfaction go the extra mile seamlessly together and meet clients’ exacting requirements our People, our sectors 4 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Marine –Services We provide one-stop customised We are known to be reliable. Our swift solutions for the navigation, critical response time is crucial as communications, automation and commercial shipping has fixed sailing satellite airtime services on board schedules. We were recently called a wide range of ships. to do a last minute job onboard and we completed it to the customer’s We are always trying to do things satisfaction and well before the differently. For instance, besides just ship set sail. from left: providing hardware and services like Keith Lim, installation, commissioning, certification We are looking to grow by expanding our Sales Director (Marine) and repair in our VSAT airtime packages, sales teams and service centres in the we are also a network operator for region. We are always building on our Kenneth Wong, Ku-band services. capabilities so that we can continue to Service Manager improve on our service level. Eric Wan, Commercial Manager our People, our sectors A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 5 Oil & Gas –Systems integration We have well over two decades of Our core strengths are our time-tested experience servicing and satisfying the and proven project management and most demanding requirements of the engineering skills that enable us to global oil & gas and energy industries. provide total end to end (ETE) solutions, Today, we are a trusted solutions provider from Front End Engineering Design (FEED) for the design, engineering, integration to after sales support (warranty), and to and management of multi-vendor respond quickly when problems crop up. communications, navigation, automation and professional IT/ICT systems in Our customers trust us to deliver. A recent these markets. achievement is our largest contract todate – to integrate a wide range of silo Our job as a telecoms systems integrator systems on board a 220-metre semiis to ensure the different systems installed submersible crane vessel into one unified onboard work together seamlessly, raising secured network. We won this contract operational efficiency and improving after passing a stringent audit against the business processes. At the same time, we competition, well satisfying the evaluation also enhance the safety of those on board criteria and requirements. – not only does our work comply with international regulatory requirements, it We want to grow our reach in the from left: also facilitates the delivery of missionoffshore and onshore O&G sector, as critical solutions that can be time-sensitive. well as in renewable energy (such as Thiha Aung, Senior Proposal Engineer floating LNG vessels) and infrastructure We are well-known in the maritime, oil & projects, always building on our skills Li Zhi Heng, gas as a systems integration, connectivity and capabilities. Engineering Manager and service & maintenance provider. Shaun Teo, Head of Business Unit, Energy our People, our sectors 6 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Marine –Leasing We are making good progress in We believe in the products we represent helping to enlarge our supplier partner – our thorough testing and evaluation and customer reach. Trust is the engine of these equipment/solutions have of our business. We recommend built our trust in their quality and products that we believe are the best effectiveness. Our commitment on for our customers – we do not ‘push’ this front has enabled us to serve as our inventory or standard packaged gatekeepers for our customers – we solutions. can recommend them the best solutions and guide them to maximise Earlier this year, despite knowing that their choices. a project was beyond the scope of our in-house team, our client still awarded Our vision is to deliver ‘extraordinary us the contract simply because they service’ at every step of our business trusted our experience, expertise and process, creating memorable excellent work ethic. We were entrusted experiences with our people from from left: with engaging, directing and managing enquiry stage to after-sales service. sub-contractors who had the specific In the medium term, we will focus on Dominic Oliver, Sales Director skill-set required for this particular growing our revenue and expand the project. Pleased with our service, range of principals we represent. Captain Tarun, this client has since roped us in for Managing Director subsequent similar work. Dip Gajjar, Senior Sales Manager Our PEOPLE Our Capabilities Just as the earth provides the trees with the necessary ingredients for growth, the foundation of Jason Marine is well grounded on our team of committed and trustworthy people who have tirelessly helped us to grow our capabilities and industry reputation over the years. Chairman’s Statement 8 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Dear Valued Shareholders, attests to our ability to stay relevant by rendering of services through focused nimbly adapting to changes in operating marketing of our innovative and “It was the best of times, it was the worst conditions. Our people and their focus customised package offerings. These of times.” This much quoted phrase from on customer satisfaction is our key helped to partially offset the decline in Charles Dickens aptly describes the state differentiating factor. We have faith airtime sales so that the Group’s revenue of the global marine and offshore oil & in our people, constantly investing in for the financial year ended 31 March gas industry today. their upskill or multi-skill training, and 2018 (FY2018) declined by 4.6% to looking after their welfare and career S$31.6 million. Despite the steady recovery in the world development in the Group. economy since 2015 and firmer crude The Group reported a net profit of oil prices, rising costs of operations, Our integrated solutions cover sale S$45,000 for the year, despite a net vessel oversupply, thinning margins and of goods, rendering of services and fair value loss on derivative financial beleaguered balance sheets, especially of airtime. With growing demand for instruments of S$0.7 million. This the offshore support services providers, greater connectivity at sea, we have resulted from a S$1.6 million fair value continue to dampen overall sentiment so developed customized and innovative loss from the put option on 1,363,953 that the roll-out of new investments and comprehensive packages that combine common stock shares in eMarine maintenance projects has been slow in marine electronics equipment and Global Inc. held by Jason Marine’s the industry. systems integration with flexible satellite wholly-owned Jason Venture Pte. Ltd. bandwidth, so that each client, big or This fair value loss was partially offset by And yet, we are at the edge of an exciting small, can optimize his own operations. the S$0.9 million fair value gain on era where automation and digitalisation On top of this, we are also moving up the a derivative relating to Sense Infosys Pte. Ltd. are set to transform lifestyles and how value chain as a Virtual Network Operator, we work at sea, saving time and cost with several of our engineers currently At the same time, Jason Marine’s while minimising resource wastage working to attain their Cisco Certified persistence in maintaining a healthy through improved connectivity, Network Associate (CCNA) certification. balance sheet and managing its overall efficiency and productivity for ship costs resulted in a net cash position of owners, operators and service providers This year, I am pleased to share some S$17.9 million as at 31 March 2018, like Jason Marine in the entire value insights into how our various internal which translates into a net cash per chain. The much talked about One Belt business units differentiate their services share of 17.0 S¢. One Road global transport infrastructure in the marketplace and enhance the strategy also promises new trade routes Jason Marine brand and reputation for and marine infrastructure which are excellence in the Business Model section Proposed Dividend expected to increase multi-lateral trade of this Annual Report. and open up opportunities for the Group. As an extension of our gratitude to our Not withstanding that the outlook loyal shareholders for staying with us The technology that can support for the global marine and offshore oil during this difficult period, the Board has seamless connectivity between land and & gas industry remains challenging, proposed a first and final tax-exempt sea and allow fast ship-to-ship transfer we continue to aspire to be amongst dividend of 0.5 S¢ a share for FY2018. If of data is already available. Indeed, the best marine electronics solutions approved by shareholders at the Annual the digital transformation of the world providers in the world – rooted in our General Meeting to be held on 26 July economy is slowly but surely making its commitment to excellence, always 2018, the total payout will be S$525,000. way into the maritime industry. building on our expertise to strengthen our brand equity. Acknowledgements and Faith Appreciation FY2018 Financial Review Our team at Jason Marine is preparing My Board and I would like to thank Mr well to ride this wave of change, and Although conditions in the global marine Tan Lian Huat, who stepped down as my confidence is sustained by our faith and offshore oil & gas sector have the Group’s Chief Executive Officer on in the 3 Cs – character, competence, improved on the back of firmer oil prices 31 March 2018, for his strong leadership commitment – that define our people and higher offshore capital expenditure, and invaluable contributions since 1982 in our partner/client relationships. We these have only begun to trickle down when he was appointed a director of listen, analyse and then move decisively to the spending budgets of vessel Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd. Mr Tan was to add the necessary skills so we can and platform owners as well as instrumental in pushing the Group’s develop innovative and flexible solutions service providers. expansion into new markets and that meet the needs of our customers. businesses. We shall miss his wise Against this backdrop, Jason Marine counsel and wish him all the best in The fact that Jason Marine has been achieved a 1.8% higher sale of goods his endeavours. servicing clients for forty-two years and maintained the revenue from the Chairman’s Statement A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 9 “Our team at Jason Marine is preparing well to ride this wave of change, and my confidence is sustained by our faith in the 3 Cs – character, competence, commitment – that define our people in our partner/client relationships. ” I must also thank our people on the ground and our management team – they are the pillars upholding our Jason Marine brand. Your hard work, dedication and commitment to always give your best and go that extra mile to meet customers’ expectations have lifted our standing as a leading marine electronics systems integrator and support services provider. To our business partners, we are deeply grateful for your steadfast support and faith in us. Your confidence in our ability to deliver will strengthen our resolve to rise above the challenges. Last but not least, thank you shareholders for your continued patience and trust as we work to build a sustainable business and establish a better future for everyone. Mr Foo Chew Tuck Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer BOARD OF Directors 10 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d From left to right: Sin Hang Boon | Eileen Tay-Tan Bee Kiew | Foo Chew Tuck | Eugene Wong Hin Sun BOARD OF Directors A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 11 Mr Foo Chew Tuck Sirius Venture Capital Pte Ltd, a venture director of SGX-ST Mainboard-listed investment company, in September 2002, Sunningdale Tech Ltd. Executive Chairman and and has been its managing director since Chief Executive Officer its incorporation. He is currently nonMrs Tay graduated from the University executive chairman of CrimsonLogic Pte of Singapore in 1974 with a bachelor of Since its inception in 1976, or 42 Ltd and non-executive vice-chairman of accountancy (honours). She is a fellow years ago, Jason Marine’s growth and Japan Foods Holding Ltd. He is also the member of the Institute of Singapore aspirations have been shaped by our non-independent non-executive Director Chartered Accountants (ICSA), the founder, Mr Foo Chew Tuck, 67, whose of Neo Group Limited. He is also serving Chartered Institute of Management vision for the Group has enabled it on the Boards of Enterprise Singapore Accountants (CIMA) in the UK and CPA to become a leading comprehensive and Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority Australia, as well as a Licentiate of Trinity solutions provider of marine electronics of Singapore, both Statutory Boards of College London. systems. As a leader of the management Singapore. team, he has demanded the highest standards of quality and service He currently serves as a non-executive throughout the Group, helping it build director of several private companies, Mr Sin Hang Boon strong ties with customers and partners including Cargo Community Network Pte alike that have stood the test of time, even Independent Director Ltd, a subsidiary of Singapore Airlines, as in the most challenging of environments. well as Singapore Cruise Centre Pte Ltd. Mr Sin Hang Boon @ Sin Han Bun, 79, is He has fostered strong bonds within an independent non-executive director Mr Wong graduated from the National Jason Marine, where his emphasis on of the Group, having been appointed to University of Singapore with a Bachelor character, competence and commitment the board on 15 September 2009. He of Business Administration (first-class has nurtured a robust work ethic within has more than 40 years of experience honours) in 1992, and earned a Master of the workplace, inspiring the team to aim in the telecommunications industry. He Business Administration from the Imperial for excellence and expand its capabilities began his career in 1960 as a trainee College of Science, Technology and to ride on emerging industry trends. engineer with the Singapore Telephone Medicine at the University of London in The people at Jason Marine work hard to Board (which was eventually reorganised 1998. In 2011, Mr Wong completed the create a brighter future for the Company, into today’s SingTel), under a localisation Owners President Management Program which in turn makes their welfare a top programme to replace the expatriate from the Harvard Business School. priority by championing their individual officers on loan from the then British He has been qualified as a Chartered development and working to enrich Post Office. Financial Analyst (CFA) since 2001, a their lives with knowledge, skills Chartered Director (CDir) since 2014, and and experience. During his term of service, he has a Chartered Valuer and Appraiser (CVA) undertaken executive responsibilities in 2018. He is a Fellow of the Australia He is also a firm believer in giving back ranging from frontline operation, to Institute of Company Directors (AICD) and to society, devoting his personal time to engineering planning & support, and the UK Institute of Directors (IoD). community services. business development, including a posting as senior executive to Belgacom A veteran in the marine electronics S.A. in Belgium for 3 years. He returned business, Mr Foo is a full member of to SingTel in 1999 and served as CEO the Singapore Institute of Directors. He Mrs Eileen Tay-Tan Bee Kiew of SingTel International, the company’s earned his bachelor degree in science at Lead Independent Director strategic investment arm, overseeing Oklahoma City University in 1988 and a merger and acquisition projects, until his master degree in business administration Mrs Eileen Tay-Tan Bee Kiew, 65, is the retirement in 2002. After he retired, he in 1992. In addition, he has a diploma in lead independent non-executive director continued to serve on the boards of some marketing from The Chartered Institute of of the Group, having been appointed to of SingTel’s overseas joint-venture firms Marketing in the UK in 1987. the board on 15 September 2009. She until 2004. has more than 38 years of experience in areas such as accounting, auditing, Mr Sin graduated from Nanyang University taxation, public listings, due diligence, in 1959 with a bachelor of science in Mr Eugene Wong Hin Sun mergers and acquisitions, and business physics. He also obtained a diploma Non-Independent advisory. She was a partner at KPMG and in business administration from the Non-Executive Director served as a director of several companies, University of Singapore in 1973, and both private and publicly listed, in attended the Advanced Management Mr Eugene Wong Hin Sun, 50, is a nonSingapore and Australia. Currently, she Program at the Harvard Graduate School independent, non-executive director of is independent director and chairman of of Business Administration in 1993. the Group, having been appointed to the SGX-ST Catalist-listed Singapore Kitchen board on 15 September 2009. He founded Equipment Limited and an independent Management Team 12 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Mr Foo Chew Tuck Ms Esabelle Saw Hong Gaik Executive Chairman and Financial Controller Chief Executive Officer Ms Saw joined the Group in July 2015, The full profile of and is now our Financial Controller, Mr Foo Chew Tuck, our responsible for overseeing Jason Marine’s Executive Chairman and accounting and financial matters. Chief Executive Officer She is also responsible for regulatory can be found on page 11 compliance and corporate secretarial of the Annual Report. matters of the Group. With more than a decade of experience in audit and accounting, she is a key member of our management team. Before joining our Group, from 2013 to 2015, she was the financial manager of Hu An Cable Holdings Ltd., which is listed on both the Singapore and Taiwan bourses. Ms Saw is a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) in the UK and the Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants (ISCA). Ms Saw is a Director of Jason Elektronik (M) Sdn. Bhd. Our Partners Our Customers Just as the branches of trees reach out and spread their leaves to capture the most sunlight to stand tall in the forest, our growing network of partners and customers, supported by strategically located branch offices and service centres in East Asia, is key to the sustainability and growth of our business. Financial & Operations Review 14 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d FY2018 IN REVIEW Despite the put option’s fair value profit also fell 60.8% to S$0.3 million, loss, Jason Marine’s available-for-sale with gross profit margin declining from The global marine and offshore oil & financial assets rose from S$0.6 million 14.3% in FY2017 to 9.9% in FY2018. gas industry is recovering but market as at 31 March 2017 to S$23.5 million conditions remained difficult with as at 31 March 2018. This was largely a weaker demand for the Group’s goods result of the market value of its 1,363,953 HIGHLIGHTS OF FINANCIAL and services in the financial year ended common stock shares in eMarine Global, POSITION AND CASHFLOW 31 March 2018 (FY2018). Against this representing a 6% equity stake in backdrop, our team at Jason Marine the company.(2) Financial Position continued to streamline our operations, Reflecting its still healthy balance sheet implement new strategies and and prudent cost management, Jason renew our marketing efforts that will SEGMENT REVENUE AND Marine reported a net cash position strengthen our position as an integrated PROFIT of S$17.9 million as at 31 March 2018, communications solutions provider and compared with S$23.9 million as at 31 contribute to the sustainability of Sale of Goods March 2017. This represents a net cash our business. On the back of our focused marketing per share of 17.0 S¢ as at 31 March 2018. efforts, revenue from the sale of goods Revenue segment rose by 1.8% to S$22.9 million Equity attributable to owners of the The Group reported an overall revenue in FY2018. Gross profit also increased parent rose to S$46.4 million as at 31 of S$31.6 million for FY2018, against by 1.4%, from S$7.2 million in FY2017 to March 2018, supported by a share capital FY2017’s S$33.2 million. The decrease S$7.3 million in FY2018 on a steady of S$18.0 million, fair value adjustment was due mainly to a lower airtime gross profit margin of 32.1%. reserve of S$23.0 million, and retained revenue. earnings of S$5.9 million, partially offset Rendering of Services by treasury shares held of S$0.3 million Earnings Revenue from rendering of services, and foreign currency translation account Jason Marine recorded a 2.3% higher which is from equipment leasing and of S$0.1 million. Jason Marine’s share gross profit of S$10.2 million in FY2018 provision of maintenance and support capital remained the same at 1,000,000 which was due mainly to the better services, held up well at S$6.3 million treasury shares and 105,000,000 issued gross profit margin from the rendering despite the competitive environment. ordinary shares (excluding treasury of services segment. The Group’s overall The segment gross profit grew 22.0% in shares) as at 31 March 2018. gross profit margin also rose from 30.1% FY2017 to S$2.6 million in FY2018 and in FY2017 to 32.3% in FY2018 with the gross profit margin increased to 41.2% The net asset value per share improvement in its overall costs and from 33.9% previously. strengthened from 22.4 S¢ as at 31 March operational efficiency. Distribution, 2017 to 44.2 S¢ as at 31 March 2018. general and administrative expenses Airtime Services continued to decline, falling nearly 8.9% Due to lower airtime services taken up Operating Activities to S$8.5 million during the year. by customers, revenue for the airtime Operating cashflows before working services segment decreased by S$1.9 capital changes was about S$2.5 million Jason Marine achieved a net profit of million to S$2.5 million in FY2018. Gross for FY2018. Due largely to an increase S$45,000 after accounting for a S$0.7 million net fair value loss on derivative financial instruments, with the Group re-stating its balance sheet and financial accounts to better reflect the value of its investments separately from derivative financial instruments in accordance with the Singapore Financial Reporting Standard 39 – the Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement (FRS 39). In FY2018, Jason Marine took in a fair value loss of S$1.6 million from the put option on 1,363,953 common stock shares in eMarine Global Inc., (eMarine Global)(1) held by Jason Marine’s whollyowned subsidiary, Jason Venture Pte. Ltd. (JV). This was partially offset by the fair value gain on a derivative relating to Sense Infosys Pte. Ltd. of S$0.9 million. Financial & Operations Review A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 15 in trade and other receivables of S$6.5 OPERATIONS REVIEW However, we remain steadfast and million, decrease in trade and other resolute to overcome these difficult payables of S$0.7 million, and decrease To keep pace and stay ahead of advances operating conditions, pressing on in in deferred revenue of S$1.4 million, in information and communications growing our portfolio of integrated partially offset by the decrease in technology, our key people undergo communications solutions and our inventories of S$1.4 million, the net cash specialised training programmes to arm capabilities, ready to embrace the used in operations came to S$4.8 million. them with the right knowledge and skills digitalisation wave that is shaping the After payment of income tax of S$0.5 – these enable Jason Marine to widen industry and push Jason Marine ahead. million and interest received of and deepen our capabilities which could S$0.1 million, the net cash used in hinder us from offering our clients the operating activities amounted to S$5.1 best solutions. million for FY2018. In FY2017, the net cash generated from operating activities was S$11.0 million. We are also always exploring ways to do things better and improve productivity. Investing Activities To this end, we recently completed Net cash used in investing activities was upgrading our email system to facilitate about S$0.2 million. This was due mainly more seamless information sharing, (1) eMarine Global shares trade in US dollars on to the loan to iProMar (Pte) Ltd (iProMar) including in-house training programmes, the US OTC Pink Market. Shareholders should among our staff in Singapore and branch note that depending on market conditions of S$0.2 million which was subsequently and other relevant factors, the gain, if any, converted into new ordinary shares in offices and service centres throughout that the Group may be able to realise on the capital of iProMar by the Group’s East Asia. its investment in eMarine Global may not necessarily be the same or close to the wholly-owned JV on 15 December 2017, accounting impact reflected in the Group’s and purchase of plant and equipment of audited consolidated financial statements S$0.2 million, partially offset by proceeds OUTLOOK for FY2018. from the disposal of plant and equipment (2) Under the terms of the relevant agreement, of S$0.2 million. We are cautious about our prospects, JV has the option to sell all or part of its 1,363,953 shares in eMarine Global between as we expect the soft demand for 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2019 to Mr Financing Activities our goods and services and intense Ung Gyu Kim, the CEO of eMarine Global. No cash was generated or used in competition to persist. Keen pricing will The exercise price of the option is 759 Korean won per share plus interest accrued at a rate financing activities in FY2018, as also likely continue to put pressure of 5.38% per annum from 28 October 2011 to with FY2017. on margins. the date the option is exercised. Corporate structure 16 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Jason Electronics 49% (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand 100% JASON ELECTRONICS (Pte) Ltd SIngapore 100% 100% JASON Marine VENTURE Innovation Pte. Ltd. Pte. Ltd. SIngapore SIngapore Jason Marine Group Limited Jason Korea Co., Ltd SIngapore South Korea 51% 100% 100% Jason JaSON Jason Elektronik Energy ASIA (M) Sdn. Bhd. Pte Ltd PTE LTD 100% Malaysia SIngapore SIngapore Jason (Shanghai) 100% (2) PT Jason Elektronika 100% Co., Ltd INDONESIA Shanghai, China 24.4% (1) 60% Koden Singapore 25% Sense Infosys Pte. Ltd. Pte Ltd Singapore SINGAPORE iProMar (Pte) Ltd Singapore Notes: 1 Upon conversion of all the convertible preference shares issued by Sense Infosys Pte. Ltd. into ordinary shares 2 1% owned by Jason Asia Pte Ltd and 99% owned by Jason Venture Pte. Ltd. Our FAITH Our FUTURE “For I know the plans I have for you,” declares the Lord, “plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.” Jeremiah 29:11 Just as God is our Creator who holds the vast expanse of the skies, and everything in the universe and the earth together, He is also the anchor of Jason Marine’s foundation, growth and hope for the future. KEY Partner 18 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Intelsat S.A. (NYSE: I) operates the world’s first Globalized Network, delivering high-quality, cost-effective video and broadband services anywhere in the world. Intelsat’s Globalized Network combines the world’s largest satellite backbone with terrestrial infrastructure, managed services and an open, interoperable architecture to enable customers to drive revenue and reach through a new generation of network services. Thousands of organizations serving billions of people worldwide rely on Intelsat to provide ubiquitous broadband connectivity, multi-format video broadcasting, secure satellite communications and seamless mobility services. The end result is an entirely new world, one that allows us to envision the impossible, connect without boundaries and transform the ways in which we live. Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 19 CONTENTS 1. Our Material Issues for Sustainability 2. About this Sustainability Report 3. Board Statement on Sustainability 4. Our Approach to Sustainability 5. Occupational Health and Safety 6. People Development, Labour Relations and Standards 7. Product Responsibility 8. Community Engagement 9. Sustainable Procurement 10. Safeguarding the Environment 11. Continuous Engagement with Our Stakeholders 12. GRI Content Index Sustainability report 20 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Our Material Issues for Sustainability Focusing On Issues That Matter to Our Stakeholders In 2016, we conducted a materiality assessment workshop A month-long survey was carried out towards the end of the with our Senior Management and representatives from key reporting period by an independent consultant, Paia Consulting business units to identify key material issues based on the Pte Ltd. 79 participants from 5 stakeholder groups were invited Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and AA1000AS to rate the level of importance of Jason Marine’s previous five-part materiality test. This year, to take into consideration material issues. We achieved an overall response rate of 71% their relevance to more stakeholder groups, we engaged key from our stakeholders, which included customers, bankers, external and internal stakeholders on their views of the suppliers, employees and Board of Directors. material issues that were previously identified. Re-Prioritisation of Our High Priority Level 1 Importance to external stakeholders Material Issues • Business Ethics, Anti-corruption and Compliance Following the stakeholder engagement Priority Level 2 • Economic Performance and exercise, two material issues have been Productivity • Community Engagement re-prioritised. ‘Product responsibility’ is • Occupational Health and Safety • Diversity and Inclusion now of higher priority than ‘Sustainable • People Development, Labour • Sustainable Procurement Relations and Standards procurement’, while ‘Diversity and inclusion’ has been added as a ‘Priority • Waste Disposal Management • Products Responsibility Level 2’ material issue. The materiality matrix on the right Emerging issue for reporting reflects the issues of importance to both • Energy Efficiency our external stakeholders and to internal stakeholders, categorised according Low to priority level: Low Importance to internal stakeholders High Identified Material Section Reference for Information Page Issue on Identified Material Issue (1) Reference (1) Priority level 1 • Business Ethics, Anti-corruption Our Approach to Sustainability 22 and Compliance • Economic Performance and Productivity Financial & Operations Review, 14-15, 26 Financial Statements, Community Engagement • Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety 23 • People Development, Labour Relations People Development, Labour Relations and 24-25 and Standards Standards • Product Responsibility Product Responsibility 25 Priority level 2 • Community Engagement Community Engagement 26 • Diversity and Inclusion People Development, Labour Relations 24-25 and Standards • Sustainable Procurement Sustainable Procurement 27 • Waste Disposal Management Safeguarding the Environment 28 Emerging key issue for reporting • Energy Efficiency Safeguarding the Environment 28 Note: (1) For each material issue identified, please refer to the relevant section of this annual report for details on the Company’s policies, practices and performance for the financial year ended 31 March 2018 (FY2018) as well as targets for the next financial year (including descriptive and quantitative information where relevant) for Priority level 1 issues. Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 21 The diagram below describes how our material issues are distributed around the value chain, which in turn helps to define the boundaries of our material issues. Jason Marine’s Material Issues in its Value Chain Stages Procurement Sales & Servicing Reuse & Disposal We procure high-quality We assemble procured We minimise waste by materials and parts from materials into valuereusing materials as much reliable suppliers, which are added products that as possible, and manage based mainly in Asia. meet customers’ exacting the disposal of waste We also procure from requirements. We also responsibly. Europe, USA, provide repair and ICT Korea, Denmark, services in shipyards and Japan and Norway. onboard vessels in Asia. Material Issues Business Ethics, Compliance and Anti-corruption A responsible business upholds ethics, compliance and anti-corruption throughout the entire value chain. Economic Performance & Productivity It is vital that our economic performance remains healthy, in order to distribute value to our stakeholders for the long term. Besides generating revenue from our sales and services, saving costs throughout the value chain is also essential. VALUE Occupational Health & Safety The health and safety of our workers is most pertinent at the sales and servicing stage. People Development, Labour Relations and Standards Our workers at every stage of our value chain should be given development opportunities and labour rights. We abide by labour regulations such as those prescribed by Ministry of Manpower. Product Responsibility Product responsibility applies throughout the value chain. Procured equipment and used products should not be produced or disposed of at the expense of the natural environment or the society. At the sales and servicing stage, we ensure that key product responsibility issues such as radiation are addressed. Sustainable Procurement We indirectly impact our suppliers and their communities through our procurement practices. Community Engagement We directly impact the maritime community whom we provide products and services for. We also indirectly impact the societies where we implement community engagements, and the areas where our products are disposed. Diversity and Inclusion A diverse and inclusive working environment at every stage of the value chain is important for employee satisfaction and productivity. We are a signatory of the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices. Sustainability report 22 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d About this Sustainability Report We are pleased to present Jason Marine’s second annual In September 2017, Jason Marine was also invited to share our Sustainability Report for our financial year ended 31 March 2018 experience in sustainability reporting at the SGX Sustainability (FY2018). This report has been prepared in accordance with Reporting event for Directors. We hope to have inspired other the GRI Standards: Core Option, and is set out on a “comply or companies to embark on the sustainability reporting journey. explain” basis in accordance with Rule 711B and Practice Note 7F of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (SGXBeing at the early stages of our reporting journey, the scope ST) Listing Manual Section B: Rules of Catalist. Jason Marine of the policies and data covered in this report pertains only to has chosen the GRI framework as it is the most established operations in Singapore, where we are headquartered, unless international sustainability reporting standard and in respect of indicated otherwise. We aim to expand the scope of the report the extent to which such framework is applied, this report has to our overseas operations in future reports. been prepared in accordance with the Core Option. We aim to seek external assurance in future. Jason Marine has been reporting on sustainability issues since our first annual report in 2010 on topics such as Health and Safety, We welcome your feedback at csr@jason.com.sg. Employee Development, and Community. Last year, we furthered our efforts by aligning our reporting with GRI guidelines. Board Statement on Sustainability The key material environmental, social and governance factors of these factors and takes them into consideration in the for Jason Marine have been identified and reviewed by the determination of the Group’s strategic direction and policies Executive Chairman and CEO. The board of directors of Jason and sustainability is a part of Jason Marine’s wider strategy to Marine (Board) oversees the management and monitoring create long term value for all its stakeholders. Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Governance At Jason Marine, we believe that good governance is the key We recognise the importance of risk management as a core to a sustainable business. Our policies underpinned by our part of responsible business management. Our Business values: “Character, Competence, Commitment” provide the Continuity Management (BCM) Committee oversees the framework for managing economic, environmental, social and management of operational risks and mitigating actions to governance (ESG) issues. reduce the risk of business disruptions. Our BCM Policy is part of the Management’s review to ensure continuing suitability or Managing environmental and social issues is part of our when significant changes occur. We have also implemented business model. Providing products and services that meet management systems including the ISO 9001:2015 (since 2009) the requirements of customers and regulatory bodies requires for Quality Management and OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational stringent adherence to environmental and safety standards. Health and Safety Management System (since 2014). Our Attention to social issues such as good labour practices and internal audit policies and procedures provide checks and employee development helps to ensure excellent delivery of balances for our processes. our products and solutions. We value relationships with our clients and the wider community, and the strong ties forged help Corruption, non-compliance and violation of human rights us tide over difficult times. We believe that in the long term, these represent significant risks to Jason Marine’s business and efforts will be reflected in our economic performance. reputation. We further address these issues below. Mr Foo Chew Tuck, our Executive Chairman and CEO, has Business Ethics, Anti-corruption and been instrumental in leading Jason Marine in our sustainability Compliance journey. He works closely with the heads of business units including finance, human resources, health and safety, We take a strong stand against corruptive practices and this and procurement, who together make up Jason Marine’s value has been communicated during meetings to all our Sustainability Committee. employees, major suppliers and business partners. Any form of corruption is escalated to the Chairman. Responsible Business and Operational Risk Management During our employment process, we look out for possible conflicts of interest. Our code of conduct details Jason Marine’s To achieve our vision of being a world class company, having expectations on employee’s conduct, the consequences of strong business ethics is of vital importance. We value integrity violation of conduct, and grievance procedures. It is made and honesty in our “Character”, one of our core values, and available on our intranet for all our Singapore-based staff. believe that this is the right way to conduct a business. This Business ethics is regularly communicated to the regional value is continuously instilled in our employees and is part of heads of the different business units regularly. the working culture at Jason Marine. Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 23 Compliance with rules and regulations is also a key part of to both internal and external stakeholders. The policy applies being a responsible business. We keep ourselves up to date to our employment and tender process, for example, where with international and local laws. For example, different ports data privacy of applicants is respected. Access to personal data in different countries have varying levels of security and laws is restricted to authorized persons such as manager or Senior regarding cargo, and controlled equipment to embargoed Management on a needs basis. destinations can be a challenge. We take extra care to comply with such regulations, in addition to those on the environment, For FY2018, there were no significant fines or non-monetary anti-competitive behavior, and health and safety. sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. There have also been no reported incidents of corruption during the Operating in the information communications and technology reporting period. business means that data privacy and cyber-security are important aspects of business ethics and compliance. Jason It is Jason Marine’s goal to maintain zero incidents of Marine safeguards against these risks by implementing policies corruption. We review policies on whistle blowing, antisuch as the Personal Data Protection Act Policy, which apply corruption and business gifts annually. Occupational Health and Safety Health and safety for our workforce has been a key focus followed-up annually to monitor hearing and detect any throughout our growth as a company. It is not only a symptoms of NID. fundamental right for our workers to be able to work in a safe environment, but when our employees’ wellness is attained, our productivity increases, and we can provide the best for FY2018 : 14.21 our customers. Accident Severity Rate FY2017 : 8.33 Our Safety and Health Policy, which is publicly available on per million man hours FY2016 : 0 our website, applies to all employees and contractors, and focuses on prevention and compliance. We conduct safety risk assessments at all levels and across all operating locations. FY2018 : 4.74 Accident We have a Safety Committee to oversee the promotion FY2017 : 4.16 Frequency Rate of safety culture and practices in the workplace. Led by a per million man hours member of our Management, the Committee includes a few FY2016 : 0 representatives from each functional department. Monthly meetings are held to discuss safety related matters, including reviews of changes in regulatory requirements, outcomes of FY2018 : 1 monthly safety inspection, results from regular risk assessments Number of and the necessary preventive measures. The information is then FY2017 : 1 Injuries disseminated by Committee members to their peers during FY2016 : 0 their respective department meetings. All our employees are represented by the joint management-worker Safety Committee. Our operations in Singapore have safety management systems We had no fatalities during the reporting period. One of our in place. The certifications for bizSAFE STAR and OHSAS employees injured his hand from the inappropriate use of a 18001:2007 have been renewed in 2016. metal cable tie while working onboard a vessel. An incident investigation was conducted to determine the root cause and Health and safety trainings on aspects such as risk assessment, the risk assessment on performing job onboard was updated to fire safety, and first aid are provided for all staff according to prevent future recurrence. Results of the investigation and the their job requirements. Both workshop-based and field staffs are revised risk assessment were disseminated to all field staff to sent for relevant risk management training sessions throughout share the important lessons learnt from the incident. the year and are familiarised with the latest safety frameworks. Specific programmes are provided for high-risk site engineers, Our accident frequency rate (ASR) and accident severity rate where they learn how to work safely at heights and in confined (AFR) is 14.21 and 4.74 per million man hours worked in FY2018, spaces. Relevant employees who are nominated as First-Aiders which is lower than the 2017 national averages for the marine will be given CPR+AED training. In addition, we conduct health industry at 95 and 1.5 respectively1. talks and activities for all our employees regularly. We will continue to stress the importance of workplace safety We follow Ministry of Manpower (MOM)’s Workplace Safety and aim for an AFR and ASR of zero in the upcoming years. For and Health Guidelines to manage safety and health of our the next reporting period, we will also aim to report injuries employees in shipyards and ships. One significant hazard that based on the updated GRI Standards for occupational health our field service engineers at shipyard or on-board vessels may and safety, which is currently under revision. be exposed to is high noise level. To prevent noise-induced deafness (NID), all engineers are required to use appropriate Note: personal protection equipment at work. All our new engineers 1 Source: Workplace Safety and Health Report 2017, Ministry of are required to go through audiometric tests, which are Manpower Singapore Sustainability report 24 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d People Development, Labour Relations and Standards At Jason Marine, we want to be the preferred employer of considerations for diversity such as gender and age. These data our people. We endorse the values of non-discrimination and are reviewed by our Management regularly. diversity, and uphold principles on human rights and good labour practices. While our employees are not covered by collective All employees for our operations in Singapore hold permanent bargaining agreements, they are given the right to exercise contracts and work full-time. We seldom rely on workers who freedom of association. Employees are given a minimum of are not employees. one month’s notice prior to any implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. Our Singapore workforce increased from 85 employees as at 31 March 2017 to 92 employees as at 31 March 2018. To monitor our performance in people management, we track data on new hires and turnover, as well as training hours, with Jason Marine has been a signatory of the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and We endorse TAFEP’s guidelines to Jason Marine was conferred a Human Progressive Employment Practices implement fair and merit-based Capital Partner (“HCPartner”) status by (“TAFEP”) for more than 6 years. employment practices. TAFEP in September 2017 Global Employee Profile Region: Singapore 7% Total: 92 Total: 85 19% No. of 61% 59% employees: No. of 124 employees 74% 39% 41% FY 2018 FY 2017 Indonesia China Singapore Female Male Group-level new hires and turnover FY2018 By Gender By Age Group Male Female < 30 years 30-50 years >50 years Rate of new hire 14.5% 11.3% 4.8% 17.7% 3.2% Rate of turnover (total) 8.1% 12.9% 3.2% 13.7% 4.0% Rate of turnover (voluntary) 6.5% 9.7% 2.4% 9.7% 4.0% Rate of new hires and turnover in Singapore, broken down Rate of new hires and turnover in Singapore, broken down by gender by age group FY2018 FY2017 FY2018 FY2017 Male Female Male Female < 30 30-50 >50 < 30 30-50 >50 Rate of years years years years years years new hire 14.1% 12.0% 8.2% 2.4% Rate of 3.3% 18.5% 4.3% 1.2% 9.4% 0% new hire Rate of turnover 9.8% 15.2% 47.1% 21.2% (total) Rate of turnover 3.3% 16.3% 5.4% 17.6% 43.5% 7.2% (total) Rate of turnover Rate of (voluntary) 7.6% 13.0% 18.8% 9.4% turnover 2.2% 13.0% 5.4% 5.9% 21.2% 1.1% (voluntary) In view of our aging workforce, we look to attract the younger advancement opportunities. We also make working at Jason generation by reaching out to polytechnics with internship Marine more attractive by increasing employee well-being with programmes, sponsorships, and providing more career the adoption of more family friendly and quality work-life policies. Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 25 Jason Marine adheres to the TAFEP guidelines on reAverage no. of training hours per employee, by gender employment of older employees. Although the current statutory retirement age is 62, eligible employees will be offered a Region: Singapore Male Female re-employment contract on a yearly renewable basis, up to age FY2018 50.4 6.3 65 and up to age 67 with effect from 1 July 2017. FY2017 42.5 4.6 The Jason Marine Group employee engagement survey is conducted periodically, about once every 2 to 3 years, to Average no. of training hours per employee, by employee determine the level of employee satisfaction and to gather category feedback. Employees’ inputs are considered in the formulation of human resource practices and programmes such as Region: NonSenior Executives Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) or Workplace Health Singapore executive Management Promotion (WHP) activities. FY2018 32.7 34.9 29.9 People Development FY2017 25.5 27.8 20.3 At Jason Marine, we believe that our people play a vital role for Group-level average no. of training hours per employee, our success, and it is our mission that they are developed to FY2018 their fullest. Talent attraction and development are thus crucial By gender for Jason Marine, and we have policies and processes in place to ensure that our employees receive sufficient training and that Male Female their personal development goals are met. In FY2018, overall 36.5 5.2 average training hours for our employees is 25.4. Our engineers are required to attend training at least twice a By employee category year, including refresher courses, training on new products Executives Non-executive Senior and updates on system changes. Our sales support, finance, Management procurement and human resource departments do not have fixed training requirements but undergo training as and when 29.5 24.7 29.9 there are regulation updates or relevant courses. Due to the nature of our business, most of our employees are engineers, at least once a year under our Performance Management and and most of our engineers are male. As a result, male employees Appraisal Policy. clock a higher average number of training hours. In the first half of 2018, we conducted an alignment survey to The evaluation of an employee’s performance against their ensure alignment of employees to Jason Marine’s business targets aids their personal development. To this end, we ensure strategies. We plan to provide more information on our global that all our employees receive regular performance reviews workforce in our next report. Product Responsibility Integral to our mission of delighting customers is our Lithium Batteries power many of the electronic responsibility in ensuring our customers are supplied equipment and systems we supply. However, because with products that are safe. To manage this, we have they can overheat and combust easily, they are risky identified potential impacts that may arise from the to transport and are classified as dangerous goods by use of our equipment and systems, and have put in the United Nations. To manage this risk, we use tested place measures to prevent any negative effects. lithium batteries from original manufacturers or their approved sources that meet regulatory requirements, Our engineers are trained by the equipment and engage qualified companies to dispose of the manufacturer on safe handling of the equipment. batteries responsibly. End-user training is also provided to customers according to the manufacturer’s operation manual to ensure safe operations. Asbestos is a material that may be used in the manufacture of electronic devices. Heavy exposure We comply with the Shipper’s Declaration for to asbestos can result in lung disease and cancer. We ASBESTOS Dangerous Goods set out by the International Air ensure that all of our equipment are asbestos-free or Transport Association. There have been no incidents fulfill regulatory standards on asbestos, to safeguard or of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary customers from asbestos-related health issues. codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our products and services. Read more about our Health and Safety measures for Radiation from radio devices can reach unsafe levels, our workers below. if radiation power density is not controlled. We ensure that our communication technologies are designed and We have internal indicators to track our performance deployed in ways that minimize operators’ exposure to in the area of product responsibility. We aim to radiation – both during the installation process and also disclose performance for this area in the next report. during the use of the platforms on board the ships. Sustainability report 26 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Community Engagement At Jason Marine, it is our goal to be our society’s preferred corporate citizen. The nature of our operations means that our main contact with the society is with the maritime community at the shipyards and vessels where we operate in, and who uses our systems and products. Through our stringent safety standards and responsible use of products as discussed in previous chapters, we ensure that any negative impacts for themaritime community are minimal. We also aim to positively impact local communities beyond the maritime community, and we have been doing so through community development and engagement programmes. We have remained committed to meeting local communities’ needs and enabling vulnerable groups of the society. Since 2012, all of Jason Marine’s operations in Singapore have implemented local community development programmes by joining the Adopt-a-Precinct (AAP) scheme of South West Community Development Council. Every year, we have been contributing to our adopted precinct, the Telok Blangah community, in different ways. This year, we sponsored 50 book vouchers amounting to S$3,000 for low income children and 20 goodies bags amounting to S$600 for senior citizens through the Telok Blangah Residents’ Committee’s Edu Aid event in December 2017. Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 27 Sustainable Procurement Demograhic distribution of products and services procured EUROPE USA 19.70% 5.40% ASIA 69.00% AUSTRALIA & OCEANIA 5.9% Percentage of products and services We procure from regional partners who provide us with high purchased locally or overseas quality equipment, systems and solutions, in order to achieve the highest quality in our products and services. In line with our material issues of Business Ethics, Product Responsibility and Occupational Health and Safety, it is important to us to procure from suppliers with sound social and environmental practices. In the manufacturing stage, human rights issues and forced or child labour practices have potential negative impacts, Local 66% 34% together with the use of contentious materials such as rare Overseas earth metals in the production of the equipment. Jason Marine can indirectly influence our supply chain positively, through our supplier selection process. Extending our environmental values to our supply chain, having ISO 14001 certification is one of the consideration factors when selecting suppliers. Our sourcing activities can also have a positive influence on the local economy. We engage local suppliers whenever possible, Percentage of products and services acquired directly but due to specific legal and technical requirements for our (from makers) or indirectly (from authorised dealers) products, a large proportion of our systems and equipment are sourced from Europe and the USA. 34% of our products and services were purchased locally (i.e. from Singapore). We are developing a Supplier Code of Conduct which stresses legal compliance and adherence to Jason Marine’s business Direct (Makers) ethics. All key suppliers are to comply with the Supplier Code of 55% Indirect 45% Conduct. Currently, we have clear documentation procedures (Authorised Dealers) for our vendor pre-qualification process and also conduct continuous evaluation of our vendors’ performance. Read more about our key partner on page 18. Sustainability report 28 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d SAFEguarding the environment Responsible business is also about being ethical in the way we emissions are consumed and generated during transport of treat the environment. It is expected of companies to safeguard equipment and during business travel. We aim to develop natural resources for future generations. Jason Marine supports processes for the monitoring of our energy and greenhouse the precautionary principle, and aims to avoid negative impacts gas emission figures in the upcoming years. on the natural environment where feasible. Even though the environmental impact of our office activities At Jason Marine, we reduce, reuse and recycle materials is relatively immaterial, we believe it is important to instill and resources whenever possible. We aim to incorporate values of environmental stewardship in our people. Recycling environmental conservation measures at all stages of our bins for paper, stationery and computers are provided at production and operations right from the design stage, various locations in the office to encourage our staff to reuse improve energy efficiency of our products, and minimise and recycle materials wherever feasible. We also stress the waste. We also comply with international guidelines on importance of proper disposal of office equipment, especially pollution management. with items such as laptops and printer cartridges, to reduce negative impacts of electronic waste. Other efforts include Environmental protection is no doubt a corporate monthly cross-departmental inspections. By regularly responsibility. Yet we also see its value in the reduction of engaging our staff on environmental issues, we hope to be operational costs when material inputs and waste are reduced. environmentally conscious in whatever we do. For example, we reuse discarded paper boxes as our packaging material. By reusing materials, not only is waste minimised, but there are also cost savings from lower packaging expenses. Electricity consumption (kWh) We continue to re-examine our business processes and seek Region: Singapore innovative new ways to improve efficiency of our operations while reducing environmental impacts. As part of our Groupwide drive to adopt paperless solutions, we have leveraged our IT expertise and have gone electronic with most of our billing processes and customers’ statements. We also employ energyefficient systems that help us contain our environmental kWh footprint while cutting operational costs. Extending our values of environmental protection to our supply chain, having ISO 14001 certification is one of the consideration factors when selecting suppliers. FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 Due to the mobile nature of our operations, we expect that a significant portion of our energy and greenhouse gas 232,612 210,330 342,153 Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 29 Continuous engagement with Our Stakeholders As part of the materiality assessment process conducted in 2016, Jason Marine identified five key stakeholder groups to engage with, based on their level of influence and interest. The table below summarises our engagement methods and key topics raised. Stakeholders How we engage Key topics raised Investors • Annual meetings • Corporate governance • Financial performance • Business outlook Employees • Annual performance reviews • Work-life balance • Annual Workplace Health Promotion activities • Cyber security • Employee engagement survey every 2 to 3 years • Career advancement • Learning and development needs Customers • Customer Satisfaction Surveys following services • Price of products and services or job orders and after completion of projects • Quality, safety • Future needs and requirements Business partners • Business meetings • Meeting of sales targets • Conferences • Review on financial performance and business outlook • Supply chain quality Local community • Community programmes in Singapore, under • Financial and logistical support to the Adopt-a-Precinct program, at least once the community a year Jason Marine and its subsidiaries is a member of the following associations: Association of Singapore Association of Small and Singapore International Marine Industries Medium Enterprises Chamber of Commerce (ASMI) (ASME) (SICC) Singapore Business Singapore Human Singapore Chinese Chamber Federation Resources Institute of Commerce and Industry (SBF) (SHRI) (SCCCI) Singapore Institute Singapore Manufacturing Singapore Institute of of Directors Federation Management (SID) (SMF) (SIM) Global Compact Singapore Institute of Singapore National Network Singapore International Affairs Employers Federation (GCNS) (SIIA) (SNEF) International Ship Engineering Singapore Productivity Service Association Association (ISES) (SPA) Sustainability report 30 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page References Number CGFR refers to Corporate Governance and Financial Report 2018 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Cover page 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 1, 3-6 services 102-3 Location of headquarters 1 102-4 Location of operations 2 102-5 Ownership and legal form 1 102-6 Markets served 2 102-7 Scale of the organization 14-15, 24 102-8 Information on employees and 24 other workers Data on employees and other workers is compiled by our HR department. 102-9 Supply chain 21, 27 102-10 Significant changes to the There were are no significant organization and its supply chain changes. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 28 102-12 External initiatives 24 102-13 Membership of associations 29 102-14 Statement from senior decision8-9 maker 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 22-23 norms of behavior 102-18 Governance structure 11-12, 22-23 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 24 102-42 Identifying and selecting 29 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 20, 29 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20, 29 102-45 Entities included in the 16, 22 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 20-21 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 20 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting 20 102-50 Reporting period 22 Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 31 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page References Number CGFR refers to Corporate Governance and Financial Report 2018 General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report 11 July 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle 22 102-53 Contact point for questions 22 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 22 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 30-34 102-56 External assurance 22 Material Topics Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 26 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 8-9, 14-15, 26 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management CGFR 13-15 approach GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated 26, CGFR 64-67, Economic value and distributed retained in FY2018 is $4,326,000. Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 27 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 27 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 27 approach GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local 27 suppliers Local suppliers are suppliers based in the same country where our operations are. All countries in which Jason Marine has operations in are considered significant. Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21-23 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 22-23, CGFR 4-18 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 22-23 approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 22-23 related to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 22 anti-corruption policies and procedures Anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to governance body members, employees and contractors in Singapore. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 23 and actions taken Sustainability report 32 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page References Number CGFR refers to Corporate Governance and Financial Report 2018 Anti-competitive Behaviour GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21-23 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 22-23 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management We plan to evaluate our approach management approach in the years to come. GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive There have been no legal actions 2016 behaviour, anti-trust, and for anti-competitive behaviour, monopoly practices anti-trust, and monopoly practices. Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21-23 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 22-23 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management We plan to evaluate our approach management approach in the years to come. GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with 22-23 2016 environmental laws and regulations Employment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 24-25 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 24-25 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 25 approach GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee 24 turnover Labour/ Management Relations GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 24-25 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 24-25 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 25 approach GRI 402: Labour/ Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 24 Relations 2016 operational changes Sustainability report A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 33 GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page References Number CGFR refers to Corporate Governance and Financial Report 2018 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 23 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 23 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 22-23 approach GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal 23 Safety 2016 joint management–worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 23 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or 23 high risk of diseases related to their occupation Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 24-25 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 24-25 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 24-25 approach GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year 25 per employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee 25 skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 25 regular performance and career development reviews Non-discrimination GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 24-25 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 24-25 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management 25 approach GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and There have been no reported corrective actions taken incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. Sustainability report 34 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d GRI Standard Disclosure Disclosure Title Page References Number CGFR refers to Corporate Governance and Financial Report 2018 Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 26 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 26 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management We plan to evaluate our approach management approach in the years to come. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community 26 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21, 25 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 25 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management We plan to evaluate our approach management approach in the years to come. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance 25 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 21-23 and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its 22-23 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management We plan to evaluate our approach management approach in the years to come. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and 22-23 2016 regulations in the social and economic area Corporate Information A n n ua l R e p o r t 20 18 35 Board of Directors Share Registrar Foo Chew Tuck (Executive Chairman and B.A.C.S. Private Limited Chief Executive Officer) 8 Robinson Road Wong Hin Sun Eugene (Non-executive Director) #03-00 ASO Building Eileen Tay-Tan Bee Kiew (Lead Independent Director) Singapore 048544 Sin Hang Boon @ Sin Han Bun (Independent Director) Audit Committee Independent Auditors Eileen Tay-Tan Bee Kiew (Chairperson) BDO LLP Sin Hang Boon @ Sin Han Bun Public Accountants and Chartered Accountants Wong Hin Sun Eugene 600 North Bridge Road #23-01 Parkview Square Singapore 188778 Nominating Committee Partner-in-charge: Yeo Siok Yong (Appointed since financial year ended 31 March 2016) Sin Hang Boon @ Sin Han Bun (Chairman) Eileen Tay-Tan Bee Kiew Wong Hin Sun Eugene Remuneration Committee Principal Bankers Sin Hang Boon @ Sin Han Bun (Chairman) Bank of China Limited, Singapore Branch Eileen Tay-Tan Bee Kiew CIMB Bank Berhad, Singapore Branch Wong Hin Sun Eugene Citibank, N.A., Singapore Branch The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, Singapore Office Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore Branch Company Secretaries Investor Relations Saw Hong Gaik OakTree Advisers Pte Ltd Pan Mi Keay 6 Eu Tong Sen Street #07-20 Clarke Quay Central Singapore 059817 Registered Office Sponsor 194 Pandan Loop CIMB Bank Berhad, Singapore Branch #06-05 Pantech Business Hub 50 Raffles Place Singapore 128383 #09-01 Singapore Land Tower Tel: +65-6477 7700 Singapore 048623 Fax: +65-6872 1800 Website: www.jason.com.sg Email: jmg@jason.com.sg Service centres 36 Jaso n Ma r i n e G r o u p L i m i t e d Singapore Indonesia Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd PT Jason Elektronika 194 Pandan Loop Jl. Gunung Sahari Raya 2 #06-05 Pantech Business Hub Kompleks Marinatama Mangga Dua Blok A No. 3A Singapore 128383 Jakarta Utara 14420 Tel: +65-6477 7700 Indonesia Fax: +65-6872 1800 Tel: +62-21-640 4400 / 647 17582 Email: service@jason.com.sg Fax: +62-21-647 17612 Email: sales@jason.com.sg People’s Republic of China Thailand Jason (Shanghai) Co., Ltd Jason Electronics (Thailand) Co., Ltd 16H New Shanghai City Building 113/6 Soi Latplakhao 33 He Nan Road (S) 24, Kaset-Nawamin Road Shanghai 200002 Jorakhae-bua, Latphrao People’s Republic of China Bangkok 10230 Tel: +86-21-6337 5966 / 67 / 68 Thailand Fax: +86-21-6337 5969 Tel: +66-2553 2290 / 91 Email: chinasales@jason.com.sg Fax: +66-2553 2292 Email: sachja@jasonthai.com
