In-Progress COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 31 October 201931 October 2020 Prepared for: Prepared By: Statement of Continued Support Date: 31st October 2019 To our stakeholders, As an active participant of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2014, GreenA Consultants Pte Ltd would like to confirm with great excitement that we are continuously seeking to maintain and improve our efforts towards social and environmental activities. It will be as part of our support and commitment to the Ten Principles of UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. GreenA Consultants Pte Ltd has and will continue to integrate the ten principles into our business strategies, culture and operations on a regular basis. All the practices and policies mentioned in this COP is intended to incorporate the ten principles. GreenA Consultants will remain committed to these policies and practices for the upcoming years. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Farizan d’Avezac de Moran Senior Partner 1|Page United Nations Global Compact COP 2019 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals  GreenA has a Code of Conduct guideline booklet which ensures that employees are aware of the expected behavioural conduct, duties and responsibilities at the workplace regardless of their position in the company. This helps to instil mutual respect and maintain a cohesive work environment.  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is also used as a reference tool to make sure both local and foreign employees have equal rights and opportunities. Salaries and bonuses are granted in accordance to individual contributions with no favouritism. Employees are also given equal right to career development opportunities.  GreenA also abide to the laws defined by the Ministry of Manpower in Singapore. The company grants optional benefits/leaves such as medical reimbursement benefits, childcare leaves and parent care leave in addition to the mandatory annual and medical leaves. Implementation  GreenA respects the right of all employees to rest and have leisure time. Hence, the company grants an annual leave of 14 days with an additional 1 day added every year to a maximum of 21 days of annual leave.  GreenA also respects the right of foreign employees to return to their hometown and be with their families. Thus, in addition to the mandatory annual leave entitlement, the company is also closed from Christmas Day to New Year’s Day every year so that foreign employees can celebrate the holidays with their families.  GreenA has also pledged to be a “Better Workplace” and is an active participant under this Building and Construction Authority (BCA) initiative. Employees are asked to assess one another’s conduct on a semi-annually basis which trains them to incorporate elements of respect and helpfulness in their words and actions towards each other. 2|Page Measurement of outcomes  Open discussions during the semi-annual management review to discuss work environment satisfaction with all employees. Review assessment is done with each employee. After reviewing the assessments, management will implement new practices or policies (if required) with relation to human rights issues.  Internal Audit Programmes among higher management will be done twice a year to evaluate compliance mechanisms and manage risks of human rights violations if arise. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals  Policies in the Human Resource Handbook that covers recruitment, performance management, training and development of employees complies with the rules and regulations in The Employment Act by the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) in Singapore.  GreenA recruits its employees solely based on qualifications, skills and strategic needs, and without prejudice or bias to any race, religion, gender, age, citizenship, etc. This affirms the company’s efforts to minimise discrimination in its recruitment process.  Self-development is fervently supported by GreenA, in line with Singapore Government initiatives to increase the employee’s quality, productivity and efficiency. Implementation  GreenA has given opportunities to foreigners from Malaysia, China, Colombia, France, Brunei, Netherlands and the United Kingdom to join the company and share their culture with one another. The locals and foreigners are given equal opportunities to contribute, work together and be awarded for their performance. 3|Page  GreenA discourages its employees from working overtime or during the weekends. Flexible working hours are granted to employees so that they can manage their time accordingly, balancing work and personal responsibilities. Overtime will only be applicable to agreeing employees. The company also allows overtime to be done from home.  Employees are given the freedom to discuss and propose strategies to higher management on how to create better work environment. Employees also have the freedom to voice out any decisions by the management that they are not agreeable to or that they believe to be unfair.  Employees also receive funding from GreenA that matches to the government funding provision through the SkillsFuture Credits by statutory board, Workforce Singapore. This essentially doubles the accessible funding for employees to selfdevelop. Measurement of outcomes  Conduct annual peer assessments to identify the achievements and areas of improvement for all employees. The results will then be used as a reference tool for our annual remuneration adjustments.  HR personnel to monitor employee turnover rate and exercise risk management strategies if turnover rate starts to increase. This will be done by approaching the employees to find out the reason behind it and changing its business practices after taking into consideration employees’ feedbacks.  HR personnel or supervisors to assist and provide guidance for employees to work on areas that require improvement. Improvements are observed periodically and/or during appraisals. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals  GreenA has updated its Environmental Management System (EMS) to comply with the ISO14001:2015 standards and has received certification for it as well. We improved some of our policies and practices to reflect compliance of the standards. 4|Page  GreenA strives to promote an environment that focuses on energy conservation, waste management and environmental sustainability. For example, our office space was chosen based on its ability to optimize natural daylight usage to reduce reliance on electricity and conserve energy.  Being a consultancy company for environmental and sustainable development, our services mainly revolves around the assistance and facilitation of Green Building Certifications to assist clients/developers/architects in incorporating environmentally sustainable elements in its buildings.  GreenA aims to collaborate with as many companies as possible to come up with initiatives to enhance environmental responsibility. Example of companies that GreenA is already working with are Singapore Environment Council, Tanzania Green Building Council, Singapore Green Building Council and World Green Building Council.  Our company encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies when sourcing out for green materials and suppliers for our projects. Examples include energy efficient lighting, water efficient taps, low VOC paint etc. Implementation  Our company have a designated printer tray for recycled paper. We also make sure to recycle the ink cartridges as and when required.  The company also send employees for environmental management courses/ seminars to conduct internal environmental audits and improve workplace performance.  Employees practices turning off the light switches and air-conditioners during lunch periods and when not in use. Lights are also turned off when optimising use of natural daylighting.  Recycling boxes are also made available for employees to dispose unused papers to be recycled. This is part of the company’s waste management system.  Paperless culture is adopted through the usage of a “cloud document storage system” such as Dropbox and GDrive for file sharing and to minimize the need to print, photocopy and send paper based documents to external parties. 5|Page Measurement of outcomes  Monitor and record the number of buildings being certified Green in the fiscal year to gauge our contribution in promoting environmental responsibility.  Track electricity and water bills to make sure they are generally consistent and no sudden spikes to ensure water and energy conservation. Monitor and record the amount of paper reams used and amount of paper recycled on a monthly basis and try to use the current month’s record as a benchmark to reduce the usage of paper reams and increase recycling of paper.  Our company’s internal environmental management auditor will conduct internal EMS audit yearly to review the policies and procedures and correct any noncompliance of the ISO14001 standards. Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals  The “Code of Conduct” booklet outlines the ethical behaviour expected of all employees and unacceptable behaviours that will not be tolerated such as accepting bribes, breaching disclosure policies, fraud, etc. All employees shall in all respect, diligently, and faithfully comply with the codes in the booklet (amended from time to time).  The employee shall not be directly or indirectly engaged or show interest in any other business or undertaking where there is a conflict of interest for as long as the employee is working for GreenA.  The “whistle blowing” policy is implemented as the company has a “zero-tolerance” to any form of corruption and encourage employees to report any corruption they see happening within the company. Implementation  The company appoints external accountants and auditors to prepare yearly financial audit report to eliminate risk of financial fraudulent and extortion among all employees and management teams.  Organise talks to raise awareness on corruption-related factors such as bribery, fraud, extortion, “whistle blower” policy so that employees can understand the information in the “Code of Conduct” booklet better and handle corruption with intelligence. 6|Page Whistle blowers will also be rewarded if information provided is verified as true after investigation. Measurement of outcomes  Management will be informed by the external accountants and auditors if any signs of fraud has been identified within the organization so that they can investigate and take the necessary disciplinary action to resolve it.  If a corruption incident arises, the higher management will take necessary disciplinary actions ranging from salary cut for financial loss/fraud to dismissal of employee(s) at fault depending on severity of incident to prevent the issue from reoccurring. 7|Page
