EUROPEAN RELIANCE GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY S.A. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR THE PERIOD 01/01/2018 31/12/2018 122| 2018 Annual Financial Report 123 Representative’s Statement Dear Shareholders, European Reliance, since its first establishment, serves the people and the community, because the social and environmental liability are its key strategic axes. Our objective is to constantly import new innovative solutions and participate in actions that promote social and cultural soundness and environmental consciousness. As Group, along with our fiscal development, we focus on the development of the human resources, the excellent customer service and the contribution to the sustainable development. Sustainable development aims to create a balance between our social, environmental and financial needs by maintaining social equality and justice and providing a long-term approach for the conservation of our necessary resources. According to L. 4403/2016, the summarized sustainability report aims to inform all interested parties of European Reliance Group of Companies on the policies, schemes, actions and future objectives of the Group. Instead of the ordinary fiscal report, the sustainability report (reporting period JanuaryDecember 2018) presents the Group’s liability to inform the wider general public on the impact of the corporate activities, adopting all modern requirements for the total compliance with the principles of transparency and accountability. The Sustainability Report of our Group is documentation of our social responsibility which has been integrated in the corporate strategy. Our Group’s alignment with the social requirements of the 21st century is based on the European Social Model and the global initiatives and standards on Corporate Social Responsibility collected by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, the UN guidelines for Businesses, the Human Rights, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals – SDGs and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work for multinational enterprises and social policy. Our Group follows the Guidelines and Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and the Guidelines of ISO:26000 Certification for Corporate Social Responsibility. European Reliance was the first insurance company in Greece that adopted in 2011 the ISO:26000 Certification and the GRI Guidelines. Our Group puts great emphasis on the promotion of innovative operations and products and on matters of sustainable operation and from this reporting period and on this will be imprinted with clarity in the Sustainability Report, according to the GRI Guidelines (edition GRI-G4). Moreover, our Group voluntarily participates in the UN Global Compact for sustainability and responsible business activity. Your Sincerely, Stefanos Verzovitis Member of the Board of Directors Chief Financial Officer 002 European Reliance Group Profile EUROPEAN RELIANCE GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY S.A. (S. A. Reg. No. 12855/05/Β/86/35), General Electronic Commercial Registry (G.E.M.I.) No. 322801000) was established in 1977. The Company’s objective, according to Art. 4 of its Articles of Association, is to provide all kinds of insurance and reinsurance coverage, except for credit and guarantee insurance. Registered address: 274 Kifisias Avenue, Postal Code 15232, Chalandri. The Group includes the companies: • European Reliance General Insurance Co. (parent) • Alter Ego S.A. • European Reliance Asset Management M.F.M.S.A. • Reliance Single-Member Insurance Agents S.A. European Reliance General Insurance European Reliance Reliance SingleALTER EGO S.A. ASSET MANAGEMENT M.F.M. S.A. Μember S.A. European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. is an insurance • Transport company active in all modern sectors of insurance, providing full • Financial Loss insurance coverage to individuals and businesses. The Company has developed innovative and flexible insurance schemes and European Reliance Asset Management M.F.M. S.A. was continuously invests in new and pioneering technologies. established in 1990 and specializes in mutual funds management. The company is active in sectors of Portfolio Since 1997, the company has been publicly listed on the Main Management, Corporate Finance, Venture Capital and develops Market of the Athens Stock Exchange and at the moment is the Investment Banking for investment services. European Reliance only Greek listed Company. General Insurance Company S.A. owns 99.01% of European Furthermore, European Reliance is the first Company rewarded Reliance Asset Management M.F.M. S.A. for its services with ISO 9001:2000 Certification in 2002 and The purpose of European Reliance Asset Management M.F.M. nowadays holds the new ISO 9001:2015 certification. In 2017, S.A. Is to build long-term relationships with its clients that are the Company received a Certification by the Inspection and based on trust, emphasizing the quality of the provided services Certification Body “TÜV HELLAS (TÜV NORD)”, in accordance and the human factor. The Company consists of a team of with international standard ISO 27001:2013 Certification, on the experienced colleagues and acknowledged executives, that requirements for the Information Security Management apply all modern technologies and can guarantee the company’s System. effectiveness. The main insurance products and services of European Reliance Alter Ego Facilities Management is one of the largest General Insurance Co. S.A. are offered to Individuals and companies for provision of integrated Facilities Management companies in all modern sectors of insurance, such as: solutions. The Company is active throughout Greece, providing • Pension its services to leading Greek and multinational companies. And • Family its active customer base includes more than 65 private companies. European Reliance General Insurance Company S.A. • Child owns 97.30% of European Reliance Asset Management • Motor M.F.M.S.A. • Home Since its first establishment in 1986 up to the present day, Alter • Health Ego Facilities Management S.A. pursues long-term professional relationships, through customer-oriented approach. • Quality of Life ALTER EGO S.A. has more than 720 employees and manages • Group Insurance facilities of customers exceeding a total of 400.000 sq.m. 003 complicit in human rights abuses. The Company specializes in the management of commercial real estate (office buildings, hospitals, shopping centers, chain Our Group is in total compliance with the Greek and stores, industrial and storage facilities) and its services are in international legislation and the implementations of policies of total compliance with the International Standards of Quality, Human Rights. Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems and For the Group, these principles are self-evident values and are Environmental Management. adhered to all of our partnerships. Moreover, it has been selected by major international The internal regulation and function of the Group is governed by companies in the fields of Real Estate, Property Management principles of justice, respect of the personality, objectivity, and Facilities Management as one of their main partners in meritocracy, complete abstinence from any form of the Greek market and is a founding member of the discrimination and harassment and equal opportunities with independent Hellenic Facility ManagerAssociation. provisions for the maximum safety of our employees, in the case of an unfortunate event. Sustainability Material Issues The company applies the confidentiality of information and the Principles for the Protection of Personal Data. Since the beginning of 2017, our Group has performed all The key topics raised by GRI G4 Guidelines and L. 4403/2016, necessary actions to fully comply with the new General Data are analyzed in the following chapters and consist our Protection Regulation (GDPR), the new European Insurance Company’s Sustainability Framework, according to GRI G4 Distribution Directive (IDD) and the new Regulation (EU) No. Guidelines. The key sustainability topics, as defined by ISO 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26000 certification, are present below: 26th November 2014 regarding the key information documents for packaged retail investment and insurance products (PRIIP). Corporate Governance 1 Human Rights 2 3. Labor relationshipsLabor practices Labor relationships-Labor practices 3 Our people's education and high training levels in their working Environment 4 field is a major pillar for our Company. Their constant training Responsible and Fair provision of Services 5 and experience are the key elements that make the Group Consumer Issues 6 competitive in the Greek insurance market. Social Responsibility 7 The goal of European Reliance Group of Companies is to adopt policies and practices that enhance the personal development and advancement of the employees. In European Reliance, daily 1. Corporate Governance work gives meaning to the life of the employee, purpose and a feeling of self-fulfillment, as the employee participates in a The system of governance of the Company and the statement valuable project. of Corporate Governance are presented in detail in the last pages of this report. (see page 18: Statement of Corporate Governance). 2. Human Rights European Reliance Group of Companies voluntarily participates in the UN Global Compact aiming to apply the terms of sustainable business function and sustainable business development in its policies by standing for and promoting the principles that concern human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and the fight against corruption. The UN Global Compact encourages businesses to promote and apply the ten principles for human rights, labour, environment and fight against corruption, are based on the following documents: • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, • United Nations Convention against Corruption The Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights and the actions of European Reliance, in compliance with the following principles: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not 004 Our Code of Conduct creates a framework that is based on the principles of trading practices and professional conduct, so that all employees will be aware of the Company’s principles of good practice and ethics. The Internal Regulation of Operations contributes to the creation of a healthy, safe and pleasant working environment, promoting transparency in all of our Group’s activities. The Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on labor rights and the actions of European Reliance, in compliance with the following principles: Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Our Group of Companies respects and supports the internationally proclaimed human rights and fully complies with the Greek and European legislation. Moreover, it applies all the collective labor agreements, hires male and female employees from various nationalities and provides opportunities for continuing education and professional development. European Reliance is proud for its published figures on labor practices and the Groups’ financial results. The Group’s employees in 2018 amounted to 1,175 people, presenting 4.8% increase comparing to 2017 and ensuring the provision of equal opportunities. Since 2013, European Reliance Group of Companies has raised the number of its personnel to 516 people. Group’s Total Employees 1,175 1,121 1,035 901 721 659 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The provision of opportunities for training and education with fair participation to all of our employees is one of the main pillars for the sustainable development of our Group. Therefore, we organize education and reward programs, that aim to provide improved customer’s services and integrated valueadded services, that are in fully compliance with our Group’s approach on customer’s service. The labor relations and practices of our Group of Companies involve: • The recruitment, continuous training and progress of our employees • The creation of medium-term and long-term working positions • The transfer of employees in different working positions to achieve continuous training and education practices • Excellent working environment • The successful cooperation of our employees in working groups • Public debate regarding labor issues and social concerns • Employees’ reward for voluntary initiatives on Corporate Social Responsibility European Reliance sets the bar high on issues of labor practices and relations. 005 More specifically, the Group: • Creates working conditions that enable our employees to balance their private life and professional duties (96% of our employees has full-time, permanent contracts and, according to the latest research of our Human Resources Department, 94% of our employees is fully satisfied with their position in the Company). • Creates new working positions. Since 2013, the Group has increased its personnel by 516 people. • Accepts all employees that have interrupted their employment contract for personal reasons for a certain period of time (100% of the employees that requested to return to their working position was accepted). • Cares about the health and safety of the employees and complies with all relevant regulations (In 2018 there has not been a single injury recorded). • Applies fair remuneration policies, according to the productivity and the working experience of each employee. • Provides insurance coverage for the 100% of the employees that have been working in the company over a year, with special privileges, such as the Group Health Insurance Coverage. • Actively supports woman’s right to pregnancy. • Stands up for the equal opportunities for women (66% of the employees and 43% of the executive directors are women). • Has a very high regard for the knowledge and experience of the oldest employees of the company and urges them to undertake mentoring and coaching roles to the new employees. • Promotes public debate in working groups and in social networks based on common interests. • Supports life-long learning programs for the employees with seminars and trips in Greece and abroad, aiming at their best training and therefore ultimate customer service experiences. • Maintains a clear attitude on money laundering and has established procedures to prevent cases of money laundering (every financial /administrative officer involved in issues of compliance and internal audit has attended relevant seminars). • Rewards employees for their social work and initiatives for Corporate Social Responsibility. Employee Βenefits The benefits of the employees of European Reliance Group of Companies are listed below: • Group health insurance program for all employees • Group Health insurance program for the families of the employees (spousechildren) • Company’s Blood Banking • Medical doctor • Safety Technician • Discount up to 30% in the employees’ insurance premiums • Continuous external and internal Training and Seminars • Corporate events and celebrations • Wedding presents • Christmas celebration with presents for the children of employees • Opportunities for the employee’s children to acquire Professional Experience • Discount and privileged prices in cooperating companies 006 Summarized Statistics of Human Resources 2018 2017 Variance % Personnel Increase Ratio 4.8% 8.3% +1.6% Voluntary Employees’ Turnover Rate 0.2% 0.2% +0.3% Male 34% 35% -1% Female 66% 65% +1% Age of Employees 18-33 37% 34% +3% 34-49 50% 52% -2% 50+ 13% 14% -1% Women in top managerial positions 43% 43% 0% Total training hours 8,526 7,809 +9.2% Total salary costs € 14.0 mil. € 12.6 mil. +11.1% 2018 Training Program Report The 2018 training program aimed at the empowering of our human resources, their preparation in order to cope with the new, modern challenges and the improvement of their performance to better contribute to the Company’s growth. For the 2018 training, program, we have set the following goals: • To respond to the needs, objectives and vision of European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. • To encourage employees to take new initiatives and roles • To offer practical knowledge and specialization The total training hours in 2018 amounted to 8,526 hours and presented 9.2% increase comparing to 2017. Total training hours 8,526 7,809 6,697 5,923 5,359 5,519 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 007 Average hours of training per employee 28.71 28.80 25.27 22.05 22.35 21.06 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Participations in seminars per employee 3.76 3.11 2.89 2.68 2.66 1.68 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 008 Training Hours per Sector 5,68% 2,51% Finance Accounting, Tax 10.13% 3.38% Foreign Languages Administrative 16.72% InsuranceReinsurance Actuary 28.64% Information Security DPO 20.45% Development of Skills 12.67% Risk Compliance Law Int. Auditing IT Goals of the 2019 Training program In 2019, the training program will focus on the following goals: • Development of skills and abilities • Briefing on all new Regulatory Matters • Deepening in the knowledge of the insurance market • Integration of the Company’s “Dream” in the organization • Constant training of the personnel on the specialized regulatory matters, GDPR, IDD, PRIPS • Training on Information Security and ISO 27001 Certification • Empowerment of Directors and Head Officers • Participation of our executives in seminars and conferences abroad to acquire special expertise Employees’ Social Welfare Activities In 2018, the social welfare activities of the personnel of our Group of Companies have been of great importance. More specifically, we achieved: • Participation in the regeneration of the seaside of the Rehabilitation Center for Children with Disabilities in Voula, (formerly PIKPA). Over 70 employees participated in this action of social welfare. • Collection of food and basic necessities to assist the affected from the catastrophic fire in Mati and Kineta. • 2 voluntarily blood donations in cooperation with “Laiko” Hospital. • Seminar by the Association “Hope, Bone marrow Donors” and recruitment of 50 employees as donors in the Worldwide Bone Marrow Donor Registry. • Social Action in cooperation with the Association of Social Responsibility for Children and Youth (S.K.E.P.). • Easter Bazaar in cooperation with the Greek Multiple Sclerosis Society. • Participation in the Spirit of Belron Challenge to fund raise Afrika Tikkun. • Employees’ Participation in the 8th race for breast cancer “Greece Race for the cure”. • Daily collection of plastic caps for the Association “Prevention of Road Accident of Children -Love for Life”. • Christmas Bazaar in cooperation with the voluntary, non-profit child welfare organization “The Smile of the Child”. • Collection of food for the 1st School of Keratsini with children with special needs. 009 4. Environment European Reliance, as a responsible corporate citizen, perceives the concept of sustainable development as an attempt to create a competitive economy of minor pollutants that uses its resources effectively and takes into account the protection of the environment. The use of new sustainable technologies and audit methods that contribute to the reduction of emissions, is our active participation in the efforts for improvement of the environment, the prevention of biodiversity loss and for ecosystem protection. More specifically, European Reliance Group of Companies embraces the idea of sustainable development, as defined in the Declaration of the United Nations in Africa in September 2002: “Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development” and as developed in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992: “Rio Declaration on Environment and Development”. The initiative for new patterns of corporate behavior is part of our strategy, not a communications plan. CO2 Gas Emissions Measurement For sixth consecutive year our Group meets its obligation toward the community to measure the company’s gas emissions produced by its operations. This measurement helps the Group to improve, aiming at targeted actions towards the reduction of these pollutants. The total emissions of the three companies of our Group in 2018 are presented below: Prices in t CO2 eq. ELECTRIC NATURAL EMPLOYEE CORPORATE PAPER Total POWER GAS TRANSFERS VEHICLES AND TRANSFER TONER European Reliance General 771 224 141 19 2.2 1,157 Insurance Company S.A. European Reliance Asset 23 7 8 1 0.1 39 Management ALTER EGO S.A. 86 25 5 30 0.1 146 Group 880 256 154 50 2.4 1,342 The consumption of electrical power and natural gas refers to the pollutants produced by the main building of the Group (Europlaza). For 2019, our Company plans the implementation of the ISO 50001:2011 certification on energy management. Therefore, in our next non-financial information report, all the aforementioned measurements shall refer to the total of the Company’s real estate (own and rented property). The total pollutants of the Company increased by 149 tn CO2 comparing to the corresponding period of the previous measurement, mainly due to the increase of natural gas consumption and the transfer of the corporate vehicles. Moreover, it appears that apart from the measures for the decrease of the buildings’ infrastructure (Central Building’s Energy Upgrade), the philosophy of the Company’s Management has contributed to maintaining the production of emissions to the same low levels, fully accepted and promoted by the personnel and the employees have wholeheartedly accepted and forward these actions. Central Building’s Energy Upgrade The decrease of the carbon footprint, within the framework of our efforts to improve our energy profile, has been a real challenge for European Reliance. However, our 2011 investment on the Energy Management and Monitoring Information System for the decrease of the energy consumption per employee has proven to be a very strategic step. More specifically, we have created a personal energy profile for every employee and for every device in our central offices and we have determined our average energy needs. Every energy consuming device has been time programmed to shut down automatically, after the termination of the work shift of the employees. Since 2011, the effort increased our environmental awareness and reduced the carbon footprint of every working position in the central offices of European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. In 2018, we achieved 5% decrease of energy consumption (decrease per 124 kw/ week) G. through the fine tuning (not including the decrease in light consumption). We are very satisfied with these results and we plan to further improve our environmental sensitivity. The aforementioned system is annually modified and is based on the needs of the Group for lower energy consumption and higher performances. 010 European Reliance, since the first Sustainability Report (2011), Investment in Renewable Energy Sources actively participates in the Millennium Development Goals (Water Scarcity Issue). (R.E.S.) European Reliance has invested in environmentallyfriendly Our Group supports the use of Renewable Energy Sources as a hydraulic facilities and in water supply systems with sensor mean of sustainable development and in October 2012 technology for reduced daily water consumption. undersigned a contract with the Public Power Corporation (Operator of Electricity Market) to sell the electric power Recycling produced by the Group’s investment in a fixed equipment of 130 photovoltaic power systems. The creation of this photovoltaic Since 2012, our Group began a recycling program in our central power station on the rooftop of our central buildingEuroplaza, offices and the revenues from the collection and sales of the is part of our actions for the minimization of pollutant power recycling materials, such as paper, plastic and aluminum, shall sources and the reduction of the carbon footprint. According to be donated to vulnerable social groups (since 2013 the revenues the Operator of the Electricity Market, the total electricity have been donated the Institution “Hope” and since 2016 to production of the R.E.S. of our Group in 2018 amounted to Community actions of Green Angels). 12,070 kWh. The importance of recycling for the employees of European Reliance can be summarized as follows: Led Lighting Investment • Reduce of waste and minimization of waste management problems Within the framework of using Renewable Energy Sources, our Group has committed to replace all traditional lamps in our • Energy and natural resources conservation. Long-term Central Offices (274 Kifisias Avenue, Chalandri) with energy reduction or stability of the products’ prices, since raw efficient LED lamps of the new generation. The capital required materials’ production is not required for the completion of such an investment proves the Company’s • Reduction of air, ground and groundwater pollution liquidity ratio and sustainable development, and its ability to • Save the energy required for the above products and guarantee amortization of a big investment. procedures. The energy modernization project in our Group’s central offices • Creation of new working positions in energy began in 2012, with the replacement of lamps in two floors, and sustainability departments was completed by the end of 2013 with the total replacement of all lamps (including the outdoor projector lamps). It is • Through the recycling of 1 tone of paper, we can save 17 estimated that we achieved reduction of the produced carbon trees and 40.000 liters of water, minimize air pollution by dioxide 31 tones/ per year in the atmosphere (according to the 95% and save 130-170 kg of petroleum GreenHouse Gas Protocol calculation method, where 1 MWh of European Reliance, since the beginning of the waste electrical power consumption produces 0,812 tm CO2) and our management program in 2012, has monthly recycled about 990 energy resources conservation amounts to 54%. kg of various materials (paper, aluminum, plastic). More The significance of this project is due to the saving of valuable specifically, in 2018 our Group recycled 20.7 tons and destroyed resources, the decrease of the local temperature in the confidential documents of weighting 1.44 tons. The electrical building’s central offices, the formation of a better working devices recycled amounted to 0.7 tons. environment due to improved luminance and the fact that this change directly affected the Group’s energy profile, without European Reliance, a proud member of hindering the working methods of the employees. Since this change had benefited the internal and outdoor spaces of the Green Angels Community Organization, it was positively accepted by all employees. Since 2015, European Reliance is an active member of the first Greek Society of environmentally responsible businesses, under Water Resources Conservation the discrete title “Green Angels”. The Green Angels society operates under the auspices of the Ministry of Environment and Within the Sustainability framework, all socially responsible Energy and Stock Exchange (Athens Tax Office for Commercial companies, try to reduce the environmental footprint, with Companies). respect to the vulnerable social groups, try to reduce the environmental footprint, aim at the conservation of water resources and the sensitization of all interesting parties. 011 The goal of this initiative is to reduce the carbon footprint of In all of our efforts for improvement of the energy profile, we Greece through constant improvement of environmental have been supported by our subsidiary Alter Ego Facilities performance and the protection of Greek forests. Management and its specialized services (Sustainable Management Solutions). Carbon Footprint Neutralization of the Group’s Website Europlaza Building Technical Maintenance The technical maintenance of our buildings’ facilities and the The operation of our Group’s website consumes electric power continuous audits applied by our technicians aim at the best and therefore contributes to the emission of greenhouse gases. performance of the facilities (high profit with less resources). European Reliance, within the framework of adoption of The improvement of our regulations, the immediate record of Sustainable Development practices, wants to have a responsible faulty points and the prompt intervention for their correction, approach towards the protection of the environment and since contribute to energy conservation without obstructing the daily 2011 calculates the greenhouse gas emissions caused by the rhythm of the company. operation of our portal www.europaikipisti.gr and takes all necessary actions for the protection of the environment, in Moreover, the subsidiary company, Alter Ego, uses high quality accordance with the GreenCO2 NEUTRAL SEAL and the and environmentally friendly cleaning materials certified by certified project ‘Dak Psi 3 and 4 Hydropower’, with ID: ISO:9001, ISO:14001 & OHSAS. 103000000003083, that operates in Vietnam, in order to carbon The Ecolabel products are certified and have their own neutralize our portal and proudly carry the CO2 Neutral Seal. registration date and number. Fleet of Corporate Vehicles The Group owns a fleet of long-term leased vehicles and has selected new technology vehicles, according to the E.U requirements, with low carbon dioxide emissions, low energy consumption and engines with Euro 5 specifications, that can daily circulate in the center of Athens. Corporate Leaflets The majority of the Group’s leaflets (100% of the Subsidiary Alter Ego) is certified with FSC and CO2 Neutralseal. The FSC Certification refers to responsible forest practices and responsible use of products that derive from forests (like wood and paper). CO2 Neutral Seal is a certification that provides complete transparency to the carbon offset process. Europlaza Central Heating 5. Responsible and Fair provision of Natural gas reduces energy consumption and the carbon Services footprint of European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. As a responsible corporate citizen, European Reliance aims Among all conventional fuels, natural gas emits fewer pollutants through its institutional bodies and representatives, to improve and contributes to the reduction of greenhouse, acid rain effect, the corporate governance practices and the insurance sector’s the average fuel consumption and the atmospheric pollution. culture. We cooperate with all institutions (Hellenic European Reliance, aiming to create an environmentally friendly Management Association, Hellenic Association of Insurance profile, has renovated the heat generators of the central Companies, Direct Payment System) and accepted the Solvency building and has invested in modern building insulation II legislation and the requirements of the Supervisory Authority materials for the best possible cooling with minimum electric (Bank of Greece) being fully aware of the responsibilities. power consumption. In 2015, our Group shielded all of our The Group’s Management, in order to ensure the responsible building facilities, to cover our needs with the least possible energy resources. and fair provision of services has performed a series of successive actions, including the formation of the Compliance Department. 012 6. Consumer Issues The Compliance Department ensures that the operations of the Customer care is part of the Group’s corporate behavior. The insurance company are in full compliance with the applicable precise and honest update of our present and future customers legislation and the regulatory decisions. Compliance is applied consists one of the main priorities of European Reliance. in all sectors of European Reliance as a corporate culture Additionally, to the compliance with the legislative framework standard, enhances our corporate identity, is part of our and the trading practices, European Reliance applies an internal philosophy and a commitment of the Company’s Management. code of business conduct in all stages of creation, product The Regulatory Compliance is based on the 4 following pillars promotion and customer service. that contribute to our Company’s Responsible provision of Every customer is an integral part of the productive process of equitable services: the Group, a fellow and a working partner. Our philosophy is not • Security of the financial system only expressed in our motive “It pays immediately”, but it is • Business Ethics applied in our daily actions. • Market Integrity In European Reliance the customer’s satisfaction is our first priority and the greatest measure of success. Therefore, the • Customers’ Interest. Group’s quality policy is based on the complete satisfaction of Moreover, our Group pays great attention to the received the customers, in all of their transactions, and in the continuous complaints, and apart from the Policies and procedures quality improvement of our provided insurance services, to fully established for their most effective management, has cover our customers’ insurance needs. additionally established a Complaints Committee. The In 2018, according to the annual audit by the certification body Complaints Committee meets for the collection of information TUV NORD, European Reliance successfully completed all the for the common causes of complaints, to draw conclusions, required actions and received the ISO 9001:2015 certification. create and observe a plan of corrective actions for the limitation This certificate totally complies with the objectives of the Group, of the complaints and their impact on the quality of the to retain its name as a synonym of high quality in the provision company’s provided services to the customers. of insurance services and to remain one of the top Organizations In European Reliance we are completely centered in our in the insurance market. Customer’s needs. For this reason, European Reliance has 4 Moreover, European Reliance follows the UN guidelines for different Departments that operate with sole objective the consumer protection, as they were formed and agreed initially customers’ service: in 1985 and as they were enhanced in 1999 with the expansion • Customer Service: The Department aims at the smooth of the Sustainable Consumption. We embrace the promotion absorption of products and services by our customers and protection of the consumer’s financial interests, create a and solves possible problems. framework that allows consumers to make informed choices, It provides information, resolves problems and assures forward consumer’s information and promote the principles for high levels of satisfaction among our customers. sustainable consumption. • Call Center: The Department communicates with European Reliance ensures that the promote of our products customers in order to present and inform them about our and services is performed with precision and with respect to the Company’s products. public. • Bancassurance: For this reason, we apply a fair marketing strategy, without false The Department manages insurance products and products statements, term inconsistencies or concealment of truth. of alternative networks, according to the Company’s and This obligation consists an integral part of our business ethics of the Banking Institutions’ policies defined by special our Group and a commitment to any of our contracting parties. contracts that ensure their proper compliance. In 2018, European Reliance invested in the sincerity and • BankAnalytical CRM: The Bank OfficeAnalytical CRM transparency in the communication with the public (in television Department organizes the planning and application of and digital media advertisements and in “below the line” our strategy, the retention and expansion of the actions). Company’s customer base, through the proper use of the CRM Management resources. 013 Moreover, our Group fully acknowledges the enormous Regarding the corporate social responsibility, we follow the 8 potential of the Internet. Through the incredible amount of MillenniumGoals (as mentioned above in Section 2 Human information available in the website of our Group, social Rights). networks, and domains, every consumer has the opportunity to The method to achieve the aforementioned goals requires make comparisons, start discussions and conclude to the best certain policies and the decision to proceed to cooperation with suitable product or service. a social institution depends on its values, unique knowledge, Through this process, we aim to start an open dialogue with our special abilities and the Company’s resources. One of the current and future customers, improve our performances and common characteristics and our goals for the future is the become better listeners. elimination of human suffering and its consequences. In May 2018, in cooperation with seven Departments of the In 2018, we completed 73 actions of corporate social Company (Customer’s Services, Call Center, Regulatory responsibility, some, of which are: Compliance, Legal Service, Marketing, Procedure Management • Regeneration of the seaside of the Rehabilitation Center and CRM) we conducted annual research on customer’s for Children with Disabilities in Voula, former PIKPA with satisfaction. The results did once again confirm the solvency and the contribution of the Group’s personnel. credibility levels of the Company. A few of the research’s most significant findings are the following: • Donation of first aid materials and financial assistance to the affected from the fire in Mati. • 92% of our customers remains extremely satisfied by the total of our services (88% in 2017) • Financial strengthening of the employees injured by the fire in Mati. • 92% of our customers believes that have an insurance program that covers all of their needs (86% in 2017) • Donation and support of the ceremony NGFL of the Arc of the World in Diplareios School and donation of an • 94% of customers believes that the Company’s insurance amount and insurance policies for the actions of the Act agent is almost always available and willing to provide of the World. consulting services (94% in 2017) • Support of all efforts of the Scientific, Civil-Society, • 87% of our customers are very pleased with the claims Non-Profit Organization for Breast Cancer E.M.E.I.S. procedure (83% in 2017) • Donation to the Youth Smile Awards organized by • 95% of our customers would recommend our Company and the Smile of the Child. 96% would recommend our insurance agent to new customers (97% and 96% in 2017) • Donation in the Association of Women with Breast Cancer. • Donation to the Road Traffic Police for the presentation of the program “Road safety education in schools”. 7. Social Responsibility Actions • Donation to the employees of the Elefsis Shipyards for The objective of our Group of Companies as a responsible the cover of basic needs. corporate citizen, is the extension and the strengthening of our • Donation to the organization CRETAN ASTRONAUT social responsibilities through actions that enhance social • Donation to the Greek Scouts. cohesion. Especially nowadays, that the citizens of Greece experience the consequences of the economic crisis, it is our • Donation to the theater team of homeless people Walkabout. responsibility to strengthen social institutions and promote • Donation to the Greek Insurance Brokers Association. collective actions. • Donation to the Hellenic Actuarial Society. European Reliance, along with the main business activities, aims to contribute to our society. We set high standards for corporate • Donation to the ceremony for the celebration of the 80 social actions through the continuous cooperation with various years of operation of the Hellenic Association of local organizations and we contribute to the improvement of Insurance Companies. living standards, by combating social exclusion. • Donation and support of the TEDEX event of the Thought the development of special mechanisms and Athens University of Economics. procedures, our Group registers and prioritizes issues related to • Donation to the European Organization for Public Law. Corporate Social Responsibility, depending on their importance • Donation to AIESEC of the Athens Kapodestrian University. for the Interested Parties, the external Environment. Our actions as a responsible corporate citizen derive from open • Donation to the University of Crete for the cover debates, the effort for communication and are subject to Of needs. . constant evaluation and reviews. • Donation and support for the program “Business in Action” of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens 014 • Donation in the event “2018 Quality Days” of the University of Piraeus. • European Reliance supports actions and programs that forward education and culture. Over the last 3 years and along with the assistance of IT Department, the Company has assisted the modernization of 43 schools associations by donation of IT equipment or monetary assistance. Table for Sustainability Material Issues The material issues were highlighted in discussions with representatives of the interested parties of the company’s internal operations. These issues define the business orientation and the sustainability factors of the Group and affect the expectations, decisions and actions, as the interesting parties estimate that these may have financial, social and environmental consequences on the Group’s activities. Fair Assurance Remunerati Of personnel Compliance Corruption Solvency Bribery Excellence in management Of requirements and satisfaction Of customers Attraction of personnel CSR and strenthening Preparation and development communities Uniqueness Influences in evaluations and decisions Debt crisis Financial rights Responsible restructure Investments Responsible investments Insurance Solutions during the crisis Interesting Parties Loyalty of personnel agents Family structure Quality Safety Information Security Responsible use of energy Natural resources, calculation Corporate Culture Development Business Evaluation of CSR issues Low High 015 Contribution to the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals Through our actions, the Group actively contributes to the following sustainable development goals of the United Nations: Through the commitment for continuous support of the Non-Governmental 1 Zero poverty Organizations operating for the protection of vulnerable social groups, including the protection of children. Through the commitment for continuous support of the Non-Governmental Organizations 2 Zero Hunger operating for the provision of food to vulnerable social groups. Through the campaign for decrease of road accidents caused to alcohol consumption. 3 Health good Through the promotion of sports. Through the benefits and group insurance of the employees. Through the promotion of healthcare services. Prosp Through the provision without exclusions of fair and qualitative education and via the life4 Education long learning programs. Through the strengthening of the educational programs and programs that promote the entrepreneurship of state universities and other organizations Qualit as well as the provision of awards to students. Through the provision of material equipment to schools. 5 Gender Through defending the equality of genders at work and ensuring the creation of equal Gend opportunities for women in top managerial positions and in decision taking. 6 Water Through the system of water management in our building facilities and through the project of neutralization of carbon emissions in a project in Vietnam. 7 Through the establishment of photovoltaic power systems in the rooftop of our central building Energy and replacement of lamps in the Group’s facilities. clea 8 Growth Through the orientation of the Group towards development, creation of working positions for all, creativity and innovation. Through the support in start-up businesses. Through the support and integration of people with disabilities. Through the financial strengthening for the cover of expenses of students from universities abroad. 016 Through the investments in innovative solutions and cooperation with other 9 Infrastructure organizations for the promotion of research and technology. Through the offer of competitive provisions to the employees. Through the assurance 10 Inequalities of provision of equal opportunities and avoidance of any form of discrimination at clear work. 11 Through the practices of our Group for employees’ transfer to and from their working place. Sustainable cities Through the strengthening of actions and events that promote cultural heritage. Practices applied for management of waste. 12 Commitment of our Group for the proper use and protection of natural resources. Decrease Consumption of the production of waste through prevention, decrease and recycling. Publication of our performance on sustainability issues. Promotion of Education and awareness on issues of climate change, decrease of impact and 13 Climate responsible corporate culture. 14 Water This Goal has not been implemented by our Group. 15 Life on Land Use of paper certified for the responsible forest practices and responsible consumption of products deriving from the forest (wood, paper) for corporate leaflets. 16 Peace Minimization of any form of corruption and bribery and promotion of transparency in all business relationships of the Group. Protection of freedom and implementation of the Code of Conduct. 17 Partnerships for the Goals Implementation of commonly acceptable frameworks and guidelines for the sustainable development and cooperation for the promotion of good sustainability practices. 017 • The assurance of sufficient transparency levels and proper audit procedures with the contribution of four independent Key Functions (Risk Management, Internal Audit, Compliance, Actuarial Function). Within the framework of Corporate Governance, European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A., aims to implement best practices in the functions of the Organization, including also voluntary commitments of the Company, as a result of its business ethics. European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. as a Société Anonyme (S.A.) listed on the Athens Stock Exchange implements the principles and practices of corporate governance of the Greek Legislation and partially applies the Hellenic Corporate Governance Code on the listed companies, as published in the official website of the Athens Stock Exchange. Statement of Corporate Governance Moreover, the four independent key Function of Internal Audit, According to the provision of paragraph 1 of article 43bb of C.L. Risk Management, Actuarial Function and Compliance 2190/1920, the Annual Management Report of the Board of contribute to the best possible function in the new legislative Directors of European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. environment of Solvency II Directive. (hereinafter “The Company”) prepares a Statement of The philosophy and culture governing the Statement of Corporate Governance for fiscal year 2018. Corporate Governance are imprinted in a series of regulations Corporate Governance refers to the total of principles and and policies, such as the Internal Regulation of Corporate practices adopted by European Reliance in order to ensure its Governance and Operation, the Corporate Code of Conduct, the performance, and the interest of the insured, shareholders and Compliance Policy, the Internal Audit Policy, the Policy of stakeholders. Conflict of Interests, the Remuneration Policy, etc. The Company’s System of Governance is based on the principles of Corporate Governance to achieve the Company’s prudent and effective management, through the efficient utilization of The Board of Directors The Board of Directors is the highest administrative body of the all available productive resources and transparency in all corporate functions to preserve the long-term interest of all of Company, forms the strategy and development policy, monitors and supervises the Company's asset management. The Board the Company's shareholders. Corporate governance has a positive contribution to the Company’s performance and makes decisions, monitors all of the Company's activities and focuses on the following units: constantly supervises the Company's executives assigned with relevant executive responsibilities by the Board of Directors or according to the organization chart. The powers and responsibilities of the Board of Directors are • The Board of Directors and the executive Management in described in its Articles of Association. terms of the rate of the independent members, the Any matter relevant to the remuneration of the Company's composition of the Board Committees, the BoD assesment Executive Directors, Internal Auditors, or the overall Procedure, the responsibilities of the Chairman and the remuneration policy of the Company, are determined by the Chief Executive Officer. Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Nomination • The shareholders’ rights (one share-one vote principle) Committee. The Board of Directors is composed of nine (9) members, executive or non-executive. The executive members are responsible for the Company's daily management matters. The non-executive directors are responsible for promoting corporate matters. The number of non-executive Board members shall not be less than 1/3 of the total number of Board members, and if there is a fraction, it should be rounded to the next integer. 018 There must be at least 2 independent members among the non-executive members. The identity of the executive or non-executive BoD member is defined by the Board of Directors. The independent members are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. If the Board of Directors elects a temporary member up to the first General Meeting of the Shareholders, as a deputy of another independent member that resigned, was absent, or for any reason was deprived of his rights, the elected member must also be independent. During their term of office, the independent non-executive Board members should not own shares representing over 0.5% of the Company’s share capital and must not be engaged in a dependency relationship with the Company, or with related persons, within the meaning of Art. 4, par. 1 of Law 3016/2002. In 2018, the Board of Directors had fourteen (14) ordinary meetings. Full Name Independent Participation in Ordinary BoD meetings Member Stavros Lekkakos, Chairman No 11/14 Nikolaos Chalkiopoulos, Vice Chairman No 14/14 Christos Georgakopoulos, CEO No 14/14 Stefanos Verzovitis No 14/14 Christopher Poulios Yes 13/14 George Konstantinidis No 13/14 Eric Sharp No 14/14 George Diamantopoulos Yes 13/14 Keith Morris Yes 12/14 The Management of European Reliance General insurance Co. S.A. takes actions for the enhancement and strengthening of the diversity of the administrative and supervisory bodies. Board Members (Based on the latest General Meeting of Shareholders on 22/05/2018) Left to right, front row: Stefanos Verzovitis, Stavros Lekkakos, Christos Georgakopoulos, Nikolaos Chalkiopoulos Left to right, back row: George Diamantopoulos, George Konstantinidis, Keith Morris, Christopher Poulios, Eric Sharp 019 Stavros Lekkakos Stefanos Verzovitis Chairman of the Board of Directors Executive Board Member Non-Executive Board Member Mr. Verzovitis has an extensive experience in companies, such Mr. Stavros Lekkakos is the Chairman of the Board of Directors as Ziridis School, Onassis Cardiac Surgery Center, Johnson & Son of European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. and a Board and Michelin Automotive Tires. He joined European Reliance and Audit Committee Member in B&F & Garment Industries S.A. General Insurance Co. S.A. in October 2000 and today holds the He began his career in American Express Bank and after 25 years position of the Chief Executive Officer. He has a Degree in having successfully reached the position of the Vice President, Economics from the Athens University of Economics. he moved to Piraeus Bank. For many years he was a BoD member, Chief Executive Officer and CEO, Vice Chairman of the George Konstantinidis Board of Directors of Piraeus Bank and President of the Non-Executive Board Member Executive Committee of the Piraeus Bank Group. He has also Mr. Konstantinidis has been active in the establishment, been the President and CEO of Piraeus Bank Romania and other administration and shareholding of businesses such as subsidiaries of Piraeus Bank in Greece and abroad. After Piraeus Centropell GMBH Frankfurt, Novus Finance S.A., Astropell S.A.Bank, he became a Chairman of the Board of Directors in Marfin G.M.B.H., Kiapell GMBH and CPL S.A. He joined the Board of Investment Group. He has a Degree in Finance from the Directors of European Reliance in 2000 and since 2007 he is the University of Athens and an honorary degree of Doctor of Chief Executive Officer of the subsidiary company Alter Ego Business Administration (Hon DBA) from the University of Facilities Management S.A. Bolton. He is a member of the American-Hellenic Chamber of Commerce and a founding member of the Business Councils: George Diamantopoulos Greece – Kuwait, Greece Qatar, Greece United Arab Emirates Non-Executive, Independent Board Member and Greece -Saudi Arabia. Mr. Diamantopoulos is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Hellenic Corporation of Assets and Participations and Nikolaos Chalkiopoulos Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Resoul Hellas S.A. He is the Vice ChairmanExecutive Board Member Chief Executive Officer of Sponsor Value Hellas S.A. He has over Mr. Chalkiopoulos has an extensive experience in the insurance 30 years of experience in consumer goods companies. In 1988 industry as Executive Director in Insurance companies. He joined he worked in Kraft Foods (prior Jacobs Suchard Pavlides) and European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. in October 2002 since 1997 he was the Area Director responsible for the area of and since 2005 holds the position of the Chief Insurance the Balkans. In European Reliance he holds the positions of Operations Officer. He has a Degree in Mathematics from the President of the Audit Committee, President of the Corporate National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and is a member Governance, Remuneration and Nomination Committee and is of the Hellenic Actuarial Society, FHAS. a Member of the Risk Management Committee. Eric Sharp Keith Morris Non-Executive Board Member Non-Executive, Independent Board Member Mr. Sharp has extensive experience in the fields of General Mr. Morris has a Degree from the University of Manchester in Commerce, Finance and Shipping in Greece and abroad. He Management Sciences with specialisation in Finance and joined European Reliance in September 2002 and today holds Marketing. He has extensive experience in companies including the position of the Director of Retail Offices Administration. HSBC, Citibank and IBM. He has held a number of Chief Executive Officer level appointments in Eagle Star Insurance, Christos Georgakopoulos AIG Europe, Euler Trade Indemnity and RBS Insurance. He has Executive Board member been a Non-Executive Board member in several companies Mr. Georgakopoulos is the founder and Chief Executive Officer including Standard Life Assurance Company. He is currently of European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. since its first Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Sava Re, a establishment. He has Degrees in Law and Economics from the Slovenian group. Panteion and Aristotle University and has extensive experience in Sales and Marketing. He is the Chairman of the Board of Christopher Poulios Directors of the subsidiaries of European Reliance, European Non-Executive, Independent Board Member Reliance Asset Management M.F.M.S.A & Alter Ego Facilities Mr. Poulios has a Degree from the Athens University of Management S.A. Economics (formerly Athens University of Economics and Business) and has been Director of the Accounting Department in various insurance companies from 1968 to 2000. 020 Administrative Bodies a) Amendments in the Articles of Association. As Amendments we consider the ordinary or extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders increase and decrease of the share capital. The General Meeting of Shareholders is the highest b) Election of the Board members and the certified administrative body of the Company. It is entitled to make auditors. decisions on business affairs, unless it is otherwise specified in c) Approval of the total management, according to art. 35 the Articles of Association. of CL. 2190/1920 and exemption of the auditors The General Meeting of Shareholders is convened by the Board d) Approval of the annual and consolidated financial statements. of Directors and meets in the Company’s registered offices or in e) Distribution of the annual profit the region of another municipality within the prefecture of the f) Mergers, dissolution, conversion, revitalization, extend registered offices or another neighbor municipality of the of the duration or liquidation of the Company and registered offices, at least on an annual basis, and the latest g) Appointment of the liquidators. within six months after the end of the fiscal year, and The Shareholders of the Company representing at least extraordinarily, if this is found necessary. 1/20 of the paid share capital are entitled to request the With the exception of the repetitive meetings, the invitation of audit of the Company from the competent Court of the the General Meeting of Shareholders must be published twenty region where the Company is registered. (20) days before the day of the meeting. The complete The Shareholders of the Company representing 1/5 of the invitation is published within the above deadline in the paid share capital are entitled to request from the Company’s website in a way that ensures the fast and noncompetent Court the audit of the Company, if the Company discriminatory access. does not apply sound and prudent management in its Any shareholder that can prove his/her identity may participate business activities. This provision does not apply when the in the General Meeting of Shareholders. Shareholders that are requested minority is represented in the Company’s Board legal entities may participate in the General Meetings via of Directors. proxies. The applicant shareholders ought to prove their The General Meeting of Shareholders is in quorum and meets shareholder’s identity and the number of shares owned at on the subjects on the agenda, when the participants are the performance of their rights. Such proof may be the shareholders, or their representatives are equal to 1/5 of the deposit of shares, according to the provisions of paragraph paid share capital. 2, art. 28 of CL. 2190/1920 was in force. To the degree that If there is no quorum, the General Meeting of Shareholders the Company owns listed shares on a regulated market, the convenes again within twenty (20) days since the date of the shareholder may prove the identity via any legal means and canceled meeting, after the disclosure of the invitation at least based on the update that the Company receives from the ten (10) days before. In the repetitive meeting, the General Central Securities Depository, if it provides registry services Meeting of Shareholders is in quorum and convenes promptly or otherwise via the participating and registered in the on the subjects of the daily agenda, regardless of the Central Securities Depository intermediaries. represented part of the paid share capital. A new invitation is not required, if in the initial invitation the place and time of the repetitive meeting is included, provided that the time period of Board of Directors Committees at least five (5) working days interferes between the canceled The Board of Directors has assigned to the following meeting and the repetitive meeting. Committees special matters with special competencies: The General Meeting of Shareholders takes decisions with the total majority of the represented votes. The decisions provided 1. Investment and Asset & Liability in paragraph 3 of article 29 of CL. 2190/1920 are made with 2/3 Management Committee (ALCO) majority of the votes represented in the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Investment and Asset & Liability Management The General Meeting of Shareholders decides for all submitted Committee consists of five members and includes two (2) subjects and is the only administrative body responsible to executive Board members of the Company, two (2) decide for: members who represent European Reliance Asset Management M.F.M. S.A. and one (1) independent member with background in Finance. 021 The main responsibilities of the Investment and Asset & Liability Committee is the update of the Investment Policy Statement • Mr. George Konstantinidis, Non-Executive Board Member (IPS), the proposal for amendments for the Asset Allocation • Mr. Christopher Poulios, Independent, Non-Executive Strategy and the acceptable deviation limits to the Board, the Board Member decision taking for the Ordinary Assets Allocation, the The Audit Committee convened 12 times in 2018. monitoring and assessment of the portfolio performance with reference to its benchmark, the balanced asset allocation, according to the future liabilities of the Company, etc. 3. IT Steering & Digital Transformation The Investment and Asset & Liability Management Committee Committee consists of the following members: • Mr. Nikolaos Chalkiopoulos, Vice Chairman of the The IT Steering & Digital Transformation Committee is a Board of Directors and Chief Insurance Operations Special Coordinating Committee for Information Officer of the Company, Technology, comprised of representatives from the Board • Mr. Stefanos Verzovitis, Executive Board member and of Directors and the IT Department of the Company. Chief Financial Officer, The Committee aims at ensuring the achievement of • Mr. Ilias Lekkos, Chief Economist of Piraeus Bank Group, corporate objectives by assessing the needs of internal • Mr. Thomas Konstantinidis, Chief Executive Officer of services, the sales network, suppliers, etc., taking into European Reliance Asset Management M.F.M.S.A. consideration the relevant circumstances (environment, • Mr. Dimitris Antonopoulos, Portfolio Manager of resources, restrictions, laws) and the available options. European Reliance Asset Management M.F.M.S.A. The main responsibilities of the IT Steering & Digital The Investment and Asset & Liability Management Committee Transformation Committee is the overview, identification, (ALCO) convened 13 times in 2018. and assessment of short-term and medium-to-long-term IT projects, the approval of big IT projects, the follow up with 2. Audit Committee the budget of the IT Department, the approval and supervision of cooperation with third parties (e.g. The Audit Committee consists of at least three (3) non-executive outsourcing), the overview of the adequacy of the available Board members, the majority of which is independent. All resources of the IT Department and the contribution to members are appointed by the General Meeting of their allocation, the support in the development and Shareholders have adequate knowledge of the Company’s materialization of the corporate program “Information sector of activities and at least one of the members must have Security Management Program”, etc. sufficient proven knowledge in accounting and auditing matters. The IT Steering & Digital Transformation Committee The President of the Audit Committee must be an independent, consists of the following members: non-executive member, appointed by the Committee’s • Mr. Nikolaos Chalkiopoulos, Vice Chairman of the members. The project of the Committee is the supervision of the Board of Directors and Chief Insurance Internal Auditors of the Company, the overview of the published Operations Officer, financial information, the audit and evaluation of the systems of • Mr. Stefanos Verzovitis, Executive Board member internal audit, the assessment and coordination of the audit and Chief Financial Officer function and procedures, based on the applicable legislation • Ms. Chrysoula Anagnostopoulou, Director of the IT governed by the Company and the proposal to the General Department, Meeting of Shareholders for the selection of the Certified Public • Mr. Fotis Kanellopoulos, Deputy Director of the IT Accountant for every fiscal year. Department, The Audit Committee operates according to a special regulation, • Mr. Panagiotis Georgiou, CEO’s Office Director which is part of the Company’s Internal Regulation of Operation. The regulation of the Audit Committee is approved and revised The It Steering Committee & Digital Transformation by the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee meets at least Committee convened 10 times in 2018. four times a year. The Audit Committee consists of the following members.: • Mr. George Diamantopoulos, Independent, Non-executive Board Member (President of the Committee) 022 4. Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee (RMC) consists of members The Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Nomination with sufficient knowledge and experience in the field of risk Committee consists of the following members: management. The President of the Committee must have the • Mr. George Diamantopoulos, Independent, Non-Executive necessary knowledge and expertise to complete the tasks. The Board Member Committee consists of at least on executive and one non• Mr. Christopher Poulios, Independent, Non-Executive Executive Board Member. Board Member The Board assigns to the Risk Management Committee (RMC) • Mr. Chris Georgakopoulos, Chief Executive Officer, responsibilities relevant to the management of risks so that all Executive Board Member forms of risks are effectively monitored, including the operational and insurance risk, so that their integrated control, The Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Nomination their specialized handling and the required coordination for the Committee convened 3 times in 2018. insurance company are ensured. The Risk Management Committee consists of the following 6. Complaints Committee members: • Mr. Nikolaos Chalkiopoulos, Vice Chairman of the The Board of Directors of the Company puts special emphasis on Board of Directors and Chief Insurance Operations the received complaints and in order to ensure their proper Officer, Actuary, FHAS (President of the Committee), management has established the Complaints Policy, special • Mr. Stefanos Verzovitis, Executive Board member and procedures and the Complaints Committee. The Complaints Chief Financial Officer, Committee consists of the Head Officer of the Complaints • Mr. George Diamantopoulos, Independent, Management Function, the Head Officer Deputy, the Chief Non-Executive Board Member Financial Officer, the Complaints Management Officer, the • Ms. Eleni Tarapatsopoulou, Director of the Actuarial Internal Audit Director and the AML Officer. Function & Actuary FHAS The Complaints Committee convenes meetings on a semi• Mr. Apostolos Papachristos (FIA CERA). annual basis to analyze the common causes of complaints, to draw conclusions, create and observe the plan of the corrective The Risk Management Committee convened 5 times in 2018. actions for their limitation and decrease their impact on the quality of the provided services of the Company to the 5. Corporate Governance, Remuneration and customers. The Complaints Committee consists of the following members: Nomination Committee • Mr. Nikolaos Chalkiopoulos, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Insurance Operations Officer The Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Nomination (Head Officer of the Complaints Management Function) Committee is active in the four following pillars of corporate • Mr. Panagiotis Georgiou, CEO’s Office Director governance: • Mr. Stefanos Verzovitis, Executive Board member and • Introduction and monitoring of the implementation of the Chief Financial Officer Remuneration Policy, • Mr. Kyriakos Dikoglou, Customer Service Officer• Nomination of the Board members, Complaints Management Officer • Board of Directors self-assessment procedures, • Mr. Stylianos Malamos, Internal Audit Director • Compliance with the corporate governance principles and • Ms. Katerina Papadopoulou, Compliance Officer. the applicable legislation. The Complaints Committee convened 2 times in 2018. The Committee consists of at least three (3) Members, in their majority non-executive and independent Board Members, that have the required expertise and experience. The President of Ability and Ethics Requirements the Committee has adequate knowledge and professional experience in Corporate Governance and Risk Management matters. In order to ensure the Company's sound and prudent The Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Nomination management by the appropriate persons and to strengthen the Committee meets on a semi-annual basis and has extraordinary protection of the insured and stakeholders, the Company has meetings, when it is considered necessary. established and applies the present Policy and Procedures for the Assessment of the persons responsible for the key functions. 023 The Policy has been established in order to define the principles Evaluates the sufficiency and quality of data used in the and criteria based on which the responsible persons will be calculation and prepares proposals of changes to assessed regarding their ability to adequately perform their internal procedures for the improvement of data. tasks. The term “responsible persons” refers to the members of the Opinion on the Underwriting Policy Board of Directors, the Appointed Actuary, the Risk Manager, the Internal Audit Officer, the Compliance Officer, any person The Actuarial Function provides its opinion on the with special duties based on the applicable legislation, as well as Underwriting Policy. Assesses the sufficiency levels of any person with major auditing or administrative role, or with the premiums, based on the current experience duties that may essentially affect the Company’s management. through regular audits. Reports cases where the The responsible persons are assessed for: premiums do not cover the expenses, claims and a. Honesty, integrity and good reputation. guarantees. b. Professional training and market experience. c. The adequacy of the knowledge in relation to the tasks to be Opinion on the Reinsurance Policy undertaken. d. The non-existence of incompatibility or conflict of interest The Actuarial Function provides its opinion on the with the tasks to be undertaken. Reinsurance Policy, reporting cases where the The appropriateness and credibility of the Board members is reinsurance policy does not cover the claims. annually reviewed with the Self-Assessment Procedure, under It evaluates the consistency of the Reinsurance Policy the supervision of the Corporate Governance, Remuneration with the Underwriting Policy and with the Company’s and Nomination Committee. The appropriateness and risk appetite. It also evaluates the reinsurance cost. credibility of the rest of the “Responsible Persons” is annually reviewed within the context of the Annual Assessment of Contribution to the Risk Management Performance and Target Setting of the Human Resources Department. The Actuarial Function contributes to the risk management in the creation and management of models for the quantification of insurance risks. It Independent Key Functions makes recommendations on the limit of values for the insurance risks. Actuarial Function It calculates the largest part of the Risk Ratios used in The Actuarial Function coordinates the calculation of the the Risk Management Reports. It participates in the Technical Provisions, gives opinions on the Underwriting and procedures of risk identification and estimation and in Reinsurance Policies and contributes to the Risk Management. the total solvency requirements for ORSA report, in Asset & Liability Management (ALM), and in Mathematical Reserves and Technical Insurance Provisions techniques for the mitigation of insurance risk. The Actuarial Function prepares a written analytical The Actuarial Function calculates the technical provisions of the report annually to inform the Management and the Company by implementing special methodologies and Company's Board of Directors via the Risk procedures. Ensures the appropriateness of the methods and Management Committee. The report analyzes all models used, as well as the assumptions and assertions on undertaken projects and their results. It also identifies which the calculation of the technical provisions is based. For potential omissions and makes proposals for their this purpose, it develops various calculation scenarios justifies correction. variations between two successive valuation dates and compares the calculations with the empirical observations. Compliance Compliance is defined as the obligation of the Company’s Board of Directors, Management and Personnel to adapt and operate in line with the applicable legislative and regulatory framework, the decisions and guidelines of EIOPA, the Company's Articles of Association, the Internal Regulations and Codes of Conduct at the performance of their tasks, with purpose to mitigate the risk of financial loss, to promote the Company's good reputation and protect its credibility and status. 024 For this purpose, the Company’s Board of Directors has The Internal Audit adds value to the Company through approved the Compliance Policy. The implementation of this the following: Policy implies the continuous compliance of the Policy with the a) Provision of advices for the planning or recommendations current applicable legislative and regulatory framework, the for improvements on the risk management system and audit prevention and deterrence of risks relevant to Compliance and mechanisms is a major obligation of all functions, bodies and employees from b) Assessment of the sufficiency and efficiency of the all ranks of the Company. Internal Audit System. The Compliance Department reports to the Board of Directors, The annual internal audit plan defines the audit's direction and through the Corporate Governance, Remuneration and goals. The annual plan provides for appropriate follow-up on the Nomination Committee, and operationally belongs to the misstatementsfindings of the previous audits, as well as Company’s Management, in the General Divisions, for any corrective actions for every process. Moreover, the annual significant violation of the regulatory framework detected in its internal audit plan briefly presents the scheduled projects in business operations. The Compliance Department is which the Internal Audit participates and the required number administratively independent and submits reports to the Board of man-hours for every project. The audit process is performed of Directors on matters relevant to the Board's responsibilities, systematically through the plan, implementation and at least annually, in a way that ensures its independence and improvement of the working methods. avoids conflict of interest. The Compliance Department can access all data and information required for the fulfillment of its Internal Audit System scope. The structure of the Internal Audit System of European Reliance Internal Audit Function General Insurance Co S.A. is based on the International COSO standard (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations) of Treadway The Internal Audit Unit is administratively independent from Commission. The COSO framework is globally recognized for its other units with executive responsibilities and from units contribution on issues of corporate governance, business ethics, competent for realizing or finalizing transactions. It reports to internal control, business risk management, fraud deterrence the Board of Directors and is supervised by the Audit and reports. Committee. COSO emphasizes on the overview and assessment The Internal Audit operates in accordance with the “Internal procedures of the following sectors: Audit Statute” and the International Standards for the • Control Environment Professional Practice of Internal Auditors). The Internal Audit Function reviews and submits • Risk Assessment recommendations for improvement to the corporate • Control Activities procedures of the Organization. The audit performed by the • Information and Communication, Internal Audit Department, as well as the submitted • Follow up improvement recommendations do not constitute executive work, nor do they release the Board of Directors (Audit Control Environment Committee) from its legal obligations (Statute of the Audit Committee). The Control Environment is the basis for the development of The Internal Audit is a tool for the Board of Directors, that based appropriate auditing mechanisms for the preparation and on an analysis of corporate risks, conducts independent audits publication of the Company’s financial statements. Some major in the Company's Internal Audit System, aiming to provide fair characteristics of the Control Environment are integrity, moral assurance to the Company's Shareholders and Management, on values, the limitationdetermination of various key roles, the the achievement of the following goals: delegation of competencies responsibilities and the • The effectiveness and productivity of the organizational structure of the Company. The formation of the corporate functions, internal policies, procedures and the distribution of guiding • The compliance with the applicable laws, regulations manuals to the employees are important elements for the and provisions, Company’s Control Environment. The Board of Directors of • Credibility of the financial statements. European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. has adopted clear operating structures and procedures. The participation of the Board of Directors in the creation and approval of corporate policies, guidelines and frameworks is important. Moreover, the Company, within this framework, has developed a Corporate Code of Conduct, an IT Systems Security Policy, a Whistle Blowing Policy and a Complaints Policy, for the creation and promotion of a culture of internal audit. 025 Another part of the Control Environment is the evaluation and audit conducted by the Board of Directors on the Company’s financial performance and results with the use of various tools such as budget, estimates, risks and KPIs analyses. Risk Assessment European Reliance General Insurance Co S.A performs risk estimates and assessments to identify threats that could affect the Company’s Financial Statements and Results. The Company continuously evaluates the risks and takes all necessary preventive measures for their decrease/ elimination. Control Activities The Company’s organizational structure is designed in a way that allows the Company to manage all risks that, according to the Company’s BoD, could possibly affect the credibility of the financial statements, the effectiveness and the performance of the corporate functions. The Control Activities of European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. take into consideration the organizational structure that clearly define all organizational roles, functions and responsibilities. Examples of the Company’s control activities are the audits, data comparisons and overview of the Departments’ functions. Information and Communication European Reliance General Insurance Co. S.A. has information and communication systems that aim at the completeness and accuracy of the Financial Statements. The exchange of information and all communications are performed with the help of internal memos, guidelines and policies, relevant to the Company’s operation and the preparation of the financial Statements. The employees are informed by the Management through corporate meetings, e-messages and corporate circulars. The Company's Management receives monthly financial information on the Company's progress, in terms of strategic and tactical goals. Follow up The Company’s financial performance is a regular topic of discussion at the BoD meetings. The Audit Committee has a significant supervisory role in the adherence and implementation of the Internal Audit System. The Company's Management monitors and audits the financial results on a regular basis and completes analyses of the deviations that arise from the comparison with the budgets and the reports. Risk Management System Model of Governance for Risk Management The Company adopts a model that is based on the three lines of defense for the governance of risk management, with the following structure: • In the first line of defense there are the operational units (Divisions and Departments), that are responsible for the assessment and minimization of risks on a given level of expected performance. • In the second line of defense there is the Risk Management Officer who detects, monitors, quantifies (where possible), controls the risks and provides for the provision of appropriate methodologies and risk management tools. Moreover, the Risk Management Officer reports to the competent bodies, namely the Risk Management Committee and the Board of Directors. • In the third line of defense, there is the Internal Audit Officer, responsible for the independent evaluation of the compliance of the applicable risk management framework and the evaluation of its effectiveness. 026 Outsourcing In case of outsourcing to third parties, the Company identifies and Outsourcing is an agreement of any form between the evaluates the most important objectives achieved, which are: Company and a service provider, whether supervised or not, • Limitation of cost under which the service provider performs a procedure, provides • Focus on the key functions of the Company a service or performs an activity, which otherwise would have • Possibility of access to new technologies been performed or provided by the Company itself. • Release of resources The Company has not outsourced any of its key functions. • Expertise However, the Company has entrusted the Company's Asset • Quality of services Management to European Reliance Asset Management • Flexibility in the determination of priorities M.F.M.S.A. The Company’s Board of Directors has established and applies an • Better management Outsourcing Policy to Third Parties, in order to: • More effective monitoring of performance a) define the objective that must be met by every outsourcing The Management of the Company pays special attention in the b) describe the procedures that must be followed in each selection of the service providers and takes all necessary outsourcing for the effective management of potential risks measures to ensure the confidentiality of the information. c) determine the framework for monitoring of outsourcing d) describe the ways of handling ineffective outsourcing. 027 Organization Chart of the Company Board of Directors Investment and IT & Digital Asset & Transformation Liabilities Committee Committee (ALCO) Actuarial Function Έργων (PMO) Risk Compliance & Management Internal Anti-Money Function Audit Laundering Unit Data Complaints Committee Protection Officer (DPO) IT Planning and Development Legal Services Current Applications Department Maintenance Hardware/ system/ network support General Commercial General Portfolio General Management of Management Finance and Administration Division Claims Department Commercial Property Damage Investor Department Department Relations Bodily Injury Department Legal Department Anti-Fraud Department Receivables Department Customer Service & Complaints Department Accounting Cash Management Call Center Bancassurance Property Sector Vessel Sector Backoffice Analytical CRM Motor Third Party Liability Sector Cargo Sector Other NonLife Sectors Vessel Sector Group Life and P.A. Claims Sales Network Financial Group Life Support Department Personal Accident Sector Marketing and Public Relations Department Sales Network Training Department Contracts Department Supplies Department Life Insurance Life Sector Claims 028 Investor Relations 274 Kifisias Avenue, Chalandri, 15232 Tel.: +30 2108119655, Fax: +30 2106841325 Email: ir@europisti.gr 029 139
