Annual Report 2018 Ascom is a global solutions provider focused on healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions. The vision of Ascom is to close digital information gaps allowing for the best possible decisions – anytime and anywhere. Ascom’s mission is to provide mission-critical, real-time solutions for highly mobile, ad hoc, and time-sensitive environ­ ments. Ascom uses its unique products and solutions and software architecture capabilities to devise integration and mobilization solutions to improve workflows for healthcare, industry and retail sectors. Shareholder return 2018 1 2017 2016 2015 2014 Dividend (CHF per share) 0.45 0.45 0.80 0.45 0.45 Average annual share price (CHF) 19.2 19.6 16.7 16.8 15.3 Dividend yield (%) 2.3% 2.3% 4.8% 2.7% 2.9% 1 Proposal to the Annual General Meeting. Share information 2018 2017 Share price at 31.12. in CHF 13.58 25.20 Market capitalization at 31.12. in CHFm 488.88 907.20 Nominal value per share in CHF 0.50 0.50 Share Price Performance 2014 to 2018 Share price performance 2014 to 2018 30.0 25.0 CHF (rebased to Ascom) 20.0 –9% Ascom 15.0 +25% SPI Index 10.0 5.0 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 Ascom SPI 329.6m Incoming orders 318.5m Revenue by region OEM 9% Asia, Australia, Africa (AAA) 5% Net revenue Americas 17% Europe 69% Benelux 22% Nordics 17% 12.2 DACH 16% Rest of Europe 14% % EBITDA margin Revenue by segment Enterprise 28% ← OEM 9% Healthcare 63% 21.4m Group profit for the period Annual Report 2018 2 Letter to Shareholders 4 Around the world 6 Performance Report 10 The Ascom Healthcare Platform 13 Enterprise Business 16 Sustainability Corporate Governance 20 Corporate structure and shareholders 23 Capital structure 25 Board of Directors 33 Executive Board 37 Compensation, shareholdings and loans 37 Shareholders’ participation rights 39 Change of control and defensive measures 39 Auditors 40 Information policy 41 Corporate governance rating Remuneration Report 42 Ascom Remuneration Policy 49 Remuneration in fiscal year 2018 54 Share ownership 55 Long-term incentive plans Financial statements 2018 59 Table of contents 60 Ascom Group 95 Ascom Holding AG 107 Dates and contacts Declaration of forward-looking statements Publishing details Andreas Umbach, Chairman (l.), Holger Cordes, CEO (r.) Letter to Share­holders Dear Shareholders, 2018 was a mixed year for Ascom. On the downside the financial results were disappointing and our shares suffered on accounts of investor sentiment and the setback in the stock markets. However, on the positive side we achieved many important and key strategic milestones in 2018. We are well on track towards becoming the best-in-class healthcare ICT and workflow solutions company. The main reasons for our lower profitability were sales shortfalls in Enterprise and OEM and higher costs in professional services. We are certain that we will create significant additional value for the Company and its stakeholders in the future: ■■ Our healthcare sector grew at 5%. Ascom’s Healthcare Platform is an unparalleled platform, in which digital clinical information flows efficiently across systems, devices and points of care. ■■ Americas is back on its growth trajectory and finished the year with double-digit growth. Under its new leadership, we successfully implemented the necessary measures to exploit the opportunities of the growing American healthcare communication market. In addition, we strengthened our already strong market position in Europe. ■■ The successful delivery of our flagship projects such as Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam was a major proof point for the execution of our strategy. ■■ We launched new cutting-edge products and solutions and established additional strong strategic partnerships. Solid growth in the second half-year In 2018, net revenue reached CHF 318.5 million compared to CHF 309.7 million in the previous year. With a net revenue of CHF 171.6 million (H2/2017: CHF 166.5 million), the second half-year was much stronger than the first six months. Overall, Ascom achieved revenue growth of 2.8% (at constant currencies 1.7%). Incoming orders showed a modest growth of 1.5% while the order backlog increased by 4.4%. Despite the significant improvement in profitability in the second half-year with an EBITDA margin of 17.1% (after 6.5% for the first six months) we did not quite meet the targeted EBITDA margin. In 2018, EBITDA reached CHF 39.0 million (2017: CHF 43.6 million), representing an EBITDA margin of 12.2% as compared to 14.1% in 2017. 2 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Letter to Shareholders Overall, Ascom closed the financial year 2018 with a Group profit of CHF 21.4 million Revenue by region (2017: CHF 25.9 million). The Company has a solid balance sheet with an equity ratio of 38.1% and net OEM 9% cash of CHF 1.2 million. Asia, Australia, Dividend of CHF 0.45 per share Africa (AAA) 5% The Board of Directors is proposing a dividend of CHF 0.45 per share at the Americas 17% Annual General Meeting 2019, representing a payout of about 75% of Group profits. Ascom has a compelling equity story, focusing on long-term profitable growth and cash generation, to create value for all stakeholders. Europe 69% Outlook Benelux 22% The growth in the healthcare sector and the successful turnaround of the American Nordics 17% DACH 16% business were the major achievements in 2018. In addition, we launched new cutRest of Europe 14% ting-edge products and solutions such as the purpose-built smartphone Ascom Myco 3, the new patient system Telligence 6, and the Elderly Care Platform SmartSense. In 2019, we are aiming to exploit the numerous opportunities in our attractive market segments. Our focus will be an acceleration of software sales and an improvement of the professional services. Moreover, we are focusing on maintaining sustainable growth in North America. Revenue by segment In 2019, Ascom is targeting a revenue growth of 3–5% and an improvement of the EBITDA margin of between 100 and 200 basis points, compared to 2018. In the mid-term, Ascom expects mid-single digit revenue growth and an EBITDA Enterprise 28% margin converging towards 20%. Jeannine Pilloud proposed as new Chairperson of the Board of Directors The Board is proposing that shareholders elect Jeannine Pilloud as new ChairperOEM 9% son of the Board of Directors. Jeannine Pilloud is an experienced leader with a strong track record in implementing transformation strategies and digitalization projects. She has a very international background and broad expertise in profesHealthcare 63% sional service businesses, in particular in the IT and telecommunication industries. As previously communicated, Andreas Umbach has decided not to stand for re-election as Chairman of the Board at the upcoming Annual General Meeting. However, he will remain in the Board as an ordinary member. Therefore, all current Board Members are standing for re-election. Note of thanks On behalf of the entire Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, we would like to thank our customers and business partners for the confidence in our products, solutions and services. We sincerely thank our employees for their commitment and dedication to Ascom. Finally, we also thank our shareholders, who share and strongly support our vision to become a best-in-class healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions provider. Andreas Umbach Holger Cordes Chairman of the Board CEO ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Letter to Shareholders 3 A technology company operating worldwide Ascom is a global solutions provider focused on healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions. The Company has a prominent international customer base and stellar solutions to meet the needs of its clients. 1,300 employees around the globe 4 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Around the world 18 operating businesses worldwide ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Around the world 5 Performance report 2018 Ascom grew the healthcare sector about 5% and made good progress in becoming a best-in-class healthcare ICT and workflow solutions provider. About 5% growth in the healthcare sector In 2018, we continued to put our efforts in becoming a best-in-class healthcare ICT and workflow solutions provider, and invested substantially in new products and solutions. The healthcare sector grew about 5%, confirming that Ascom is strategically on track. In December 2018, we launched the new smartphone device Ascom Myco 3 that enables new mobile digital workflow and communication optimization. The Ascom Healthcare Platform is an unmatched platform, where digital clinical information flows efficiently across systems, devices and points of care. In 2018, total net revenue reached CHF 318.5 million compared to CHF 309.7 million in the previous year, representing a growth rate of 2.8% (at constant currencies 1.7%). During the second half of 2018, our business in North America returned on growth trajectory. Under the leadership of a new management team in the US, we have successfully implemented strategic and operational measures to exploit the opportunities of the growing American healthcare communication market, and we succeeded to improve our “go-to market” strategy. As a result, we generated good growth in Software and in Mobility & Services, and we experienced a recovery in Nurse Call systems. Overall, we closed the full financial year 2018 with a doubledigit growth in our North America business, despite a decline in the first half-year. Europe showed a growth rate of about 3%, while the performance varied from market to market. The strongest performance has been achieved in the Benelux region with a growth rate of about 7%. A major milestone was the successful implementation of the Ascom Healthcare Platform at the Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam, a leading academic hospital center in Europe (see also the report on p. 10). Good development has been achieved also in the DACH region and in CEE, while Nordics and Southern Europe experienced lower growth rates. UK suffered from the difficult market environment in the enterprise sector and showed a decline. Our addressed markets in the region Asia, Australia and Africa (AAA) generated a slight growth. While the healthcare sector generated growth of about 5%, the enterprise sector continued to be slow, mainly in the secure establishment and retail business in Europe. On the other hand, first substantial orders in the enterprise sector could be won in North America. The OEM business could not quite match the strong growth Ascom had experienced in the previous year. 6 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Performance Report Further increase of order backlog In 2018, incoming orders increased moderately by 1.5% and came to CHF 329.6 million (2017: CHF 324.8 million), and the order backlog amounted to CHF 149.6 million at the end of 2018, representing an increase of 4.4%. During 2018, we were able to win substantial contracts in the healthcare sector. Important flagship wins included delivering the software solutions Ascom Digistat to a leading Swiss hospital. Another important win was a seven-year service contract with a prominent UK mental health hospital trust after delivering state-of-theart security communication solutions for the redevelopment of the mental health institute in 2016. We also signed a contract with a major Dutch hospital to implement the Ascom Healthcare platform. In addition to the delivery of major projects, we could upsell our products and solutions to the installed base. In addition, we strengthened our strategic alliances during 2018. We succeeded to sign important contracts with our partners. Moreover, we announced a new North American strategic partnership with Stryker, a leading medical technology company, to integrate Ascom Unite software with Stryker’s iBed Wireless Smartbed system. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Performance Report 7 Profitability affected by higher costs of professional services Despite a significant improvement in profitability during the second half-year with an EBITDA margin of 17.1% (after 6.5% for the first six months) we did not entirely meet our targeted EBITDA margin. In 2018, EBITDA came to CHF 39.0 million, representing an EBITDA margin of 12.2% compared to 14.1% in 2017. While net revenue increased by about 3% in 2018, cost of sales rose at the same time by about 7%, mainly as a consequence of higher investments into professional services. During 2018, we have focused intensely on further improving our already comprehensive platform with new products and solutions. As a healthcare ICT provider, innovation is a key success driver for us to set new industry standards and increased workflow productivity in the healthcare as well as in the enterprise sector. R&D expenses (including depreciations) represent about 10% of net revenue, while marketing and sales expenses stand at about 24% and administration expenses at about 6%. It is our target to further optimize the functional costs. Higher than anticipated costs for services were the main reason for the lower profitability in 2018. Dedicated measures have been implemented to improve the profitability of the service business in 2019. Ascom closed the financial year 2018 with a Group profit of CHF 21.4 million compared to CHF 25.9 million for financial year 2017. Earnings per share (diluted) came to CHF 0.59 (2017: CHF 0.72). Positive operating cash flow and sound balance sheet Ascom has a financially sound position. In 2018, the Company increased its positive cash flow from operating activities to CHF 20.0 million (2017: CHF 16.2 million). This higher operational cash flow resulted primarily from an improved management of the net working capital. Cash flow from investing activities amounted to CHF 14.1 million, including CHF 11.4 million for capital expenditures, as well as CHF 3.0 million cash outflow attributable to the contingent purchase price payment related to the successful acquisition of UMS in 2016. Cash flow from financial activities of CHF 14.2 million included mainly the dividend payment of CHF 16.2 million in April 2018. Overall, on the balance sheet date of 31 December 2018, cash and cash equivalents amounted to CHF 21.2 million (31 December 2017: CHF 30.3 million). In 2018, the Company’s equity remained stable at CHF 83.2 million, with an equity ratio of 38.1% (36.2% as at 31 December 2017). Francis Schmeer appointed Chief Sales and Marketing Officer As of 1 October 2018, Francis Schmeer, Member of the Executive Board, was appointed Chief Sales and Marketing Officer. In his new role, he is responsible for all sales regions, sales operations, strategic alliances, as well as marketing. All Managing Directors of the sales regions are reporting to him. 8 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Performance Report Ascom Myco 3 enables new mobile digital workflow and communication optimization The new Ascom Myco 3 smartphone has been launched by the end of 2018. As part of the Ascom Healthcare Platform, Ascom Myco 3 works with software, apps and integrated devices to optimize digital mobile workflows. Ascom Myco 3 is an Android device supported by orchestration software that enables interoperability with Electronic Health Record (EHR) solutions and a wide range of alert, task and alarm management systems. Ascom Myco 3 represents a major step forward to bridge digital communication and coordination gaps in mobile healthcare and enterprise workflows. Impressive pipeline of new products and solutions for both, the healthcare and enterprise sector One of the most important success drivers for our growth strategy is innovation. In the reporting year, 2018 Ascom invested about 10% of its total net revenue in the development and improvement of new products, solutions and services for the healthcare as well as the enterprise sector such as: ■■ Ascom Myco 3 ■■ Ascom Myco 2 DECT/Black ■■ Ascom Telligence 5.1/6.0 ■■ CDAS ■■ Unite analyse ■■ Ascom Unite TaskMinder ■■ Digistat ICU/Surgery ■■ Unite SmartSense (Elderly Care Platform) We at Ascom have a clear vision: Ascom closes digital information gaps allowing for the best possible decisions anytime and anywhere. Therefore, also in 2019 we have a strong pipeline of innovative products and solutions including: ■■ Telligence 6.1 ■■ Elderly Care teleCare IP 12.0 ■■ Unite Connect for Clinical Systems ■■ Unite AlertTrac In addition, we will enhance our existing products and solutions to leverage the existing offering. Ascom is strategically on track We are consistently pursuing our clear business strategy and target to further improve our service business, which will strengthen our expertise in project execution and upselling potential. We also strive to improve our position in workflow and technology consulting to advise and optimize solution added value. Moreover, we support our customers in project planning and project execution as well as in change management and user adoption. In 2019, we aim to benefit from our improved market position in North America. Besides focusing on higher growth rates for total net revenue, we are concentrating on financial discipline to increase our profitability margins. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Performance Report 9 Creating a hospital for the 21st century How the Ascom Healthcare Platform is helping Erasmus MC Rotterdam realize its vision for innovative patientcentric care Solving unique challenges to realize a patient-centric vision “The realization of the new state-­­ofThe facts and figures are truly impressive: a 203,000 m² floor area, 586 singlethe art Erasmus MC is a team patient rooms, 22 operating rooms. But what really sets the Erasmus MC hospital achievement of the highest order. in Rotterdam apart is its vision for patient safety, patient autonomy and patientThe architects, contractors, subcentric care. In fact, every aspect of Erasmus MC – from its soothing color schemes contractors and many staff members to alarm filtering to smooth clinical workflows – has been designed to nurture reof Erasmus MC all played their covery in a calm healing environment. part in this accomplishment. Ascom But how could Erasmus MC realize this vision, given its 586 single-patient rooms, has delivered an outstanding each generating messages, alerts and assorted clinical data? The answer lay in the achievement and made a great contri­hospital’s Medical Integrated Communications and Information System (MICIS), which bution to creating the hospital of integrates Erasmus MC’s digital information systems into a single platform. the 21st century.” Erasmus MC, however, required a strategic partner to help it implement MICIS; David Voetelink a partner with healthcare consultancy, hardware and software solutions, as well as Chief Financial Officer, Erasmus MC a track record in advanced clinical information management. “Ascom is unique in satisfying all these criteria,” says Ascom Benelux Managing Director Olaf Hendriks. “It was a key reason why Erasmus MC chose us to develop a solution to implement their MICIS.” An integrated platform solution with unmatched depth To devise a customized solution for Erasmus MC, Ascom combined various components of the Ascom Healthcare Platform: consulting, software, smartphones, integration with Electronic Health Records (EHR) and third-party applications, commissioning, training and support. The result was an end-to-end solution, with Ascom Unite and Digistat software integrating siloed healthcare IT systems and fragmented data with the hospital’s Electronic Health Record (EHR) system in order to bridge digital information gaps. The software also orchestrates clinical information; filtering and prioritizing it, and managing its speedy and uniform delivery to assigned caregivers. Finally, Ascom Myco 2 smartphones enable informed actions and decisions. Caregivers receive context-rich alerts, complete with patient names and locations, direct to their Ascom Myco 2 smartphones. Erasmus MC was officially opened on September 6, 2018. Since then the MICIS solution has, in the words of Erasmus CIO Simon Vermeer, “made a visible and essential contribution to achieving our goals of improved patient comfort, quicker recovery, enhanced efficiency and increased patient satisfaction.” Advanced alert management, for example, is helping to ensure patient safety by sending alerts to specified clinicians, with escalation to colleagues when appropriate. Sending filtered alerts and messages to mobile clinicians’ Ascom Myco 2 smartphones is also 10 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 The Ascom Healthcare Platform helping to foster a calmer environment; contributing to fewer disturbances to pa“The Medical Integrated Communitients, and a lower risk of alarm fatigue for frontline staff. cations and Information System – with Ascom as the lead contractor – Leading a world-class team for a world-class hospital was delivered as a stable solution The new Erasmus MC in Rotterdam is the result of twenty years preparation and within the allotted time. That is an eight years construction work. Throughout its involvement in the project, Ascom incredible achievement for such held multidisciplinary workshops and reviews with the hospital. Ascom also held IT an innovative project.” sessions with key staff from Erasmus MC and project partners – working together Simon Vermeer to optimize the MICIS’s reliability, scalability and security. Chief Information Officer, Erasmus MC “Close collaboration with clients and partners,” says Hendriks, “is a given in any project. But the Erasmus MC project – realizing as it does such an ambitious vision for patient-centric healthcare – called for an exceptional degree of cooperation and flexibility. And it paid off: a world-class healthcare information solution, delivered on time, for a world-class hospital.” Erasmus MC Rotterdam – key facts and figures ■■ A 203,000 m² floor area teaching hospital – the largest such facility in the Netherlands ■■ Constructed 2009–2017, fully commissioned 2018 ■■ 586 single-patient rooms, of which 38 are ICU, 18 are cardiac ICU ■■ 22 operating rooms, 12 radiotherapy bunkers, 18 dialysis stations ■■ 46 elevators, 15,000 m² laboratories ■■ Ascom selected to install a Medical Integrated Communications and Information System (MICIS) comprising: consulting, Ascom Unite and Ascom Digistat Connect software, 1,000 Ascom Myco 2 smartphones, integration with facility’s EHR, integrations with various third-party solutions, commis­ sioning, training, after-sales support erasmusmc.nl ASCOM Annual Report 2018 The Ascom Healthcare Platform 11 The Ascom Healthcare Platform at Erasmus MC Rotterdam Integrate Enabling clinical information Ascom Unite software is crucial to the Ascom solution at Erasmus MC. It is the soluto flow seamlessly across tion’s integrative backbone, combining numerous existing information networks systems, devices and points and healthcare IT systems into one common, cohesive platform for the entire hosof care. pital. Ascom also implemented its Digistat Connect software – critical for acquiring information from medical devices, and enabling a common, standard and automatic data stream to hospital information systems. Orchestrate The Ascom Unite software suite is also responsible for orchestrating alerts, messages and requests at Erasmus MC – helping to ensure the correct information is delivered to the appropriate caregiver at the correct time. Moreover, the Ascom solution at Erasmus MC assigns, prioritizes and escalates alerts, which can help minimize acoustic stress and the risk of alert fatigue. Enable The Ascom solution, including Ascom Myco 2 smartphones, delivers up-to-date, context-rich information and alerts to specified mobile clinicians and care teams. The ability to access, interact with, and share clinical information via the Ascom Myco 2 while on the go enables streamlined care and better-informed care decisions. The Ascom Healthcare Platform Bridging digital information gaps across points of care... ...to create actionable insight that enables informed clinical decisions. 12 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 The Ascom Healthcare Platform Ascom Enterprise Business – Leading with industry leaders How the unique breadth of Ascom enterprise solutions is helping companies and organizations to maximize productivity, employee safety and customer satisfaction When the world’s largest container shipping company Maersk wanted a personal security solution for its ships’ engineers, the organization turned to Ascom. When Mars Wrigley, the world’s leading manufacturer of chocolate and chewing gum, decided it was time for new mobile information solutions at five facilities in France, it turned to Ascom. And when major pan-European foodstuffs manufacturer Wernsing Feinkost wanted a worker safety and logistics solution for a sprawling distribution center, it turned to Ascom. All of these and hundreds of other enterprises in industry, retail, security, hospitality and other sectors have over the years selected Ascom mobile information and workflow management solutions to achieve key objectives. These objectives of course vary, but can typically be grouped under three headings: Maximize productivity Ascom solutions enable staff and systems to react quickly with appropriate actions to unplanned events. Indeed, it is precisely this ability to devise and maintain complex end-to-end mobile solutions that makes Ascom unique in the enterprise information and communication technologies (ICT) market. Such Ascom solutions enable machines, software and processes to communicate context-rich digitized information to mobile workers’ handsets such as the Ascom Myco smartphone, informing them of deviations and glitches before they escalate into serious problems. Personnel can easily communicate and collaborate with colleagues and management to coordinate fast responses. Maximize worker safety Ascom has decades of experience developing customized accident and safety alerts systems for enterprises. The specifics of each solution may vary, but the underlying aim remains the same: the swift delivery of clear, information-rich alerts and messages from people, equipment and systems to designated recipients. To meet the vast range of enterprise safety needs, Ascom offers a broad spectrum of software and hardware such as handsets certified for use in explosive environments, and personal safety solutions for at-risk staff in secure establishments, hospitality, retail and so on. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Enterprise Business 13 Maximize customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction depends on multiple factors. Production, order processing, personnel collaboration, guest services, technical alerts, supplies – each area has its special communication and coordination needs. As one of the world’s leading mobile on-site information specialists, Ascom has solutions for virtually every enterprise communication and workflow management challenge. Achieving these three objectives almost always involves seamless connectivity and coordination between personnel, management, equipment items, customers, processes, and business and alarm systems. Which is why Ascom has developed such an extensive product and service portfolio. In fact, no one else offers the same breadth of software, hardware, and enterprise-grade smartphones and mobile devices. And no one else can integrate all these elements into unique, highly customized solutions – all supported and optimized by worldwide services programs. Customization as standard Two further factors are crucial to Ascom’s success in enterprise workflow solutions: a strategic focus on customization, and unrivalled expertise in extending the working life of existing ICT systems. The first factor is critical in solving enterprise workflow needs, as each individual company – indeed, each specific site or facility – is truly unique: unique physical characteristics, unique technical complications, unique commercial and operational objectives and conditions. The second factor helps companies extract maximum value from existing ICT investments and legacy systems. These factors help explain why Ascom is committed to developing interoperable, technology-agnostic, vendor-neutral and future-proof solutions. And why we develop them in a range of technologies: DECT, Wi-Fi, 3G/4G, on-site paging. Moreover, the final point – future-proof solutions – is becoming more and more important. Inflexible, monolithic systems shackle agility and competitiveness, making it difficult for companies to respond to (never mind anticipate) unplanned equipment downtime, sudden changes in order volumes, labor supply fluctuations, raw material bottlenecks or logistical snarl ups. In contrast, Ascom enterprise solutions are designed to be scalable and adaptable to meet potential future requirements. The Wernsing Feinkost worker-safety/ logistics solution, for instance, is built on a platform of flexible Ascom Unite Connectivity Manager software. The solution can easily be expanded to include additional capabilities such as alert-management systems for technical and building alarms. Enabling the Industry 4.0 revolution Enterprise workflow management and ICT are constantly evolving, with new developments and challenges underscoring the need for nimble, flexible solutions. One such challenge is posed by the gathering pace of the “Industry 4.0” revolution. Put simply, the term refers to the transformation in productivity made possible by advanced digital connectivity. People, machines and processes are interacting with one another – with sensors and Manufacturing Execution Systems (MES) continuously collecting and analyzing data from multiple points in a facility in order to optimize decisions and trigger pre-emptive interventions. The end result of all this data collection and analyses are maximum equipment availability, performance, and product quality, which combine to help improve Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE), a measure of the overall performance of a single piece of equipment or even of an entire factory. Ascom solutions help ensure the delivery of the data needed to calculate and improve OEE. But Ascom solutions do more than simply collect data. They can also funnel feedback to the MES, creating virtuous circles to help organizations build knowledge bases of incidents and their resolutions. 14 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Enterprise Business Mars Wrigley in France is relying on communication solutions of Ascom in five production facilities Protecting workers, protecting productivity for Mars Wrigley “The Ascom platform allows us to Ascom has to date integrated more than 20,000 enterprise communication systems better protect isolated workers.” in Europe and North America. One recent high-profile project involves five producJean Froehlicher, Computer Methods and tion facilities in France for Mars Wrigley, the confectionery giant behind such brands Maintenance Technician at Mars Wrigley, France as M&M’s, Skittles, Twix, and Snickers. The project posed the usual array of challenges for Ascom technicians: enable centralized, real-time management of technical, production and personal safety alarms; capture and store key data for productivity analysis and improvements; optimize communication and collaboration for highly mobile personnel. But one additional factor made the Mars Wrigley project particularly challenging. Each of the five facilities required its own customized solution, with each system not only tailored to a plant’s needs, but also to stringent facility-specific standards set by Mars Wrigley. At the same time, all the solutions had to be connected – giving managers up-to-date overviews of operational data and statuses across all five facilities. The presence of lone mobile personnel in the five facilities posed yet more challenges. On one hand, personnel need seamless connectivity via handsets to colleagues, equipment, alarm systems, business processes and so on. But conventional mobile phones just don’t meet the rigorous safety standards established for potentially hazardous and explosive environments. Not even normal enterprisegrade handsets can satisfy these requirements. Instead, special ‘intrinsically safe’ handsets are required – devices that satisfy a raft of tough safety and performance standards. The Ascom solution for Mars Wrigley overcomes this challenge by including intrinsically safe Ascom d81ex handsets that also feature advanced personal safety functions such as “man-down” and “no-movement” alarms. The handsets also boast an accurate geolocation function that supports swift interventions with roomlevel accuracy in case of an emergency. Indeed, according to Jean Froehlicher, Computer Methods and Maintenance Technician at Mars Wrigley in France, “the Ascom platform allows us to better protect isolated workers.” The Ascom solution is currently in full operation at the five Mars Wrigley facilities in France. In fact, Mars Wrigley technicians are considering exploiting the solution’s scalability and flexibility by adding email functionality to technical/production alarm notifications. Such an extension would add valuable data to alerts, helping technicians to intervene as quickly and efficiently as possible in cases of unanticipated equipment failures or deviations. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Enterprise Business 15 Ascom follows its sustainability principles to contribute to a better world We are pursuing various initiatives throughout the whole organi­zation and we are living up to the Company’s sustainability tenets We are showing our commitment to take sustainability challenges seriously as basis “As a signatory of the UN Global for achieving long-lasting growth and success in business. Compact (UNGC) since 2010, 2018 was another year in which we made good progress in improving its sustainwe at Ascom remain committed to ability performance. Our business strategy and our sustainability efforts are interconpursuing sustainable business nected, especially in our healthcare business, in order to provide a stress-reducing and adhering to the Ten Principles of environment and calm care for patients. To improve the environment for patients and the Global Compact, which relate staff, several challenges have been addressed, such as stress and burnout among to human rights, labor practices, and personnel, staff safety and the risk of missing crucial patient alarms. environmental and anti-corruption The caregiver’s role and improvements in staff safety for the working environmeasures.” ment are critical to achieving global requirements, e.g. the World Health OrganizaHolger Cordes, CEO Ascom tion’s (WHO) global strategic directions for strengthening nursing and midwifery 2016–2020 or the United Nations (UN)’s business-relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which we at Ascom implemented for the first time in 2018. One of the main SDGs for Ascom encompasses Good Health and Well-Being (SDG No 3), which aims to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for everyone at all ages. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2010, we at Ascom remain committed to pursuing sustainable business and adhering to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, which relate to human rights, labor practices, and environmental and anti-corruption measures. Our Company is also governed by the Ascom Code of Ethical Business Conduct, which forms the basis of our corporate culture, an updated version is planned after the Annual General Meeting 2019. New environmental protection objective In our 2020 Sustainability Roadmap we identified four key performance indicators in the areas of our ISO 14001 certificate to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These environmental indicators correspond directly to our significant environmental aspects measured in CO₂ equivalents (CO₂e). We at Ascom continuously set detailed targets and new objectives on these topics. Please refer below for examples of Ascom’s roadmap targets. 16 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 1. Strive for continuous improvements of products and their impact on the environment throughout their life cycle and design solutions to optimize power consumption during use Reduce power consumption during use ■■ New generation of Smart Device Cellular variant. This must be as power efficient or more efficient than the current variant ■■ Reduce power consumption in our software products, measured per message processed at peak load ■■ Reduce patient stations power consumption 2. Optimization of materials/production processes Material efficiency ■■ Increase materials with recycled content e.g. packaging 3. Reducing CO₂ impact on service organization by reducing mileage Reduce business travel ■■ Benelux Region: Increase remote support percentage to 50%, which will reduce travelling hours to more than 30% ■■ Nordics Region: Make service more efficient, amount of remote support in Sweden should be 85% and in Finland 90% ■■ UK Region: Increase rate of remote service by 80% 4. Responsible supply chain Supplier due diligence and improvements ■■ Due diligence follow-up on CSR issues relating to first-tier suppliers The sustainability roadmap has shown some long-term success given these results. The low-emissions portfolio of solutions is underway. As of 2018, we have been disclosing key indicators which measure the ratio of Ascom’s calculated CO₂ equivalents as a percentage of overall business revenue generated. Co2 per unit net revenue Year Net revenue (CHFm) CO₂e kg CO₂e kg per CHF % Change CO₂e kg per CHF 2015 1 304,2 93,656,270 0.31 2016 1 300,8 70,583,102 0.23 –25.8% 2017 309,7 69,427,651 0.22 –4% 2018 318,5 63,357,714 0.20 –9% 1 Net revenue figures only for continuing business (former Division Wireless Solutions); CO2e is calculated according to recognized standard (ISO 14064), but has not been externally verified. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 17 Ascom wins several innovation awards Innovation is an important success driver to setting new industry standards and increasing workflow productivity in both the healthcare and enterprise businesses. Increased R&D expenses of CHF 16.5 million for the first half-year 2018 highlight the fact that Ascom embodies an innovative spirit, which was recognized prominently in 2018: ■■ Frost & Sullivan Company of the Year Award for the Enterprise Wireless Phone Industry recognizes Ascom for its outstanding and sustained performance in the global enterprise wireless phone market. ■■ UK’s Building Better Healthcare Awards was awarded to Ascom due to the clinical workflow solution Ascom Telligence as best communications system. The best communications system award is part of the technology class, which aims to identify the most innovative digital applications used in health and social care environments. Responsible sourcing of minerals The majority of Ascom’s hardware contains one or more of the minerals tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TG). The mining and trade of these materials from the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries have attracted international attention as “conflict minerals.” Because of a potential association with human rights abuses, Ascom strives to source ethically and responsibly throughout the supply chain, and apply the “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas”, including a review of the Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry (RCOI) for smelters/refiners reported in supply chains. In 2018, Ascom identified 319 smelters in the supply chain, of which 80% comply with the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) audit. In our due diligence process for the supply chain we identified a couple high-risk gold smelters. Some of these smelters were either initially erroneous or unintentionally reported; and changes were made on the supplier’s declaration of scope of the supplier’s Conflict Minerals Reporting Template. In one case, the smelters were removed on the supplier’s own initiative. The number of RMAP-compliant smelters in our products has been increased by 10% since 2015. Non-responding suppliers have fallen by 11% to 3%. Our supplier due diligence on these remaining non-responding suppliers is ongoing. Anti-corruption and bribery issues All Ascom entities have access to the anonymous whistleblower reporting system, which all our employees can use to report any irregularities. Every employee is encouraged to draw attention to circumstances that indicate a violation of the Ascom Code of Conduct and inform the managers (“whistle-blowing”). The number of reported incidents in 2018 was three. The senior management discussed these reports and initiated measures where appropriate. Ascom’s exposure with respect to forced labor and child labor is considered low due to the industry, Ascom’s business model, the countries in which the Company is doing business and the Company’s high quality requirements. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact we at Ascom categorically condemn the use of all forms of forced or child labor in the entire Group. Principle 5 (Labor) of the UN Global Compact obliges all members of the UN Global Compact to uphold the effective abolition of child labor. We strongly adhere to this principle. So far, we have not become aware of any cases of forced or child labor within our Company or our suppliers. 18 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Data protection as a focus topic We have now fully implemented the OneCompany integration process which kicked-off in 2016. With OneCompany, we aim to focus Ascom’s resources on our strategic business priorities and other growth areas, reduce costs, and improve decision making and accountability. To increase interaction within the organization and benefit the Company from the internal interchange of ideas, we at Ascom held regular all-employees meetings, as well as a number of Senior Leadership Q&Asessions during 2018. Data protection was a key topic for Ascom in 2018. Since the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force last year, major efforts have been undertaken to meet the comprehensive requirements of the new regulation. Ascom has attached great importance to internal training in this area. Every Ascom employee had to participate in a training and pass an online test that covered the most important topics and relevant business situations on data protection. Furthermore, Ascom evaluated its products for privacy protection and reviewed its data processing activities within the Ascom Group. Employee Engagement Surveys were carried out to find out areas for improvement. In 2018 the survey was completed by 82% Ascom employees. Surveyed subjects like “Engagement”, “Team efficiency”, “Leadership and Psychosocial Work Environment” are overall in line with benchmark. Ascom is strongly committed to a diverse workforce. Any discrimination of employees based on their sex, race, physical impairments, origins, sexual preferences, political opinion, religion or any other characteristics protected by local law is prohibited. All these principles of non-discrimination are laid down in the Ascom Code of Ethical Business Conduct. Ascom has a male/female ratio of 81/19 (%) among the employees, and of 80/20 (%) in the Board of Directors. For more information about Ascom’s sustainability efforts, please visit https://www.ascom.com/Investor-Relations/Governance/sustainability.html ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Sustainability 19 Corporate Governance 1. CORPORATE STRUCTURE AND SHAREHOLDERS Ascom is fully committed to good Corporate Governance. The information published in the Corporate Governance report follows the SIX Swiss Exchange directives on standards relating to Corporate Governance. All information within this Corporate Governance report refers to rules and regulations that were in effect as of 31 December 2018. Operating corporate structure (January 2019) CEO Holger Cordes* Legal & Communications / IR Daniel Lack Chief Sales & COO CTO CFO Marketing Officer Claes Ödman* André Neu Anette Weber* Francis Schmeer* Regional Sales Organizations * Also member of the Executive Board. The Group is organized by functions, as Ascom has become a one-business company and has no divisions anymore. Listed corporation: Ascom Holding AG Ascom Holding AG (Ascom Holding SA, Ascom Holding Ltd.) is a publicly listed company headquartered in Baar, Switzerland. It has a share capital of CHF 18,000,000, divided into 36,000,000 registered shares with a par value of CHF 0.50 per share. The Company’s registered shares are traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange Swiss Reporting Standard under ISIN CH0011339204, symbol ascn. Ticker symbols: ■■ Bloomberg; ASCN.SW ■■ Reuters: ASCN.S Market capitalization as of 31 December 2018 was CHF 488.9 million. Unlisted Group companies The following companies belong to the Ascom Holding AG scope of consolidation (see table on page 22). 20 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance The Ascom Top Management LTR: Anette Weber, Claes Ödman, Holger Cordes, Daniel Lack, André Neu, Francis Schmeer. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 21 Unlisted Group companies: Ascom Holding AG (as of 31 December 2018) Country Company Registered Office Share Capital Parent Company Group’s Interest Australia GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. Chippendale AUD 3 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Alexandria NSW AUD 3,000,000 GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. 100% Belgium Ascom (Belgium) NV Zaventem EUR 1,424,181 Ascom Holding AG 100% Denmark Ascom Danmark A/S Glostrup DKK 1,200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Finland Ascom Oy Turku EUR 33,638 Ascom Holding AG 100% France Ascom (France) SA Suresnes EUR 2,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Germany Ascom Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt a. M. EUR 2,137,200 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 100% Technologiepark Teningen GmbH Emmendingen EUR 6,136,000 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 94% Ascom Solutions Ltd. 6% Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH Frankfurt a. M. EUR 5,113,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Italy Ascom UMS S.r.l. Scandicci EUR 100,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Malaysia Ascom (Malaysia) SDN BHD Petaling Jaya MYR 1,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Netherlands Ascom (Nederland) BV Utrecht EUR 1,361,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Norway Ascom (Norway) A/S Oslo NOK 1,250,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Romania Ascom Mobile Solutions Romania S.R.L. Cluj-Napoca RON 45,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Singapore Ascom Solutions (Singapore) Pte Ltd Singapore SGD 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Sweden Ascom (Sweden) AB Gothenburg SEK 96,154,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Switzerland Mocsa AG in Liquidation Berne CHF 100,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Solutions Ltd. Mägenwil CHF 10,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% United Kingdom Ascom (UK) Ltd. Lichfield GBP 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% USA Ascom (US) Inc. Morrisville NC USD 1 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Shareholders Registered shareholders As of 31 December 2018, there were 4,234 shareholders registered in the share register of Ascom Holding AG. Share ownership as of 31 December 2018 Number of shares Number of shareholders 1 to 100 778 101 to 1,000 2,250 1,001 to 5,000 938 5,001 to 10,000 124 More than 10,000 144 Total 4,234 Significant shareholders The following significant shareholders exceeding a threshold of 3% of voting rights were recorded in the share register as of 31 December 2018: ■■ Veraison SICAV, Zurich: 8.32% ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel: 6.31% 22 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance This does not cover shares, which are not registered in the share register (dispo shares). Dispo shares amounted to 32.85% as of 31 December 2018. In accordance with the disclosure announcements made according to Article 120 of the Financial Market Infrastructure Act (FMIA), the following parties with voting rights exceeding a threshold of 3% are regarded as significant shareholders in Ascom as of 31 December 2018: ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel: Ascom securities representing 5.13% of the voting rights (announcement dated 24 January 2017) ■■ Veraison SICAV, Zurich: Ascom securities representing 5.0176% of the voting rights (announcement dated 4 March 2016) ■■ Schroders plc, London, UK: Ascom securities representing 4.962% of the voting rights (announcement dated 23 May 2017) ■■ Kempen Capital Management N.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands: Ascom securities representing 3.05% of the voting rights (announcement dated 17 January 2018) ■■ Credit Suisse Funds AG, Zurich: Ascom securities representing 3.02% of the voting rights (announcement dated 9 November 2018) ■■ Pictet Asset Management SA, Geneva: Ascom securities representing 3.02% of the voting rights (announcement dated 23 August 2018) ■■ Norges Bank, Oslo, Norway: Ascom securities representing 3.01% of the voting rights (announcement dated 4 January 2019) ■■ BlackRock Inc., New York, USA: Ascom securities representing 2.69% of the voting rights and sale positions of 0.96% (announcement dated 24 September 2016) Subsequents events: The following changes in the shareholder base were notified after 1 January 2019: ■■ Norges Bank, Oslo, Norway: Ascom securities representing < 3% of the voting rights (announcement dated 12 January 2019) ■■ Kempen Capital Management N.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands: Ascom securities representing < 3% of the voting rights (announcement dated 26 January 2019) Further details regarding these shareholders as well as additional information regarding the individual disclosure notices are available on the disclosure platform of the SIX Swiss Exchange at www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/publications/significant-shareholders.html?companyId=ASCOM. The free float of the shares of Ascom Holding AG is 100% since 1 November 2013. As of the balance sheet date, the Company held 38,110 treasury shares, representing 0.1% of voting rights. The Company only held own shares to back the on­going long-term incentive plans (share matching plans). There are no known shareholders’ agreements. Cross-shareholdings The Ascom Group has not entered into cross-shareholdings with other companies in terms of capital or voting rights. 2. CAPITAL STRUCTURE Ordinary share capital Since the Annual General Meeting held on 6 April 2006, the share capital has amounted to CHF 18,000,000, divided into 36,000,000 registered shares with a par value of CHF 0.50 per share. The share capital is fully paid up. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 23 Share structure 31.12.18 31.12.17 Number (CHFm) Number (CHFm) Registered shares par value CHF 0.50 36,000,000 18.0 36,000,000 18.0 Registered shareholders 4,234 4,247 Bonus certificates Ascom Holding AG has not issued any bonus certificates. Authorized share capital/conditional share capital The Company has no authorized or conditional share capital. Changes in equity The equity of Ascom Holding AG has changed as ­follows: CHF 1,000 2018 2017 2016 2015 1 Share capital 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 Legal reserves 6,523 6,523 6,523 6,523 Retained earnings 355,448 374,802 395,203 469,538 Treasury shares (406) (475) (1,046) (2,345) Total 377,892 398,850 418,680 491,716 1 The figures have been adjusted to the new Swiss accounting legislation of the Swiss Code of Obligations. Limitations on transferability and nominee registrations ■■ In principle, the Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG contain no limitations on transferability and no statutory privileges (www.ascom.com/content/dam/ ascom/ws/ready-for-use/global/corporate/documents/corporate-governance/ ascom-articles-association-en.pdf). ■■ The share registration guidelines (current version dated 1 September 2017) are published on the Company’s website (www.ascom.com/content/dam/ascom/ws/ ready-for-use/global/corporate/documents/corporate-governance/ascom-shareregistration-guidelines-2017-en.pdf). ■■ Every person recorded in the share register is regarded as a shareholder or beneficiary vis-à-vis the Company. ■■ For registered shares, a share register is maintained in which the names and addresses of the owners and beneficiaries are entered. Changes must be reported to the Company. ■■ Entry in the share register requires proof of acqui­sition of title to the shares or of beneficiary status. A purchaser of registered shares is entered in the share register upon request as a voting shareholder if he/she expressly declares that he/she acquired the registered shares in his/her own name and on his/her own account. If the purchaser is not prepared to make such a declaration, the Board of Directors may refuse registration as a voting shareholder. ■■ After consulting the party involved, the Company may delete entries in the share register if such entries occurred in consequence of false statements by the purchaser. The purchaser must be informed immediately of the deletion. ■■ Admission of nominees is decided by the Board of Directors. No applications in this regard were submitted in 2018. 24 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Options/convertible bonds Options/share matching plans All Ascom option plans are expired. Ascom share matching plans are listed in the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 57. Convertible bonds Ascom Holding AG has not issued any convertible bonds. Management transactions The listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange stipulate a disclosure obligation in respect of management transactions, including exercise of options, acquisitions and sales of Ascom shares. To ensure compliance with these provisions, the Board of Directors has issued an Annex to the Organization Regulations. Details can be found on the disclosure platform of the SIX Swiss Exchange at www.six-exchange-regulation. com/en/home/publications/management-transactions.html?­companyId=ASCOM. 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Primary tasks of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors holds ultimate decision-making authority and determines the strategic, organizational and financial planning guidelines for the Group as well as the Company objectives. The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall direction as well as the supervision and control of the management. It sets guidelines for business policies and ensures that it is regularly informed on the course of business. The primary tasks of the Board of Directors under the Swiss Code of Obligations and the Articles of ­A ssociation of Ascom Holding AG are: ■■ Overall management of the Company and the Group, including setting the strategic direction as well as issuing directives as required ■■ Defining the organization and management structure ■■ Laying out the forms of accounting and financial control as well as financial planning ■■ Appointing and discharging persons entrusted with the management and representation of the Company and determining who is entitled to sign on behalf of the Company ■■ Ultimate supervision of business activities ■■ Drawing up the Annual Report and the Remuneration Report as well as preparing the Annual General Meeting and carrying out its resolutions ■■ Informing the courts in the event of excessive indebtedness ■■ Passing resolutions on the financing of business, and in particular deciding on capital increases and IPOs and the consequent changes to the Articles of Association ■■ Passing resolutions on participations of major/strategic significance ■■ Determining the compensation for members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting Election and composition of the Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG The Articles of Association define the election of the Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG as follows: ■■ The Board of Directors consists of at least three and not more than seven members. ■■ The General Meeting elects the members and the Chairman of the Board of Directors individually. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 25 ■■ The terms of office of the members of the Board of Directors as well as the term of office of the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall end no later than at the closing of the ordinary General Meeting following their election. Re-election is permitted. ■■ The majority of the members of the Board of Directors shall be independent members. ■■ In the event that the position of the Chairman is vacant, the Board of Directors appoints a new Chairman for the remaining term of office. ■■ Members of the Board of Directors retire from the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting of the respective year when they complete their 70th year of age. Ascom’s Articles of Association are available on the Company website: www.ascom. com/content/dam/ascom/ws/ready-for-use/global/corporate/documents/corporate-governance/ascom-articles-association-en.pdf. At the Annual General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG held on 11 April 2018, the shareholders elected the ­following members of the Board of Directors individually and for a term of one year until the Annual General Meeting 2019: Member since Elected until AGM Andreas Umbach, Chairman 2010 2019 (Chairman since 2017) Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda 2016 2019 Dr Harald Deutsch 2014 2019 Jürg Fedier 2017 2019 Christina Stercken 2014 2019 The Board of Directors aims for a balanced professional expertise and diversity of its members when proposing them for election to the Annual General Meeting. The selection process is regardless of origin, nationality, culture, religion, or gender. The shareholders elected Andreas Umbach as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Dr Harald Deutsch as well as Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda as members of the Compensation Committee, all for a term of one year. All members of the Board of Directors are non-executive members. No member of the Board of Directors has any significant business relationship with Ascom Holding AG or its subsidiaries. Secretary of the Board of Directors Dr Daniel Lack has served as Secretary of the Board of Directors since May 2001. Changes to the Board of Directors The Board of Directors remained unchanged in 2018. At the Annual General Meeting 2019, Andreas Umbach will not stand for re-election as Chairman of the Board. However, he will stand for re-election as an ordinary member of the Board. The Board of Directors is proposing the election of Jeannine Pilloud as new member and Chairperson of the Board. Internal organization ■■ Except for the election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the members of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors is self-constituting and 26 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance designates its other committees and the Secretary. The latter needs not be a member of the Board of Directors. ■■ The Board of Directors is quorate when the majority of members are present. In the event of capital increases, such a quorum is not required for decisions concerning definition of the capital increase, amendments to the Articles of Association or resolutions regarding the capital increase report. ■■ The Board of Directors passes its resolutions by a majority of the votes cast. The Chairman holds the casting vote. ■■ Resolutions may also be adopted by written consent to a proposal circulated by the Chairman among all members and passed by a majority of all members of the Board of Directors. ■■ Minutes are kept of deliberations and resolutions, and are signed by the Chairman and the Secretary. ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may exercise a consulting mandate for the Ascom Group alongside their activity on the Board of Directors, subject to the unanimous consent of the Board of Directors. There were no such consulting mandates as of the balance sheet date. Mandates outside the Ascom Group of members of the Board of Directors Mandates outside Mandates outside the Ascom Group the Ascom Group (profit-oriented) (non-profit-oriented) Andreas Umbach (Chairman) Landis + Gyr Group AG, Zug Zug Chamber of (Chairman) 1 Commerce (President) SIG Combibloc Group AG, Neuhausen SH (Chairman) 1 (since 28 September 2018) Techem Energy Services GmbH, Eschborn (Germany) WWZ AG, Zug Dr Valentin Calida Holding AG, Sursee LU 1 None Chapero Rueda TR Dental Implants Int. AG, Hünenberg ZG Valamero Holding AG, Wilen b. Wollerau SZ (incl. 1 mandate in affiliated Group company) Dr Harald Deutsch None None Jürg Fedier Dätwyler AG, Altdorf UR 1 None 3 mandates in affiliated Group companies of OC Oerlikon AG, Pfäffikon SZ Christina Stercken Ansell Ltd., Melbourne Myanmar (Australia) 1 Foundation, Munich Landis + Gyr Group AG, Zug 1 (Vice Chairperson) 1 Publicly listed companies. Andreas Umbach and Christina Stercken are also both Members of the Board of Directors of Landis + Gyr Group AG, Zug. Landis + Gyr Group AG and Ascom Holding AG participate in different industries. Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise four additional positions against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 27 Members of the Board of Directors Andreas Umbach (Chairman) Nationality: Switzerland/Germany | Born 1963 | Place of residence: Zug, Switzerland | Member since 2010 | Chairman since 2017 | Elected until AGM in 2019 1989 Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering, Technical University Berlin; 1991 Master of Business Administration (MBA), University of Texas, Austin TX; 1991–2002 Various management positions within Siemens AG; 2002–2017 President and CEO, Landis+Gyr AG, Zug; Since 2013 Board member of WWZ AG; Since 2016 President of the Zug Chamber of Commerce; Since 2017 Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG and Chairman of Landis+Gyr Group AG; Since 2018 Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Techem Energy Services GmbH; Since 2018 Chairman of the Board of SIG Combibloc Group AG Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda Nationality: Spain/Switzerland | Born 1956 | Place of residence: Wilen bei Wollerau, Switzerland | Member since 2016 | Elected until AGM in 2019 1986/1988 Master and PhD (Dr rer.nat.) in Physics, University of Heidelberg, Germany; 1988–1992 Director of Systems Integration for Mainframe Unix Systems, Siemens Nixdorf Informations Systems AG, Paderborn, Germany; 1992–1994 Vice President Professional Services, Siemens Nixdorf Spain, Madrid; 1994–1996 Vice President Network Systems, Siemens AG Spain, Madrid; 1996–1999 CEO Siemens Audiologische Technik GmbH, Erlangen, Germany; 2000–2002 President Mobile Network, Siemens AG, Munich; 2002–2011 CEO Sonova Holding AG, Stäfa; Since 2011 Business Angel & Investor Valamero Holding AG, Wilen b. Wol­ lerau; Since 2015 Co-founder and Partner Veraison Capital AG, Zurich Dr Harald Deutsch Nationality: Germany | Born 1962 | Place of residence: Ladenburg, Germany | Member since 2014 | Elected until AGM in 2019 1987 Graduation as physician. Medical exam, University of Cologne; 1988 Approbation and member of German Medical Association; 1988 Graduation as Master of Science (MSc) in Physics, University of Cologne;­ 1989 Promotion to Medical Doctor (MD), University of Cologne; 1988–1989 Bundeswehr (Germany Armed Forces): Military Surgeon; 1990–1998 Behringwerke AG, Marburg, Germany: Software Director;­ 1998–2003 Booz Allen & Hamilton, Frankfurt/M.: Principal and Member of the German Board; 2003–2008 Accenture, Kronberg, Germany: Executive Partner and Managing Director; 2008–2012 CSC Computer Sciences Corporation, Aldershot, UK, and Wiesbaden, Germany: Vice President healthcare EMEA; 2012–2015 BearingPoint GmbH, Frankfurt/M. and Amsterdam: Partner and Industry Lead healthcare; Since 2015 Independent Consultant 28 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Jürg Fedier Nationality: Switzerland | Born 1955 | Place of residence: Richterswil, Switzerland | Member since 2017 | Elected until AGM in 2019 1978 Commercial Diploma Business Administration, Dr Raebers Höhere Handels­ schule, Zurich; 1978–2000 Various management positions at Dow Chemical in the USA, Europe and Asia; 1990–2002 Various executive management programs at IMD Lausanne and University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI (USA); 2000–2003 Global Business Finance Director, Dow Chemical Thermosets, Midland MI (USA); 2004– 2006 Vice President Finance, Dow Chemical Performance Chemicals and Thermosets, Midland MI (USA); 2006–2007 CFO and Member of the European Executive Team, Dow Europe; 2007–2008 CFO and Member of the Executive Team; Ciba Specialty Chemicals, Basel; Since 2009 CFO OC Oerlikon, Pfäffikon SZ (Switzerland) Christina Stercken Nationality: Germany | Born 1958 | Place of residence: Munich, Germany | Member since 2014 | Elected until AGM in 2019 1982 Master in Economics, University of Bonn, and 1992 Executive MBA, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina; 1983–1984 BMW Pty Ltd., Isando, South Africa: Marketing Consultant; 1985–1987 Siemens AG, Munich: Consultant Strategic Planning and Marketing for Communication and Information Technology Group; 1988–1989 Siemens AG, Munich: Consultant Management Tools and Training, Corporate Development & Strategy; 1989–1994 Siemens AG, Munich: Senior Consultant Corporate Projects (Inhouse Consulting) Corporate Development & Strategy; 1994–1995 Siemens AG, Munich: Head of Regional Strategy, Corporate Development & Strategy; 1995–1997 Siemens Ltd. China, Beijing: Head of Task Force China; 1998–2000 Siemens Business Services GmbH & OHG, Munich: Head of Business Unit Public Sector; 2000–2006 Siemens AG, Munich: Managing Director Corporate Finance, Mergers & Acquisitions; 2006–2017 EAC – Euro Asia Consulting PartG, Munich, Shanghai, Mumbai, and Moscow: Partner; Since 2018 Non-Executive Director ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 29 Board attendance in 2018 10.1. 24.1. 23.2. 11.4. 23.5. 7./8.6. 17.7. 7.8. 28.8. 20./21.9. 7.11. 7.12. Andreas Umbach ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda o ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Dr Harald Deutsch ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Jürg Fedier ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Christina Stercken ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ■■ In addition, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise five uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense recovery is no compensation. ■■ The Chairman of the Board of Directors may exercise a total of up to three positions in other publicly traded companies. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the Instructions of the Company. None of the members of the Board of Directors previously worked for the Ascom Group, nor does any member of the Board of Directors perform any permanent management or consultancy functions for important Swiss or foreign interest groups or hold any official positions or political offices. Mode of operation of the Board of Directors Board meetings or conference calls are held as and when necessary. In general, the CEO and CFO attend all ordinary meetings of the Board of Directors. In addition, executive sessions are held. Other members of the Executive Board as well as external experts are invited to attend meetings to address specific topics if necessary. 13 meetings (including both physical meetings and conference calls) were held in 2018. Board attendance was 98.5%. The ordinary meetings of the Board of Directors last one full day and strategy meetings last two days. The Chairman of the Board acts as a liaison with the Executive Board and has regular interactions with the CEO and other members of the Executive Board. Management provides monthly reports to the Board covering the financial and operating performance of the Company. Self-evaluation of the Board of Directors Since 2005, the Board of Directors has carried out a self-evaluation at year-end based on a standardized process using a comprehensive questionnaire. The results are discussed in the first quarter in the next year, and any measures necessary for improvements are agreed and implemented as required. Committees of the Board of Directors To support the efficient and effective organization of its duties, the Board of Directors has set up a structure with two permanent committees whose primary role is to prepare materials as a basis for decisions by the Board of Directors in specialized areas. The two permanent committees are the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee. The authority to make decisions lies with the Board of Directors. All members of the Board are entitled to attend any meetings of these committees. The nomination of candidates for election to the Board of Directors and the selection of candidates for appointment to the Executive Board and Executive Committee are done by the entire Board. 30 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Members: Jürg Fedier (Chairperson) and Christina Stercken The Board of Directors elects the members and the chairperson of the Audit Committee for a term of office of one year until the closing of the ordinary General Meeting following the election. The Audit Committee is composed of two non-executive members of the Board of Directors and generally meets four times a year (at least one meeting per quarter), although the Chairperson may convene meetings as often as business requires. Six Audit Committee meetings were held in 2018, generally lasting several hours, whereof the external auditors attended two. Committee attendance was 100%. The Chairman of the Board of Directors attended five meetings. The CEO was present in all meetings while the CFO attended five meetings of the Audit Committee. The Secretary of the Board of Directors prepares the meetings and records the minutes. The full Board of Directors is kept informed of the Audit Committee’s activities following each meeting, and receives a copy of the minutes. The Audit Committee’s main activities are: ■■ Internal control ■■ Financial reporting ■■ Finance management ■■ Risk management ■■ Tax management ■■ External auditing ■■ Compliance ■■ Litigation matters Compensation Committee Members: Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda (Chairperson) and Dr Harald Deutsch According to the Articles of Association, the General Meeting elects the members of the Compensation Committee individually for a term of office of one year until the closing of the ordinary General Meeting following the election. The Compensation Committee consists of at least two and not more than three members of the Board of Directors. The Chairperson of the Compensation Committee has to be independent. He is elected by the Board of Directors. In the event that the Compensation Committee has fewer members than the number of members elected by the last General Meeting and is therefore not fully staffed, the Board of Directors elects the missing members for the remaining term. The Compensation Committee is composed of two non-executive members of the Board of Directors and is convened by the Chairperson as often as business requires. Five meetings were held in 2018. Committee attendance was 100%. The Chairman of the Board of Directors attended four meetings in 2018. The CEO attended the meetings as and when required. The Secretary of the Board of Directors prepares the meetings and records the minutes. The full Board of Directors is kept informed of the Compensation Committee’s activities following each meeting, and receives a copy of the minutes. A major task of the Compensation Committee is to prepare the resolution of the Board of Directors concerning the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and the members of the Executive Board to be approved by the Annual General Meeting. To fulfill its duties, the Compensation Committee may consult other persons and external consultants for support. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 31 Other main fields of work of the Compensation Committee shall consist of making recommendations to the Board of Directors in relation to: ■■ Ascom Group remuneration policies ■■ Fixing compensation models for the Board of Directors and the Top Management ■■ Implementation and monitoring of long-term incentive plans Areas of responsibility The Board of Directors has delegated the operational management of the Company and the entire Ascom Group to the CEO unless otherwise required by the law, the Articles of Association or the Organization Regulations. The CEO, together with the Executive Board, is responsible for the overall management of the Ascom Group. The Board of Directors explicitly reserves the power to decide on the following matters: ■■ Authorizing important acquisitions and divestments ■■ Appointing and discharging members of the Executive Board and the Top Management ■■ Defining compensation models for members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board (subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting), and the Top Management ■■ Approving the budget ■■ Arranging public bonds and important framework credit agreements ■■ Substantial investments ■■ Issuing the Organization Regulations and their Annexes ■■ Defining the internal audit and submitting the proposal to the Annual General Meeting for election of the auditors ■■ Submitting proposals on dividends to the Annual General Meeting ■■ Issuing and implementing long-term incentive plans Information and control instruments in respect of the Executive Board/management instruments The Ascom Group’s management information system (MIS) consists of management reporting and financial consolidation. Each month, the balance sheet, income statement, incoming orders, order backlog and employee headcount for the individual companies are entered in the management reporting system. This information is based on the regulation and accounting standards and consolidated for the various Group companies and for the Group as a whole, and compared against the previous year’s figures and the current budget. The Executive Board discusses the results in detail on a monthly basis and decides on actions to be taken. Full financial consolidation (including cash flow statement) in compliance with the regulation and accounting standards is performed on a quarterly basis. Financial reports are submitted to the Board of Directors on a monthly basis. Additional management instruments for monitoring management processes include strategic medium-term planning (MTP), annual planning and quarterly forecasts. A quarterly report on pending law suits is submitted to the Audit Committee. As part of Business Risk and ­Opportunity Management (BROM), an updated risk map for the Group is submitted to the Board of Directors on a semiannual basis. The meetings of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee are attended by the CEO and CFO as well as, whenever necessary, by other members of Management. 32 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Internal audit The Group does not have an in-house internal audit function. The Board of Directors empowered the Audit Committee to mandate an external audit firm to carry out special focus audits, as needed. Accordingly, such internal audits are conducted from time to time as mandated by the Audit Committee. During 2018, no special focus audits have been commissioned. Internal audit fees are based on the scope of services rendered. Fees incurred in 2018 were nil (2017: nil). Risk management As an internationally active group, Ascom is exposed to a variety of risks arising from its operations in the normal course of business. Risk management is therefore an integral part of Group management and hence part of the business processes. Group Treasury centrally monitors financial risks (liquidity, foreign currency, interest rate, credit risks) in accordance with written guidelines. Capital risk is also monitored using defined thresholds for the debt ratio and the equity ratio. Further information on risk management can be found in note 27 to the financial statements of the Ascom Group on page 84 of this Annual Report. Internal Control System (ICS) A Board directive of 21 August 2017 and the ICS manual govern the Internal Control System (ICS). The ICS ensures the implementation of appropriate procedures and measures for the purpose of identifying and monitoring the main financial risks to which the Company is exposed. In particular, the aim of the ICS is to ensure the integrity and completeness of accounting, to provide timely and reliable financial reporting, and to prevent, minimize and identify errors and irregularities in the financial statements. In order to achieve these targets, Group companies in scope are determined annually. Hereby, it is ensured that at least 80% of the revenue and of total assets of the Group are covered. The external audit confirms the existence of the ICS in connection with the year-end audit. Additionally, external audit submits improvement suggestions on a yearly basis, which are implemented in the following year. 4. EXECUTIVE BOARD The Executive Board of the Ascom Group The Board of Directors has delegated the operational management of the Company and the entire Ascom Group to the CEO unless otherwise required by the law, the Articles of Association or the Organization Regulations. As members of the Executive Board are considered the CEO and each further person who is explicitly appointed as such by the Board of Directors (Article 8 of the Articles of Association). As a rule, members of the Board of Directors shall not be on the Executive Board. Composition of the Ascom Executive Board The Ascom Group Executive Board comprised the following members as of 31 December 2018: Executive Board member since Holger Cordes CEO 01.06.2016 Anette Weber CFO 01.08.2017 Claes Ödman COO 14.06.2011 (former General Manager Wireless Solutions) (COO since 01.10.2016) Francis Schmeer Chief Sales & Marketing Officer 01.09.2014 (former EVP Marketing & Business (Chief Sales & Marketing Officer Development) since 01.10.2018) ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 33 Members of the Executive Board Holger Cordes, Chief Executive Officer Nationality: Germany | Born 1969 1995 Master of Economics from Université de Poitiers (France); 1997 DiplomVolkswirt (Diploma of Economics) from University of Marburg (Germany); 1997–2000 Project Leader SAP/Senior FP & A Analyst Paulaner Brauerei KG, Munich; 2000–2002 Manager Controlling and Process Organization, European Telecommunications Holding AG, Frankfurt/M.; 2002–2006 Regional Controller Mainland Europe/Director International Financial Planning and Analysis, Aspect Software, London; 2007–2010 Finance Director EMEA, Cerner Group, London; 2010–2014 General Manager Central Europe, Cerner Group, Frankfurt/M.; 2014–2016 COO Europe and Latin America, Cerner Group, Frankfurt/M.; Since 1 June 2016 CEO and member of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group Anette Weber, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Nationality: Germany | Born 1971 1997 Lic.oec. HSG in Business Administration from University of St. Gallen; 1997–1999 International Controller Novartis Animal Health Inc., Basel; 1999–2005 Head of Finance and IT/then Country Head Japan Novartis Animal Health K.K., Tokyo; 2005 CFO (kfm. Geschäftsführerin) Sandoz Pharma GmbH, Munich; 2006–2009 CFO Lek.d.d. Ljubljana (Slovenia); 2009–2014 CFO Bio­pharma and Oncology, Sandoz International GmbH, Holzkirchen (Germany); 2014–2016 Global Head Finance Pharma Development, Novartis Pharma, Basel; 2016–2017 Global Lead Development Transformation, Novartis AG, Basel; Since 1 August 2017 CFO and member of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group Claes Ödman, COO Nationality: Sweden | Born 1965 1990 Master of Science in Engineering Physics and Master of Business Administration (Chalmers University Gothenburg); 1990–1994 Area Manager Saab Marine Electronics AB, Gothenburg; 1994–1998 Area Manager Ericsson Radio Systems, Stockholm; 1998–2001 Vice President Ericsson Taiwan Ltd., Taipei (Taiwan); 2001–2005 President & Country Manager Ericsson Telecom PTE Ltd., Singapore; 2005–2011 Vice President Ericsson AB, Stockholm, 2005–2008 Multimedia Solutions;­ 2008–2009 Head of Sales and Marketing; 2010 Head of Region Project; 2010–2011 Engagement Practices ­Region Northern Europe and Central Asia; 2011–2016 General Manager ­Wireless Solutions and member of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group; Since 1 October 2016 COO and member of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group 34 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Francis Schmeer, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer Nationality: USA | Born 1972 1994 Bachelor of Marketing from Georgetown University, Washington DC (USA); 1994–1999 Goldman Sachs, Associate New York/London; 2001 Master of Business Administration, London Business School; 2001–2003 Samsung Group, Global Strategist, Seoul; 2003–2005 T-Mobile International, International Marketing Head of SMS and IP Messaging London/Bonn; 2005–2006 Empower Inter­ active, Chief Marketing Officer, London/Singapore; 2006–2009 Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications, Vice President & Global Head of Strategy and Corporate Development, London/Lund (Sweden); 2010–2013 OC Oerlikon Group Executive Vice President & Head of Group Business Development, Member of Executive Leadership Team, Pfäffikon (Switzerland); 2014–2016 EVP Strategy & Business Development (later EVP Marketing & Business Development) and member of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group; Since 1 October 2018 Chief Sales and Marketing Officer and member of the ­Executive Board of the Ascom Group ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 35 Changes in the Executive Board The Executive Board remained unchanged in 2018. Mandates outside the Ascom Group of members of the Executive Board Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise – subject to the approval of the Board of Directors – one additional position against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register and that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ■■ In addition, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise three uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense recovery is no compen­sation. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the instructions of the Company. Mandates outside Mandates outside the Ascom Group the Ascom Group against compensation without compensation Holger Cordes None None Anette Weber Xing SE, Hamburg None (Germany) 1 Claes Ödman Sensys Gatso Group AB, Stockholm None (Sweden) 1 Francis Schmeer None None 1 Publicly listed company. Executive Committee The Executive Committee is an extended panel, which supports the Executive Board. In addition to the members of the Executive Board, it consists of the following further members as of 1 January 2019: Dr Daniel Lack Company Secretary / Senior VP Legal & Communications/IR André Neu CTO Rolf Veldman VP Human Resources (until 30 November 2018) Rolf Veldman, Vice President Human Resources, resigned as member of the Executive Committee as of 30 November 2018 to resume new tasks within the Ascom Group. Mode of operation of the Executive Board As a rule, a halfor full-day meeting of the Executive Board is held on a monthly basis. Additional meetings or conference calls are held as and when necessary. 13 meetings were held in 2018. Management contracts There are no management contracts within the Ascom Group. Business relationships with closely related companies and persons No significant business transactions exist with closely ­related companies or persons. 36 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 5. COMPENSATION, SHAREHOLDINGS AND LOANS All details of compensation, shareholdings and loans are listed in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 57 to this Annual Report. Statutory rules regarding the principles of compensation, participation plans, loans, credits and pension benefits are set in Articles 20b and 20c of the Articles of Association. The rules regarding the approval of the remuneration by the Annual General Meeting are set in Article 20e. The Articles of Association are available under www.ascom.com/content/dam/ascom/ws/ready-for-use/global/corporate/ documents/corporate-gov­ernance/ascom-articles-association-en.pdf 6. SHAREHOLDERS’ PARTICIPATION RIGHTS Voting rights and protective rights Shareholders in Swiss publicly listed companies have extensive participation and protective rights governed in principle by the Swiss Code of Obligations (OR) and supplemented by the respective Company’s Articles of Association. Annual General Meeting Voting rights and representation ■■ Each share entitles the holder to one vote represented at the Annual General Meeting. There are no voting right restrictions. ■■ Each shareholder may be represented at the Annual General Meeting by a third person who is authorized as proxy in writing or by the Independent Representative. ■■ Sole proprietor companies, partnerships and legal entities may be represented persons with written authorization to act on their behalf. ■■ The Board of Directors makes the requisite arrangements to determine voting rights and to establish the results of votes and elections. Independent Representative According to the Articles of Association, the General Meeting elects an Independent Representative. The term of office of the Independent Representative ends with the closing of the ordinary General Meeting following the election of the Independent Representative. Re-election is admissible. If the Company has no Independent Representative, the Board of Directors designates an Independent Representative for the next General Meeting. The Independent Representative is obliged to vote the shares for which he or she received proxies in accordance with the instructions given. If he or she has not received any instructions with respect to votes, he or she abstains from voting the respective shares. The general instruction for motions contained and/or not contained in the invitation to vote in line with the ­motion of the Board of Directors qualifies as a valid instruction for the exercise of the voting right. The shareholders elected at the Annual General Meeting held on 11 April 2018 Franz Müller, Berne, as Independent Representative for a term of one year until the completion of the Annual General Meeting 2019, and Dr Alexander Kernen, Berne, as his deputy. Franz Müller and Dr Alexander Kernen are independent and have no further mandates for the Ascom Group. All shareholders have the possibility to register on the Sherpany platform and to give online instructions to the Independent Representative. Details of the electronic proxies and voting instructions to the Independent Representative are explained in the invitation to the Annual General Meeting (www.ascom.com/InvestorRelations/Financial-information/Annual-General-Meeting.html). ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 37 Resolutions and elections The General Meeting is capable of passing resolutions regardless of the number of shares represented. Unless the law or the Articles of Association require otherwise, the General Meeting shall pass resolutions and elections with an absolute majority of the votes validly cast, whereby abstentions, blank votes and invalid votes shall not count as votes cast. The Board of Directors shall define the voting procedure. Shareholders representing registered shares with a nominal value of CHF 100,000 may request a secret ballot. This threshold corresponds to 0.5% of the votes. According to Article 704 of the Swiss Code of Obligations, the following resolutions of the General Meeting require at least two thirds of the votes represented and the absolute majority of the nominal value of shares represented to be passed: changing the Company’s purpose; creating voting shares; changing limitations on transferability of registered shares; an authorized or conditional capital increase; a capital increase out of equity, against asset contribution or for the purpose of asset takeover and the granting of special benefits; limiting or revoking of subscription rights; relocation of the Company’s registered office; dissolution of the Company. Convocation of the General Meeting The General Meeting is convened by the Board of Directors or, if needed, by the auditors. Convocation is effected no later than 30 days ­before the date of the meeting by a single announcement in the Company’s publication of record (the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce – SOGC) and by letter to the registered shareholders. Agenda In accordance with Article 699 para. 3 of the Swiss Code of Obligations, requests to place an item on the agenda must be submitted to the Board of Directors no later than 45 days before the date of the General Meeting. The party submitting such request must represent shares of at least CHF 100,000 par value. The invitation to submit agenda items is published in a single announcement in the Company’s publication organ (the SOGC). Registration in the share register All shareholders recorded in the share register as voting shareholders 10 days before the date of the General Meeting are admitted to the meeting and entitled to vote. The Board of Directors is empowered to strike entries from the share register with retroactive effect to the registration date if, after consulting the parties involved, it determines that such entries have been made based on false information on the part of the acquirer. Shareholders who dispose of their shares before the General Meeting are no longer entitled to vote. Annual General Meeting 2018 18,937,226 votes or about 52.6% of the share capital were represented at the Annual General Meeting 2018, which was held on 11 April 2018 in Cham, Switzerland. The shareholders voted in favor of all proposals of the Board of Directors by a clear majority. All resolutions including the election of the members of the Board and the dividend proposal were approved with majorities of over 95%. 38 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 7. CHANGE OF CONTROL AND DEFENSIVE MEASURES Obligation to submit a purchase offer The Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG contain neither an opting-out nor an opting-up clause (Article 125 Financial Market Infrastructure Act [FMIA]). Any party who acquires one-third (33 1/3%) of share capital in Ascom Holding AG is obliged under Article 135 FMIA to submit a public purchase offer for the remaining shares. Change of control clauses Contracts of employment with members of the Executive Board, other members of the Executive Committee or other members of the senior management provide for no special severance payment. The period of notice for members of the Executive Board is maximal 12 months. In the event of a takeover and a delisting of the Company, the participants of the Ascom share matching plans shall receive the same number of matching shares as they hold investment shares at the date of the publication of the delisting. 8. AUDITORS Auditors The auditors are appointed by the Annual General Meeting for a term of one year. Pricewaterhouse­Coopers AG, Zurich (formerly STG-Coopers & Lybrand Ltd), have acted as auditors since 1987. According to the Swiss Code of Obligations, the lead auditor has to be rotated at least every seven years. Thomas Wallmer is auditor-incharge since 2015. Auditing fee PricewaterhouseCoopers AG was paid compensation of CHF 451,400 (previous year: CHF 451,600) for services in connection with auditing the annual financial statements of Ascom Holding AG and the Group companies as well as the consolidated statements of the Ascom Group for the year ended 31 December 2018. Additional fees PricewaterhouseCoopers AG was paid no additional non-audit-related fees in 2018 (2017: CHF 20,100). Monitoring and control instruments As a committee of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee evaluates the performance, fees and independence of the external auditors each year. The external auditors prepare a detailed audit report at least once a year and report in detail to the Audit Committee. The main findings and recommendations contained in the audit reports of the external auditors are then discussed in detail with the CFO. In 2018, the external auditors drew up one detailed management report in relation to the Annual Report. The external auditors attended two of the Audit Committee meetings held in 2018. Each year, the Board of Directors reviews the selection of auditors in order to propose them to shareholders for appointment at the Annual General Meeting. The aim is to ensure the general independence of the auditors as well as the personal independence of the auditor-in-charge and determine their understanding of Ascom’s business activities and the specific business risks relevant for Ascom, the nature of collaboration between the external auditors and the Audit Committee, ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 39 and the manner in which support is provided for implementation of the legal provisions as well as requirements from regulation and accounting standards (Swiss GAAP FER). The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the auditors in compliance with the legal provisions in Switzerland. The Board of Directors bases the rotation cycle for the auditor-in-charge on the relevant ­provisions of the Swiss Code of Obligations, according to which the auditor-in-charge may perform this mandate for no more than seven years. The Audit Committee also examines the ratio between the fee for the annual audit and fees for additional services performed by the auditors, in order to ensure that the auditors’ independence is not impaired. For the 2018 reporting year, the Board of Directors concluded that the auditors’ independence was fully assured. 9. INFORMATION POLICY The Board of Directors and the Executive Board have undertaken measures to align their organizational structure with the latest corporate governance standards. Ascom’s information policy is based on commitment to a high degree of transparency and equal treatment of all stakeholder groups. Corporate Communications/ IR come under the remit of the Company Secretary. Ascom provides a wide range of communication tools to keep its shareholders, the media, analysts and other stakeholder groups informed: Publications ■■ Annual Report ■■ Half-Year Report ■■ The official publication organ is the Swiss Official ­Gazette of Commerce (SOGC) (www.shab.ch) Events ■■ Annual Media Conference and Half-Year Media Conference for media representatives and analysts ■■ Ad hoc media conferences and analyst calls ■■ Analyst & Investor Day ■■ Annual General Meeting of Shareholders ■■ Road shows for institutional investors Media releases In accordance with the provisions of the SIX Swiss Exchange, Ascom publishes information on an ad hoc and regular basis. Furthermore, Ascom publishes Ascom media releases on significant business activities and on important product and service innovations. 40 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Online communication The website www.ascom.com provides a comprehensive overview of the Company’s structure and activities and the offerings of the individual business units. All media releases and presentations at media conferences can be downloaded from the website at www.ascom.com/news-and-events/financial-news and www.ascom.com/news-and-events/Ascom-business-news.html and www.ascom.com/ Investor-Relations/Financial-information/Reports-and-presentations.html. Media releases may also be received by e-mail by subscribing to the News Service on the website. The Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG, the Organization Regulations, a current extract from the Commercial Register, the Code of Business Conduct and the share registration guidelines can also be downloaded from the website under “Corporate Governance” (www.ascom.com/Investor-Relations/Financialinformation/Annual-General-Meeting.html). The minutes of past Annual General Meetings are available at https://www.ascom.com/content/dam/ascom/ws/readyfor-use/global/corporate/documents/annual-general-meeting/agm-2018/ascomagm-minutes-2018.pdf Implementation of publication requirements under stock exchange regulations The Board of Directors has issued an Annex to the Organization Regulations entitled “Corporate Policy and Procedure on Insider Trading”, which in particular prohibits Ascom employees and governing bodies of Ascom from engaging in insider trading. An absolute ban on trading applies during a period of four weeks (or earlier as defined by the CFO) prior to the publication of the annual results and half-year results. Information on management transactions is published at https://www.sixexchange-regulation.com/en/home/publications/management-transactions.html. Detailed information on disclosure announcements can be viewed at https://www. six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/publications/significant-shareholders.html. Dates and contacts A list of important dates in 2019 and Corporate Communications and Investor Relations contacts is provided on page 107 of this Annual Report. 10. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RATING The Ascom Board of Directors and Executive Committee are committed to the highest standards of good corporate governance and transparency. Ascom is ranked number 7 (2017: number 1) in corporate governance among 168 publicly listed Swiss companies according to the Corporate Governance study 2018 of zRating (www.zrating.ch). The study covered the following topics: ■■ Shareholder base and capital structure ■■ Shareholders’ participation rights ■■ Composition of the board and the executive management/information policy ■■ Remuneration and participation model for the members of the board and the executive management ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 41 Remuneration Report Note PricewaterhouseCoopers AG as statutory auditors have audited the Remuneration Report according to Clause 17 of the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation (“OaEC”). The audit was limited to the information contained in the sections II/1 lit.a, II/2 (Table “Compensation Executive Board 2018”), II/2 lit.g, II/2 lit.h and II /3 all marked as “audited information”. I. ASCOM REMUNERATION POLICY 1. Corporate Governance as basis of the remuneration policy Remuneration is a part of Corporate Governance (see also pages 20 to 41 of the Annual Report) and Corporate Governance is a key topic for Ascom. Both the Board of Directors and Management are committed to good Corporate Governance in order to ensure sustainable development of the Company. According to the Articles of Association, it is a major task of the Compensation Committee to prepare the resolution of the Board of Directors concerning the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and the members of the Executive Board to be approved by the Annual General Meeting. Basic rules and regulations to be followed are set out in: ■■ Swiss Code of Obligations ■■ Ordinance against Excessive Compensation with respect to stock exchange listed companies (“OaEC”) ■■ Listing Rules of SIX Swiss Exchange (LR) ■■ Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG (dated 15 April 2015) ■■ Organizational Regulations of Ascom Holding AG (dated 21 August 2017) ■■ Share Registration Guidelines (dated 21 August 2017) ■■ Ascom Code of Ethical Business Conduct (dated 15 February 2012) ■■ Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance The Articles of Association and the Organizational Regulations of Ascom Holding AG are available on the Company website: www.ascom.com/Investor-Relations/ Governance/Directives-and-guidelines.html 2. Remuneration principles for the Board of Directors a) Legal background According to Article 20b of the Articles of Association, the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors shall be adequate, competitive and performance-oriented and shall be set in line with the operative and strategic goals, the success of the Company, as well as the long-term interests of the shareholders. 42 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report b) Compensation structure Members of the Board of Directors receive a fee in accordance with the Remuneration Regulations (Annex to the Organization Regulations). The members of the Board of Directors receive a fixed fee without a variable component, and this fee is paid in cash. No other remuneration is paid. Members of the Board of Directors receive no severance payment. The fees for members of the Board of Directors are reviewed on an annual basis and are set by the full Board of Directors subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting. The assessment of the fees is based on external (e.g. benchmark to other international stock-listed technology companies with similar market capitalization) and internal criteria (e.g. workload, request of availability). Committee work, additional meetings or special projects are not compensated with an additional fee and no attendance fees are paid out either. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Board of Directors for all necessary expense, also in form of lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. c) Board fees The fees for the members of the Board remained unchanged since the Annual General Meeting 2017: ■■ Chairman of the Board: Annual gross remuneration of CHF 200,000 ■■ Member of the Board: Annual gross remuneration of CHF 100,000 In addition, all Board members are encouraged to build up an investment over time of Ascom shares in the value of an annual Board compensation. d) Mandates outside the Ascom Group Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise four additional positions against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register and that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ■■ In addition, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise five uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense recovery is no compensation. ■■ The Chairman of the Board of Directors may exercise a total of up to three positions in other publicly traded companies. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the instructions of the Company. The Company requires that each member of the Board discloses all activities. Based on this, all members of the Board of Directors comply with this regulation. The mandates outside the Ascom Group are listed in the Corporate Governance part (p. 27). ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 43 3. Remuneration principles for the Executive Board a) Legal background According to Article 20b of the Articles of Association, the compensation of the members of the Executive Board shall be adequate, competitive and performanceoriented and shall be set in line with the operative and strategic goals, the success of the Company, as well as the long-term interests of the shareholders. The Company may pay to the members of the Executive Board in addition to a fixed compensation a performance-related compensation in cash. The amount of such compensation is dependent on the qualitative and quantitative goals and parameters determined by the Board of Directors, in particular the overall result of the Company and the individual contribution of the respective member. The amount of the performance-related compensation of a member of the Executive Board (excluding any possible allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) cannot exceed the fixed compensation of such member. According to Article 20b Section 3 of the Articles of Association, the Company may also allocate, beside cash compensation, equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying to the members of the Executive Board as part of their total compensation (“long-term incentive”). In case of an allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying, the amount of the compensation is equal to the value of the securities or, respectively, the rights allocated, determined as at the time of the allocation (grant) in accordance with the accounting standards applied by the Company for its consolidated accounts. The total value of the long-term incentive for a member of the Executive Board cannot exceed 50% of the fixed compensation. b) Appointment of members of the Executive Board As members of the Executive Board are considered the CEO and each further person who is explicitly appointed as such by the Board of Directors. As of 31 December 2018, the Executive Board consisted of four members: CEO, CFO, COO, and Chief Sales & Marketing Officer (Executive Vice President Marketing & Business Development until 30 September 2018). c) Determination of the remuneration of the Executive Board members The remuneration package of the members of the Executive Board consists of three parts: ■■ Base salary Fixed compensation in cash including social benefits: according to market benchmarks of the peer group (other international stock-listed technology companies with similar market capitalization) ■■ Short-term incentive (performance-related variable compensation) – Cash payment dependent on the quantitative goals and parameters such as net revenue and EBITDA margin as determined by the Board of Directors. The goals shall be in line with the yearly budgets of the Company. – Moreover, an individual performance factor has been introduced. An excellent performance leads to a multiplication of the short-term incentive (STI) with the factor 1.2, while a very good performance leads to a multiplication with the factor 1.1. A good performance leads to a multiplication with the factor 1.0. On the other hand, a “to be improved” performance leads to a multiplication with the factor 0.9. No STI will be paid to managers with underperformance. 44 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report – The total performance-related variable compensation (excluding any possible allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) cannot exceed the fixed compensation. ■■ Long-term incentive – Share matching plan (2013–2018): The Board of Directors decided in 2013 to introduce a share matching plan as a long-term incentive instead of options. The share matching plan consists of a performance-related and a retention part. During a defined subscription period, the members of the Executive Board as beneficiaries have the opportunity to buy Company shares at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performancebased criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. The beneficiaries may get – up to 65% of the number of their investment shares – matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved (“performancerelated part”). In any case, the beneficiaries receive 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free (“retention part”), if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point of time. In addition, beneficiaries may get up to 50% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term growth targets (CAGR over a certain period) are achieved. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with 1.5 matching shares. The total value of the long-term incentive for a member of the Executive Board cannot exceed 50% of the fixed compensation. – Performance Stock Units Plan (since 2019): The Board of Directors decided to introduce a different version of a long-term incentive as of 2019. To further recognize and reward members of the Executive Board (and selected senior managers) for sustainable value creation for the company and its shareholders, a new long-term incentive was developed and approved by the Board of Directors. The PSU Plan foresees annual issuance of Performance Stock Units (“PSU”) with the first allocation in 2019. The total value of the long-term incentive for a member of the Executive Board cannot exceed 50% of the fixed compensation. One PSU represents the conditional right to receive a fraction between 0% and 200% of an Ascom share subject to the fulfillment of certain vesting conditions. Vesting of the PSUs occurs on the third anniversary of the respective date of grant. Vesting conditions are, both, the achievement of performance targets as well as an unterminated contractual relationship with the company. Performance targets are represented by equally weighted three-year net income fully diluted Earnings per Share (“EPS”) and three-year relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) measured against the Swiss Performance Index Extra (“SPI EXTRA”) and expressed as a percentage points difference. The award forfeit fully or partly if employment ceased before the vesting date. Furthermore, the PSU plan is subject to malus and clawback provisions. The respective plan rules provide the Board of Directors with absolute discretion to recoup (or cause the forfeiture if not yet vested or awarded) fully or partly any award under the restated financial result and/or for reasons linked to an individual’s behavior. The Board of Directors decided to introduce the new long-term incentive plan in 2019 after the Annual General Meeting 2019. The maximum amount of the value of allocation of equity securities (long-term incentive) of CHF 850,000 (at the moment of allocation) for the Executive Board (4 members) for the business year 2019 as decided by the Annual General Meeting 2018 will be fully respected. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 45 According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Executive Board for all necessary expense, also in form of car allowances and other lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. d) System of CEO Compensation Salary part Target salary CEO Long-term incentive Until 2018: Opportunity to invest investment shares up Until 2018: share matching plan to a maximum of CHF 325,000 From 2019: Performance Stock Units From 2019: Performance Stock Units with the value of CHF 325,000 (achievement of performance targets as vesting condition) Variable compensation (performance-related) Minimal variable salary: CHF 0 Target variable salary: CHF 325,000 Maximal variable salary: CHF 650,000 Fixed compensation (base salary) CHF 650,000 e) Number of external mandates and functions Article 20d of the Articles of Association define the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise – subject to the approval of the Board of Directors – one additional position against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register and that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ■■ In addition, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise three uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense ­recovery is no compensation. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the instructions of the Company. The members of the Executive Board comply with this regulation. The mandates outside the Ascom Group are listed in the Corporate Governance part (p. 36). f) Employment agreements with members of the Executive Board According to Article 20c of the Articles of Association, employment agreements with members of the Executive Board that form the basis of the compensation for the respective members are entered into for a fixed term of not more than one year or an indefinite term with a termination period of not more than 12 months as per the end of each calendar month. All members of the Executive Board comply with this regulation. g) Pension payments According to Article 20c of the Articles of Association, the members of the Executive Board receive pension payments from the occupational pension scheme in accordance with the domestic or foreign occupational welfare law or pension regulations applicable to them, including possible supplementary benefits. Pension payments outside the occupational pension scheme to a member of the Executive Board by the Company, an affiliate of the Company or any third party are admissible to the extent of not more than 25% of the annual total compensation of the person concerned, as far as the respective person is not affiliated to a Swiss or foreign benefit institution. 46 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 4. Approval Mechanism a) Statutory approval mechanism According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, the General Meeting votes annually, separately and in a binding manner on the maximum total amounts proposed by the Board of Directors for: ■■ The compensation of the Board of Directors for the year of office following the ordinary General Meeting until the next ordinary General Meeting ■■ The fixed compensation of the Executive Board for the next fiscal year (1 January–31 December) following the ordinary General Meeting ■■ The variable and other compensation of the Executive Board (including the allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) for the same approval period In addition, the Board of Directors submits the remuneration report for the business year prior to the Annual General Meeting for a consultative vote. The Annual General Meeting 2018 approved in a consultative non-binding vote the Remuneration Report 2017 with a majority of 97.6%. As far as a total amount approved for the compensation of the Executive Board is insufficient to compensate members of the Executive Board appointed or promoted within the Executive Board after the respective resolution of the General Meeting until the beginning of the following Approval Period, the Company may use an additional amount pursuant to Article 19 OaEC in addition to the previously approved total compensation for the Executive Board for the respective Approval Period. Such an additional amount is only available within the following limits: for the CEO an amount which is not more than 20% higher than the compensation of its predecessor and for a member of the Executive Board an amount which is not more than 20% higher than the amount available on average for members of the Executive Board (excluding the CEO) for the Approval Period. The General Meeting does not vote on the used additional amount. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, the Company is entitled to compensate recoverable claims, which a newly appointed member of the Board of Directors or member of the Executive Board would have had towards his or her previous employer or principal, if this member had not changed the company. The recoverability of the claims has to be examined by an independent expert. Ascom Compensation Approval Mechanism 1.1.2019 1.1.2020 1.1.2021 Consultative vote about AGM 2019 AGM 2020 Prospective binding vote remuneration report 2018 April 2019 April 2020 Compensation for “Maximum Total Compensation Budget” the Board of Directors for fixed compensation of the Board of Fixed compensation for the Board Directors of Directors until next year’s AGM Compensation for “Maximum Total Compensation Budget” the Executive Board for fixed compensation and perforFixed compensation for the Execumance-based compensation based on tive Board for the fiscal year 2020 realized performance as well as for the long-term incentive (LTI) Performance-based compensation based on the realized performance of the fiscal year 2020 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 47 b) Level of decision authority Type of compensation Compensation Committee Full Board of Directors Annual General Meeting Compensation Board of Directors Maximum compensation for the Board of Directors Recommendation Proposal to the Annual Approval for the period until the next Annual General Meeting General Meeting 1 Individual compensation for the members of the Proposal Approval 1 – Board of Directors in the reporting year Compensation Executive Board Maximum compensation for the members Recommendation Proposal to the Annual Approval of the Executive Board (fixed compensation, General Meeting variable compensation, long-term incentive) for the fiscal year following the Annual General Meeting Individual compensation for the CEO Review, Approval – (fixed compensation, variable compensation, recommendation long-term incentive) in the reporting year Individual compensation (fixed compensation, variable Review of the CEO Approval – compensation, long-term incentive) for the members recommendation of the Executive Board (without CEO) in the reporting year 1 In any case of potential conflict of interest, the respective member of the Board of Directors shall abstain from voting. c) Approvals of the Annual General Meeting 2018 The shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2018: ■■ Board of Directors: maximal amount of CHF 600,000 (for five members) for the period from the Annual General Meeting 2018 until the Annual General Meeting 2019 (subject to additional employer contributions to governmental social insurances to the extent they constitute or increase pension benefits for the beneficiaries); approved with a majority of 99.5% ■■ Executive Board (for four members) for the business year 2019: – Maximal amount of CHF 2,100,000 as fixed compensation (including contributions to pension funds and other social benefits and subject to additional employer contributions to governmental social insurances to the extent they constitute or increase pension benefits for the beneficiaries); approved with a majority of 99.4%. – Maximal amount of CHF 1,700,000 as variable compensation; approved with a majority of 99.2%. – Maximal amount of CHF 850,000 as long-term incentive; approved with a majority of 98.2%. 48 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report II. REMUNERATION IN FISCAL YEAR 2018 1. Board of Directors a) Remuneration in fiscal year 2018 (audited information) Members of the Board of Directors were paid a gross remuneration totaling CHF 600,000 in fiscal year 2018 (2017: CHF 722,500). 2018 2018 2017 2017 Gross remuneration including Employer contributions Gross remuneration including Employer contributions employee contributions to the Swiss social employee contributions to the Swiss social to the Swiss social insurances insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) to the Swiss social insurances insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) Andreas Umbach 200,000 12,139 176,667 10,827 (Chairman since 19 April 2017) Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda 100,000 6,225 105,833 6,588 Dr Harald Deutsch 100,000 105,833 – Jürg Fedier 1 100,000 6,225 70,833 4,409 Christina Stercken 100,000 – 105,833 – Juhani Anttila 2 87,500 5,194 (Chairman until 19 April 2017) Dr J.T. Bergqvist 2 35,000 2,179 Urs Leinhäuser 2 35,000 2,179 Total 600,000 24,589 722,500 31,376 1 Since Annual General Meeting 2017. 2 Until Annual General Meeting 2017. The remuneration difference compared to the previous year is due to the decrease of the number of Board members and the reduction of the gross remuneration as of the Annual General Meeting 2017. ■■ According to Swiss law, the Company paid Swiss social insurance (AHV/IV/ALV) employer contributions for the members of the Board. These payments do not represent an additional remuneration for the members of the Board as they do neither constitute nor increase Swiss social insurance pension benefits due to the actuarial cap. ■■ No member of the Board of Directors received any additional remuneration as defined by Art. 663bbis of the Swiss Code of Obligations. ■■ No remuneration was made to parties closely related to the Board of Directors. ■■ No members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties were granted any loans by the Company nor do such loans exist. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Board of Directors for all necessary expenses, also in form of lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. According to the Remuneration Regulations for Members of the Board (Annex 1 to the Organization Regulations), the annual lump sum expense recovery amounts to CHF 20,000 for the Chairman and to CHF 4,000 for a regular Board member. b) Compliance with the decisions of the Annual General Meeting 2017 According to the Articles of Association, the shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2017: CHF 600,000 for the Board of Directors (five members) for the period from the Annual General Meeting 2017 until the Annual General Meeting 2018. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 49 The remuneration amounting to CHF 600,000 paid to the five members of the Board of Directors in the period between the Annual General Meeting 2017 and the Annual General Meeting 2018 is in line with the approval of the Annual General Meeting 2017. 2. Executive Board a) Members of the Executive Board In 2018, the Executive Board consisted of the following members: ■■ Holger Cordes, CEO ■■ Anette Weber, CFO ■■ Claes Ödman, COO ■■ Francis Schmeer, Chief Sales & Marketing Officer (former Executive Vice President Marketing & Business Development) Compensation Executive Board 2018 (audited information) in CHF Basic salary Variable salary Miscellaneous Pension LTI 5 Total component contributions CEO 650,000 1 97,794 1 62,087 4 68,917 211,885 1,090,683 CFO 326,500 1 39,298 1 – 31,439 60,697 457,934 COO 285,413 2 34,295 1,091 3 84,750 – 405,549 Chief Sales & Marketing Officer 327,255 1 48,510 1 – 28,818 26,028 430,611 (former EVP Marketing & Business Development) Total Executive Board in 2018 1,589,168 219,897 63,178 213,924 298,610 2,384,777 1 Including the statutory employee contributions paid to the Swiss social insurance. 2 = SEK 2,537,000. 3 Contributions to medical benefit plans. 4 Accommodation allowance. 5 Weighted average fair value of the matching shares at grant (1 investment share = CHF 17.852) assuming full achievement of all performance-related targets. Compensation Executive Board 2017 (audited information) in CHF Basic salary Variable salary Miscellaneous Pension LTI 5 Total component contributions CEO 650,000 1 29,250 1 62,097 4 74,199 299,648 1,115,194 CFO (since 1 August 2017) 135,420 1 26,135 1 4,963 4 11,666 93,730 271,914 COO 284,760 2 10,251 1,096 3 84,572 – 380,679 EVP Marketing & Business Development 320,000 1 13,320 1 – 33,061 9,013 375,394 Former CFO – in charge (until 31.7.2017) 189,583 1 37,917 1 – 21,757 – 249,257 – period after resignation (1.8.–31.12.2017) 135,417 1,6 27,083 1,6 – 15,540 – 178,040 Total Executive Board in 2017 1,715,180 143,956 68,156 240,795 402,391 2,570,478 1 Including the statutory employee contributions paid to the Swiss social insurance. 2 = SEK 2,520,000. 3 Contributions to medical benefit plans. 4 Accommodation allowance. 5 Weighted average fair value of the matching shares at grant (1 investment share = CHF 18.025) assuming full achievement of all performance-related targets. 6 Compensation according to employment contract. 50 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report According to Swiss law, the Company paid the following Swiss social insurance (AHV/IV/ALV) employer contributions for the members of the Executive Board: in CHF Employer contributions to the Swiss ­social insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) 2018 2017 CEO 42,584 51,609 CFO (since 1 August 2017) 20,725 8,450 COO – – Chief Sales & Marketing Officer 20,275 22,389 (former EVP Marketing & Business Development) Former CFO – in charge (until 31.7.2017) – 13,371 – period after resignation (1.8.–31.12.2017) – 9,550 Total 83,584 105,369 These Swiss social insurance employer contributions do not represent an additional remuneration for the members of the Executive Board as they do neither constitute nor increase Swiss social insurance pension benefits due to the actuarial cap. The Company paid for the COO employer contributions of CHF 32,958 (2017: CHF 39,892) to the Swedish social insurances. These contributions do neither constitute nor increase the pension benefits of the employee. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Executive Board for all necessary expenses, also in form of car allowances and other lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. b) Fixed compensation The basic salaries (including social benefits) paid to the members of the Executive Board in the 2018 financial year totaled CHF 1,589,168 (2017: CHF 1,715,180). c) Short-term incentive (performance-related variable compensation) ■■ Principles – Targets are defined at the beginning of each year in alignment with the budget targets by the Board of Directors. If all defined targets are achieved in full, the respective member of the Executive Board receives a predetermined percentage of the basic salary as a variable component (performance-related part). If the results fall short, no variable salary component is paid. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, the member of the Executive Board is paid a higher variable salary component (up to a maximum that is in line with the fixed compensation). – The CEO receives a variable salary component of 50% of his basic salary on fully achieving all targets. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, the CEO is paid a higher variable salary component (performance-related part) up to 100% of the basic salary. – The other members of the Executive Board receive a variable salary component of 40–50% of their basic salary on fully achieving all targets. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, they are paid a variable salary component (performance-related part) up to a maximum of 100% of their basic salaries. – Performance-related variable compensation (excluding any possible allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) cannot exceed the fixed compensation of a member of the Executive Board. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 51 ■■ Performance-related targets 2018 The Board of Directors set the performance targets for 2018 with the aim to incentivize profitable growth of the Group. The performance-related variable compensation for the members of the Executive Board in 2018 was linked to the achievement of the following measurable quantitative targets (incl. weighting): ■■ Net revenue: 55% ■■ EBITDA: 45% The members of the Executive Board received a variable compensation according to the achievement of the quantitative targets and to the performance factor as described. The variable salary component for the whole Executive Board amounts to CHF 219,897 in 2018 (2017: CHF 143,956) due to a slightly higher target achievement. The variable salary component will be paid in April 2019, following the approval of the 2018 financial statements at the Annual General Meeting. d) Long-term incentive (share matching plan 2018) The Board of Directors decided to introduce the Ascom share matching plan 2018. The members of the Executive Board may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved (“performance-related part”). In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free (“retention part”), if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at that point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of Ascom achieved in fiscal year 2020. In order to receive additional matching shares, Ascom must achieve at least the pre-defined EBITDA margin target at the lower end in 2019. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case that the EBITDA margin of Ascom in 2019 reaches the upper level of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target or higher. In addition, beneficiaries may get up to 50% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term growth targets (CAGR over a certain period) are achieved. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with 1.5 matching shares. The total value of the long-term incentive for a member of the Executive Board cannot exceed 50% of the fixed compensation. In 2018, the CEO purchased 11,869 investment shares and the other members of the Executive Board in total purchased 4,858 investment shares. The fair value of a matching share at grant amounts to CHF 17.852 (weighted average fair value). Thus, the fair value of all matching shares allocated to the Executive Board amounts to CHF 298,610 whereof an amount of CHF 211,885 for the matching shares is allocated to the CEO, assuming full achievement of all performance targets. e) Total compensation of the members of the Executive Board The total compensation in 2018 for all members of the Executive Board amounted to CHF 2,384,777 (2017: CHF 2,570,478). 52 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report f) Highest compensation The highest total remuneration within the Ascom Group was paid to the CEO. The remuneration for the CEO in 2018, consisting of the basic salary and the variable salary component, amounted to CHF 809,891 (including miscellaneous). The employers’ pension contributions amounted to CHF 68,917. The value of the Matching Shares allocated to the CEO are valued at a total of CHF 211,885 based on the value at the time they were granted and assuming all performance targets will be achieved. The total remuneration paid to the CEO in 2018 amounted to CHF 1,090,683 (2017: CHF 1,115,194). g) Additional payments (audited information) No members of the Executive Board received any additional payments as defined by Art. 663bbis of the Swiss Code of Obligations, nor were any payments made to parties closely ­related to the Executive Board. The Company granted no members of the Executive Board or closely related parties any loans nor do such loans exist. h) Severance payments (audited information) Contracts of employment with members of the Executive Board provide for no special severance payment. The period of notice for members of the Executive Board is maximal 12 months. In the event of a takeover and a delisting of the Company, the participants of the Ascom share matching plans shall receive the same number of matching shares as they hold investment shares at the date of the publication of the delisting. i) Compliance with the decisions of the Annual General Meeting 2017 The shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2017 for the then five members of the Executive Board for fiscal year 2018: ■■ CHF 2,100,000 as fixed compensation (including contributions to pension funds and other social benefits) ■■ CHF 1,700,000 as variable compensation ■■ CHF 850,000 as long-term incentive The Annual General Meeting 2017 approved a total amount of CHF 4,650,000 for the compensation of the Executive Board in 2018. The total compensation paid to the Executive Board in 2018 of CHF 2,384,777 is in line with the approved amount of CHF 4,650,000 by the Annual General Meeting 2017. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 53 Reported compensation of the Executive Board during fiscal year 2018 compared to the amount approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 2017 In CHF Executive Board Maximum amount Amount within the amount compensation earned approved by shareholders approved by shareholders during FY 2018 at the 2017 AGM at the 2016 AGM and (4 members) (4 members) compensation ratio Fixed compensation 1,589,168 2,100,000 Yes (including contribution 75.7% to pension funds and other social benefits) Variable compensation 219,897 1,700,000 Yes (STI) 12.9% Long-term incentive 298,610 850,000 Yes (LTI) 35.1% Total compensation 2,384,777 4,650,000 Yes Executive Board 1 51.3% 1 Including miscellaneous and pension contributions. The corresponding reporting of the Executive Board compensation 2019 approved by the Annual General Meeting 2018 as well as the reporting of the compensation ratio will be disclosed in the Remuneration Report 2019. 3. Former members of the Executive Board (audited information) In 2018, Bianka Wilson (former CFO until 31 July 2017) was paid an amount of CHF 146,038 (including CHF 16,036 for pension contributions) in compliance with commitments set down in her contract of employment. Moreover, the Company paid an employer contribution of CHF 11,191 to the Swiss social insurance according to Swiss law. III. SHARE OWNERSHIP Number of shares and options held in Ascom Holding AG as of 31 December 2018: 1. Board of Directors All members of the Board of Directors and closely related parties, in total: 59,150 shares. Shares 1 Andreas Umbach 48,750 Dr Valentin Chapero Rueda – Dr Harald Deutsch 2,000 Jürg Fedier 4,400 Christina Stercken 4,000 Total Board of Directors 59,150 1 Acquired by the Board members from the market. No members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties hold any conversion or option rights. 54 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 2. Executive Board All members of the Executive Board and closely related parties, in total: 57,458 shares. Shares 1 Holger Cordes, CEO 46,900 Anette Weber, CFO 8,600 Claes Ödman, COO – Francis Schmeer, Chief Sales & Marketing Officer 1,958 Total Executive Board 57,458 1 Acquired by the members of the Executive Board from the market. No members of the Executive Board or closely related parties hold any conversion or option rights. 3. Share allotment in 2018 According to the provisions of the Ascom share matching plan 2015, Ascom Holding AG allotted 4,175 shares in 2018 to 15 remaining participants of the Ascom share matching plan 2015. Ascom Holding AG allotted no further shares in 2018. IV. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS 1. Ascom share matching plan 2016 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 19 August 2016 to introduce a share matching plan 2016 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business achieved in fiscal year 2018. In order to distribute additional matching shares to the benefi­ciaries, Ascom must achieve at least the lower end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target 2018. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of Ascom in 2018 reaches the upper end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each ­investment share with one matching share. 19 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they purchased in total 42,630 investment shares. 7,989 investment shares were exercised or forfeited in the years 2016 and 2017. Out of the remainder of 34,651 investments shares, another 5,929 investment shares were exercised or forfeited in 2018. Thus, 28,722 investment shares still may qualify for matching shares. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 55 2. Ascom share matching plan 2017 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 21 August 2017 to introduce a share matching plan 2017 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employmentbased and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of Ascom achieved in fiscal year 2019. In order to distribute additional performance-related matching shares to the beneficiaries, Ascom must achieve at least the lower end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target 2019. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of Ascom in 2019 reaches the upper end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target or higher. In addition, the beneficiaries (excluding members of the Executive Board) may get up to 50% of the number of their investment shares as growth-related matching shares provided that defined mid-term growth targets are achieved. In order to receive additional matching shares, the growth performance (CAGR 2019 over 2016) must achieve a certain range. Every participant will receive the maximum of 50% of additional investment shares in case the growth performance as defined reaches the upper end of this range. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with 1.5 matching shares (members of the Executive Board: 1.0 matching share). 19 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they purchased in total 32,956 investment shares. 1,808 investment shares were exercised or forfeited in 2018. Thus, 31,148 investment shares still may qualify for matching shares. 3. Ascom share matching plan 2018 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 28 August 2018 to introduce a share matching plan 2018 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. In addition, they get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of Ascom achieved in fiscal year 2020. In order to distribute additional performance-related matching shares to the beneficiaries, Ascom must achieve at 56 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report least the lower end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target 2020. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of Ascom in 2020 reaches the upper end of the pre-defined EBITDA margin target or higher. In addition, the beneficiaries may get up to 50% of the number of their investment shares as growth-related matching shares provided that defined mid-term growth targets are achieved. In order to receive additional matching shares, the growth performance (CAGR 2020 over 2017) must achieve a certain range. Every participant will receive the maximum of 50% of additional investment shares in case the growth performance as defined reaches the upper end of this range. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with 1.5 matching shares. 15 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they purchased in total 24,057 investment shares. 4. Investment shares held of 31 December 2018 Share matching plan Matching date Underlying Number of­ Maximum yearly result outstanding of matching investment shares shares 2016 30.06.2019 2018 28,722 28,722 2017 30.06.2020 2019 31,148 35,560 2018 30.06.2021 2020 24,057 36,085 As of 31 December 2018, 83,927 investment shares were purchased as investments in share matching plans. These investment shares may entitle the holder to a maximum of 100,367 matching shares according to the regulations of the share matching plans. The outstanding 100,367 contingent matching shares correspond in total to 0.28% of the total share capital of the Company. ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report 57 Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG Baar We have audited the information marked as “audited information” in the accompanying remuneration report of Ascom Holding AG for the year ended 31 December 2018. Board of Directors’ responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance). The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the remuneration system and defining individual remuneration packages. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the remuneration report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the remuneration report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the remuneration report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the remuneration report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the remuneration report of Ascom Holding AG for the year ended 31 December 2018 complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Daniel Wyss Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 26 February 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zürich, Switzerland Telefon: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 58 ASCOM Annual Report 2018 Report of the statutory auditor to the general meeting on the remuneration report 2018 Financial statements 2018 Ascom Group 60 Consolidated balance sheet 6 1 Consolidated income statement 62 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 63 Consolidated statement of cash flows 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 90 Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements 94 Summary of key financial data Ascom Holding AG 95 Balance sheet 96 Income statement 97 Notes to the annual financial statements 100 Comments on the financial statements 1 0 1 Proposals for the appropriation of retained earnings and reserves from capital contribution 2018 102 Report of the statutory auditor on the financial statements 106 Key financial data on the share capital Consolidated balance sheet Assets CHFm Note 31.12.2018 % 31.12.2017 % Cash and cash equivalents 21.2 30.3 Trade receivables 4 79.7 73.0 Other short-term receivables 5 6.3 7.6 Inventories and work in progress 6 19.8 25.2 Prepayments and accrued income 7 18.5 16.0 Current assets 145.5 66.6 152.1 66.2 Property, plant and equipment 8 11.2 11.9 Intangible assets 9 36.1 40.3 Financial assets 10 25.6 25.3 Non-current assets 72.9 33.4 77.5 33.8 Total assets 218.4 100.0 229.6 100.0 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity CHFm Note 31.12.2018 % 31.12.2017 % Trade payables 18.0 21.3 Other liabilities 12 15.6 16.3 Provisions 13 5.9 9.7 Customer prepayments and deferred revenue 15 19.9 20.5 Accrued liabilities 16 24.5 24.1 Current liabilities 83.9 38.4 91.9 40.0 Borrowings 11 20.0 18.0 Other liabilities – 3.0 Provisions 13, 14 31.3 33.6 Non-current liabilities 51.3 23.5 54.6 23.8 Total liabilities 135.2 61.9 146.5 63.8 Share capital 17 18.0 18.0 Capital reserves 15.1 15.0 Own shares 17 (0.4) (0.5) Retained earnings 50.5 50.6 Shareholders’ equity 83.2 38.1 83.1 36.2 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 218.4 100.0 229.6 100.0 The notes on pages 64 to 89 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 60 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement CHFm Note 2018 % 2017 % Net revenue 18 318.5 100.0 309.7 100.0 Cost of sales 19 (160.1) (149.2) Gross profit 158.4 49.7 160.5 51.8 Marketing and sales 19 (77.9) (76.3) Research and development 19 (32.4) (29.1) Administration 19 (19.9) (20.3) Other operating income 20 0.1 Other operating expenses 20 (1.6) (1.7) Operating result (EBIT) 26.6 8.4 33.2 10.7 Financial income 21 1.3 1.3 Financial expenses 21 (1.3) (2.2) Ordinary result 26.6 8.4 32.3 10.4 Non-operating result 22 (0.4) 0.5 Extraordinary result 1.1 0.4 Profit before income tax 27.3 8.6 33.2 10.7 Income tax 23 (5.9) (7.3) Group profit for the period 1 21.4 6.7 25.9 8.4 1 Attributable to the owners of the parent. Earnings per share in CHF CHFm Note 2018 2017 Basic 24 0.59 0.72 Diluted 24 0.59 0.72 Additional information – non-GAAP measures CHFm 2018 % 2017 % EBITDA 39.0 12.2 43.6 14.1 The notes on pages 64 to 89 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Consolidated income statement 61 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to owners of the parent Capital reserves Retained earnings CHFm Share Own Share Other Currency Goodwill Other Total capital 1 shares 1 premium capital translation offset retained share­holders’ reserves adjustments earnings equity Balance at 1.1.2017 18.0 (1.0) 1.1 13.9 (8.0) (55.0) 111.9 80.9 Group profit for the period – – – – – – 25.9 25.9 Currency translation adjustments – – – – 4.5 – – 4.5 Goodwill offset with equity 2 – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 Share-based payments – – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 Purchase of own shares – – – – – – – – Disposal of own shares – 0.5 – (0.3) – – – 0.2 Dividend paid – – – – – – (28.8) (28.8) Balance at 31.12.2017 18.0 (0.5) 1.1 13.9 (3.5) (54.9) 109.0 83.1 Group profit for the period – – – – – – 21.4 21.4 Currency translation adjustments – – – – (5.3) – – (5.3) Goodwill offset with equity 2 – – – – – – – – Share-based payments – – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 Purchase of own shares – – – – – – – – Disposal of own shares – 0.1 – (0.1) – – – – Dividends paid – – – – – – (16.2) (16.2) Balance at 31.12.2018 18.0 (0.4) 1.1 14.0 (8.8) (54.9) 114.2 83.2 1 Refer to note 17. 2 Refer to note 9. Non-distributable statutory and legal reserves of Ascom Holding AG: CHF 3.6 million (previous year: CHF 3.6 million). The notes on pages 64 to 89 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 62 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of cash flows CHFm Note 2018 2017 Group profit for the period 21.4 25.9 + Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8 2.7 2.4 + Amortization of intangible assets 9 10.1 8.3 +/− (Profit)/loss from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 – (0.9) + Share-based payments 0.2 0.3 +/− Addition/(release) of provisions 13 1.3 (2.6) +/− Adjustment for other non-cash items 0.1 0.9 +/− Change in inventory and work in progress 4.1 (5.4) +/− Change in trade receivables (9.8) (5.3) +/− Change in trade payables (2.1) 0.8 +/− Change in other receivables and prepayments (2.8) (1.4) +/− Change in accrued and other short-term liabilities and deferred income (4.4) (9.3) − Interest income 21 (1.3) (1.3) + Interest expenses 21 0.9 0.8 + Interest received 0.8 0.8 − Interest paid (0.3) (0.2) + Income tax expenses 23 5.9 7.3 − Income tax paid (5.6) (5.5) +/− Foreign currency translation differences on intra-group positions (1.2) 0.6 Cash flow from operating activities 20.0 16.2 − Purchase of property, plant and equipment 8 (2.8) (2.5) + Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 8 – 1.1 − Purchase of intangible assets 9 (8.6) (7.8) − Acquisition of a subsidiary or business 1 (3.0) – + Proceeds from divestment of a subsidiary or business – 7.8 +/− Change in financial assets and other non-current assets 0.3 0.7 Cash flow from investing activities (14.1) (0.7) +/− Proceeds from/(repayment of) long-term borrowings 2.0 7.9 + Proceeds from disposal of own shares – 0.2 − Dividends paid (16.2) (28.8) Cash flow from financing activities (14.2) (20.7) +/− Foreign currency translation differences on cash and cash equivalents (0.8) 1.2 Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (9.1) (4.0) + Cash and cash equivalents at 1.1. 30.3 34.3 Cash and cash equivalents at 31.12. 21.2 30.3 1 Cash outflow attributable to the contingent purchase price payment related to the acquisition of UMS in 2016. The notes on pages 64 to 89 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Consolidated statement of cash flows 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. GENERAL INFORMATION Ascom is a global solutions provider focused on healthcare ICT and mobile workflow solutions. The vision of Ascom is to close digital information gaps allowing for the best possible decisions – anytime and anywhere. Ascom’s mission is to provide missioncritical, real-time solutions for highly mobile, ad hoc, and time-sensitive environments. Ascom uses its unique product and solutions portfolio and software architecture capabilities to devise integration and mobilization solutions that provide truly smooth, complete and efficient workflows for healthcare as well as for industry, security and retail sectors. Ascom is headquartered in Baar (Switzerland), has operating businesses in 18 countries and employs around 1,300 people worldwide. Ascom Holding AG, the parent company of the Group, is a public limited company and its registered shares (symbol ASCN) are listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in Zurich (Switzerland). 2. SUMMARY OF THE GENERAL GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ascom Holding AG comply with Swiss law and have been prepared based on the individual financial statements of each Group company. These are based on historical cost, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below, and in accordance with the entire existing guidelines of Swiss GAAP FER (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles FER/FER = Fachempfehlung zur Rechnungslegung = Accounting and reporting recommendations). Furthermore, the consolidated financial statements comply with the provisions of the listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange and are presented in Swiss francs (CHF). The accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group companies. A summary of the significant accounting policies is provided below. The closing date for the Group and the individual Group companies is 31 December. 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures There were no changes in 2018. 2.3 Use of judgments and estimates In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management has made judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Group’s accounting policies and the r­eported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognized prospectively. 64 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements Information about judgments made in applying accounting policies, that have the most significant effects on the consolidated financial statements and information about uncertainties related to assumptions and estimates, that have the potential risk of resulting in a significant adjustment, are included in the following notes: ■■ Note 9 – recognition of internally generated intangible assets: whether the Group has met the criteria for capitalization of internally generated development costs relating to the design and testing of new or improved products. ■■ Note 9 – measurement of intangibles: key assumptions and estimates underlying valuation and recoverability of intangible assets from acquisitions and capitalized internally generated intangible assets, including related forecasted cash flows. ■■ Note 14 – measurement of pension liabilities related to certain pension plans: key actuarial assumptions, including discount rate, future salary or pension increases and average life expectancy, as well as plan assets performance and funded status. ■■ Notes 13 and 29 – recognition and measurement of provisions and contingencies: key a­ ssumptions about the likelihood and magnitude of net future outflow of cash, including discount rates. ■■ Note 23 – recognition and measurement of the provision for income tax and recognition of deferred income tax assets: availability of qualified future taxable profit against which tax loss carry-forwards can be used. 2.4 Consolidation The consolidated financial statements cover Ascom Holding AG and all subsidiaries over which the Group has control. Ascom controls a subsidiary when Ascom is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Profits or losses from disposal of subsidiaries are recorded in profit or loss, including the effect of recycling of any goodwill previously offset against equity. The list of the consolidated Group companies is included in note 34. Percentages of the Group’s interest in share capital correspond to percentages in voting rights held. The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of assets transferred, liabilities assumed and equity interests issued by the Group, including the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are capitalized and allocated to goodwill. Pursuant to a purchase price allocation, identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed as well as any contingent assets and ­liabilities are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains or losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 65 2.5 Foreign currency translation All assets and liabilities of foreign entities are translated into Swiss francs (CHF), the Group’s reporting currency, at the exchange rates prevailing on 31 December. Income, expenses and cash flows of foreign entities are translated at average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising from the reconversion of the net investment in subsidiaries in foreign functional currencies are recorded as currency translation adjustments in equity. Upon disposal of a foreign operation, accumulated currency translation adjustments are recognized in the income statement. Applicable exchange rates for Ascom’s major foreign currencies are as follow: Foreign currency translation CHFm ISO code Unit 31.12.2018 Average 2018 31.12.2017 Average 2017 Euro EUR 1 1.127 1.153 1.170 1.113 US dollar USD 1 0.984 0.977 0.976 0.985 Swedish krona SEK 1 0.110 0.113 0.119 0.116 Pound sterling GBP 1 1.260 1.301 1.319 1.273 Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). Goodwill and fair value adjustments from the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing on the acquisition date. Transactions in foreign currencies are accounted for at the average exchange rates of the prior month, as an approximation of the exchange rate at the transaction date. Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the conversion of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss. Such balances are converted into the functional currency of the foreign entity at the exchange rates prevailing on 31 December. 2.6 Revenue recognition Net revenue include all sales of goods and services after deduction of any sales reductions including discounts, rebates, returns and value-added tax. Revenue from sale of goods and services is recognized on delivery to and acceptance by the customer, when significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to Ascom. Goods sold to customers include hardware and software. Services rendered to customers include consulting, commissioning and installation services as well as after-sales support, repair and maintenance services. Revenue from long-term maintenance agreements is recognized straight-line over the contract term. Revenue from fixed-price, multi-element contracts including goods and services is allocated to the separable components based on the value of the separable components. Revenue from significant customer projects is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method (PoC), if the stage of completion and expected outcome can be measured reliably. The respective calculation is based either on the units completed compared to the total number of contracted units, or if this approach is not applicable, on the costs incurred compared to the total costs to complete. 2.7 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 66 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.8 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognized at their nominal value less any provision for doubtful debts, which is recognized when it becomes probable that the receivable is not fully realizable. The amount of the provision is the receivable at nominal value less the amount of the expected realization. The valuation effect is recorded in marketing and sales expenses. 2.9 Other current assets Other short-term receivables, prepayments and accrued income are stated at nominal value less impairment, if any. 2.10 Inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of purchase or manufacturing cost or net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the normal course of business, less estimated cost of completion and estimated selling cost. Manufacturing cost includes direct material and production costs as well as material and production overheads. The inventory cost is determined using the weighted-average cost method. Purchase discounts are treated as a purchase price reduction. Value adjustments are made for obsolete and slow-moving items. Work in progress on long-term contracts is recognized according to the stage of completion of the contract (percentage-of-completion method). Provisions are made to cover anticipated losses as soon as these are identified. 2.11 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are recorded at acquisition or production cost (i.e. historical cost) less accumulated depreciation. Land is valued at cost and is not depreciated. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful life as shown in the following table: Useful life in years Buildings 20–40 Installations 7–10 Production equipment, measuring and test equipment, IT hardware, furniture 3–5 Tools and demo equipment 3 Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when they can be measured reliably and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with such costs will flow to the Group. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the financial period in which they incur. All gains or losses arising from the disposal of property, plant and equipment are included in the income statement. 2.12 Intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill are recorded at acquisition or production cost less accumulated amortization. Customer relations are capitalized using the excessearning method for valuation of the existing customers at acquisition date. Technology and trademarks are capitalized using the relief from royalty method for valuation. The amortization charge is calculated on a straight-line basis over the period of its estimated useful e ­ conomic life as shown in the following table: ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 67 Useful life in years Customer relations 10 Technology 5–7 Internally generated intangibles 3–5 Other (trademarks, licenses and software) 3–5 Intangible assets not ready for use are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill resulting from acquisitions (the excess of the purchase price over the net fair value of the acquired assets, liabilities and equity interests) is offset in equi­ ty against retained earnings at the date of acquisition. The consequences of a theoretical capitalization and amortization of goodwill are explained in note 9. If the purchase price contains contingent elements that are dependent on future results (e.g. earn-out), a liability is recognized in the balance sheet at the date of acquisition based on an estimate of the earn-out payment expected to be paid at the agreed future date. Changes in this estimate during the earn-out period or differences between the recorded liability and the final settlement are recorded in equity. All research costs are charged to profit or loss as incurred. Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design, development and testing of major new products, major product improvements or software platforms and significant applications) are recognized as intangible assets, when specific criteria are fulfilled regarding technical feasibility, commitment of resources and recoverability through future economic benefits. Development costs that cannot be capitalized are charged to profit or loss in the period in which they occur. 2.13 Financial assets Financial assets mainly comprise of loans to third parties, deferred tax assets and pension assets. Loans and pension assets are initially recorded at actual value and subsequently measured at amortized cost less valuation adjustments. Information related to deferred tax assets is presented in note 2.22. 2.14 Impairment of assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment when indicators exist that the carrying amount of the asset might exceed its recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset is higher than the recoverable amount, the asset is impaired to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less disposal cost and value in use. Intangible assets not yet available for use are not subject to amortization and are therefore tested for impairment at least once a year. As goodwill is fully offset against equity at the date of acquisition, an impairment of goodwill will not affect income, but will only be disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (refer to note 9). Impairment tests are performed based on discounted cash flows at the level of the corresponding cashgenerating units, representing the lowest level at which such assets are evaluated for recoverability. 2.15 Derivative financial instruments Due to the global nature of its activities, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk. The related risk management is described in note 27. The Group may hedge expected future foreign currency cash flows by executing forward contracts. These derivative financial instruments are recognized at fair value at the trade date. Where such forward contracts are linked to specific projected transactions and cash flows, the hedging is deemed to be effective and documented accordingly, with changes in the fair value of the cash flow hedges recognized in equity. The gain or loss relat68 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements ing to fair value changes of other forward contracts is recognized immediately in the income statement as part of the financial result, as these contracts are deemed ineffective hedges. Where these cash flow hedges related to flow of goods, the gains or losses are recorded as part of cost of sales. Gains and losses related to fair value changes of foreign currency forward contracts, which have been recognized in equity, are recycled in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects gain or loss. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. 2.16 Equity Registered shares are classified as equity. Own shares, expenses for equity-settled share-based payments, realized gains or losses from disposals of own shares as well as costs relating to capital increases and decreases are recorded in equity. Dividends are charged to equity in the period in which they are approved. The share premium represents the excess of the issued share capital over its nominal value. 2.17 Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are initially recorded at actual value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently measured at amortized cost. They include mainly bank loans and are classified as current if they are settled within 12 months, and there is no unconditional right to extend the settlement to at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Borrowing costs directly attributable to a material acquisition, development or production of an internally generated asset, that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale (i.e. qualifying asset), are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. 2.18 Pension benefit obligations There are various pension plans in existence within the Group which are individually aligned with local conditions in their respective countries. They are financed either by means of contributions to legally independent pension or insurance funds, or by recognition as liabilities in the balance sheet of the respective Group companies. An economic obligation is recognized as a liability if the requirements for the recognition of a provision are met under Swiss GAAP FER. An economic benefit is capitalized provided that the Company is entitled to such benefit in the future, for example, to offset future Group pension expenses. Freely available employer contribution reserves are capitalized. Employees of Swiss Group companies are insured as part of a multi-employer pension fund, an independent separate legal entity under Swiss Law (“Gemeinschaftsstiftung”) financed by contributions from participating employers and employees. An economical obligation or a benefit from the Swiss pension scheme is determined from the pension fund financial statements prepared on the basis of Swiss GAAP FER 26 “Accounting of Pension Plans” and recognized in the balance sheet accordingly. The provision for pension plans of foreign subsidiaries, which are not organized as independent legal entities, is determined based on the local valuation methods in effect. 2.19 Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are made when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 69 settle the obligation in the future. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as interest expense. For costs that are ­expected to arise in connection with site closures, the disposal of companies or business units and restructuring, provisions are made at the time of the decision of approved measures. For onerous contracts, provisions are provided if the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation exceed the economic benefit to be received. If an outflow of resources to settle an obligation is not probable, a contingent liability is disclosed. Contingent liabilities and other off-balance sheet commitments are evaluated at each reporting date, taking into account also any guaranteed considerations from other parties (e.g. insurance coverage). 2.20 Leases A lease is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee in return for a payment, or series of payments, the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time. a) Lessee accounting Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred from the lessor to the lessee are classified as finance leases. The leased assets are carried at cost not higher than the minimal lease payments and depreciated along with other property, plant and equipment (see note 2.11). The corresponding leasing obligations are shown as liabilities. Leasing payments are allocated accordingly as either capital repayments or interest expenses. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. b) Lessor accounting When assets are leased out under a finance lease, the present value of the net minimum lease payments is recognized as a receivable under financial assets. The difference between the gross receivable (gross investment in leases) and the present value of the net minimum lease payments is recognized as unearned interest income. Each lease installment is allocated between the receivable and interest income. When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet based on the nature of the asset. Operating lease income is recognized in profit or loss over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. 2.21 Share-based payments Selected members of Ascom’s senior management receive remuneration in the form of share-based remunerations pursuant to share matching plans. The beneficiaries of share matching plans get the opportunity to buy company shares (or phantom shares in the case of residents of the USA) at market price as investment shares up to a certain amount. They have to keep the investment shares over a defined period in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries receive 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free if they are still employed with Ascom at this point of time. As an additional performance-related part, beneficiaries may receive up to 115% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. As a maximum, the company will honor each investment share with one matching share. The cost of matching shares is measured initially at fair value at grant date, taking into consideration a deduction for the dividend yield as well as expected 70 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements fluctuation of the plan participants. The initial fair value is recognized as expense over the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in other capital reserves in equity (for equity-settled instruments) or in other provisions (for cashsettled instruments). Ascom revises its estimates of the number of instruments expected to vest, based on the best available estimate of the outcome of the nonmarket-vesting conditions (the Group EBITDA margin and the cumulated average growth rate of the net revenue) at the end of each reporting period, with changes recognized in personnel expenses. 2.22 Income tax Income tax is recorded based on the period to which it properly relates. Deferred income tax is recorded in full using the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities arise on temporary differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for Group purposes and their related tax values. The tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date are used to determine deferred income tax. Deferred income tax assets result from tax loss carryforwards, tax credits as well as temporary valuation differences of assets and liabilities. They are recognized to the extent that realization through future taxable profits is probable. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same tax authority. 2.23 Definition of non-GAAP measures Earnings before interest and income tax (EBIT) correspond to the operating result. Earnings before interest, income tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) as a subtotal ­includes EBIT before deduction of depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment as well as amortization and impairment of intangible assets. As defined, EBIT and EBITDA do not include the impact of non-operating or extraordinary results. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 71 3. SEGMENT INFORMATION Ascom Group consists of one single business unit, the purpose of which is to use its unique product and solutions portfolio and software architecture capabilities to devise integration and mobilization solutions that provide digitalized, complete and efficient workflows for healthcare as well as for industry, security and retail sectors. Due to the unity and strategic focus of the business on healthcare ICT, the top management (Group Executive Board) and the management structure of the Ascom Group are organized by functions. The allocation of financial resources of the Group by the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Board is decided centrally and by function. Research and development of the whole range of products and solutions is carried out centrally, while sales are carried out regionally with central support. Distribution and services are managed within central global functions. Accordingly, regional sales subsidiaries are responsible for the sale and delivery of the whole range of products, services and solutions in their sales area, supported by global R & D, global Supply Chain and global Services, as well as central marketing and administrative functions. The Company’s risks and opportunities vary by region and are impacted and supported by local regulatory requirements, most notably in healthcare. Accordingly, the financial management and allocation of Company resources by the Group Executive Board is primarily based on regional market and net revenue developments. Segment reporting is therefore reflecting Ascom’s business as one single reportable segment. The allocation of incoming orders and net revenue is disclosed below based on the regional sales structure. Allocation of incoming orders and net revenue of Ascom continuing business CHFm Incoming orders Net revenue 2018 2017 2018 2017 Benelux 72.3 64.1 68.6 64.0 Nordics 52.6 58.0 52.4 51.8 DACH 56.7 54.2 51.4 49.0 Rest of Europe 1 48.8 45.2 45.7 46.7 Total Europe 230.4 221.5 218.1 211.5 Americas 1 54.9 54.4 55.3 50.7 Asia, Australia, Africa 1 15.8 17.2 16.1 15.6 OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) 28.5 31.7 29.0 31.9 Total 329.6 324.8 318.5 309.7 1 Prior-year numbers have been restated due to the fact that the former Growth Markets region has been split into 3 different regions: South american business is now reported under Americas (former North America) Central and Eastern Europe business is now reported under Rest of Europe The remaining business of Growth Markets has been renamed to Asia, Australia, Africa 72 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4. TRADE RECEIVABLES CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Receivables from third parties 1 81.2 74.2 Less provision for doubtful debts (1.5) (1.2) Total 79.7 73.0 1 This line item includes CHF 5.6 million (previous year: CHF 2.2 million) of trade receivables arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. The Group does not hold any collateral as security for trade receivables. 5. OTHER SHORT-TERM RECEIVABLES CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Income tax and other tax receivables 4.3 5.0 Other receivables 0.8 1.3 Finance leases 0.7 0.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.7 Total other short-term receivables 6.3 7.6 6. INVENTORIES AND WORK IN PROGRESS CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Raw materials and components 3.4 1.9 Work in progress 1 3.6 4.7 Finished goods and goods for resale 16.0 22.2 Inventory provision (3.2) (3.6) Total 19.8 25.2 1 This line item includes CHF 0.1 million (previous year: CHF 0.4 million) of work in progress arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. 7. PREPAYMENTS AND ACCRUED INCOME CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Prepayments 4.7 3.6 Accrued income 1 13.8 12.4 Total 18.5 16.0 1 This line item includes CHF 9.4 million (previous year: CHF 8.6 million) of acrrued income arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 73 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CHFm Land and Machines, Equipment Other Total buildings installations and under equipment construction Cost Balance at 1.1.2017 17.7 18.1 2.1 14.2 52.1 Additions 0.6 0.6 1.1 0.2 2.5 Disposals (1.8) (0.7) – (0.2) (2.7) Reclassifications 0.5 0.8 (2.9) 1.6 – Currency translation adjustments 1.5 1.5 0.1 0.8 3.9 Balance at 31.12.2017 18.5 20.3 0.4 16.6 55.8 Additions 0.1 0.7 1.7 0.3 2.8 Disposals – (0.4) – – (0.4) Reclassifications – (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (1.5) Currency translation adjustments (0.8) (1.1) (0.1) (1.1) (3.1) Balance at 31.12.2018 17.8 19.0 1.5 15.3 53.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Balance at 1.1.2017 (12.0) (15.9) – (12.9) (40.8) Depreciation charge (0.5) (1.1) – (0.8) (2.4) Disposals 1.6 0.7 – 0.2 2.5 Currency translation adjustments (1.0) (1.3) – (0.9) (3.2) Balance at 31.12.2017 (11.9) (17.6) – (14.4) (43.9) Depreciation charge (0.6) (1.1) – (1.0) (2.7) Disposals – 0.3 – 0.1 0.4 Reclassifications – 1.0 – 0.5 1.5 Currency translation adjustments 0.5 0.8 – 1.0 2.3 Balance at 31.12.2018 (12.0) (16.6) – (13.8) (42.4) Net carrying amount at 31.12.2017 6.6 2.6 0.4 2.3 11.9 Thereof non-operating 1 4.6 – – – 4.6 Net carrying amount at 31.12.2018 5.8 2.4 1.5 1.5 11.2 Thereof non-operating 1 4.2 – – – 4.2 1 Held exclusively for investment purposes (not for use). 74 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CHFm Customer Acquired Internally Acquired Other Total relations technology generated software intangibles Cost Balance at 1.1.2017 8.0 5.3 27.3 18.1 8.1 66.8 Additions – – 5.5 – 2.3 7.8 Reclassification – – – 1.8 (1.8) – Currency translation adjustments 0.3 0.4 1.7 1.1 0.6 4.1 Balance at 31.12.2017 8.3 5.7 34.5 21.0 9.2 78.7 Additions – – 7.4 – 1.2 8.6 Reclassification – – – 3.6 (3.6) – Currency translation adjustments (0.4) (0.3) (2.8) (1.5) (0.4) (5.4) Balance at 31.12.2018 7.9 5.4 39.1 23.1 6.4 81.9 Accumulated amortization and impairment Balance at 1.1.2017 (2.8) (1.9) (10.4) (10.3) (2.9) (28.3) Amortization charge (0.8) (0.8) (4.2) (2.0) (0.5) (8.3) Currency translation adjustments (0.1) (0.2) (0.7) (0.6) (0.2) (1.8) Balance at 31.12.2017 (3.7) (2.9) (15.3) (12.9) (3.6) (38.4) Amortization charge (0.8) (0.8) (5.9) (2.1) (0.5) (10.1) Currency translation adjustments 0.2 0.2 1.3 0.9 0.1 2.7 Balance at 31.12.2018 (4.3) (3.5) (19.9) (14.1) (4.0) (45.8) Net carrying amount at 31.12.2017 4.6 2.8 19.2 8.1 5.6 40.3 Thereof acquired 4.6 2.8 – 8.1 5.6 21.1 Thereof generated internally – – 19.2 – – 19.2 Net carrying amount at 31.12.2018 3.6 1.9 19.2 9.0 2.4 36.1 Thereof acquired 3.6 1.9 – 9.0 2.4 16.9 Thereof generated internally – – 19.2 – – 19.2 Other intangibles comprise aquired trademarks and licences. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 Goodwill from acquisitions is offset against the Company’s equity at the acquisition date. The theoretical amortization is based on the straight-line method over a useful life of five years. The theoretical capitalization of the goodwill would affect the result of the consolidated financial statements as follows: CHFm 2018 2017 Acquisition cost As of 1 January 37.1 36.5 Additions from acquisitions – – Liquidation of a subsidiary or business – – Disposal of a subsidiary or business – – Reversal of earn-out – (0.1) Translation adjustment (1.2) 0.7 As of 31 December 35.9 37.1 Accumulated amortization As of 1 January (34.3) (30.8) Additions (1.7) (2.9) Liquidation of a subsidiary or business – – Disposal of a subsidiary or business – – Translation adjustment 1.1 (0.6) As of 31 December (35.0) (34.3) Theoretical book values, net As of 1 January 2.8 5.7 As of 31 December 0.9 2.8 Theorical effect on income statement CHFm 2018 2017 Operating result 26.6 33.2 Theoretical amortization goodwill (1.7) (2.9) Theoretical operating result incl. amortization goodwill 24.9 30.3 Group profit for the period 21.4 25.9 Theoretical amortization goodwill (1.7) (2.9) Theoretical Group profit for the period incl. amortization goodwill 19.7 23.0 Theorical effect on balance sheet CHFm 2018 2017 Equity according to balance sheet 83.2 83.1 Theoretical capitalization net book value goodwill 0.9 2.8 Theoretical equity incl. net book value goodwill 84.1 85.9 Equity as % of balance sheet total 38.1% 36.2% Theoretical equity incl. net book value goodwill as % of 38.3% 37.0% balance sheet total (incl. goodwill) 76 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10. FINANCIAL ASSETS CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Deferred income tax assets 7.7 7.7 Pension-related assets 2.6 3.4 Finance leases 1.5 1.6 Other financial assets 13.8 12.6 Total non-current portion 25.6 25.3 Detailed information related to deferred income tax assets and pension-related assets are provided in notes 23 and 14, respectively. Other financial assets mainly comprise the subordinated vendor loan amounting to CHF 13.4 million (previous year: CHF 12.2 million) at actual value (having a nominal value of USD 15 million, a seven-year maturity and a stated interest rate of 4% p.a.) granted in connection with the disposal of the Network Testing Division. Future minimum lease payments under finance lease contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: CHFm Within Between Later Total 12 months 1 and 5 years 31.12.2018 Gross investment in leases 0.8 1.6 – 2.4 Unearned interest income (0.1) (0.1) – (0.2) Present value of the net minimum 0.7 1.5 – 2.2 lease payments CHFm Within Between Later Total 12 months 1 and 5 years 31.12.2017 Gross investment in leases 0.7 1.7 0.1 2.5 Unearned interest income (0.1) (0.2) – (0.3) Present value of the net minimum 0.6 1.5 0.1 2.2 lease payments 11. BORROWINGS The Group has revolving multi-currency credit facilities in an aggregate amount equal to CHF 35.0 million with two banks to fund working capital in the ordinary course of business, at variable interest rates (LIBOR + 0.8%), with an option to fix the interest rate monthly for a maximum period of 12 months. In addition, the Group also has an uncommitted guarantee line of CHF 10.0 million with a Swiss bank. At 31 December 2018, Ascom used the cash lines as shown in the table below (borrowings denominated in CHF): CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Non-current 20.0 18.0 Total borrowings 20.0 18.0 As the final maturity of the Group’s credit facilities is 24 May 2020, the outstanding borrowings at 31 December 2018 are classified as non-current. The credit facility includes two financial covenants: a debt service ratio (calculated as the ratio of net debt and outstanding bank guarantees to EBITDA) and an equity ratio (calculated as the ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets). The financial covenants are fully complied with. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 77 12. OTHER LIABILITIES (CURRENT) CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Income tax liabilities 1.4 1.8 VAT and other tax liabilities 6.7 5.8 Personnel-related liabilities 6.9 7.8 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.8 Other liabilities 0.2 0.1 Total 15.6 16.3 13. PROVISIONS CHFm Restructuring Deferred tax Employee Other Total provisions benefit provisions obligation Balance at 1.1.2017 9.9 6.6 20.4 12.6 49.5 Additions 0.1 0.6 1.0 0.8 2.5 Increase in present value – – 0.6 – 0.6 Payments (4.6) – (0.6) (1.2) (6.4) Release of unused amounts (1.4) (1.4) (1.6) (0.7) (5.1) Currency translation adjustments 0.4 0.4 1.3 0.1 2.2 Balance at 31.12.2017 4.4 6.2 21.1 11.6 43.3 Additions – 0.8 0.8 2.2 3.8 Increase in present value – – 0.8 – 0.8 Payments (3.6) – (1.2) (1.2) (6.0) Release of unused amounts – (0.7) (0.5) (1.3) (2.5) Currency translation adjustments (0.2) (0.5) (1.3) (0.2) (2.2) Balance at 31.12.2018 0.6 5.8 19.7 11.1 37.2 Expected payment CHFm Restructuring Deferred tax Employee Other Total provisions benefit provisions obligation Within 12 months 4.4 – – 5.3 9.7 Later – 6.2 21.1 6.3 33.6 Balance at 31.12.2017 4.4 6.2 21.1 11.6 43.3 Within 12 months 0.6 – – 5.3 5.9 Later – 5.8 19.7 5.8 31.3 Balance at 31.12.2018 0.6 5.8 19.7 11.1 37.2 For detailed descriptions related to deferred taxes, refer to note 23. 78 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements Provisions for employee benefit obligation include the economical pension obligation (refer to note 14) as well as provisions for other long-term employee benefits. The discount rate used in the calculation for certain foreign pension plans is the most important parameter and any changes can strongly impact the valuation of the pension liability. In 2018, the range of the ­applied discount rate varies between 1.6% and 2.8% (previous year: 1.3%–2.5%), which corresponds to local market conditions. Other provisions comprise mainly obligations arising from asserted and unasserted claims or disputes in the normal course of Ascom’s business operations, provisions for warranties, obligations arising from cash-settled share-based payments and provisions for environmental costs relating to non-operating premises. 14. PENSION BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Employer contribution reserves (ECR) CHFm Result from ECR in Result from ECR in personnel expense interests expense Nominal Renounced Balance AccumuCTA Balance 2018 2017 2018 2017 value use sheet lation / 2018 sheet 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 (usage) 31.12.2017 2018 Pension plans 2.6 – 2.6 (0.8) – 3.4 – – – – Total 2.6 – 2.6 (0.8) – 3.4 – – – – Economical benefit/economical obligation and pension benefit expenses CHFm Economical part Pension benefit Pension benefit of the organization expenses within expenses within personnel interests expenses expenses (Surplus) / 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Change to CTA Contri­ 2018 2017 2018 2017 deficit prior-year 2018 butions 31.12.2018 period or concerning ­recognized in the the current business result of the period period Pension plans without – – n/a – – (9.8) 9.8 9.6 – – surplus/deficit Pension plans with deficit 1.3 1.3 2.3 (0.9) (0.1) (0.8) (0.3) (2.0) 0.2 0.1 Pension plans without own assets 16.8 16.8 17.3 0.7 (1.2) (0.2) 0.3 1.2 0.6 0.6 Total 18.1 18.1 19.6 (0.2) (1.3) (10.8) 9.8 8.8 0.8 0.7 15. CUSTOMER PREPAYMENTS AND DEFERRED REVENUE CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Customer prepayments 1 19.6 20.1 Deferred revenue 0.3 0.4 Total 19.9 20.5 1 This line item includes CHF 1.3 million (previous year: CHF 1.1 million) of customer prepayments arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79 16. ACCRUED LIABILITIES CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Personnel-related accruals 15.9 15.9 Accrued liabilities arising from long-term contracts (PoC) 1.0 – Other accrued expenses 7.6 8.2 Total 24.5 24.1 17. SHARE CAPITAL AND OWN SHARES Composition of share capital CHFm Number Amount Number Amount 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 Registered shares nom. CHF 0.50 36,000,000 18.0 36,000,000 18.0 Number of registered shareholders 4,234 4,247 The total authorized number of ordinary shares is 36,000,000 of which 35,961,890 are outstanding at 31 December 2018 (previous year: 35,955,453). Each outstanding share grants the owner one vote at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders. All shares issued by the company were fully paid in. Own shares CHFm Number 2018 Amount 2018 Average Number 2017 Amount 2017 Average transaction price transaction price Balance at 1.1. 44,547 0.5 10.66 98,075 1.0 10.66 Additions – – – – – – Disposals (6,437) (0.1) 10.66 (53,528) (0.5) 10.66 Balance at 31.12. 38,110 0.4 10.66 44,547 0.5 10.66 18. NET REVENUE Sale of goods comprises sale of hardware and software. Rendering of services comprises professional services delivered in connection with customer projects as well as after-sale support, repair and maintenance services. The table below provides additional information for long-term contracts applying the percentage-ofcompletion method: CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Contract revenue recognized in the reporting period 26.0 26.7 80 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19. PERSONNEL EXPENSES The following personnel expenses are included in cost of sales, marketing and sales, research and development as well as administration expenses: CHFm 2018 2017 Wages and salaries (102.6) (96.4) Social security and pension costs (26.5) (24.9) Other personnel expenses (7.8) (7.0) Total 1 (136.9) (128.3) 1 Own employees. 20. OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES CHFm 2018 2017 Amortization of intangible assets from acquisition 1 (1.6) (1.7) Total other operating expenses (1.6) (1.7) Other operating income – 0.1 Total other operating income – 0.1 1 This line item exclusively contains amortization of intangible assets initially capitalized due to a purchase price allocation at acquisition date. 21. FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES CHFm 2018 2017 Financial income Interest income 1.3 1.3 Total 1.3 1.3 Financial expenses Interest expenses (0.9) (0.8) Net foreign exchange losses (0.1) (1.1) Other financial expenses (0.3) (0.3) Total (1.3) (2.2) Financial income/(expenses), net – (0.9) 22. NON-OPERATING RESULT CHFm 2018 2017 Non-operating income 1.4 2.2 Non-operating expenses (1.8) (1.7) Total (0.4) 0.5 Non-operating income and expenses relate exclusively to non-core legacy real estate activities. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 81 23. INCOME TAX CHFm 2018 2017 Current income tax charge (6.8) (3.4) Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 0.8 – Deferred income tax 0.1 (3.9) Total income tax (5.9) (7.3) The following reconciliation explains the difference between the expected and the actual income tax charge: Analysis of income tax rate CHFm 2018 2017 Ordinary result 26.6 32.3 Weighted average expected income tax rate 24.9% 22.6% Non-operating and extraordinary result 0.7 0.9 Weighted average expected income tax rate 9.1% 21.8% Profit before income tax 27.3 33.2 Weighted average expected income tax rate 24.5% 22.6% Expected income tax (6.7) (7.5) Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 1.0 1.0 Effect from recognition of previous years’ tax losses 1.1 – Effect from first-time recognition of previous years’ temporary differences 0.1 1.7 Effect of non-recognized current-year tax losses (1.1) (0.3) Effect of change in applicable tax rate – (1.7) Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 0.8 – Effect of income/(expenses) taxed with a different rate or not taxed (1.1) – Effect of expiry/impairment of capitalized tax losses/tax credits – (0.5) Total income tax (5.9) (7.3) The total weighted average expected income tax rate of 24.5% (previous year: 22.6%) is calculated using the expected tax rates, based on earnings before income tax of the individual Group companies in each jurisdiction. These rates vary significantly and accordingly, changes in the relative contribution of individual Group companies to total Group earnings before income tax may impact the weighted average expected income tax rate. The deferred income tax assets and liabilities pertain to the following line items of the balance sheet: CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Intangible assets (2.4) (2.3) Inventories and work in progress 0.5 0.7 Tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits 2.8 1.9 Other assets and liabilites 0.9 1.2 Total 1.8 1.5 Recognized as deferred income tax assets 7.6 7.7 Recognized as deferred income tax liabilities (5.8) (6.2) 82 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements Tax losses amounting to CHF 1.7 million (previous year: CHF 2.3 million) are recognized for Group companies which incurred losses and where future tax benefits are expected and supported by increased future profitability and synergies as a result of restructuring. Tax loss carry-forwards which are not recognized amount to CHF 327.3 million (previous year: CHF 339.9 million) and expire in the following years: CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Within 12 months – – Between 1 and 5 years 61.5 0.1 Later 265.8 339.8 24. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the Group profit for the period attributable to ­owners of the parent by the time-weighted number of shares outstanding during the financial year. Own shares are not considered as outstanding shares. 2018 2017 Group profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (CHFm) 21.4 25.9 Weighted-average number of outstanding shares 35,959,356 35,943,735 Earnings per share from Group profit (CHF) 0.59 0.72 For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the weighted-average number of ordinary shares is adjusted by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares which would be issued on the conversion of all potential dilutive share options into ordinary shares. 2018 2017 Group profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (CHFm) 21.4 25.9 Weighted-average number of outstanding shares 35,959,356 35,943,735 Adjustment for the dilutive number of outstanding share options 17,664 59,208 Weighted-average number of diluted shares 35,977,020 36,002,943 Diluted earnings per share from Group profit (CHF) 0.59 0.72 25. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Ascom Share Matching Plans 2016, 2017 and 2018 In 2013, the Board of Directors decided to introduce a share matching plan for Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive instead of options plans. The following table shows the development of outstanding investment shares: Number of Number of Number of investment investment investment shares shares shares 2018 2017 2016 Investment shares outstanding at 1.1. 82,147 108,555 154,572 Granted 24,057 32,956 42,630 Exercised (21,777) (49,354) (87,247) Forfeited (500) (10,010) (1,400) Investment shares outstanding at 31.12. 83,927 82,147 108,555 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 83 2018 2017 2016 Resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 28.08. 21.08. 19.08 Number of Ascom senior management members who decided to participate 15 19 19 Vesting period (years) 2.79 2.76 2.78 Remaining contractual life of the matching shares outstanding at 31.12. (years) 1 1.44 1.72 1.65 Fair value of the matching shares granted during the year (CHF) 1 17.85 18.03 16.12 Personnel expenses for equity-settled matching shares recognized as other reserves (equity) (CHFm) (0.2) (0.1) (0.4) 1 At weighted average. 26. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES A legally independent fund provides for Swiss pensions (see note 2.18). In 2018 and 2017, no lease payments were disbursed to the Swiss pension fund for premises occupied by the Group and no administrative and facility management services (previous year: nil) were charged to the Swiss pension fund in the year under review. The Swiss pension fund did not own any Ascom shares in 2018 (previous year: nil). In 2018, there was no other transaction with related parties (previous year: nil). 27. RISK MANAGEMENT As an international company, Ascom is exposed to a variety of financial and nonfinancial risks that are directly associated with the Group’s business operations. The Group’s overall risk management is an integral part of corporate management and the long-term corporate strategy, and is correspondingly incorporated in the overall risk and control framework of our business processes and procedures. The Board of Directors of Ascom reviews the Group-wide risk assessment annually and determines suitable measures to address the risks. Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury and is ensured by the rele­vant written principles and guidelines laid down by management and approved by the Board of Directors. The Group’s financial risk capacity and appetite for the various financial risk factors are defined in the treasury strategy. The treasury strategy specifies the limit architecture and thereby defines the extent to which risk exposures will be hedged, and the instruments and time frame for implementation. The treasury strategy is reviewed annually and revised, as appropriate, by the Audit Committee. Transactions without underlying core business and all forms of speculation are prohibited with rare exceptions approved by the Group CFO and by the Audit Committee where required by local circumstances. Risk management also involves centrally securing comprehensive and efficient insurance protection for the Group. 27.1 Liquidity risk The objective of liquidity risk management is to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available at any point in time in order to be able to completely and timely fulfill all payment obligations of the Group and to secure working capital financing in the ordinary course of business. As part of its integral budgeting and forecasting process, Group Treasury monitors the planned liquidity position and centrally manages the procurement of loans for the Group. A description of available credit facilities and outstanding borrowings can be found in note 11. 84 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.2 Foreign currency risk Due to the global nature of its activities, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange gains or losses arise from transactions as well as from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (mainly EUR, USD, SEK and GBP) if these are not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing Group-wide foreign exchange transaction risk on an ongoing basis. Analyses of past and expected future cash flows in foreign currencies are regularly carried out which is the basis for hedging transactions. Respective forward contracts are stated at fair value. All hedging activities are carried out centrally by Group Treasury. The Group periodically reassesses its net foreign currency risk, evaluating the extent of natural foreign currency hedging achieved through ongoing development of Ascom’s businesses. ­Accordingly, Group Treasury may propose to adapt the Group’s hedging approach. The Group has certain investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. These types of translation risk are currently not hedged. The currency-related sensitivity of the Group at year-end is shown in the following table: CHFm Reasonable Impact Impact Reasonable Impact Impact shift on net result on equity shift on net result on equity 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 EUR/CHF +/− 15% −/+ 3.8 −/+ 9.8 +/− 15% −/+ 3.3 −/+ 8.9 USD/CHF +/− 15% +/− 1.3 +/− 0.5 +/− 15% +/− 2.3 +/− 3.1 SEK/CHF +/− 15% −/+ 0.3 +/− 8.3 +/− 15% −/+ 0.2 +/− 8.7 GBP/CHF +/− 15% +/− 0.0 +/− 0.1 +/− 15% +/− 0.0 −/+ 0.1 EUR/SEK +/− 15% +/− 0.0 +/− 0.0 +/− 15% +/− 0.1 +/− 0.1 USD/SEK +/− 15% +/− 0.1 +/− 0.1 +/− 15% +/− 0.1 +/− 0.1 27.3 Interest rate risk Every interest position is subject to either a cash flow interest risk (associated with floating ­rate positions) or a market value risk (from fixed-interest positions). The revolving multi-currency loan ­facility of the Group (see note 11) is the main interest rate risk position in the balance sheet of Ascom. This risk is currently offset with cash surpluses. Accordingly, interest rate risk is currently not hedged. Financing and related interest are managed centrally by Group Treasury. 27.4 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. Credit risk may result in a financial loss if one party in a transaction is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations. It is Ascom’s objective to limit the impact of a default. Credit risk of financial counterparties is managed centrally by Group Treasury. Each Group company is responsible for analyzing the credit risk for each of their new customers and managing the quality of their trade receivables on an ongoing basis. 27.5 Capital risk The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for the shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimally leveraged capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. Ascom aims to maintain a stable investment grade rating level as perceived by bank partners and debt investors. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85 For its capital management, the Group monitors the following ratios: CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Net debt/(cash) including outstanding bank guarantees 1 3.4 (8.2) EBITDA 39.0 43.6 Debt service ratio 0.1 (0.2) Total assets 218.4 229.6 Shareholders’ equity 83.2 83.1 Equity ratio 38.1% 36.2% 1 Borrowings and outstanding bank guarantees less cash and cash equivalents. 28. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Foreign currencies are purchased and forward contracts are entered into at Group level as an economic hedge against foreign currency risk. The open contracts comprise the following forward contracts in various currencies: CHFm 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Contract volume 34.1 31.2 Positive fair value 1 0.5 0.7 Negative fair value 2 0.4 0.8 1 Refer to note 5. 2 Refer to note 12. Breakdown by currency (CHFm) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 EUR/CHF 16.6 13.3 SEK/CHF 17.5 17.9 Total 34.1 31.2 86 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a) Lease commitments – Group as lessee The future minimum payments under non-cancellable lease obligations fall due as follows: CHFm Operating leases 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Within 12 months 5.6 5.9 Between 1 and 5 years 8.2 9.4 Later – 0.3 Total 13.8 15.6 b) Lease commitments – Group as lessor The future minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: CHFm Operating leases 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Within 12 months 0.9 1.2 Between 1 and 5 years 0.4 0.7 Later – – Total 1.3 1.9 c) Contingencies Ascom is exposed to a multitude of legal risks internationally in the normal course of business. These relate particularly to risks associated with product liability, patent law, tax law, competition law and executed business acquisitions and disposal. The Company has indemnified certain purchasers of divested businesses for potential claims arising from the operations of the divested businesses. There are currently no ongoing proceedings in relation to such indemnification. Some Group companies are involved in legal proceedings. The results of currently pending and threatened law suits cannot be predicted with certainty which means that decisions of courts or other authorities can cause expenses that have significant consequences for the business and on future results. Wherever a reliable estimate of the financial consequences of a past event is possible and an outflow of resources is more likely than not, a corresponding provision is made. At 31 December 2018, contingent liabilities amount to CHF 4.0 million (previous year: CHF 3.2 million). There is no indication that these liabilities will lead to fulfillment payments. 30. PLEDGED ASSETS At 31 December 2018, property, plant and equipment with a total carrying amount of CHF 2.2 million (previous year: CHF 2.4 million), and cash and cash equivalents with a total carrying amount of CHF 0.2 million (previous year: CHF 0.2 million) were pledged. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 87 31. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Since the balance sheet date, no other subsequent adjusting events have occurred that impact the 2018 consolidated financial statements. 32. PROPOSAL OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2018, the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2019 a dividend of CHF 0.45 per share entitled to dividends. This represents a total distribution up to CHF 16.2 million. In 2018, a total dividend of CHF 16.2 million was distributed to the shareholders of Ascom Holding AG. 33. TIME OF RELEASE FOR PUBLICATION The Board of Directors approved the 2018 consolidated financial statements on 26 February 2019 and authorized them for publication at the media conference on 7 March 2019. 88 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 34. CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Country Company Registered office Business Share capital Parent company Group’s activities interest Australia GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. Chippendale ● AUD 3 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Alexandria NSW ■ AUD 3,000,000 GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. 100% Belgium Ascom (Belgium) NV Zaventem ■ EUR 1,424,181 Ascom Holding AG 100% Denmark Ascom Danmark A/S Glostrup ■ DKK 1,200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Finland Ascom Oy Turku ■ EUR 33,638 Ascom Holding AG 100% France Ascom (France) SA Suresnes ■ EUR 2,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Germany Ascom Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt a.M. ■ EUR 2,137,200 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 100% Technologiepark Teningen GmbH Emmendingen ☐ EUR 6,136,000 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 94% Ascom Solutions Ltd. 6% Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH Frankfurt a.M. ● EUR 5,113,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Italy Ascom UMS S.r.l. Scandicci ■ EUR 100,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Malaysia Ascom (Malaysia) SDN BHD Petaling Jaya ■ MYR 1,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Netherlands Ascom (Nederland) BV Utrecht ■ EUR 1,361,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Norway Ascom (Norway) A/S Oslo ■ NOK 1,250,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Romania Ascom Mobile Solutions Romania S.R.L. Cluj-Napoca ★ RON 45,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Singapore Ascom Solutions (Singapore) Pte Ltd Singapore ■ SGD 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Sweden Ascom (Sweden) AB Gothenburg ■★ SEK 96,154,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Switzerland Ascom Holding AG Baar ● CHF 18,000,000 n/a 100% Ascom Management Ltd. 1 Baar ● CHF 200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Mocsa AG in Liquidation Berne _ CHF 100,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Solutions Ltd. Mägenwil ■ CHF 10,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% United Ascom (UK) Ltd. Lichfield ■ GBP 50,000 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% Kingdom USA Ascom (US) Inc. Morrisville NC ■★ USD 1 Ascom Solutions Ltd. 100% 1 Ascom Management Ltd. was merged into Ascom Holding AG in January 2017. The following describe the various types of entities within the Group: ● Holding/Finance: This entity is a holding company and/or performs finance functions and provides management services. ■ Sales: This entity performs sales, installation, maintenance and marketing activities. ★ Research and Development: This entity performs research and development activities. ☐ Real estate: This entity performs real estate activities. – Other: This entity is dormant or in liquidation. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89 Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG Baar Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Ascom Holding AG and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 and the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements (pages 60 to 89) give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER and comply with Swiss law. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: CHF 1'365'000 We concluded full scope audit work at 5 reporting units in 5 countries. Our audit scope addressed 61% of the Group's revenue. In addition, specified procedures were performed on a further 2 reporting units in 2 countries representing a further 14% of the Group's revenue. As key audit matter the following area of focus has been identified: Sales and Revenue recognition (multi-element contracts) PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zürich, Switzerland Telefon: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 90 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. Overall Group materiality CHF 1’365’000 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax Rationale for the materiality We chose profit before tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it benchmark applied is the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured, and it is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 136'000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. The Group is structured as a “one company” functional organization. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 20 reporting units. We identified 5 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information. To obtain appropriate coverage over all material financial statement line items, we identified 2 additional reporting units that, in our view, required specified audit procedures over significant balances and transactions including revenue. For the remaining reporting units, we performed other procedures to test or assess that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in these reporting units in relation to the Group financial statements. To ensure sufficient and appropriate involvement of the Group team, we held conference calls with selected component teams responsible for full scope audits during the different phases of the audit. We discussed the risks identified and challenged the audit approach in significant risk areas relevant to those reporting units. Furthermore, we obtained a memorandum of examination from all full scope component teams and assessed the results and impact on the Group financial statements and challenged their conclusions. Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements 91 Sales and Revenue recognition (multi-element contracts) Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter As described in note 2.6 “Revenue recognition” We obtained an understanding of the processes the consolidated financial statements include revand internal controls around revenue recognition enues from multi-element contracts including the for multi-element contracts and tested key consale of goods and the rendering of services. Those trols in place to assess the appropriate application revenues are allocated to the separable compoof the Group accounting policies. nents based on the relative fair value of the separable components. Service revenues are then accrued over the service period outlined in the conWe challenged management’s assessments around tract. We focused on this area due to the size of multi-element contracts and the allocation of revrevenues earned from multi-element contracts, enues of goods and services, particularly where and the fact that contract accounting involves asjudgement is involved. sessing and allocating the separable components based on the underlying terms of an individual We assessed whether management’s policies and contract. processes for making these estimates continue to be appropriate and are applied consistently to contracts of a similar nature. Furthermore, we As part of our work, we focused on management’s performed a comparison of this year’s data with processes in applying the methodology. the previous year’s data. Risks mainly include: We selected a sample of contracts (or revenue transactions) to test the appropriateness of the • Improper allocation of service revenues separation of revenues from the sale of goods and and revenues from components. revenues from the rendering of services and to assess whether the revenues for service contracts for • Incorrect recognition of revenues of sermulti-element contracts were recorded in the corvice components (cut-off and matching of rect period. revenues and efforts). The combination of the procedures carried out above gave us sufficient evidence to address the risk identified around revenue recognition for multi-element contracts, and there were no significant findings as a result of our work. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER and the provisions of Swiss law, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a 92 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements is located at the website of EXPERTsuisse: http://expertsuisse.ch/en/audit-report-for-public-companies. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Daniel Wyss Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 26 February 2019 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements 93 Summary of key financial data CHFm 2018 2017 2016 6 2015 6 2014 6 Incoming orders 329.6 324.8 360.4 412.5 450.4 Order backlog 1 149.6 143.3 121.8 135.2 150.4 Net revenue 318.5 309.7 354.3 410.8 437.7 EBITDA 39.0 43.6 16.9 43.8 64.8 EBITDA in % of net revenue 12.2 14.1 4.8 10.7 14.8 Earnings before interest and income tax (EBIT) 26.6 33.2 1.3 27.3 47.6 EBIT in % of net revenue 8.4 10.7 0.4 6.6 10.9 Personnel expenses (136.9) (128.3) (172.5) (178.9) (183.1) Depreciation, amortization and impairment 5 (12.4) (10.4) (15.6) (16.5) (17.2) Group profit/(loss) for the period 21.4 25.9 (145.7) 24.3 37.5 Net cash flow from operating activities 20.0 16.2 6.0 33.3 46.5 Capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment 2.8 2.5 4.1 4.2 4.4 Capital expenditures on intangible assets 8.6 7.8 18.3 9.0 9.2 Research and development expenditures 2 (33.2) (29.7) (42.9) (43.7) (46.4) Balance sheet total 1 218.4 229.6 225.1 286.4 313.4 Shareholders’ equity 1 83.2 83.1 80.9 116.7 107.9 Shareholders’ equity in % of balance sheet total 1 38.1 36.2 35.9 40.7 34.4 Net cash or (net debt) 1, 3 1.2 12.3 24.1 37.3 27.1 Gearing in % 4 24.0 21.7 12.6 17.2 21.4 Dividends paid/distribution of share premium 16.2 28.8 16.1 15.8 14.0 Number of employees (FTE) 1 1,246 1,223 1,188 1,658 1,696 1 At 31 December. 2 Research and development costs excluding depreciations, amortization, impairment and capitalized costs. 3 Cash and cash equivalents less borrowings. 4 Borrowings/shareholders’ equity. 5 Excludes depreciation, amortization and impairment from non-operating result. 6 Incuding the former Network Testing Division which was divested as of 30 September 2016. 94 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Group Summary of key financial data Balance sheet Assets CHF 1,000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Cash and cash equivalents 795 7,196 Other current receivables Group companies 3,038 5,595 Third parties 324 26 Prepaid expenses 133 86 Total current assets 4,290 12,903 Financial assets Group companies 14,163 19,830 Third parties 13,439 12,211 Investments in Group companies 424,693 424,693 Total non-current assets 452,295 456,734 Total assets 456,585 469,637 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity CHF 1,000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Other current liabilities Group companies 189 14 Third parties 519 391 Accrued expenses 3,424 1,532 Total current liabilities 4,132 1,937 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Group companies 50,847 46,552 Third parties 20,000 18,000 Non-current provisions 3,714 4,298 Total non-current liabilities 74,561 68,850 Share capital 18,000 18,000 Legal reserve from capital contribution 1,123 1,123 Other legal reserve 5,400 5,400 Retained earnings available for distribution at the end of the year Retained earnings 358,622 367,584 Profit/(loss) of the period (4,847) 7,218 Treasury shares held by Ascom Holding AG (406) (475) Total shareholders’ equity 377,892 398,850 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 456,585 469,637 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Balance sheet 95 Income statement CHF 1,000 2018 2017 Other income 7,699 16,568 Total ordinary income 7,699 16,568 Administration expenses (11,263) (9,401) Value adjustments on loans (1,670) – Total operating income (5,234) 7,167 Financial expenses (1,159) (1,712) Financial income 1,551 1,743 Profit/(loss) before tax (4,842) 7,198 Income taxes (5) 20 Profit/(loss) for the period (4,847) 7,218 96 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Income statement Notes to the annual financial statements 1. General Ascom Holding AG, Baar, which is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in Zurich (Switzerland), is the holding company of the Ascom Group. The financial statements comply with the requirements of the Swiss accounting legislation of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO). Ascom Holding AG is presenting consolidated financial statements according to Swiss GAAP FER. As a result, these financial statements and notes do not include additional disclosures and cash flow statement. 2. Accounting policies Non-current assets, namely investments and financial assets, are recognized at cost less ne­cessary value adjustments. Currency differences resulting from the revaluation of loans in foreign currencies are charged to the income statement. Provisions are recorded for unrealized net currency gains. The valuation of investments in Group companies is performed according a group assessment as opposed to at individual Group company level. Current assets are valued at nominal value less necessary value adjustments. Liabilities are valued at nominal value. Effects from foreign currencies are charged to the income statement. Provisions are made to cover general business risks of the Group. Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging purposes. These instruments are valued at fair value. Treasury shares are initially recognized at cost, deducted from equity and are valued at historical acquisition value without subsequent valuation adjustment. Gains or losses related the disposal of treasury shares are recorded in the income statement. Investment income consists mainly of dividend paid by Group companies and is recognized on approval’s date of the Annual General Meeting. 3. Contingent liabilities Outstanding parent guarantees in respect of third parties total CHF 25.6 million (previous year: CHF 26.0 million). 4. Investments Direct and indirect investments are listed in note 34 of the consolidated financial statements. 5. Pledged assets At 31 December 2018, no directly held assets are pledged (previous year: nil). 6. Foreign currencies The exchange rates used for balance sheet items are the rates prevailing on 31 December; the exchange rates used for transactions conducted during the course of the year and for items in the profit and loss statement are closing rates of the previous corresponding month. 7. Number of full-time equivalents The number of full-time equivalents exceeded 10, but did not exceed 250 on an annual average basis. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Notes to the annual financial statements 97 8. Treasury shares Treasury shares held by Ascom Holding AG (Swiss Code of Obligations Art. 659) have developed as follows: CHFm Number 2018 Amount 2018 Average Number 2017 Amount 2017 Average transaction price transaction price Balance at 1.1. 44,547 0.5 10.66 98,075 1.0 10.66 Additions – – – – – – Disposals (6,437) (0.1) 10.66 (53,528) (0.5) 10.66 Balance at 31.12. 38,110 0.4 10.66 44,547 0.5 10.66 9. Significant shareholders The following significant shareholder (holding 5% or more of voting rights, as defined by Art. 663c of the Swiss Code of Obligations) was recorded in the share register at ­31 December 2018: ■■ Veraison SICAV, Zurich, Switzerland (8.32%). ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel, Switzerland (6.31%). This does not cover shares, which are not registered in the share register (dispo shares). Dispo shares amounted to 32.85% as of 31 December 2018 (previous year: 39.12%). In accordance with the disclosure announcements made, the following parties are regarded as significant shareholders as defined by Art. 663c of the Swiss Code of Obligations: Announcement Shareholder % of voting rights held date in Ascom securities 04.03.2016 Veraison SICAV, Zurich 5.0176% 24.09.2016 BlackRock Inc., New York, USA 2.69% 24.01.2017 UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel, Switzerland 5.13% 24.05.2017 Schroders plc, London, UK 4.962% 17.01.2018 Kempen Capital Management N.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands 3.05% 23.08.2018 Pictet Asset Management SA, Geneva, Switzerland 3.02% 09.11.2018 Credit Suisse Funds AG, Zurich, Switzerland 3.02% 04.01.2019 Norges Bank, Oslo, Norway 3.01% There are no known shareholders’ agreements. Additional details are disclosed in the first chapter of the Corporate Governance Report (refer to page 22). 98 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Notes to the annual financial statements 10. Participations Number of participations which were held by members of the Board of Directors Shares 1 2018 2017 Andreas Umbach, Chairman 48,750 41,750 Christina Stercken 4,000 1,000 Dr Harald Deutsch 2,000 2,000 Jürg Fedier 4,400 n/a Total Board of Directors 59,150 44,750 1 Acquired by the Board members from the market. Number of participations which were held by members of the Executive Board Shares 1 Shares 1 2018 2017 Holger Cordes, CEO 46,900 35,700 Anette Weber, CFO 8,600 5,200 Francis Schmeer, Chief Sales & Marketing Officer 1,958 1,050 Total Executive Board 57,458 41,950 1 Acquired by the members of the Executive Board from the market. No members of the Executive Board and no members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties hold any conversion or option rights. Additional details are disclosed in section III of the Remuneration Report (refer to pages 54 to 55). Shares or options on shares for members of the Board of Directors and employees In 2018, no options on shares were allocated to members of the Board of Directors or to employees (previous year: nil). The following information relates to the allocation of shares): Quantity Value Quantity Value CHF 1,000 Shares 2018 Shares 2017 Allocated to members of the Board – – – – Allocated to employees 2,215 42 8,733 168 Total 2,215 42 8,733 168 11. Events after the balance sheet date Since the balance sheet date, no subsequent adjusting events have occurred that impact the 2018 financial statements. 12. Time of release for publication The Board of Directors approved the 2018 statutory financial statements on 26 February 2019 and authorized them for publication at the media conference on 7 March 2019. ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Notes to the annual financial statements 99 Comments on the financial statements Assets Investments include shares in Group companies amounting to CHF 424.7 million (previous year: CHF 424.7 million). In the year under review, the loans to Group companies are mainly denominated in CHF and DKK. Financial assets from third parties comprise mainly the subordinated vendor loan amounting to CHF 13.4 million at actual value (having a nominal value of USD 15 million, a 7-year maturity and a stated interest rate of 4% p.a.) granted in connection with the disposal of the Network Testing Division. Other current receivables from Group companies consist mainly of short-term receivables denominated in CHF, EUR, USD and SEK. Liabilities and equity In the year under review, total loans from Group companies increased by CHF 4.3 million. Bank loans comprise amounts drawn under available revolving multicurrency loan facilities in an aggregate amount of CHF 35.0 mil­lion denominated in CHF. The final maturity date of the loan facilities is 24 May 2020. Accrued expenses are mainly related to net unrealized foreign exchange gains. Income statement Other income comprises trademark and management fees charged to Group companies of CHF 7.7 million ­(previous year: CHF 16.6 million). Administration expenses include mainly personnel-related costs in amount of CHF 7.0 million (previous year: CHF 7.2 million) and external consulting services. Financial expenses consist mainly of interest of CHF 0.2 million paid to banks and Group companies (previous year: CHF 0.2 million), as well as bank charges of CHF 0.1 million (previous year: CHF 0.2 million) and foreign exchange losses on Group loans and other current receivables of CHF 0.9 million (previous year: CHF 1.3 million). Financial income consists mainly of interest income from loans to Group companies of CHF 0.4 million (previous years: CHF 0.4 million) and from the subordinated vendor loan of CHF 1.1 million (previous year: CHF 1.1 million). Profit for the period In 2018, Ascom Holding AG records a net loss of CHF 4.8 million (previous year: net profit of CHF 7.2 million), while Ascom Group records a consolidated net profit of CHF 21.4 million (previous year: consolidated net profit of CHF 25.9 million). 100 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Comments on the financial statements Proposal for the appropriation of retained earnings 2018 CHF 2018 Retained earnings from previous year 374,801,961 Distribution of dividends (16,179,508) Result for the period (4,847,306) Retained earnings at 31.12.2018 353,775,147 Distribution of CHF 0.45 per share entitled to dividends (16,200,000) Balance to be carried forward 337,575,147 Proposal for the appropriation of reserves from capital contribution 2018 CHF 2018 Distributable reserves from capital contribution from previous year 1,123,243 Distribution of reserves from capital contribution – Distributable reserves from capital contribution at 31.12.2018 1,123,243 Balance to be carried forward 1,123,243 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Proposal for the appropriation of retained earnings & reserves from capital contribution 2018 101 Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG Baar Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Ascom Holding AG, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, income statement and notes for the year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements (pages 95 to 101) as at 31 December 2018 comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the entity in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: CHF 1’880’000 We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the entity, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the entity operates. As key audit matter the following area of focus has been identified: Valuation of investments in Group companies Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Birchstrasse 160, Postfach, CH-8050 Zürich, Switzerland Telefon: +41 58 792 44 00, Telefax: +41 58 792 44 10, www.pwc.ch PricewaterhouseCoopers AG is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 102 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Report of the statutory auditor on the financial statements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole. Overall materiality CHF 1'880'000 How we determined it 0.5% of net assets Rationale for the materiality We chose net assets as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark applied benchmark against which the performance of the entity is most commonly measured, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 188'000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgements were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Valuation of investments in Group companies Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter As at 31 December 2018, investments in Group We performed the following audit procedures: companies of Ascom Holding AG amounted to CHF 425m. These are directly held investments, which may hold other subsidiaries of the group. • We assessed the appropriateness of the grouping of the investments as one segment based on their level of vertical inteDue to the strong vertical integration of Ascom's gration. We did this by critically reviewing business, the valuation of investments in Group the different elements of Management’s ascompanies is performed according a group assessment and validating them with evisessment as opposed to individual Group compadence and our understanding of the econy level. This accounting policy is referenced in nomic links amongst the Ascom Group note 2. Accounting Policies. companies. 3 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Report of the statutory auditor on the financial statements 103 We consider the impairment assessment, in par• We then verified the valuation of the group ticularly the single grouping as a key audit matter, of investments based on a discounted cashdue to the significance of the investments position flow model performed by management. on the balance sheet of Ascom Holding AG and beDue to the headroom the results from cause of the level of judgement involved in conmodel were not sensitive to any changes in cluding on the single grouping for valuation purassumptions and hence our work was limposes. ited. Additional comfort was provided by the market capitalisation of the Group. On the basis of the audit procedures above, we have gained sufficient evidence to address the risk of material misstatements in valuation of investments in subsidiaries. We have no findings to report. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at the website of EXPERTsuisse: http://expertsuisse.ch/en/audit-report-for-public-companies. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. 4 104 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Report of the statutory auditor on the financial statements PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Daniel Wyss Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 26 February 2019 5 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Report of the statutory auditor on the financial statements 105 Key financial data on the share capital CHF 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Dividend/distribution per share Registered shares CHF 0.50 0.45 0.80 0.45 0.45 0.40 Equity per share 1, 2 Registered shares CHF 0.50 2.31 2.31 2.25 3.24 2.96 Earnings per share 1, 2 Registered shares CHF 0.50 0.60 0.72 (4.07) 0.69 1.07 Share price (high/low of the period under review) Registered shares CHF 0.50 25.70/12.42 25.40/15.45 18.30/14.36 20.75/12.80 18.29/11.85 Taxable values 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 13.58 25.20 16.00 15.90 15.25 Number of shares 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 Of which own shares 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 38,110 44,547 98,075 220,894 890,894 1 At 31 December. 2 Based on the consolidated financial statements. 106 ASCOM Financial statements 2018 ASCOM Holding AG Key financial data on the share capital Dates and contacts Important dates Contact address 10 April 2019 Ascom Group Communications & IR Annual General Meeting Ascom Holding AG Theater Casino, Zug Daniel Lack Senior VP Legal & Communications/IR 14 August 2019 Zugerstrasse 32 | CH-6340 Baar 2019 Half-Year Results Conference +41 41 544 78 00 | Fax +41 41 761 97 25 Restaurant Metropol, Zurich info@ascom.com | investor@ascom.com Worldwide contacts Australia/New Zealand, Sydney Germany, Frankfurt a. M. Sweden, Gothenburg Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Ascom Deutschland GmbH Ascom (Sweden) AB au-sales@ascom.com info.ws-de@ascom.com info.se@ascom.com Austria, Vienna Italy, Florence Switzerland, Baar Ascom Deutschland GmbH Ascom UMS S.r.l. Ascom Holding AG Branch Austria it.info@ascom.com investor@ascom.com info-at@ascom.com Malaysia, Ampang Switzerland, Mägenwil Belgium, Bruxelles Ascom (Malaysia) SDN BHD Ascom Solutions AG Ascom (Belgium) NV sales-my@ascom.com info.ws-de@ascom.com info.be@ascom.com Netherlands, Utrecht United Arab Emirates, Dubai Denmark, Glostrup Ascom (Nederland) BV Ascom Solutions AG Ascom Danmark A/S info.nl@ascom.com Branch Dubai info.dk@ascom.com info.mea@ascom.com Norway, Oslo Finland, Turku Ascom (Norway) A/S United Kingdom, Birmingham Ascom Oy firmapost@ascom.com Ascom (UK) Ltd. myynti@ascom.com uksales@ascom.com Romania, Cluj-Napoca France, Nanterre Ascom Mobile Solutions Romania S.R.L. USA, Morrisville NC Ascom (France) SA info.ro@ascom.com Ascom (US) Inc. fr-info@ascom.com info.us@ascom.com ASCOM Financial statements 2018 Dates and contacts 107 Declaration of forward-looking statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements relating to Ascom. Because these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, the reader is cautioned that actual future results may differ from those expressed in or implied by the statements, which constitute projections of possible developments. All forward-looking statements are based only on data available to Ascom at the time of preparing the Annual Report. The complete 2018 Annual Report of the Ascom Group is available in English only and can be viewed online at: https://www.ascom.com/Investor-Relations/Financialinformation/Reports-and-presentations.html Publishing details Publisher Ascom Holding AG, Baar Financial Statements Ascom Group Finance, Baar Editorial Tolxdorff Eicher, Horgen Translation Lionbridge Switzerland AG, Zurich Photos Severin Jakob, Zurich, Cover iStock, monkeybusinessimages, Page 11 Erasmus MC Concept, Design & Realization Linkgroup AG, Zurich © Ascom Holding AG 2019 WWW.ASCOM.COM
