Report of the Board of Directors Perstorp Annual Report 2018 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Table of contents President’s comments................................................................ 4-5 Risk management........................................................................6-7 Corporate governance report.................................................. 8-9 Sustainability Report.............................................................. 10-13 Board of directors................................................................... 14-15 Executive leadership team.................................................... 16-17 Year in review........................................................................... 18-19 Other..........................................................................................20-21 Net sales and earnings.................................................................22 Financial position..........................................................................23 The Parent Company year-end accounts.................................27 Notes................................................................................................30 Proposed treatment of unappropriated earnings.................54 Auditor’s report.......................................................................56-59 2 A N N UA L R E P O R T It is that magic formula of performance and caring embraced by strong leadership that will secure profitable growth. Jan Secher President and CEO P ER S TO R P H O L D I N G A B (P U B L .), CO R P O R AT E R EG . N O . 55 6 6 674 20 5 PA R EN T CO M PA N Y F O R P ER S TO R P 3 P E R S T O R P 2 018 President´s comments A year in review The portfolio has been revisited after the sale of BioProducts and Capa™ and we will continue to optimize our portfolio of cash contributors We leave 2018 with the momentum of a very busy year. During 2018, as well as attractive growth businesses, and have reorganized our we have re-positioned our portfolio after having sold the BioProduct structure to compliment this focus. Proceeds have been used to business and the Capa™ business. These transforming actions allowed deleverage the balance sheet, and allowed for continued investments us to significantly strengthen our balance sheet and leverage our in strategic niches. position, which will enables us to focus on driving future growth from our three platforms; Polyols, Oxo and Animal Nutrition. A substantial part of Perstorp’s R&D spend is used to find sustainable solutions. For example, we are exploring innovative ways to produce 2018 was also a year, when we saw a change in ownership. In or source renewable raw materials to expand our Pro-environment September, Perstorp Holding AB was transferred to a new investment Solutions and we are looking for equally innovative ways to give our fund with our current owners, PAI Partners, backed by a new investor products additional sustainability properties. Landmark Partners and other co-investors. As a part of the deal, the new investors have agreed to commit EUR 130 million to Perstorp for M&A After having implemented a new capital structure, we now have and CAPEX activities to further advance the company’s growth strategy. greater flexibility to pursue new investments. However, our core strategy is to continue to grow organically – having invested on average At the start of 2019 we introduced a new transformational program; approximately SEK 300m in capacity expansion per annum during the Level Up. After the last years’ development of functional excellence, a last years– and through bolt-on acquisitions in strategic niches. Our new operational model and a new organization were launched with strategy will support volume and margin growth, backed by global the main objective to better address customer demands for supply, macro trends, through strategic positioning in prioritized market reliability and focused innovation. Together we have created a more lean segments. and efficient company, with the aim of being even better at serving our customers’ needs. With this as our springboard, our strategy remains and we have clearly defined drivers for our growth going forward. Focused Innovation Focused innovation is one of our core values and last year we saw a Short after the transformational program was launched, Perstorp number of exciting results from our innovation capabilities. I would entered into a new financing agreement . The new capital structure especially like to mention the following initiatives: will strengthen our balance sheet and further enhance our ability to generate free cash flow, fully in line with our strategic objectives. In PE VALEN™ addition, we obtained an improved credit rating from both Moody’s As phthalate-based plasticizers are stepwise being phased out globally, (B2) and Standard & Poor (B). there is growing demand for phthalate-free plasticizers; 2018 resulted in a mixed performance for our business, due to a general • The trend around legislation for plasticizers is clear and consistent weakening of demand as well as internal factors. The scheduled maintenance turnaround at the Stenungsund site, together with some • China, being the world’s largest PVC/plasticizer market has started production disturbances in Q3 and Q4 impacted the financial result phasing out specific phthalate-based plasticizers negatively. On the other hand we experienced positive exchange • The total market for phthalate-free plasticizers is growing fast rate effect as a result of the weak Swedish krona. Despite the mixed performance, the year ended with a record high EBITDA, amounting to Perstorp’s general purpose phthalate-free plasticizer Pevalen™ has with SEK 2,324* m. its unique chemistry shown to have many technical properties that are better than the existing plasticizers, giving important advantages to customers. Strategic direction We use our global expertise in chemistry and engineering to transform In 2018, Innovation has worked further with the formulation of the basic materials into high value products that give our customers a product and can now recommend the different customer application competitive edge. We often innovate hand-in-hand with our customers areas the right stabilizers and additives when formulating with Pevalen™. to make better solutions, helping them improve competitiveness, create Additionally, foamed applications, like flooring and artificial leather value and drive differentiation from their peers. Our chemicals improve were accelerated to deliver result, a Food Contact application was filed performance and can help to reduce environmental impact. Perstorp’s (FCN) and the number of new customer qualifications met the target. leading market positions drive growth and margin, backed by an almost 140-year track record and an experienced international leadership team. New Penta technology The growing demand of Penta and Di-Penta requires support by the best available technology for future investments. Particularly we aim for improved flexibility and the possibility to extract more of the high value Di-Penta in our existing and future production facilities. Important achievements in 2018 were the new synthesis developed to enable high Di-Penta yields and an increased knowledge about coproduct formation and synthesis control targeting a more optimized production. * Consolidated Group 4 A N N UA L R E P O R T Sustainability Other corporate initiatives In 2017 we set the tough ambition to become Finite Material Neutral. It After extensive work by a cross-functional Digital Transformation is an ambition that will stretch us as a company, but we are convinced Team, Perstorp now has an envisioned digital future, with a roadmap that we will get there. This decision will of course over time have an developed for how digital transformation can enable us to work smarter impact on the way we do business and make choices within our value and use our existing systems and processes more efficiently. During the chains, which is also when what we do starts to have a real impact. year, we identified our first couple of concrete ideas and projects within This ambition means a lot more than operating our business in a Operations and Supply Chain, where we will run proof of concepts and resource-efficient way. Significant global challenges lie ahead of us with pilot projects in 2019. We also started the implementation of a new continued high expectations on the chemical industry as being part of CRM system (salesforce.com) which will enable us to work in new ways, the solution. Becoming Final Material Neutral to us means among other both internally as well as with our customers. things to switch from fossil resources to renewable, recycled or reused, supporting a circular economy. This shift will not happen overnight and Since 2017, we are an Associated Member of Combient – a joint venture we are humble about our ambition. between large Swedish and Finnish companies in traditional industries – where the key question is how to secure competitiveness by being As an important outcome of our sustainability work, in 2018 we started at the forefront of digitization. During the year, Combient has had to sell the world’s first portfolio of Polyols with renewable content, Proan advisory role in several of our internal digitalization projects, and environment Polyols, built on the mass balance principle and certified Perstorp has participated in their various networks. by ISCC. The products have been well received by customers who want to build renewable value chains and as icing on the cake Perstorp Continuous Profitable Growth is our headline moving forward, we have received the prestigious “Best Practices Award” from Frost & Sullivan. set ambitious and challenging goals for ourselves including outgrowing One of my proudest moments of the year. the market and reaching a new sustainable earnings level after the divestments of Bioproducts and Capa™. Yet beyond hard numbers, we Sustainability though, is a lot more than the Finate Material Neutral have set clear targets for further developing our Leadership and how ambition. It is about everything we do and how we do it. 2018 was to lead change. It boils down to this: we are building one strong culture the year when Sustainability became one of our corporate change comprising both the hard financial performance and the softer value programs, and also became part of the daily work among many more of that fuels growth. This symbiosis between performance and care is the our employees. magic formula for Perstorp. During the year, we have continued our partnership with the Hunger I am very proud to lead this company, and to be the one leading the Project, which funds local investments to support women leading way to the next level of performance. It is in our DNA to always look for change in especially poor societies. This new way of contributing to improvements, to take things to the next level, to the possible, saying: society will become increasingly important for us in order to live up to “Wow, we did it! What more can we do?” Regardless of where we work our commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen, in areas that in the company, we take what we have learned and use it to drive that matter. next competitive edge – for ourselves and our customers. Care 365 Our Care 365 program is Perstorp’s way of putting health and safety first in everything we do, every day, 365 days a year, and to translate that ambition into concrete actions. Jan Secher And we do it because we care, not because we want to improve our statistics. Care 365 is an integral way to living our core values President and CEO Responsibility – “Do right”, Reliability – “Keep the promise” and Focused Innovation “Make it better”. Our performance in 2018 took a positive direction during second half of the year, when our ambition to become world class in safety resulted in a profound and sustainable improvement, with a performance that was better than target every month. Management commitment is continuously strong, as we are convinced that every injury at work is preventable, and our focus should continuously be on prevention. Real change is driven by the people, purpose and values and together with a strengthened leadership, this is how Perstorp will bring Care to the next level. 5 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Risk management The objective of the Perstorp Group’s risk management process is to proactively identify, evaluate and manage risks as early as possible in order to achieve both operational and strategic goals. Managing risks Perstorp has categorized risks into three categories, described Risks are assessed and managed at many different levels and here below: locations within the Perstorp Group and for different purposes. Strategic risks Corporate Finance has the global responsibility for the Strategic risks are those that could have a negative impact or assessment of the Group’s financial risks. For details see Note 3. threat the Group’s ability to develop in line with previously set On group level, based on identified risk areas the internal control strategies covering up to a five year timeframe. program addresses risks of financial misstatements as well as risk associated with business ethics. Operational risks The operational risks are those that may have a direct impact on On site level a combination of results of insurance audits the Group’s daily business up to a one year time horizon performed by a third party, and our own systematic risk assessments, are reported to group level to ensure relevant Financial risks levels of mitigation. Financial risks address exposure within the Group’s financial In relation to third party product certifications, specific risk operations and other risks that may have a direct financial assessments are required. E.g. for our ISCC certifications of our impact such as through fines, and other forms of directly pro-environment product range and for products required to financial litigation. meet food and animal feed standards. Covering all our sites and offices, we perform overall as well as Risk evaluation project based risk assessments concerning occupational health The Perstorp risk evaluation is based on a number of dimensions and safety, as a part of our Care 365 program. including financial, reputational, compliance, operational consequences, customers and market share, potential For risks found that may cause harm to human health and environmental harm and potential human harm. safety, the environment or financial performance, there are defined risk levels for when these need to be escalated. The The risks are evaluated in terms of likelihood within the strategic most material risks are reported to the Board. Action plans to planning period, the effectiveness of current mitigation efforts reduce and control those risks are developed, assigned and and the possible consequences. reviewed during the year. The results of risk assessments are also used as input to strategic processes and budget processes. During the year, Perstorp has initiated work to further develop the process around risk management, and more specifically how risk management processes can be better integrated to include different perspective that include both directly financial and non-financial risks such as sustainability related risks. 6 A N N UA L R E P O R T RISK S E XPOSURE AC TIV IT Y S TR ATEGIC RISK S Business development and Negative variances related to investments acquisiPerstorp’s strategic processes and routines safeguard that competitive landscape tions or divestments and/or changes in technology strategies are followed and investment criteria are met. or competitive environment. Demand/customer Economic/geopolitical issues may change Perstorp’s broad customer base makes the Group more behavior customer behavior resulting in reduced demand resilient to demand reductions. In addition, Perstorp for our products in certain markets and specific follows the supply/demand changes in the market as key segments. And changes in customer product indicators for own capacity planning. preferences may also occur. Business opportunities The company would miss opportunities and trends Perstorp´s Innovation function has a solid process in in the market as a result of failing to identity or place to pick up trends and needs in the market at an capture them in the market at the right time. early stage through a broad interface and network and bring them to the strategic process for proper resource allocation. OPER ATION AL RISK S Raw material Eroded margins and/or production disturbance Perstorp’s purchasing policy requires multiple supplies related to volatility in pricing and/or availability of of critical raw materials alternatively to sign long-term critical raw material. Availability and pricing in agreements. Hedging options is assessed continuously finding alternative, non-fossil raw materials. Road map for raw material transition and innovation projects aimed at enabling future scale-up of supply. Production Disruption There are various risks that could lead to major The Group has business contingency plans in place. interruptions, such as technical issues, fires, Further­more, as part of the Care 365 program, all environmental accidents and other accidents with Perstorp sites work systematically with safety issues, serious personal injuries as a consequence. Disturoccupational safety issues and environmental issues to bances and interruptions at Perstorp's plants may prevent any accidents. result in loss of earnings if deliveries are delayed. Safety risks Chemical production plants include processes with Design and construction of our facilities as well as high temperatures, high pressure and requires our operating procedures are based on extensive and careful handling of raw materials as well as in-depth risk level assessment and hazard analysis. We finished products. This does pose risks for those prioritize based on risk levels. We report major risks and working at sites, the societies surrounding them mitigations to authorities based on Seveso legislation. and the customers when handling the products, if The Group has invested, and continues to invest further, handled incorrectly. in the Care 365 program and the Responsible Care program, thus addressing risks related to human harm in our daily operations and in relation to the product users. Governance The risk of decisions being taken on the wrong Perstorp’s governance model and policies safeguards grounds or based on inaccurate information. compliance with external and internal rules and regulation. Regulatory & compliance Legal risk is the risk of a negative impact on the Perstorp has routines and process to proactively develop Group's result or reputation arising from litigation, best practice production, meeting regulatory environarbitration, disputes, claims or participation in mental and occupational health and safety requirelegal proceedings. Increased operational cost ments. Employees are made aware of legal requirements and/or changes in competitive landscape due to and our Code of Conduct, through information and changes in laws and regulations Risks of individutraining. Perstorp’s legal policy provides the framework als not complying with regulations and/or the and procedures for handling potential disputes. Group's Code of Conduct. FIN ANCIAL RISK S Currency Currency risk is divided in; Perstorp’s finance policy defines acceptable currency • translation exposure – risk related to the converrisk and sets guidelines and hedging methods for the sion of the Group's assets and profits, and management of these risks. • transaction exposure – risk related to the value of the Group's cash flow Interest rate Interest-rate risk is the risk of a negative impact on Perstorp’s finance policy defines acceptable interest rate the results due to a rise in market interest. risk and sets guidelines and hedging methods for the management of these risk. Funding & liquidity Funding risk is the risk that the Group will not have Perstorp’s major funding during 2018 consisted of access to sufficient funding, or that the funding or bonds, listed on the Channel Islands Securities Exchange, re-financing of existing loans becomes difficult or syndicated mezzanine facilities and a revolving credit too costly. facility provided by core banks. Perstorp also follows development of available funds through regular cash flow forecasts. After the balance sheet date Perstorp re-financed the capital structure. For further information see Note 37. Available funds at the end of 2018 were 1,120 MSEK. Counterparty Counterparty risk is the risk of counter-parties Perstorp has a comprehensive credit policy aiming to failing to meet obligations in accordance with prevent credit losses and optimize tied-up capital. agreed terms. 7 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Corporate governance report The Perstorp Group’s core values of focused innovation, reliability and responsibility are also central to corporate governance. Corporate governance includes the continual process of controlling and improving decision-making and business strategies, defining clear areas of responsibility and identifying and evaluating opportunities and risks for the Group. The overall aim is to maintain and develop order so that the business is controlled reliably and we are well equipped to face the development challenges and changes of the future. Corporate governance within the Perstorp Group is performed through the Annual General Meeting, the Board of directors and the President in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. The Group does not have a formal requirement to follow the Swedish code of corporate governance. General meeting make presentations or give specialist information prior to key decisions. Every month the Board received a written report The General Meeting is the forum where shareholders make presenting and analyzing the development of the Group and certain decisions about Perstorp Holding AB and its subgroup the earnings and financial position. Preparatory materials subsidiaries. The Annual General Meeting was held on May 16th were sent to Board members before each Board meeting. The 2018, at which the annual report for the 2017 financial year was President was also in continuous contact with the Chairman of adopted together with the proposal for distribution of profits. the Board. The following points were addressed at each Board The Board of Directors was re-elected at the meeting. meeting: Board of directors • Responsible Care report, status report from the President As of the end of 2018, the Board of Directors consists of seven • Financial position and outlook members, all nominated and elected by the company owners. • Investment decision for projects worth more than SEK 15 m The individuals re-elected to the Board at the 2018 Annual General Meeting are Tore Bertilsson, Fabrice Fouletier, Jan Secher, Karin Markides, Brendan Cummins, Ragnar Hellenius and Other important matters: In addition to these fixed agenda items, several main subjects Claes Gard. In addition to the aforementioned individuals, the such as the budget, forecasts, refinancing, divestments Board also includes three employee representatives. and financial structure were addressed during the year. The The Board's responsibilities are regulated by the Swedish Perstorp Group’s core values of focused innovation, reliability Companies Act and the formal working procedures, which are and responsibility are also central to corporate governance. approved by the Board once per year. These procedures outline Corporate governance includes the continual process of the Board's assignments and which decisions must be taken at controlling and improving decision-making and business Board level. The working procedures also regulate the division strategies, defining clear areas of responsibility and identifying of responsibility between the Board, its committees and the and evaluating opportunities and risks for the Group. The President. The Chairman leads the Board's work. The division of overall aim is to maintain and develop order so that the business responsibilities among Board members does not extend beyond is controlled reliably and we are well equipped to face the certain special assignments for the Chairman. development challenges and changes of the future. Corporate governance within the Perstorp Group is performed through During 2018, eight scheduled Board meetings were held, as the Annual General Meeting, the Board of directors and the well as one statutory convening meeting and two extra board President in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. meetings. Minutes were kept at all meetings. On average, The Group does not have a formal requirement to follow the attendance at Board meetings for ordinary Board members Swedish code of corporate governance. was 95%. Other employees also attended meetings, either to 8 A N N UA L R E P O R T Audit committee External auditors The Board is served by an Audit Committee, which focuses on Perstorp's auditor is elected for a term of office of one year. securing the quality of the Group's financial reporting and risk Auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC) is the management, and the committee is therefore also close to appointed auditor of the company with Michael Bengtsson the development of control instruments for internal control. being the lead auditor. The Board's and Group Management's An important activity is to follow up and assess the external aim is to have a close relationship with the auditors, to the audit. The committee does not have decision-making rights. extent that they shall be kept well informed about relevant Decisions shall be made by the Board. At the end of 2018, the issues concerning the accounts, reporting procedures and Audit Committee consisted of the following members: Fabrice management of the company's/Group's assets. There is, Fouletier, Claes Gard, Ragnar Hellenius and Tore Bertilsson. therefore, a continuous dialogue with the auditors and they During the year, the committee held six ordinary meetings. participate in at least one Board meeting per year. The auditors receive the minutes of Board meetings, documents relating Remuneration committee to Board decisions, and the monthly financial reports for the The Board is also served by a Remuneration Committee. This Group. During 2018, PwC performed assignments relating committee's task is to propose principles for remuneration to the audit in addition to regular auditing work. On all those and other employment terms for the President and senior occasions, the Group emphasized that the additional services executives. The committee also prepares the terms for global should not compromise the independence of the audit, which incentive schemes and makes an assessment of the schemes. was also been carefully examined by PricewaterhouseCoopers. The committee has certain decision-making powers. At the end of 2018, the Remuneration Committee consisted of Board Internal control members, Tore Bertilsson, Brendan Cummins, Fabrice Fouletier For Perstorp, the concept of internal control is fundamental and and Ragnar Hellenius. The committee held two ordinary involves the Group's capability of implementing an effective meetings during the year, at which minutes were taken. system for control and follow-up of the company's activities. It also involves ensuring that rules are followed, both with regard President & executive leadership team to external legislation/regulation and internal guidelines/control The President of the Group, Jan Secher, is also elected by the documents. An important part of the practical work on internal Board as the CEO of the parent company. He exercises ongoing controls, furthermore, is to identify risks and ensure that they are control of the Group. The EVPs of the Business Areas along with managed efficiently. The purpose is to minimize risk exposure the functions report to him. The President manages the business as far as possible in selected areas while also ensuring the in accordance with the instructions concerning the division opportunities are exploited as desired. The Group's organization of responsibilities between the Board and President adopted is adapted to meet the requirements for good internal control by the Board. The work of the President and Board is assessed and working methods are characterized by organizational annually. transparency with a clear division of responsibility. During the first quarter 2019, Perstorp announced a new The Group's financial reporting manual, together with the organization consisting of three new Business Areas (BAs) to business systems, are important control instruments that enable manage our different customers; reliable consolidation and financial reporting. Group reports are produced once per month following well-established • BA Specialty Polyols & Solutions: procedures, and the outcome is always presented in a report BU Penta, BU TMP & NEO and BU Formates that includes extensive analysis. Work on the year-end • BA Advanced Chemicals: accounts involves a number of people at Group, department BU Oxo and BU Plasticizers and company level, and the summarized results are reported • BA Animal Nutrition: back continually to management functions and the Board. For BU Feed Additives and BU Acids & Salts several years, the Group has performed an extensive annual self-assessment of internal controls, with the majority of the Along with the functions; subsidiaries assessed in 2018. The purpose is to identify key • Supply Chain & Operations control points for the various departments, analyze procedures, • Global Procurement follow development in relation to previous activity and thus • Innovation ensure that internal controls are at a good level and remain so. The continued implementation of a new ERP system in several • Communications & Sustainability of our companies in Sweden has led to improved capabilities for • Finance, Legal & IT performing and ensuring good internal control. The assessment • People & Culture and CEO Office has been complemented with a partly expanded verification operation by the company's auditors for certain areas. In relation to this, special follow-up and site visits has been carried out from the central level within the Group. Work aimed at securing good internal control is a constantly ongoing process. 9 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Sustainability Report This is the Perstorp Group’s statutory sustainability report for the fiscal year 2018. It was prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and has been approved by Perstorp Group’s Board of Directors. It includes our reporting on environmental issues, employee and social matters, human rights and anti-corruption. This report covers all subsidiaries of the Perstorp Group, unless otherwise stated. In addition, in note 3, there is reporting on the Group’s most material risks, of which some are related to these issues. Other sustainability risks, of less material character such as those related to our daily operations are used as input into Perstorp’s systematic approach to sustainability. Perstorp is a group of companies that develop, manufacture and sell specialty chemicals, which the customers transform into hundreds of products, each with its own unique set of requirements and end uses. The business engages in industrial and consumer markets through a variety of channels. The environmental, social and economic impacts arise mostly from the production facilities and the downstream markets. Perstorp’s impacts on the wellbeing and prosperity of our Our sustainability governance structure own employees, associated partners and the communities As of January 2019, the EVP Group Communications and in which the Group’s companies operate are also significant Sustainability has a position in the Executive Leadership team factors in measuring our success as a corporate steward. In this and leads our corporate change program for Sustainability. report, Perstorp’s impacts are explored and reported in detail, Since 2018 we have a cross-functional team that drives our consolidated from the ten production sites (operating in eight sustainability ambitions and builds internal processes and countries) which were owned in part or in total by Perstorp at capacity. The team includes representatives from procurement, the end of 2018. These sites are: operations, marketing, responsible care and communications as well as those responsible for each focus area in our “Finite • Perstorp, Sweden • Castellanza, Italy Material Neutral” ambition. • Stenungsund, Sweden • Warrington, United Perstorp has a range of group policies which cover • Nol, Sweden Kingdom environmental issues, occupational health and safety and other • Toledo, United States employee matters. The main policies covering these issues • Zibo, China are the Code of Conduct, the Responsible Care Policy, the • Bruchhausen, Germany Security Policy, the Anti-Bribery Policy, the Vendor Policy, the • Waspik, The Netherlands Global Travel Policy and the General Data Protection Policy. The Perstorp Group is in the process of developing a policy covering In 2018 Perstorp divested plants (Vercelli, Italy and Fredrikstad, social engagement and sponsorships. Norway). All environmental data has been calculated based on The Perstorp Group has a management system for quality and the 2018 year-end structure for comparison purposes. The site environment, third party certified against ISO 14001:2015 and in Warrington, United Kingdom was divested late 2018 but run ISO 9001:2015. by Perstorp until year end, and therefore the data is included. 10 A N N UA L R E P O R T ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY The goal is to take Perstorp Group to the top quartile of companies in its business Perstorp has a large set of indicators to measure performance in a number of areas category in terms of health and safety performance by 2020. One of the tools and have a long history of collecting data from all operations. The performance on that has been developed accordingly is the “Perstorp Careway”, a way to interpret the major impacts (listed below) has remained rather flat over the past three years. where the company stands in its health and safety maturity based on best The use of energy (per ton of product) increased slightly over this period, in part practice in the industry. The latest developments of the Careway Protocol is that due to reduced production volumes in 2018. The generation of waste (per ton of in 2018 an additional health dimensioned was added to the previous safety product) also increased, mainly due to reduced sales of recycled product. dimensions. Both the safety metrics as well as the results in the annual employee survey, show that the efforts have delivered results. Improved identification of hazards, Summary of Impacts 2018 2017 2016 increased employee education and an emphasis on risk reduction have led Total Energy (MWh/T product) 1.19 1.11 1.15 to a continued decrease in OSHA-recordable accidents. The employee survey indicates that the health focus has led to improvements also in areas related to Water consumed (liters per kg) 2.1 1.9 2.1 workload and stress. Wastewater COD (kg per ton product) 3.5 3.2 3.6 Scope 1 GHG (kT) 394 383 415 The objectives set up for the employee survey beginning of 2018 were: Scope 2 GHG (kT) 182 163 151 1. The % of teams below 3.0 in Workload & Stress should be <15 % Total GHG (kg/T product) 309 287 305 (30 % in 2017) 2. We shall have a positive trend in the Engagement Index VOC (T) 173 168 148 NOx (T) 159 145 152 The results in the Employee Survey were: SOx (T) 5.5 8.5 8.6 1. 17 % of all teams scored below 3.0 in Workload % Stress Waste (kg/T product) 34.9 32.0 27.1 2. The score was equal (3.3) in Engagement Index 2018 On an overall level, the end 2018 survey results were improved, where the positive change in the Workload & Stress contributed the most to the improved score. INVESTMENT S IN RESPONSIBLE C ARE Our performance on standard Safety metrics (including our own employees and As volumes and sales have increased over time, so have our costs related to contractors): Responsible Care (RC). The cost to properly dispose of waste has also increased over the past few years in every country where we operate. Perstorp continues to invest in the protection of the environment, our employees and other stakeholdOccupational Injuries 2018 2017 2016 ers at a consistent rate. “Other RC related costs” in the table below includes training costs and certification of local experts. Fatalities 0 0 1 Lost Time Accidents 6 8 10 Total Lost Days 103 36 137 Responsible Care (RC) Costs OSHA-Recordable Accidents 9 16 22 SEK million 2018 2017 2016 OSHAR* 0.49 1.00 1.25 Disposal hazardous waste 30 19 15 Disposal of non-hazardous waste 11 3 3 The Perstorp Group has a management system for quality and environment, third party certified against ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 9001:2015. Disposal of waste water 31 29 27 Contaminated soil 0 0 0 RC fees paid 6 5 4 DIVER SIT Y RC fines paid 0 0 0 With sites located from Toledo in the West, to Zibo in the East and with the Other RC related costs 3 3 3 company roots in Perstorp, Sweden, there is naturally diversity among the employees. English is the corporate language, making positions attractive for people of diverse backgrounds. Since 2018 Perstorp has taken a more pro-active Total RC Costs SEK million 82 59 52 approach to diversity, including gender diversity. % of net sales 0.5 % 0.4 % 0.5 % A diversity policy is in place for the Group and in 2018 the following targets were set: Total RC investments SEK million 99 40 36 • 50 % of all appointed managers should be women – 29% women reached, % of total investments 18.2 % 6.1 % 6.5 % • 50 % of all new senior managers (members of the Perstorp Leadership Team) should be women – 33 % reached. OCCUPATIONAL HE ALTH AND SAFE T Y • 50 % of all new senior managers should be non-Swedes – 55 % reached. To prioritize the health and safety of oneself and fellow workers is what is expected of all employees at Perstorp Group and this is something all employees need to think about every day, 365 days of the year. This is what Perstorp calls Care 365. Care 356 is an initiative at Perstorp which started in 2017. Looking back at undesirable levels of work-related injuries and health issues, more effort was put into the occupational health and safety work, at all levels of the business. The work with Care 365 is company-wide addressing culture, leadership and employee engagement in health and safety. It places emphasis on visible leadership from top management, a sense of urgency when it comes to incidents and accidents, clear standards and compliance management. In 2018 the focus has been on fully launching the Care 365 at all the Group’s sites. 11 P E R S T O R P 2 018 ENERGY CONSUMP TION EMISSIONS TO AIR Specialty chemicals manufacturing is an energy intensive process. Perstorp uses Perstorp has a small continuing use of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) in significant amounts of energy at each of its plants, and therefore continues to cooling systems across the organization. Those systems use 6.5 tons of coolants, focus on efficiency as well as transition to renewable energy at the production with a leakage of 250 kg in 2018. sites. The sites in Perstorp and Stenungsund are supplied with electricity from renewable sources. The experience gained from the use of alternative fuels will Perstorp uses certified reference values** for determining our emissions of be a springboard for further use at other sites in the future, and is afocus of the greenhouse gases (GHG). This data has been calculated based on the 2018 road maps developed for the Finite Material Ambition. The continued emphasis on year-end structure for comparison purposes. process efficiency has helped Perstorp keep the energy consumption relatively low. Air Emissions 2018 2017 2016 Energy Consumption (in GWh) 2018 2017 2016 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Energy Produced in-house 1,574 1,529 1,640 (CO2-e) Renewable energy 16 % 16 % 15 % Scope 1 GHG (kT) 394 383 415 Reclaimed from production waste 51 % 56 % 59 % Scope 2 GHG (kT) 182 163 151 Amount delivered externally (188) (195) (199) Total GHG (kT) 577 546 566 GHG (kg/T product) 309 287 305 Energy purchased as steam 509 447 378 Renewable Energy 4% 6% 3% VOC (T) 173 168 148 NOx (T) 159 145 152 Electricity from local grid 331 321 320 SOx (T) 6 9 9 ** Our references for GHG emissions factors are, in descending order of priority: Total Energy Consumed 2,225 2,102 2,140 • United Kingdom Department of Energy and Climate Change 2017 Set of Total Energy (MWh/T product) 1.19 1.11 1.15 Conversion Factors • United States Environmental Protection Agency 2014 Standard Emission WATER Factors On a global scale water is not considered a finite material as such but as it is a • Ecometrica 2011 Electricity-Specific Emission Factors for Grid Electricity scarce resource globally. For Perstorp it is therefore highly relevant to address it as a part of our overall Finite Material Ambition. In local contexts, access to drinking-quality water and water fit for food productions is essential to human life and societies. Therefore, the goal is to never be the cause of limitations to WA STE drinking quality water or to water intended for necessary food production and Minimization of waste (in all phases of production) remains a priority at Perstorp we continuously work with lowering our water footprint. and waste is one of the focus areas of the Finite Material Neutral Ambition. We address waste firstly by trying to avoid waste generation, by focusing on quality Perstorp’s plants all use water to some extent: as a solvent for chemical reactions, management at all our sites. We also try to minimize waste going to a landfill, by as a carrier for products or as a heat-transfer medium. Therefore, Perstorp will looking into how we can better close the loops, linking our production platforms, increase the efforts to conserve water, and to return the water used, back to the within Perstorp and in symbiosis with other businesses. In 2019 further emphasis environment following careful treatment protocols. The commitments made to will be put on identifying the causes of waste being generated as well as the the future demands as little water use as possible and prevention of water polpotential in making waste into resources, which is clearly linked to other focus lution through innovative re-uses of waste waters and efficient water treatment areas, such as raw materials and energy. technologies. Water Use 2018 2017 2016 Solid and Liquid Waste 2018 2017 2016 (in millions of cubic meters) Hazardous Waste (T) 48,008 41,782 42,127 Surface Water 20.2 18.9 17.3 Recycled 1% 1% 2% Ground Water 5.1 4.5 3.8 Incinerated for energy recovery 82 % 89 % 87 % Rainwater 0.01 0.02 0.01 Landfilled 7% 0% 0% Municipal Supply 0.81 0.74 0.67 Other disposal methods 10 % 10 % 11 % Other Sources 0.55 0.50 0.45 Total water withdrawn 26.7 24.7 22.3 Non-hazardous Waste (T) 17,159 19,042 8,122 Water returned unchanged 22.7 21.0 18.4 Recycled 64 % 57 % 16 % Water consumed 4.0 3.7 3.9 Incinerated for energy recovery 14 % 6% 9% Water consumed (L/kg) 2.1 1.9 2.1 Landfilled 20 % 37 % 75 % Other disposal methods 2% 0% 0% Wastewater 2018 2017 2016 Chemical Oxygen Demand (T) 6,586 6,057 6,685 Total Waste (T) 65,167 60,823 50,249 COD (T/T product) 0.0035 0.0032 0.0036 Waste (T/kg product) 34.9 32.0 27.1 12 A N N UA L R E P O R T E THIC AL PRINCIPLES & ANTI CORRUP TION During 2018 Perstorp has intensified the integration of sustainability in the Our Code of Conduct forms a recipe on how to live the company values. It covers supply chain processes, and the assessment methodologies have been updated. the areas of Perstorp’s business principles, products & sustainability, working conditions and human rights. It has been developed to underline the principles that Since the start of 2018, one of the Sourcing managers has a central role in the direct our relations with employees, business parties and other parties. It applies cross-functional sustainability team, where much focus has been on developing to all employees within Perstorp Group and members of the Board of Directors. road maps for the transitions to non-fossil raw materials. Perstorp also expects its suppliers, distributors and other business partners with which it has close relations, to act according to these principles. The Perstorp supply chains can be divided into two main areas, each representing different risks, impacts and challenges: Perstorp’s Code of Conduct is based on the company’s three core values and has been developed in accordance with the OECD’s guidelines for multinational • Production related material and services enterprises, the chemical industry’s Responsible Care program and the guidelines • Non-production related material and services. outlined in the International Labor Organization (ILO) convention. Perstorp supports the UN’s Global Compact and its ten principles as well as the 17 SustainCorporate policies and procurement procedures have been adopted to address able Development Goals. All employees must know the content of the Code of supply chain risks and minimize the upstream social and environmental impacts. Conduct and are required to go through a web-based learning module. The policies and procedures include a Vendor Policy, a Modern Slavery Statement and a systematic work to manage information about the suppliers and track and Perstorp Group also has a number of more specific policies addressing e.g. antiassess their performance. corruption and preventing anti-competitive behavior. The Code of Conduct is the overarching tool to communicating expectations In case of any suspicions of illegal conduct or other breaches of our own ethical to the suppliers to address sustainability issues including human rights, labor principles, there is a whistleblowing procedure available on our intranet. But this standards, corruption and environmental impacts. is seen as a last resorts, as our legal department, the HR department and each manager within the company, is also available for dialogue with our employees, Furthermore, through the Vendor policy, the Perstorp Group more specifically should they need to raise questions regarding interpretations of our policies or requires of its suppliers to act in accordance with international principles in relawish to raise concerns. tion to issues such as child labor, bonded labor, occupational health and safety and freedom of association in the workplace. The Vendor Policy also requires of On a quarterly basis all areas of the business are responsible to report into the suppliers to assure that they are working to ensure that Perstorp’s production Legal Risk Review, which is regulated by our Legal Policy. Any litigation, disputes and products are free of conflict minerals originating from the Democratic or claims related to legal or regulatory violations that are material to the Group Republic of Congo or adjoining countries in accordance with the US Securities must then be reported. Any investigation by an authority (e.g. police, anti-trust Exchange Commission Rule of Conflict Minerals. authority) must also be reported. The issued Modern Slavery Statement summarizes how the company works, and In 2018 there were no suspected or confirmed cases of corruption, neither will continue to work, to prevent any occurrences of modern slavery, in our own through the risk review nor through the whistleblowing procedures and were businesses and in our supply chain. In 2018 the travel policy was updated to also no other litigation issues concerning ethical conduct. reflect the risks of modern slavery in association with business travels, so it now The legal department has historically held trainings of employees regarding contains clear rules regarding activities while on business trips. certain policies and procedures. Starting in 2018, more specific e-learning Risks in the supply chain are managed systematically. Suppliers are given a risk modules are being developed, focused on different aspects of business ethics. In rating based on their location as well as on a set of additional criteria defined by 2018, 62 employees have taken an extensive and interactive e-learning training Perstorp. on preventing bribery and corruption. Further e-learnings are in the pipe-line. This will enable us to better track the implementation of trainings, and also All suppliers of large spend and/or rated as being of specifically high risk, are systematically ensure that such trainings are repeated in appropriate intervals, or systematically assessed using a supplier evaluation tool. The tool consists of in case of any updates of policies. questions, addressing issues such as environmental management, human rights, labor standards and anti-corruption. The procedure also requires suppliers to acknowledge and sign the vendor policy. 80 % of our spend is covered by this SUPPLIER S systematic approach. To ensure security of supply is the starting point for all Perstorp’s work related to the supply chain and it is addressed in an integrated way. Sustainability related During 2018 the supplier sustainability evaluation criteria was updated and risks are part of a set of a larger number of risk factors that could jeopardize a new round of surveys were sent out to the suppliers. The next steps is to security of supply. There is a risk of negative impacts on those individuals associassess the need to follow-up the suppliers’ self-evaluations, e.g. through audits. ated with work places along the supply chain and a potential negative impact Perstorp’s companies conduct audits of their suppliers already as of today, but on the environment as there is a risk of pollution in the supply chain. This in turn then mainly focusing on management systems for quality and environment. could also affect the Perstorp brand negatively. 13 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Board of directors Elected by the annual general meeting Directly elected representatives TORE BERTIL SSON ANDER S MAGNUSSON Member and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2015. Born 1951. Technical Market Development Manager and Chairman of the Swedish PVC Forum. Member of the Board of Directors since 2010. Appointed by the Boards OTHER BOARD A SSIGNMENT S of PTK of Perstorp and Stenungsund. Born 1969. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Semcon AB, Försäkringsbolaget PRI. Pensionsgaranti and AB Ludvig Svensson. Member of the Board of Directors of INGKA Holding BV, JCE Group AB, Ovako Group AB, Salinity AB and Ågrenska AB. PEROLOV HORNLING Strategic Purchaser Member of the Board of Directors since 2017. Appointed by the Boards and PTK of JAN SECHER Perstorp and Stenungsund. Born 1960. President and CEO Perstorp Holding AB, Executive Vice President Business Area BioProducts. CEO and member of the Board of Directors since 2013. Born 1957. GERRY ACKERT OTHER BOARD A SSIGNMENT S Operating Technician and Chairman of IF Metall Member of the Board of Directors of Elekta AB, IKEM and CEFIC (The European Member of the Board since 2017. Appointed by the Boards of IF Metall Perstorp Chemical Industry Council). Chairman of the Board of Directors of Peak and Stenungsund. Born 1972. Management AG. Auditors FABRICE FOULE TIER Partner, PAI partners. Member of the Board of Directors since 2006. Born 1975. MICHAEL BENGTSSON OTHER BOARD A SSIGNMENT S Authorized Public Accountant – PricewaterhouseCoopers. Partner at PAI Partners SAS. Member of the Board of Directors of MEP S.à.r.l, Born 1959. MEP II S.à.r.l, AS Adventure Group, Castellano, Euromedia Group, and Masaria OTHER AUDIT A SSIGNMENT S Investments. Bonnier, Bure, Indutrade and SWECO. K ARIN MARKIDES Member of the Board of Directors since 2010. Born 1951. MATS ÅKERLUND Authorized Public Accountant – PricewaterhouseCoopers. OTHER BOARD A SSIGNMENT S Born 1971. Professor, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Scientific Council for OTHER AUDIT A SSIGNMENT Sustainable Development at the Swedish Government. Member of the Board of Directors of the Swedish Knowledge Foundation. Viktoria Park, Copenhagen Malmö Port, Flint Group, ESS and Catena. CL AES GARD Member of the Board of Directors since 2009. Born 1953. Deputies Jesper Fahlén – Deputy trade union representative. Appointed by the Boards of OTHER BOARD A SSIGNMENT S PTK of Perstorp and Stenungsund. Born 1975. Member of the Board of Directors of FTX-ventilation AB and Vasatorps Golf AB. Erica Stålhammar – Deputy trade union representative, IF Metall: Born 1992. R AGNAR HELLENIUS Partner, PAI partners. Head of the Nordic team. Member of the Board of Directors since 2009. Born 1967. OTHER BOARD A SSIGNMENT S Chairman of the Board of Directors Starid Holding 3 AB and Lary 1-4 AB. Member of the Board of Directors PAI Partners SAS and ADB Safegate. BRENDAN CUMMINS Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. Born 1951. OTHER BOARD A SSIGNMENT S Member of the Board of Directors, Audit Committee and Chair of the Governance and Nominations Committee of Ashland Inc., Member of the Board of Directors, Audit Committee and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Nanoco PLC, Member of the Board of Directors of Tom Murphy Car Sales Ltd and Gailtar Ltd., Member of Board of Directors and Chair of the Audit and Finance Committee of Respond Support CLG 14 A N N UA L R E P O R T TORE BERTIL SSON JAN SECHER FABRICE FOULE TIER K ARIN M ARKIDES CL AES G ARD R AGN AR HELLENIUS BRENDAN CUMMINS ANDER S M AGNUSSON PEROLOV HORNLING GERRY ACKERT 15 P E R S T O R P 2 018 1) Executive leadership team JAN SECHER MARIE GRÖNBORG President and Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President Innovation Active in the Group since 2013 Active in the Group since 1994 Born 1957 Born 1970 MAGNUS HEIMBURG MAGNUS L ANNÉR Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice Executive Vice President – Supply Chain President – Finance, Legal & IT (from January 2019) & Operations Active in the Group since 2014 Active in the Group since 2008 Born 1967 Born 1969 ULRIK A ANDER SSON WOLFGANG L AURES Executive Vice President – Business Area Executive Vice President – Supply Chain Specialty Polyols & Solutions Active in the Group since 2014. Active in the Groupe since 1996 Member of the ELT up until December 2018 Join ELT January 2019 Born 1969. Born 1968 MIK AEL GEDIN GORM JENSEN Executive Vice President – People & Culture Executive Vice President – Business Area and CEO Office Advanced Chemicals Active in the Group since 2009 Executive Vice President Global Born 1969 Procurement Active in the Group since 2014 CECILIA SVENSSON Born 1962 Executive Vice President – Communications & Sustainability ROGER MANN Active in the Group since 2014 Executive Vice President – Animal Nutrition Join ELT January 2019 Active in the Group since 2018 Born 1965 Born 1960 1) During the first quarter 2019, Perstorp announced a new organization consisting of three new Business Areas (BAs) to manage our different customers; BA Specialty Polyols & Solutions, Advanced Chemicals and BA Animal Nutrition. Along with the functions; Supply Chain & Operations, Global Procurement, Innovation, Communications & Sustainability, Finance, Legal & IT, People & Culture and CEO Office. 16 A N N UA L R E P O R T JAN SECHER M AGNUS HEIMBURG ULRIK A ANDER SSON GORM JENSEN ROGER M ANN M ARIE GRÖNBORG M AGNUS L ANNÉR WOLFG ANG L AURES MIK AEL GEDIN CECILIA S V ENSSON 17 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Year in review Key Events – 2018 in brief UP GR ADED CREDIT R ATING BY S TANDARD & POOR and certified by third-party ISCC (International Sustainability & Carbon In July 2018, S&P Global Ratings announced that it has upgraded Certification). Frost & Sullivan has in 2018 rewarded Perstorp for this its long-term issuer credit rating for Perstorp Holding AB to B-. The transformation, which is also an external confirmation of Perstorp upgrade reflects Perstorp’s sustained EBITDA growth and deleveraging, providing employees with room and opportunity to run with ideas, which is a step towards increased financial flexibility and a potential to making a change for the company and more importantly the world. lower future cost of capital. RELENTLESS WORK WITH C ARE 365 PAYS OFF A NE W OWNER SHIP S TRUC T URE The relentless determination for Perstorp to become world class in In September, PAI Partners announced the transfer of their interest health and safety has started to pay off and there is now a profound in Perstorp from the investment fund PAI Europe IV to a new fund and sustainable change in terms of safety. In the second half of 2018, managed by PAI Partners and backed by Landmark Partners and other performance was better than target every month and five out of the co-investors. As a part of the deal, the investors of the new fund have last twelve months had zero injuries. We are convinced that every injury agreed to commit c. EUR 130 million for investment activities to further at work is preventable, and our focus is continuously on prevention. advance Perstorp’s growth strategy. The major transformation of A global integrated roadmap has been developed in order to take Perstorp during the last years, which has delivered strong results and Perstorp to the next level as a safe and healthy workplace, and the work increased value has now paid off, attracting new investors. continues. DIV ES TMENT OF THE BIOPRODUC T BUSINESS LE T’S TALK C ARE 365 In November 2018, Perstorp announced and completed the divestment To demonstrate focus and importance of health, safety and care all of its BioProduct business in order to streamline the portfolio. The across Perstorp, on August 24, “Let’s talk Care 365” was arranged in BioProduct business was concentrated to Sweden and Norway, and all geographical locations, sites as well as offices. All employees were hence the sale was in line with the strategy to focus on global high invited to an event in their respective location, and there was a variety growth areas in the specialty chemicals market and build on the of topics on the agendas, everything from hands-on safety training to position as a global leader in the field. office yoga. The level of engagement was high and the conclusion was that this day will become a yearly event. LE V ER AGING THE FULL BUSINESS POTENTIAL IN ANIM AL NU TRITION A RE V ITALIZED PER S TORP BR AND BUILDS BUSINESS VALUE In order to take full advantage of the current growth opportunities The traditional Perstorp Brand has undergone a major brush up, both in the agricultural business, as well as exploring new business from a visual perspective, but also from a value perspective in order opportunities, Animal Nutrition (former Feed & Food) became a to make sure that it is contemporary and reflecting the company of separate Business Area, and a new Executive Vice President was today – resonating with customer needs. As a tribute to the hard and appointed. The future growth expectations are high, both due to macro delicate work with everything from how the company communicates trends but also due to a very promising innovation pipeline as well as the brand in text and image, to its long-term development, strategy and how Perstorp is now building capabilities with both significant global also how to legally protect it from infringement, the Perstorp Brand was recruitments and increased production and supply capacity. nominated to the prestigious Signum Award in Sweden, in competition with well-known Swedish brands like Barnängen, Com Hem, Moderna INNOVATIV E S TEP S TO SUPPORT CUS TOMER’S USE OF Museet, Polarn O. Pyret and Vitamin Well. PHTHAL ATE FREE PL A S TICIZER PE VALEN™ The trend around legislation for plasticizers is clear and consistent, and there is a growing demand for phthalate-free plasticizers, as phthalateEvents after the Balance Sheet day based plasticizers are stepwise being phased out globally. Perstorp’s DIV ES TMENT OF THE C APA™ BUSINESS Pevalen™ has shown to have many technical properties that are better In February 2019, the sale of the Capa business to Ingevity was than the existing plasticizers, and can be used as a superior alternative completed. Capa has under Perstorp’s leadership during the last 10 years, in most PVC applications. During 2018, Innovation has worked intensely become a global market leader in the production and commercialization to be able to conclude and recommend to our customers, the right of caprolactone. The sale of Capa unlocks significant value and proceeds stabilizers and additives when formulating with Pevalen™. Foamed will be used to strengthen the balance sheet, as well as to invest in applications, e g flooring and artificial leather, are areas where interest growth areas with strong future potential, such as the polyols market, has grown rapidly, and where Perstorp has focused its innovation the phthalate free plasticizer Pevalen™, expansion of the animal nutrition resources. The number of new customer qualifications met the target business and establishment of pro-environment products and solutions. and on top, a food contact application was filed. A NE W C APITAL S TRUC T URE THROUGH A DEBT AWARDED PRO EN V IRONMENT POLYOL S REFIN ANCING AGREEMENT Perstorp’s new Ambition Level for sustainability to become Finite In February 2019, Perstorp announced the refinancing of its existing Material Neutral was first presented in 2017. For Perstorp to become credit facilities which will provide a more flexible capital structure. This Finite Material Neutral means switching to alternative resources that was possible thanks to the solid track record of strong performance and are abundant and/or renewable, or to close the loops in order to recycle in addition the sale of the Capa business. An improved credit rating was or reuse those that are finite. All Perstorp’s three essential polyols are given by both Moody’s (B2) and S&P (B). Perstorp has now a significantly now available in renewable and partly renewable options – Voxtar™, improved position to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. Evyron™ and Neeture™, produced based on the mass balance concept 18 A N N UA L R E P O R T Organization President & CEO Jan Secher People & Culture and CEO Office Finance, Legal & IT Mikael Gedin Magnus Heimburg Communications & Sustainability Innovation Cecilia Svensson Marie Grönborg Business Area Business Area Business Area Supply Chain & Global Procurement Specialties & Advanced Chemicals Animal Nutrition Opperations Gorm Jensen Solutions Gorm Jensen Roger Mann Magnus Lannér Ulrika Andersson Key figures in summary, consolidated group Full year SEK m unless otherwise stated 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 14,882 13,592 11,305 11,149 Operating earnings before 2,191 2,7011) 1,800 1,653 depreciations (EBITDA) % of net sales 14.7 19.9 1) 15.9 14.8 EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 2,324 2,133 1,865 1,667 % of net sales 15.6 15.7 16.5 15.0 Operating earnings (EBIT) 1,570 1,9731) 1,206 971 % of net sales 10.5 14.5 1) 10.7 8.7 Free cash flow 1,450 1,275 1,370 1,127 Net debt excluding parent company NE T SALES, CONSOLIDATED 13,103 12,056 12,964 11,196 loan and pension liabilities GROUP, SEK M 14,960 Available funds 1,120 1,220 983 934 13,592 13,859 14,520 14,882 13,078 Leverage 5.6x 5.7x 7.0x 6.7x 11,939 12,573 Last twelve months 1) Including capital gain of SEK 604 m related to the divestment of Perstorp Oxo Belgium AB 3,949 4,000 3,680 3,729 3,602 3,524 3,413 3,288 3,289 3,500 3,000 NE T SALES BY M ARKE T SEGMENT S, 2,500 L A S T T WELV E MONTHS 2,000 1,500 33 %, Resisns & Coatings 1,000 26 %, Complementary* 17 %, Plastic materials 500 12 %, Fuels 0 7 %, Synthetic lubricants Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 5 %, Feed & Food EBITDA E XCL . NON RECURRING ITEMS, 14,960 CONSOLIDATED GROUP, SEK M 14,882 13,859 14,520 NE T SALES BY GEOGR APH Y, 12,573 13,078 13,592 2,290 2,281 2,324 11,939 L A S T T WELV E MONTHS 2,109 2,133 2,169 Last twelve months Last twelve months 2,010 1,917 3,949 4,000 3,680 3,729 3,602 3,524 60%, EMEA 3,413 3,288 3,289 3,500 700 20 %, APAC 623 575 607 566 571 20 %, Americas 3,000 600 528 502 485 2,500 500 2,000 400 1,500 300 1,000 200 500 100 * Subsegments; Bleaching, runway de-icer, oil drilling & completion fluids, pharmaceuticals & API, surfactants 0 & detergents, tanning, fuels and other. 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 19 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Other One molecule can change everything The environment Perstorp believes in improving everyday life – making it safer, Production within the Perstorp Group affects the external more convenient and more environmentally sound for billions of environment through emissions to air, soil and water, and people all over the world. As a world leading specialty chemicals through the generation of waste and noise. From a global company, our innovations provide essential properties for perspective, the most significant environmental factors are products used every day and everywhere. You’ll find us all the the consumption of raw materials and energy; emissions way from your car and mobile phone to towering wind turbines of greenhouse gases and volatile organic substances; and and the local dairy farm. Simply put, we work to make good consumption of and contamination of water. Each unit in the products even better, with a clear sustainability agenda. Group submits an annual environment report to be approved by the inspection authorities, and this data is aggregated by the Founded in Sweden in 1881, Perstorp’s focused innovation corporation for global reporting. The largest production sites builds on more than 135 years of experience, representing in the Group are located in Sweden and these are requiring a complete chain of solutions in organic chemistry, process environmental permits. technology and application development. Perstorp has approximately 1,500 employees and manufacturing units in Asia, Europe and North America. Sales in 2018 amounted to SEK Innovation During 2018 Perstorp continued our focus on market led 14.9 billion for the consolidated group. Innovation for our strategic markets. Successful commercialization of several projects enabled more resources to Employees look for new opportunities building an interesting new The number of FTE (full time equivalents) for the total group, at Innovation portfolio. Also areas outside our strategic markets the end of 2018 was 1,501, which is 54 less than at year-end 2017. are assessed if the size is attractive, if it has a fit with our technology and match market trends. The Perstorp Board At the end of 2018, the Board of Directors consists of seven Further assessing new product opportunities from natural members, all nominated and elected by the company owners. resources is one of the major routes for innovation. One example The individuals re-elected to the Board at the 2018 Annual is new sugar based chemistry to meet demand from the Coating General Meeting were Tore Bertilsson, Fabrice Fouletier, and resin market with the potential of opening up a new product Jan Secher, Karin Markides, Brendan Cummins, Ragnar Hellenius line. Another example is using biogas technology to make and Claes Gard. In addition to the aforementioned individuals, competitive products for several of our key market segments the Board also includes three employee representatives. 20 A N N UA L R E P O R T Formates are an important product family for Perstorp. Over time phthalate plasticizers. Focus is now turning to use our lab we have re-vitalized that product portfolio several times with capabilities and long experience to help customers to develop new applications that has added value and stability over financial their optimal formulations. cycles. Fertitlizers is the latest development. Potassium formate Competence and Innovation capabilities in synthetic lubricant as the Potassium source have many advantage over traditional was added. A better understanding of the value chain from fertilizers. Especially in hot and dry climates where Perstorp’s chemicals to end customer use has already been gained. Early solution prohibit damaging increased salt concentration in soil. development of a couple of new products has started. Our solutions are already used in California and South Europe with great potential in South America. The potential is big driven Process development on the Penta technology continued to by more intense agriculture and climate changes. The product support the expansion of new Penta capacity and increasing has been tested on potato and on vegetables like tomato, the level of valuable co-products. New processes to have higher cucumber and salad. All with excellent result. Tests in high volume yields of Di-Penta and CaFo was developed. Both products have applications, like soy and wheat, are on-going. high demands from our markets with above GDP growth. Research on animal health and nutrition was accelerated to support the launch of valerins pioneered by Perstorp. Proposed treatment of unappropriated Developing of new research partners in academia and among earnings customer is part of the strategy to bring this faster to the market SEK benefiting animal health and well-being. Two examples are our The Board of Directors and President propose that the funds available for distribution by the Annual General collaboration with University of Utrecht to develop basic Meeting, as shown in the Parent Company´s balance understanding on performance from research on animal cell sheet, namely: Retained earnings 841,808,798 level and our research in University of Arkansas to confirm the Net result for the year 4,077,167,824 improvement in nutrition. A pre-study in aqua species was also be distributed as follows: done showing promising data for shrimps. To be retained in the business 4,918,976,622 The development of Pevalen was finalized by a study qualifying an extensive number of stabilizers that works well with Pevalen to minimize the risk of degradation that could result in un-pleasant odor. Customers that has embraced performance in plasticized PVC and confirm it to be an excellent alternative to standard 21 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Net sales and earnings CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Net sales for the consolidated group amounted to SEK 14,882 m SEK m Note 2018 2017 during the period January to December 2018, an increase of SEK 1,290 m or 9 % compared to the same period last year. Continuing operations Volumes decreased 4 % compared to the same period last year Net sales 9 12,436 11,128 Cost of goods sold 6,7,8,21 –10,404 –9,038 and was negatively affected by the scheduled maintenance Gross earnings 2,032 2,090 turnaround in Stenungsund and somewhat weaker demand Selling and marketing costs 6,7,8 –429 –425 at the end of the year. Excluding BioProducts, organic volume Administrative costs 6,7,8,33 –310 –321 based sales growth was -2 %. Adjusted for the scheduled Research and development costs 6,7,8 –99 –90 maintenance turnaround in Stenungsund the organic volumeOther operating income and expenses 10,11 –12 –5 based sales growth was about 1 %. Result from participations in associated companies 12 3 4 Sales prices were approximately 8 % higher than last year Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 10,23,27 1,185 1,253 Net financial items 22 –1,870 –1,345 following both higher raw material prices and improved pricing. Group contribution – –223 Average FX-rates for the period were higher than 2017, which Earnings/loss before tax –685 –315 resulted in positive FX-effects on sales, of approximately 5 %. Tax 24 730 3 Net earnings/loss for the year 45 –312 EBITDA excluding non-recurring items, for the consolidated troup amounted to SEK 2,324 m (2,133), corresponding to an Discontinued operation 36 EBITDA margin of 15.6 % (15,7 %). The increase in earnings vs Net sales 9 2,446 2,464 last year of SEK 191 m was attributable to positive currency Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 385 720 Earnings/loss before tax 205 835 effects and strengthened unit margins for some product lines Tax 24 –26 –13 partly offset by higher raw material prices and negative impact Net earnings/loss for the year 179 822 from the scheduled maintenance turnaround in Stenungsund. Group total Depreciation and amortization amounted to SEK 621 m, Net sales 14,882 13,592 including an impairment of approximately SEK 57 m related to Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 1,570 1,973 fixed assets in Perstorp Polialcoli S.r.l., Italy. Earnings/loss before tax –480 520 Tax 704 –10 Depreciation and amortization for the corresponding period Net earnings/loss for the year 224 510 2017 amounted to SEK 727 m including an impairment of of which, attributable to non controlling approximately SEK 160 m related to fixed assets in Perstorp interest 15 39 65 Bioproducts AB. Earnings/loss per share, SEK 4,47 10,19 Consolidated Group EBIT for the consolidated group amounted to SEK 1,570 m Operating earnings before depreciation (EBITDA) 2,191 2,701 compared to SEK 1,973 m for the corresponding period 2017 EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items 2,324 2,133 including a capital gain of SEK 604 m for the divestment of Perstorp Oxo Belgium AB. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF Net financial expenses, for the consolidated group including COMPREHENSIVE INCOME exchange rate effects on net debt of SEK -504 m (226), SEK m Note 2018 2017 amounted to SEK 2,050 m compared to SEK 1,454 m for the Net result for the period 224 510 corresponding period in 2017. The deviation mainly relates to Other comprehensive income: a weakening of the SEK against the USD and EUR during 2018, Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss Re-measurements of defined benefit plan 23 –5 –5 compared to a strengthening of the SEK primarily against the Items that may be subsequently reclassified to USD during, 2017. This was to some extent counterbalanced by profit or loss a lower interest rate following the refinancing of the floating Currency translation effects –49 109 rate notes at the end of 2017. Tax amounted to SEK 704 m Other comprehensive income net after tax –54 104 (-10), where change in deferred tax due to the new tax rules in Total comprehensive income for the year 170 614 Attributable to: Sweden has positively affected the result with SEK 788 m. The Owners of the parent 124 553 net result amounted to SEK 224 m (510). Non controlling interests 16 46 61 Total 170 614 22 A N N UA L R E P O R T Financial position Perstorps financial accounts are based on the going concern Available funds & net debt principle. The management and the Board of Directors The Group’s available funds, unrestricted cash and unutilized consequently monitoring the going concern. This principle credit facilities, were SEK 1,120 (1,220) m at the end of the includes a number of estimates and judgments about the December 2018. Net debt, excluding shareholder loan and future, please see note 4 for further information. The company pension liability increased with SEK 1,047 m during the year, performs an annual impairment test for goodwill as well as mainly related to a weaker SEK, primarily against the USD and shares in group companies. Assumptions are based on the EUR. Leverage was 5.6x (5.7x) at the end of 2018. business plan with a discount interest rate of 10.5-11.0 % after tax and a terminal growth rate of 2 %. Equity At the end of 2017, Perstorp Holding AB (publ.) refinanced the At the end of December 2018 equity for the parent company, floating rate senior secured notes and increased the amount Perstorp Holding AB, amounts to SEK 4,919 m (817), including from EUR 200 m to EUR 250 m, with lower interest rate. The a conversion of shareholder loan to equity, amounting to loan agreements includes covenants which are tested quarterly. SEK 25 m. Consolidated equity, including non controlling interest, These covenants have not been breached. for the Perstorp Group amounts to SEK –2,250 m (–2,383). Following the company’s positive development and the sale of the Bioproduct and Capa™ business, Perstorp, together with its shareholders, assessed the refinancing of the capital structure. Perstorp issued redemption notices for all outstanding bonds and notes issued by Prague CE S.A.R.L during the first quarter 2019. The redemption is financed by the proceeds of the Capa™ sale as well as new credit facilities committed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs Bank USA , DND, SEB, Standard Charted Bank, and Nordea. Free cash flow Free Cash flow for the total Group amounted to SEK 1,450 m (1,275) for the period. The improved earnings was to some extent counterbalanced by less favorable development of working capital and higher investment during 2018 compared to 2017. Cash flow from investment activities was on the same level as the corresponding period 2017 and amounted to SEK 660 m (651). Utilization of the factoring program as of December 31, 2018 amounted to EUR 114 m (114). Free cash flow analysis Total Group Full Year SEK m 2018 2017 EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 2,324 2,133 Change in Working Capital –214 –207 Maintenance capex –457 –306 Free Cash flow before strategic capex 1,654 1,620 % EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 71 76 Strategic Capex –204 –345 Free cash flow 1,450 1,275 % EBITDA excluding non-recurring items 62 60 23 P E R S T O R P 2 018 CONSOLIDATED BAL ANCE SHEE T SEK m Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 ASSETS Non current assets Tangible fixed assets 6 4,502 4,981 Intangible fixed assets 7 4,381 4,835 Deferred tax assets 24 895 207 Participations in associated companies 13 72 68 Other participations 14 208 247 Direct pension, endowment insurance 110 114 Other interest-bearing, long-term receivables 17,22 1 0 Other interest-free, long term receivables 17 3 7 Total non current assets 10,172 10,459 Current assets Inventories 21 1,620 1,434 Accounts receivable 19 863 1,004 Operating receivables, associated companies 0 0 Tax receivable 55 36 Other operating receivables 19 288 256 Other current financial receivables 22 0 0 Cash & cash equivalents 20 565 621 Total 3,391 3,351 Assets held for sale 36 1,320 – Total current assets 4,711 3,351 Total assets 14,883 13,810 EQUITY & LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity Share capital (50 000 000 shares, par value of SEK 0.01 each) 0 0 Other capital contributions 6,609 6,584 Reserves –603 –547 Retained earnings –8,384 –8,564 Equity attributable to owners of the parent –2,378 –2,527 Non controlling interests 16 128 144 Total equity –2,250 –2,383 Non current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 24 710 783 Direct pension 23 136 141 Pensions liability, others 22,23 403 418 Long term liabilities, Parent Company 22 – 22 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 1) 22 13,435 12,363 Other liabilities, provisions 25 65 68 Total non current liabilities 14,749 13,795 Current liabilities Accounts payable 26 968 1,074 Tax liabilities 9 60 Other operating liabilities 26 1,073 1,094 Accrued interest expense 127 143 Other financial liabilities 22 20 27 Liabilities held for sale 36 187 – Total current liabilities 2,384 2,398 Total equity and liabilities 14,883 13,810 1) The amount includes expenses for loan financing in connection with Perstorp Holding AB´s refinancing of senior debt. The amount was SEK -213 (-287) m. 24 A N N UA L R E P O R T CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUIT Y Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company Share Other capital Other Retained Total Non controlling Total SEK m capital contributions reserves earnings interest equity Opening balance, January 1, 2017 0 6,584 –659 –9,005 –3,080 89 –2,991 Net Result for the period – – – 446 446 64 510 Other comprehensive income – – 112 –5 107 -3 104 Transaction with owners, recognised directly in equity – – – – – –6 –6 Closing balance, December 31, 2017 0 6,584 –547 –8,564 –2,527 144 –2,383 Opening balance, January 1, 2018 0 6,584 –547 –8,564 –2,527 144 –2,383 Net Result for the period – – – 185 185 39 224 Other comprehensive income – – –56 –5 –61 7 –54 Transaction with owners, recognised directly in equity – 25 – – 25 -62 –37 Closing balance, December 31, 2018 0 6,609 –603 –8,384 –2,378 128 –2,250 Dividend to shareholders' is limited, subject to customary restrictions under debt agreements. 25 P E R S T O R P 2 018 CONSOLIDATED C A SH FLOW STATEMENT SEK m Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating earnings 1,185 1,253 Adjustments: Depreciation and write-down 511 445 Other –55 –28 Operating activities in discontinued operations 509 399 Interest received and other financial items 7 6 Interest paid and other financial items –1,091 –1,176 Income tax paid –90 –103 Interest and taxes paid in discontinued operations –152 –143 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 824 653 Change in working capital Increase (−) Decrease (+) in inventories –377 –159 Increase (−) Decrease (+) in current receivables 1) –102 –216 Increase (+) Decrease (−) in current liabilities 168 247 Change in working capital in discontinued operations 97 –79 Cash flow from operating activities 610 446 Investing activities Acquisition of net assets, subsidiaries –28 –105 Investment in other participations –3 – Acquisition of tangible and intangible fixed assets –512 –474 Sale of net assets, subsidiaries 28 722 Sales of shares in other participations – 290 Sale of tangible and intangible fixed assets 1 – Change in financial assets, external 0 0 Discontinuing operations –120 –72 Cash flow from investing activities –634 361 Financing activities Dividend paid to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries –35 –6 New loans external – 2,484 Amortization of loans, external – –3,012 Change in credit utilization 2) –7 –80 Cash flow from financing activities –42 –614 Change in cash & liquid funds, incl short-term investments –66 193 Cash and cash equivalents in the operning balance, incl. short-term investments 621 434 Translation difference in cash and cash equivalents 10 –6 Cash & liquid funds, end of period 20 565 621 1) Including trade receivables financing program 2) Including payment of bank fees, SEK – (13) m relating to refinancing 26 A N N UA L R E P O R T The Parent Company year-end accounts INCOME STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY SEK m Note 2018 2017 Net sales 71 59 Gross earnings 71 59 Administration costs –172 –181 Other operating income and expenses 11 –28 –15 Operating earnings (EBIT) 23, 27 –129 –137 Group contribution recieved 4,260 182 Earnings from participations in Group companies 1) 1,100 16 Net financial items 22 –1,238 –839 Earnings /loss before tax 3,993 –778 Tax 24 84 0 Net earnings/loss for the year 2) 4,077 –778 1) Comprises of dividend from subsidiaries of SEK 1,100 (-) m and reversal of previous years write down of shares in subsidiaries of SEK (16) m. 2) Comprehensive income equals Net earnings/loss for the year. 27 P E R S T O R P 2 018 BAL ANCE SHEE T, PARENT COMPANY SEK m Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 ASSETS Non current assets Tangible fixed assets 6 1 2 Intangible fixed assets 7 1 2 Deferred tax assets 24 84 – Shares in group companies 18 7,731 7,731 Long-term receivables, Group companies 22 9,878 6,822 Other participations 14 206 247 Direct pension, endowment insurance 104 108 Total non-current assets 18,005 14,912 Current assets Operating receivables, Group companies 10 12 Tax receivables 4 3 Other operating receivables 19 10 8 Financial receivables, Group companies 22 1,649 586 Total 1,673 609 Cash and cash equivalents 20 23 0 Total current assets 1,696 609 Total assets 19,701 15,521 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity Share capital (50.000.000 shares, par value of SEK 0,01 each) 0 0 Retained earnings 842 1,595 Net earnings/loss for the year 4,077 –778 Total shareholders´equity 4,919 817 Non current liabilities Direct pension 129 134 Long-term liabilities, Parent company 22 – 22 Long-term interest bearing liabilities 1) 22 13,235 12,163 Total non current liabilities 13,364 12,319 Current liabilities Accounts payable 26 13 21 Other operating liabilities, Group companies 1 1 Other operating liabilities 26 51 69 Accrued interest expense 126 142 Financial liabilities, Group companies 22 1,227 2,152 Total current liabilities 1,418 2,385 Total equity and liabilities 19,701 15,521 1) The amount includes expenses for loan financing in connection with Perstorp Holding AB´s refinancing of senior debt. The amount was SEK -213 (-287) m. 28 A N N UA L R E P O R T C A SH FLOW STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY SEK m 2018 2017 Operating activities Operating earnings –129 -137 Interest received 734 664 Interest paid –1,211 –1,294 Dividend from group company 1,100 – Group contribution received 182 – Income tax, paid 0 – Adjustment, depreciation 2 3 Adjustment, change in provisions –1 1 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 677 –763 Change in working capital Increase (−) Decrease (+) in current receivables 0 2 Increase (+) Decrease (−) in current liabilities –27 –63 Cash flow from operating activities 650 –824 Investing activities Sale of financial fixed assets – 290 Changes in financial receivables, group companies –627 1,145 Acquisition of tangible assets – – Cash flow from investing activities –627 1,435 Financing activities New loans external – 2,484 Amortization of loans, external – –3,012 Change in credit utilization 1) – –146 Cash flow from financing activities 0 –674 Change in liquid funds, incl. short-term investments 23 –63 Liquid funds opening balance, incl. short term investments 0 63 Liquid funds, end of period 23 0 1) Including payment of bank fees SEK (13) m relating to refinancing SHAREHOLDER S' EQUIT Y PARENT COMPANY Share Retained Net earnings/loss Total shareholder's SEK m capital earnings for the year equity Opening balance shareholders´equity, January 1, 2017 0 1,411 184 1,595 Transfer of preceding year´s results – 184 –184 0 Net earnings/loss for the year – – –778 –778 Closing balance shareholders´equity, December 31, 2017 0 1,595 -778 817 Opening balance shareholders´equity, January 1, 2018 0 1,595 -778 817 Transfer of preceding year´s results – –778 778 0 Net earnings/loss for the year – – 4,077 4,077 Shareholder´s contribution – 25 – 25 Closing balance shareholders´equity, December 31, 2018 0 842 4,077 4,919 29 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Notes Definitions Notes C APITAL R ATIOS 1 General information 31 AVER AGE C APITAL 2 Summary of major accounting principles 31 Based on monthly balances during the year. 3 Risk management 36 4 Significant estimates & judgements made for C APITAL EMPLOYED Accounting purpose 38 Total assets less interest-free liabilities. 5 Segment information 38 6 Tangible fixed assets 39 EBITDA Represents the Group’s operating earnings (or loss) (EBIT) before 7 Intangible fixed assets 40 depreciation and amortization.EBITDA (adjusted for non-recurring items) 8 Leasing 41 Represents reported EBITDA as adjusted to exclude restructuring costs, capital gains/losses on divestment of companies and disposal of fixed 9 Net sales 41 assets and other non-recurring income and cost. 10 Breakdown of costs 41 11 Other operating income & costs 41 EBIT 12 Earnings from participations in associated Calculated as the Group’s reported operating earnings (loss). companies & joint ventures 41 13 Participations in associated companies FR EE C A SH FLOW & joint ventures 42 Calculated as EBITDA (excluding non-recurring items) less change in 14 Other participations 42 working capital excluding exchange rate effects and provisions and investments. 15 Non controlling interests´ share in Net profit/loss for the year 42 NE T DEBT 16 Non controlling interests 42 Interest-bearing liabilities, including provision for pensions, less financial 17 Other long-term receivables 42 interest-bearing receivables. Activated costs for arranging financing are 18 Parent company shares in group companies 43 excluded from Net debt. 19 Accounts receivable & other operating receivables 44 20 Cash & cash equivalents 44 LE VER AGE Net debt excluding parent company loan 21 Inventories 44 and pension liabilities/EBITDA excluding non-recurring items. 22 Borrowings & financial costs 45 23 Pension obligations & costs 45 24 Current & deferred income taxes 48 25 Other liabilities, provisions 49 26 Accounts payable & other operating liabilities 49 27 Employees & wages, salaries & other remuneration 50 28 Contingent liabilities 52 29 Assets pledged 52 30 Future undertakings 52 31 Transactions with related parties 52 32 Proportion of board members & senior executives who are women 52 33 Auditors’ fees 53 34 Currency exchange rates 53 35 Acquisition 53 36 Divestment 53 37 Key events after the end of the financial year 53 30 A N N UA L R E P O R T NOTE 1. GENER AL INFORMATION Leasing For the Parent Company, all leasing agreements are reported according to the Perstorp is an international specialty chemicals group and a global leader in rules for operational leasing. high growth niches. The Group has around 1,500 employees and manufacturing facilities in Europe, North America and Asia. The Perstorp Group is controlled by Changes in accounting policies the European private equity company PAI Partners. The new standards and interpretations below, came into effect as of January 1, The Group was formed at the end of 2005. PAI partners control the Group through 2018. Perstorp has chosen the forward looking method has been applied. The Luxembourg-based Financière Forêt S.à r.l., corp. reg. no. R.C.S. Luxembourg: implementation of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 had no material effect on the Group’s or B 111,888, which owns 100 % of Perstorp Holding AB. The acquisition balance segments’ financial reporting. sheet for the Group was completed as of 2006. The Parent Company is a limited IFRS 9 ’Financial instruments’ concerns the classification, valuation and reporting liability company that is registered and has its Head Office in Malmö, Sweden. of financial assets and liabilities. IFRS 9 replaced IAS 39 and the main changes The address to the head office is Neptunigatan 1, 201 25 Malmö, Sweden. relate to classification and measurement of financial instruments, hedge accounting The Board approved this report, for publication on April 30, 2019. and provisions for expected credit losses. The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet and the parent company’s IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition Income Statement and Balance Sheet will be subject to adoption at the Annual and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial General Meeting (AGM) on May 10, 2019. statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. NOTE 2 . SUMMARY OF MA JOR ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 2 . 2 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTING The principal accounting principles applied in the preparation of these consolidated Subsidiaries accounts are stated below. The principles are unchanged compared with all years Subsidiaries are all companies in which the Group has control. The Group of comparison unless otherwise stated. controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are included in the 2 .1 BA SIS OF PREPAR ATIONS consolidated accounts from the date on which the Group gains this decisive influence. Subsidiaries are excluded from the consolidated accounts from the Group date on which the decisive influence ceases. The Group uses the acquisition The consolidated accounts for Perstorp Holding AB have been prepared in method. The cost of an acquisition of a subsidiary compromises the fair values accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued recommendation concerning Supplementary Accounting Rules for Group´s (RFR 1) by the Group. and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as approved by the European Commission. (IFRS has been applied by the Group since The cost of an acquisition includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting 2005). The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the from a contingent consideration arrangement. The contingent consideration is acquisition value method, apart from matters applying to financial assets held for normally accounted for as a liabilities/provision and a re-evaluation is accounted sale and financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that are for in income statement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. fair valued via the income statement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition Preparing financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the use of a number date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognizes any non of important accounting estimates. In addition, management must make certain controlling interest in the acquirer’s either at fair value or at the non-controlling judgments when applying the company’s accounting principles. The areas subject interest’s proportionate share of the acquirer’s net assets. The surplus, which to a high degree of judgment and that are complex, or those areas in which consists of the difference between the acquisition value and the fair value of assumptions or estimates have been made that are of material importance to the the Group’s share of identifiable acquired assets, liabilities and contingent consolidated accounts, are presented in Note 4. liabilities, is reported as goodwill. If the acquisition cost is less than the fair value of the acquired subsidiary’s net assets, the difference is reported directly Parent Company in the income statement. The Parent Company’s financial reports are produced in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and recommendations from the Swedish Financial Reporting All intra-Group transactions, balance sheet items and unrealized gains and Board concerning Reporting for legal entities (RFR 2). The starting point for RFR 2 losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in the is that the Parent Company shall implement all of the EU-approved standards and consolidated accounts. interpretations as far as possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish law safeguarding pension commitments and with consideration The accounting principles for subsidiaries have been changed, where for the relationship between accounting and taxation. The main differences necessary, to guarantee the consistent and appropriate application of Group between the Group’s and Parent Company’s accounting principles are as follows: principles. When the Group ceases to have control of a subsidiary it recognizes any investSubsidiaries ment retained in the former subsidiary at its fair value at the date when control Shares in subsidiaries are reported at the time of acquisition at acquisition value/ is lost. The change in the carrying amount is recognized in income statement. fair value. This value remains until impairment is carried out. Impairment tests of The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently reported balance sheet values are carried out in accordance with chapter 2.10. accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial The change in IFRS 3 regarding transaction cost shall not apply for the Parent asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive Company´s financial reporting. Transaction cost shall be accounted for as part income in respect of that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group had of the acquisition value and is therefore capitalized under the “Group company directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts holdings”. Furthermore, because the Parent Company does not report financial previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to instrument in accordance with IAS 39 they shall not account for a contingent income statement. consideration at fair value, as stated in IFRS 3. Instead the Parent Company account for a contingent consideration as part of the acquisition value only if Associated companies it is likely that the consideration will be paid. The contingent consideration is Associated companies are companies over which the Group exercises a controlling accounted as a liabilities/provision and any future re-evaluation is accounted for influence, which generally applies to shareholdings corresponding to 20 to 50 % as a change in acquisition value under the “Group company holdings”. of the voting rights. Group contribution & shareholders’ contribution Holdings in associated companies are accounted for using the equity method In accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board RFR 2, the Parent and are initially valued at acquisition value, including any goodwill identified Company reports received Group contributions from subsidiaries as dividends and on acquisition. The Group’s share of associated company earnings arising after reports them in the income statement. Shareholder contributions are reported acquisition is reported after tax in the Group’s operating earnings. Classification in directly under the shareholders’ equity of the receiver and are capitalized under the income statement is the consequence of the company conducting operations the “Group company holdings” of the provider to the extent that impairment is in line with the rest of the Group. Accumulated changes following the acquisition not required. are reported as changes in the book value of the holding. When the Group’s share of an associated company’s losses amounts to or exceeds its holding in Pensions the associated company, including any unsecured receivables, the Group does The Parent Company reports pension commitments in accordance with the not report further losses unless it has assumed obligations or made payments Swedish law safeguarding pension commitments. Adjustments are made to the on behalf of the associated company. accounts at Group level in accordance with IAS 19. 31 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Unrealized gains on transactions between the Group and its associated compaGroup companies nies are eliminated in relation to the Group’s holding in the associated company. The earnings and financial position of all Group companies are established in Unrealized losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction is evidence of there each company’s functional currency (none of which is classified as a high-inflation being an impairment requirement for the transferred asset. The accounting currency). In the consolidated accounts these amounts are then translated into the principles for associated companies have been changed in places to guarantee Group’s reporting currency (SEK) in accordance with the following: the consistent and appropriate application of Group principles. • assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated at the exchange rate When the Group ceases to have a controlling influence over an associate it shall applying on the balance-sheet date account for the investment in accordance with IFRS 9 from that date, provided the associated does not become a subsidiary. On the loss of the controlling • income and costs for each income statement are translated at the average influence the investment is measured at it´s fair value. The change in the carrying exchange rate for each year, and amount is recognized in income statement. • all exchange-rate differences that arise are reported as a separate item in Joint arrangements consolidated shareholders’ equity in the consolidated statement of comprehensive Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint income. ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. On consolidation, exchange-rate differences arising as a consequence of the Perstorp has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them translation of net investments in foreign operations, borrowing and other currency to be joint ventures. Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. instruments identified as hedges for such investments are allocated to shareholders’ Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially equity in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. On the divestment recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the group’s share of the of foreign operations, accumulated exchange-rate differences in the income post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income. statement are reported under shareholders’ equity in the consolidated statement When the group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests of comprehensive income as part of the capital gain/loss. Goodwill and adjustments in the joint ventures (which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, of fair value arising from the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as assets form part of the group’s net investment in the joint ventures), the group does and liabilities associated with such operations and are translated at the exchange not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments rate applying on the balance-sheet date. on behalf of the joint ventures. Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 2 . 4 RE VENUE RECOGNITION Sales of goods Other participations IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, the new IFRS for revenue Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for recognition, has been endorsed by the EU and took effect on 1 January 2018. trading. A financial asset is classified as non-current asset if expected to be settled IFRS 15 has replaced IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. beyond 12 months, otherwise they are classified as current assets. The revenue standard, IFRS 15, establishes a new five step model of recognizing Non-controlling interest revenue from customer contracts. It requires revenue to be recognized when The share of net assets belonging to the non-controlling interest is reported control of goods and services are transferred to the customer. The five step model as a separate item in consolidated shareholders’ equity. In the consolidated consist of; income statement the non-controlling interest is included in reported earnings. Identify contracts with customers The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions A contract is an agreement between two or more parties that creates enforcewith equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-controlling interests, able rights and obligations. the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or Identify the separate performance obligation losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. A contract with a customer contains a promise to transfer goods or service to the customer. Saleable financial assets Saleable financial assets are non-derivative assets where the assets are identified Determine the transaction price of the contract as saleable or not classified in any other category. They are reported as noncurrent The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which a company expects assets if management doesn’t intend to dispose of the asset within 12 months to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer, after the end of the reporting period. Acquisitions of saleable financial assets excluding VAT, discounts and returns. When such components are identified are valued on the trade date at the acquisition value. Changes to the fair value Perstorp determines if a portion of the revenue and any related cost should be of securities are classified as saleable financial assets and reported in other deferred to a later period. comprehensive income. Investments with no listed market price on an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably ascertained must be valued at the Allocate the transaction price to each of the separate performance obligations acquisition cost. Once the transaction price has been determined, it is to be allocated to the distinct performance obligations that have been identified. Recognise the revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied 2 . 3 CURRENC Y TR ANSL ATION Revenue is recognized when a company has satisfied a performance obligation, Functional currency & reporting currency which is when the control of the goods or services has been transferred to the Items included in the financial reports of the various Group units are valued in customer. the currency used in the economic environment in which each company mainly operates (functional currency). In the consolidated accounts, SEK is used, which is The effects of this change for Perstorp group have been identified in a project the Parent Company’s functional currency and the Group’s reporting currency. and there is no material effect or deviations compared to previous standards. No adjustments of opening balances for 2018 have been made. The majority of Petstorp’s revenues consist of sales of products that are recognised as revenue at Transactions & balance sheet items a point in time. The sale is recognised as revenue when control of the products Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency has been transferred to the customer. This is usually when the risk and reward according to the exchange rates applicable on the transaction date or the date criteria are passed to the customer. The group has a variety of delivery terms and when the items are re-assessed. Exchange-rate gains and losses arising through these impact when control of the products is passed to the customer. the payment of such transactions and on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies at the exchange rate applicable on the closing date Interest income are reported in the income statement under “Other income and expenses” when the underlying receivable/liability is operational; otherwise in net financial items. Interest income is recognized as revenue distributed over the contract term using The exception is where transactions represent hedges meeting the requirements the effective interest method. for hedge accounting of cash flows or net investments, where gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of Received dividends comprehensive income. Dividends are reported as revenue when the right to receive the dividend is judged to be certain. 32 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 .5 INCOME TA XES economic benefits that exceed the costs for more than one year, the software is Reported income taxes in the income statement include current tax, adjustment reported as an intangible asset. Personnel expenses for software development of prior-year current tax and changes in deferred tax. Tax is reported directly in and a reasonable portion of attributable indirect costs are included. Costs for shareholders’ equity if the tax is attributable to transactions that are reported capitalized software licenses and software development are amortized over their directly in shareholders’ equity. estimated useful life, which may not exceed three years. All capitalized assets in this category are subject to an annual test concerning utilization period and Calculation of income tax and assessment of all current and deferred tax liabilities impairment requirement. and receivables are made in accordance with each Group company’s national tax regulations and tax rates that have been decided or that with a great degree of certainty will be determined and apply when the tax is to be paid. It can be 2 .7 TANGIBLE FIXED A SSE T S added that the Group management team regularly assesses claims made in Tangible fixed assets are reported at their acquisition value less accumulated tax assessments concerning situations where applicable tax rules are subject to depreciation according to plan and in certain cases less impairment. The acquisition interpretation. When interpretations change and when it is considered to be value includes expenses that can be directly attributable to the acquisition of an appropriate, allocations are adjusted to the amount that will probably be paid to asset. the tax authority. This also includes borrowing costs attributable to acquisitions of fixed assets that Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balance sheet method on the take a significant amount of time to complete for use (these were previously basis of all material temporary differences between the book values and taxable charged directly). Additional expenses are added to the asset’s reported value or values of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets pertaining to unutilized tax loss reported as a separate asset, depending on which is appropriate, but only if it is carry-forwards are only reported when it is likely that it will be possible to realize probable that the future economic benefits associated with the asset accrue to the loss carry-forwards within the foreseeable future. the Group and the asset’s acquisition value can be measured reliably. Reported value for replaced parts is deducted from capitalized value. All other forms Deferred tax assets/liabilities are offset when there is a legal right to offset the of expenses for repairs and maintenance are reported as costs in the income asset or liability in question and when deferred tax assets/liabilities relate to taxes statement during the period they arise. debited by the same tax authority. In this context there shall also be an intention to settle the item through a new payment. Straight-line depreciation is applied based on the asset’s acquisition value and estimated useful life. When the assets’ depreciable amount is established the residual value of the asset is also considered as appropriate. The following 2 .6 INTANGIBLE FIXED A SSE T S depreciation periods are used: Goodwill comprises the amount by which the acquisition value exceeds the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary Buildings 20–50 years at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on the acquisition of Group companies is Land improvements 10–35 years reported as an intangible asset. Machinery and equipment 10–30 years Computers, tools and cars max. 5 years Goodwill is tested annually in order to identify impairment requirements. When conducting tests to identify possible impairment requirements, goodwill is divided Land and construction in progress are not depreciated. among cash-generating units and each unit is tested individually. The reported The residual value and useful life of assets are impairment tested regularly or value of goodwill comprises therefore the acquisition value less accumulated when external or internal circumstances dictate such impairment testing, and impairments. Impairment of goodwill is not recovered. Trademarks, patents and are adjusted as necessary. An asset’s book value is immediately impaired to its licenses that apply to separately acquired assets from external parties are reported recoverable amount if the asset’s book value exceeds its estimated recoverable initially at acquisition value. Trademarks, patents and licenses acquired through amount. See chapter 2.10. Gains and losses on divestment are determined by acquisition of a business are reported initially at their fair value on the day of comparing the sales proceeds and the book value and are reported in the income acquisition. Trademarks, patents and licences that have a determinable period of statement under the heading Other operating income and expenses. utilization are assessed individually and depreciated linearly based on this, normally over 5–30 years. Assets with unlimited utilization periods are not normally subject to depreciation. 2 . 8 LE A SING For the Group, assets with an indeterminate life length within this category refer The Group is party to leasing agreements whereby the Group as leaseholder to to the Perstorp, which in connection with the allocation of acquisition values in all extents and purposes profits from the economic benefits relating to the leased 2006, were judged to have an unlimited life, based on the company’s 135 year object while also bearing the economic risks. These agreements are recognized as history and the continuous renewal process. Annual testing of possible impairment financial leasing. At the start of the leasing period the leasing object is reported requirements is performed for assets in this category. as a fixed asset in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value and the current value of the contracted minimum leasing fees. On the liability side, the estimated Technological know-how was identified as a balance sheet item in connection value of the commitment is offset against future cash flow based upon the with the allocation of acquisition values in 2006 and its acquisition value has leasing agreement. linear depreciation to divide the costs over the assessed utilization period of 30 years. Testing of possible impairment requirements is performed annually. A division is made between short-term and long-term borrowing depending on Customer relations: In connection with the allocation of acquisition values in the due date for payment. Upon settlement the paid sum is divided between 2006, a value was identified that reflects the future value generation related to amortization of debt and the financial costs. The interest part of the financial cost core customers. A value for intangible assets was established relating to customer is reported in the income statement over the leasing period, so that each period relations in connection with the acquisition of the UK business in 2008. The acincludes an amount that corresponds to a fixed interest rate for the reported quisition value has linear depreciation in order to divide the cost over the lifespan debt during the period. Capitalized fixed assets in financial leasing agreements of the relations which is expected to be 30 years and 10 years respectively. Annual are depreciated according to the same principles used for other assets. Some testing of impairment requirements is performed through the analysis of future of the Group’s leasing contracts pertain to vehicles and computers, which have value generation in respect of sales to core customers, adjusted for the values been reported as operational leasing. already recognized in the form of trademarks and technological know-how. Research costs are expensed directly when they arise, while expenses relating to the development of new products/processes are capitalized as intangible assets 2 .9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT S if they fulfill the following criteria: the expenses must be identifiable in a reliable A financial asset or liability is initially recognized in the balance sheet when the way, the management team intends to complete production of the asset and company becomes a party to the contractual conditions of the instrument. A use/ sell it, there must be external preconditions for using/selling the asset, and financial asset is derecognized from the balance sheet when all benefits and it must be highly probable that the asset will generate future financial benefits. risks associated with ownership have been transferred. A financial liability is Unless all criteria are met, the cost is reported directly. Costs that have previously derecognized from the balance sheet when the obligations of the contract have been expensed may not subsequently be reported as assets. The amortization of been met, or otherwise extinguished. Financial instruments are initially measured capitalized development costs is linear and starts when the product starts to be at fair value and, subsequently, at fair value or accumulated amortized cost, produced commercially or the process starts to be used for commercial production. depending on their classification. All financial derivatives are measured at fair The amortization period must not exceed five years. Tests are performed annually value. The purchase and sale of financial assets is recognized on the transaction to see if there is an impairment requirement. date, which is the date the Group undertakes to purchase or sell the asset. Software: Acquired software licenses are capitalized on the basis of the costs that have arisen for acquiring and deploying the software. Costs for the development and maintenance of software are normally expensed when they arise. If the particular software is unique, controlled by the Group and will probably generate 33 P E R S T O R P 2 018 From January 1, 2018, the Group applies the policy of recognizing a loss allowReceivables and liabilities in foreign currencies ance for financial assets and receivables classified at amortized cost. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies are measured at the exchange rate prevailing on the closing date. Exchange rate differences on operating receivables Some measurements are conducted according to the effective interest method. and operating liabilities are reported at “Other operating income and expenses”, The effective interest rate is the rate that, on discounting of all future anticipated while exchange rate differences on financial receivables and liabilities are classicash flows over the expected term, results in the initially recognized value of the fied as financial items. See also Note 2.3 for translation of foreign currencies. financial asset or the financial liability. Offsetting of financial instruments Classification of financial instruments financial assets Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognized at net amount in the Debt instruments: classification of financial assets that are debt instruments is balance sheet only when a legal right exists to offset the recognized amount based on the Group's business model for the management of the asset and the and there is an intention to settle the amount net, or simultaneously realize the characteristics of the asset's contractual cash flows. asset and settle the liability. This legal right may not be dependent on future events and it must be legally binding for the company and the counterparty in Instruments are classified at: the normal business operations and also in the event of payment cancellation, • amortized cost insolvency or bankruptcy. • fair value through other comprehensive income, or Comparative year 2017 Classification and measurement of financial • fair value through profit and loss instruments in accordance with IAS39. Financial instruments for the 2017 comparative year are recognized by applying Financial assets classified at amortized cost are initially measured at fair value IAS39. In its balance sheet, the Group reports financial instruments that comprise plus transaction costs. Accounts receivable are initially recognized at the invoice loans, other financial receivables, accounts receivable, liquid funds, borrowings, amount. After initial recognition, the assets are measured according to the accounts payable and derivatives. Instruments are included in the accounts at the effective interest method. Assets classified at amortized cost are held under the time when the Group becomes a party to them in accordance with contracted business model of collecting contractual cash flows that are solely payments terms. In the same way the instrument is removed when the asset and its of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The assets are benefits/risks are no longer attributable to the Group, nor controlled by it, or covered by a reserve for expected credit losses (loss allowance). when an undertaking is completed or ended in any other way. Assessment is initially made at fair value and thereafter at fair value or accrued acquisition value The Group does not have any assets classified at fair value through other depending on the classification of the instrument. An assessment of the need for comprehensive income. Fair value through profit and loss is all other debt impairment is made frequently, see 2.10. instruments that are not measured at amortized cost or fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial instruments in this category are initially Financial instruments are offset and reported at net value in the balance sheets measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value are recognized in profit and loss. only when there is a legal right to offset between the amounts and there is an The Group's debt instruments are classified at amortized cost. intention to settle the amounts with a net sum, or alternatively to realize the asset and settle the liability at the same time. Derivatives: classified at fair value through profit and loss except if they are classified as hedging instruments in cash-flow hedges or hedges of net investments Financial instruments assessed at fair value via the income statement in foreign operations when the effective portion of the hedge is then recognized in “Other comprehensive income.” This category includes financial assets/liabilities held for trading plus derivative instruments not identified as hedge instruments. Assessment at fair value via Classification of financial instruments – financial liabilities the income statement occurs at both the time of acquisition and at regular assessments thereafter. Debt instruments: classified at amortized cost except for derivatives. Financial liabilities recognized at amortized cost are initially measured at fair value including Loans & accounts receivable transaction costs. After initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost according to the effective interest method. Loans and accounts receivable are reported initially at fair value. Thereafter, loans are reported at accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method. Derivatives: classified at fair value through profit and loss except if they are clasAccounts receivable are normally reported at their original fair value when the sified as hedging instruments in cash-flow hedges or hedges of net investments effect of discounting is considered to be marginal. When an assessment is made in foreign operations when the effective portion of the hedge is then recognized by the Group that a receivable will not be paid, and there is objective evidence in “Other comprehensive income.” for this, a reservation is made. See further under point 2.10. Loss allowance for expected credit losses Cash & cash equivalents The Group's financial assets and receivables, except for those classified at fair Cash and cash equivalents include cash and bank balances and other short-term value through profit and loss, are subject to impairment for expected credit investments maturing within three months and that can easily be converted into losses. cash. Impairment for credit losses under IFRS 9 includes forward-looking factors and Borrowings a loss allowance is established when there is exposure to credit risk, already in Borrowings are reported initially at fair value, net after transaction costs. Other connection with initial recognition. borrowing expenses are also reported in the income statement based on the period to which they relate including borrowing costs attributed over a period. Expected credit losses reflect the present value of all deficits in cash flows For classification reasons, borrowings are reported as short-term liabilities to the attributable to payment cancellations. Expected credit losses reflect an unbiased extent that the Group does not have a unconditional right to defer payment of and probability-weighted amount that considers range of possible outcomes the liabilities for at least 12 months after the closing date. Other borrowings are based on reasonable and supportable forward-looking information. reported analogously as long-term liabilities. A simplified approach is applied to accounts receivable. Under this approach, a loss allowance is recognized using a provision matrix. Borrowing costs General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, The financial assets are recognized in the balance sheet at amortized cost, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily meaning the net of the gross amount and the loss allowance. Changes in the loss take an substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are allowance are recognized in profit or loss in EBIT for accounts receivable and as added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially financial expenses or income for other provisions. The Group's credit exposure is ready for their intended use or sale. presented in Note 3 and in Note 22. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which Calculation of fair value they are incurred. The fair value of unlisted financial instruments, or if the market of a certain financial asset is not active, the value is determined by applying a present value Accounts payable calculation that relies on several factors, such as profit/loss, business plan, Accounts payable are undertakings to pay for goods/services acquired in the financial forecast and market data to reflect the market conditions on the closing ongoing business and are reported at fair value. date. For other financial instruments with no specified market value, the fair value is deemed to correspond to the carrying amount. 34 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 .10 IMPAIRMENT 2 .13 PROVISIONS Tangible and intangible assets with an indeterminate useful life are not depreciProvisions are reported when the Group has an existing legal or informal ated/amortized but are subject to annual testing of impairment requirements. obligation as a result of the occurrence of an event for which it is probable that Tangible and intangible assets with a determined useful life are assessed for a an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and for which reduction in value whenever events or changes in conditions indicate that the book the amount can be reasonably estimated. Provisions for restructuring are primarily value may not be recoverable. Impairment is recognized in the amount by which reported for severance pay and other costs affecting cash flow that arise in the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s book value exceeds its recoverable value, connection with restructuring of the Group’s activities. which in the current situation means the higher of the utilization value or fair value with deductions for sales costs. In connection with the test an assessment is made as to whether there has been a change in the recovered value for an individual 2 .14 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT S asset/cash-generating unit and if the previous impairment can be recovered fully Derivative instruments are assessed at fair value and are reported in the balance or partly. Impairment is never recovered for goodwill. A test for an impairment sheet on the contract date. The Group uses currency forwards and swaps to requirement is performed for financial assets at the end of the report period. hedge intra-Group borrowings in different currencies. No interest-rate swaps are Impairment is performed as soon as there is objective evidence that events have currently used. Changes in fair value are directly reported as financial items in the taken place which indicate that estimated future cash flows from an asset will be income statement since Perstorp is not applying the exception rules on hedge lower than the reported balance sheet total. The impairment amount is calculated accounting. as the difference between the asset’s reported value and assessed future cash flow (current value is calculated for instruments classified as fixed assets). If there are observable market prices for the instrument, the impairment calculation is based on this fair value. In connection with the test an assessment is also made if events 2 .15 NON CURRENT A SSE T S (OR DISPOSAL GROUP S) have occurred, and objective evidence is available, which mean that a previously HELD FOR SALE carried out impairment shall be returned fully or partly. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. They are stated at the lower of carrying 2 .11 INVENTORIES amount and fair value less costs to sell. Inventories are reported on the closing date at the lower of acquisition value and net realizable value. The acquisition value is determined using a method mainly based on weighted average prices. The acquisition value of finished products and 2 .16 NE W STANDARDS AND INTERPRE TATIONS work in progress consists of raw materials, direct payroll expenses, other direct NOT YE T ADOP TED costs and attributable indirect manufacturing costs (based on normal manufacIFRS 16 Leases comes into effect on 1 January 2019. This Standard regulates the turing capacity). Borrowing costs are not included; there are no inventories for recognition of leases and will replace IAS 17 “Leases” and the associated IFRIC 4, which IAS 23 is applicable. The net realizable value is the estimated selling price SIC-15 and SIC-27 interpretation statements. The Standard requires that assets based on continuing operations, less applicable variable selling costs. and liabilities related to all lease arrangements are recognized in the Balance Sheet with certain exceptions. Recognition is based on the view that the lessee is entitled to use an asset for a specific period of time, and has a simultaneous 2 .12 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT S obligation to pay for that right. Pensions Work on analyzing and evaluating the effects of adoption of the new Standard The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. on the Group's financial reporting has been performed and the Group has identiThe characteristic of a defined-contribution pension plan is that the Group fied over 200 arrangements at the year end 2018. Contracts governing rights of pays a fixed contribution to a separate legal entity. After the premium is paid use with a shorter term than 12 months or with acquisition costs of less than USD the Group has no legal or informal obligations to pay additional fees if the 5,000 are not included. A marginal lending rate has been set by region. counter party does not have sufficient assets to pay benefits to employee relating to the employee’s service in earlier years. There are therefore no provisions in Perstorp Group separate the non-lease components from the lease components the consolidated balance sheet or among contingent liabilities for this category related to rental of premises, leased cars and IT equipment. For rental of storage of pension. Defined-benefit pension plans are not determined by contributions; tanks these payments include non-lease components as they are not possible they are instead a commitment for the Group and are thus balanced as a to separate from lease payments. The incremental borrowing rates used for provision. The commitment comprises an amount for the pension benefit an discounting lease payments are based on the same principals as borrowings employee shall receive upon retirement, which is assessed with reference to within the Group, cost of funds for long-term or short-term borrowing, plus an age, years of service, future salary increase and inflation. The pension plans are additional credit spread to reflect the slightly weaker creditworthiness of the normally financed through payments to insurance companies or funds managed borrower compared to the consolidated Perstorp Group. by asset managers in accordance with periodical actuarial calculations. Perstorp Group will apply IFRS 16 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit initially applying the standard recognized at the 1st of January 2019, the so called pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end modified retrospective approach. This means that no comparative figures will be of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit recalculated and the full effect of the Standard will be restated in the opening obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected balances for 2019. unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest For essentially all of its leases, Perstorp Group has decided to measure the rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in opening balance of the right-of-use assets as if IFRS16 has been applied since the which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating commencement date, but discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no the 1st of January 2019. For portfolios including leases with reasonably similar deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used. characteristics, the same discount rate has been used for all leases included in a portfolio. A right-of-use asset and a lease liability need not be measured for Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in leases for which the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of initial actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive application. Therefore, no assets or liabilities have been measured for leases income in the period in which they arise. The Group’s payments for definedwith an end date during 2019. Initial direct costs have been excluded from the contribution pension plans are reported as a cost during the period when the measurement of the right-of-use assets at the date of initial application. employee performed the services to which the contributions pertain. For defined-contribution plans, the interest effect and return on plan assets Hindsight have been used, such as in determining the lease term if the contract attributable to the plan are reported in net financial items, while other costs contains options to extend or terminate the lease. This practical expedient means are included in operating profit. that Perstorp Group been able to solely use information that existed at around the implementation when it comes to determining the lease term. Remuneration for redundancy The Group estimates that adoption of the new Standard affect Assets by SEK Remuneration is paid for redundancy when an employee’s employment is 101 m, and liabilities will increase by SEK 108 m. Equity will decrease by SEK 7 m. terminated before normal retirement or when the employee accepts voluntary The Group's expectation is that IFRS 16 will have a somewhat positive effect on redundancy in exchange for remuneration. The Group reports severance pay EBITDA. when a formal plan is presented or an offer is made and an obligation or legal undertaking is created. Other remuneration & bonus plans Other short-term remuneration to employee is reported as a cost when an employee has performed a service in exchange for remuneration. Reservations for bonuses are reported continually as a liability and cost in accordance with predicted outcome and the economic impact of the agreement. 35 P E R S T O R P 2 018 NOTE 3. RISK MANAGEMENT NE T A SSE T S PER CURRENC Y, BEFORE & AF TER LOANS IN FOREIGN CURRENC Y 3.1 FINANCIAL RISK FAC TOR S Net assets per Loans in Exposed The Groups treasury policy governs the financial risks the Group is prepared currency, before foreign currency, net assets to take and sets guidelines for how these risks should be managed. Corporate loans in foreign Swedish Finance has global responsibility for the Group’s financing activities. SEK m currency companies EUR 478 –7,774 –7,296 Currency risk USD –1,259 –5,673 –6,932 The currency risk is the risk that the Group’s earnings and net assets will be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. The Group has considerable GBP 450 – 450 flows, earnings and assets in foreign currency, primarily in EUR and USD. Both SEK –2,812 13,447 10,635 sales and raw material purchase is primarily USD or EUR based, whereas a large Other currencies 766 – 766 portion of costs is in SEK, mainly as a result of the fact that more than half of the Group’s employees are based at Swedish sites. Total –2,377 0 –2,377 At the end of 2018 there was positive exposure in SEK concerning net assets per NE T SALES PER GEOGR APHIC MARKE T, % currency. This is because a large part of the intangible assets that existed when PAI partners acquired Perstorp was in SEK and in GBP due to the acquisition of the caprolactones business not being financed through loans in GBP. Exposure of net assets in EUR and USD are correspondingly negative because the Group 50 %, EU has raised loans in both those currencies to a greater extent than that which 4 %, Europe (not EU) corresponds to assets. The translation affect if SEK is changing by 1% against the 19 %, NAFTA USD/EUR, will be approximately SEK 136 million and affect the financial net. 21 %, Asia 4 %, South & Latin America 2 %, Africa LIABILITIES, INTEREST R ATES & FINANCIAL 0 %, Oceania INSTRUMENT S, PER DUE DATE The table below shows the market value of the Group’s financial liabilities and derivative instruments with their due dates. The amounts shown are the agreed, undiscounted amounts. The Group’s currency transaction exposure for 2018 is to some extent naturally 0–1 1–2 2–5 >5 hedged through the interest payments on the EUR and USD denominated bonds. As of 31 December 2018 years years years years Borrowings SWAP S AND F X FORWARDS Amortization (incl. Future PIK-interest) –17 –14,279 SEK m Market value Nominal amount Interest –1,297 –1,329 –1,339 Internal lending Derivative instruments EUR 0 –16 Interest swaps – USD – – Currency swaps outgoing –469 Other –1 –86 Currency swaps ingoing 805 Liquidity purposes Currency swaps net amount 336 EUR –1 –368 Accounts Payable & Other Liabilities –2,093 USD 1 405 Other –3 400 FX Forward EUR 0 16 Financing risk Financing risk refers to the risk that refinancing of due loans becomes more difficult or expensive. The Group’s principal financing consists of corporate bonds listed on the Channel Islands Securities Exchange since November 2016, E XPOSURE PER CURRENC Y, FOREC A ST FOR 2019 1) a mezzanine facility and a Revolving Credit Facility. The maturity structure of this financing is presented in note 22b. Loan agreements are linked to Financial Net sales Operating EBITDA Financial Net Translated Covenants that include key indicators for net debt in relation to EBITDA and costs payments2) to SEK m3) EBITDA in relation to interest payments. The parent loan of approximately MEUR 2 was converted into equity in 2018. USD 453 –349 104 –39 65 583 EUR 654 –453 201 –32 169 1,737 1) Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. INTERESTR ATE RISK 2) Based on new capital structure (implemented February 28, 2019) Interest risk refers to the risk of a negative impact on earnings due to a rise in 3) Currency rate on closing day. market interest rates. Note 22, table C, shows the interest rate and fixed period per currency as per December 31, 2018. Main part of the external financing, 59%, is issued to a fixed interest rate. The remaining part is issued with a floor interest Liquidity risk rate that is higher than the current EUR base rate level. The current market situaThe liquidity risk is monitored through rolling cash flow forecasts which gives tion with negative EUR base rates therefore gives a low sensitivity to changes in early warning signals and enables correspondingly early corrective measures to interest rates. safeguard that the Group has sufficient liquid assets and unutilized credit facilities to meet current payments. 36 A N N UA L R E P O R T COUNTERPART Y RISK /CUSTOMER SENSITIVIT Y On the closing date the Group had credit insurance, letters of credit or other Counterparty risk relates to the credit risk that may arise when a counterpart canpledged securities amounting to SEK 5 (14) m. Of these, SEK 0 (0) m is attributnot fulfil its commitments and thus causes a financial loss to the Group. Limits for able to receivables that have fallen due for payment. Of receivables that have financial counterparts are regulated in the Group’s treasury policy and stipulates fallen due and which are associated with a limited credit risk due to pledged that bilateral credit facilities shall be provided by financial institutions with a securities, SEK 0 (0) m are over 30 days due. minimum A3 rating from Moody’s or Afrom Standard & Poor’s which is regularly monitored. For financial counterparts, the exposure at year-end, defined here as unrealized gains for short term currency swaps amounts to zero. CONCENTR ATION RISK OF ACCOUNT S RECEIVABLE In addition there is a group credit policy. The purpose of this policy is to establish DIVIDED BY GEOGR APHIC REGION, % standard procedures to minimize credit losses. The credit policy sets a framework for approving credit, defines who has responsibility and how deliveries may be approved in the event of limits being exceeded or customers having overdue 43 %, EU payments. Internal guidelines also include procedures for monitoring outstanding 2 %, Europe (not EU) receivables before and after the maturity date depending on materiality and the 3 %, North America individual customer’s risk profile. 8 %, South America 40 %, Asia The Group’s outstanding customer receivables on the closing date amounted to 4 %, Africa SEK 863 (1,004) m. The amounts reported are those that are expected to be repaid 0 %, Oceania by customers based on an individual assessment of outstanding receivables and thereby including a reserve for expected/stated customer losses amounting to SEK 10 (9) m. Account receivables that are overdue are closely monitored in order to not increase the exposure. If a bilateral agreement cannot be reached with the customer it is sent for external credit collection and as a last step also to court. The latter processes tend to take long time and therefore the Group applies a prudent CONCENTR ATION RISK OF ACCOUNT S RECEIVABLE BA SED policy when to write off a receivable. ON SIZE OF CUSTOMER , % To highlight the credit quality of receivables that has either fallen due for payment or have been written down, a maturity analysis is presented below (see note 19) for a maturity analysis of all accounts receivable). The book value of accounts 2 %, More than 20 MSEK receivable is equal to the fair value since the effect of discounting is not material. It 5 %, 10–20 MSEK should also be noted that it is not uncommon for a receivable to be settled shortly 20 %, 5–10 MSEK after the due date, which affects the maturity interval by 1–10 days. 44 %, 1–5 MSEK 29 %, Less than 1 MSEK The Group’s sales and thus also its accounts receivable are divided among a large number of customers spread across a wide geographic area. This limits the concentration of credit risk exposure. See diagram below. The distribution of customers based on the size of accounts receivable at the end of the period is presented in diagram below. The segment with amounts exceeding SEK 20 m refers to 1 (1) individual customers,the segment between SEK 10-20 m refers to 3 (13) individual customers. The category of customers 3. 2 OPER ATIONAL RISK FAC TOR owing the Group less than SEK 1 m on the closing date corresponds to around 89 Access to raw materials (83)% of all counter parties. Most of the Group’s raw materials are based on oil or natural gas. Many of the Group’s products are both sold externally and further processed internally. To safeguard supplies of raw materials and spread risks, the Group’s purchasing Time analysis on accounts receivable Dec 31, 2017 policy requires that supplies of critical raw materials are made by more than Accounts receivable neither due nor reserved 908 one suppliers where possible. Supplies are secured through long-term delivery Accounts receivable due, but not reserved agreements. 1–10 days 87 Perstorp operates on the global chemicals market with suppliers who meet the 11–30 days 13 highest environmental and safety requirements, but as far as possible Perstorp 31–60 days 6 also aims to minimize transport by buying on local markets. 61–90 days –2 Supplies of raw materials to Perstorp’s site in Stenungsund – the largest site in 91–180 days 2 Sweden in terms of volumes – is primarily done via pipelines directly from nearby Producers, a setup which eliminates storage costs and minimizes freight costs 180 days or more –10 but also entail a risk of being closely tied to these suppliers. Perstorp manages Accounts receivable linked to reservation 9 this risk through a terminal agreement that gives Perstorp the right to use the Gross total 1,013 supplier’s infrastructure for raw materials supplied by other producers. Reservations –9 The prices of crude oil and natural gas fluctuate constantly. To provide stability in Net total 1,004 the shorter perspective, Perstorp purchases raw materials using pricing formulas based on quarterly or monthly prices on each market where the raw material is used. Dec 31, 2018 Current 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91-180 days >180 days Total past due past due past due past due past due Loss Allowance Expected loss rate, % 0.2 2.9 8.0 71.6 32.0 89.7 1.1 Gross carrying amount – 824 46 10 0 2 –9 873 accounts receivable Loss Allowance –2 –2 –1 0 –2 –3 –10 Carrying value 822 44 9 0 0 –12 863 The impact of the new IFRS 9 standard, which applies from January the 1st 2018, is related to impairment and the new expected credit loss model. The Perstorp group applies the simplified approach to measure lifetime expected credit losses. Compared with the former applied incurred loss model, the new requirements imply an earlier recognition of credit losses. Historical information is used regarding credit loss experience to forecast future credit losses. In addition, current and forward looking information is used to reflect current and future conditions. The effects following IFRS 9 for 2018 is presented above. 37 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Opportunities for hedging raw material prices are assessed continually. To Environmental liabilities: The Group’s ongoing activities are reflected in how make this a possible alternative, Group policy requires a very strong correlation any possible environmental damage is assessed. The Group complies with between the raw material price and the Group’s own selling price. At end of decisions by public authorities and conducts measures both proactively to 2018 almost no raw material prices were hedged. In the historic perspective, the prevent environmental impact and reactively in the event that environmental Group has been very successful in passing on increases in raw material prices disturbances arise. along the customer chain. On the electricity market there is a possibility to secure prices for longer periods. NOTE 5. SEGMENT INFORMATION Perstorp closely monitor the need of electricity. In accordance with the Group’s Perstorp report its financial performance based on the two reportable segments policy the electricity usage in Sweden is secured up to four years in a range of Specialties & Solutions and Advanced Chemicals & Derivatives. 0-75%. This is done by a preferred supplier that owns and sell a physical product with a mix of secured and spot to Perstorp. Each business group is divided further into business units that are identified by the key chemical products produced. Advanced Chemicals & Derivaties consists of the business units Penta, Oxo, TMP & Neo, Formates . PRODUC TION DISRUP TIONS Specialties & Solutions consists of the business units, Feed & Food and Specialty Disruptions at Perstorp’s plants may lead to a loss of earnings in the short Polyols. term if the Group cannot deliver agreed volumes to customers and in the long term if this leads to alternative products taking over for the same application. On November 30th, 2018 Perstorp divested the Bioproducts business. On Regular technical inspections are performed at production sites to minimize December 10th, 2018 Perstorp announced the agreement to sell its Caprolactone these risks. business. The transaction was closed on February 13th 2019. The two divested businesses are reported as discontinued operations in the income statement. In Perstorp has a global function whose job is to ensure that, in case of unforeaddition, the Caprolactones business is reported as assets and liabilities held for seen events, the Group has complete insurance coverage while also supporting sale in the balance sheet. work aimed at minimizing risks. Through a global insurance program involving different international insurance companies the Group can capitalize for competitive advantage in insurance terms and cost. SEK m 2018 2017 Net Sales NOTE 4. SIGNIFIC ANT ESTIMATES Specialties & Solutions 2,489 2,275 & JUDGMENTS MADE FOR Advanced Chemicals & Derivatives 9,681 8,599 ACCOUNTING PURPOSE Internal sales Perstorp’s financial accounts are based on the going-concern principle. To a Specialties & Solutions –25 –9 certain extent, the financial statements are based on estimates and judgments about the future trend. In turn, these judgments are based on historical experiAdvanced Chemicals & Derivatives –114 –83 ence and different assumptions that are considered to be reasonable in current Other/eliminations 405 346 circumstances. Reported values may have another actual outcome if other Continuing operations 12,436 11,128 assumptions are made or circumstances change. The following particular areas can be distinguished where estimates and judgments are of importance to the Divested units 2,960 2,899 amounts entered in the accounts and differences can have a significant effect on Eliminations –514 –435 the Group’s earnings and financial position. Discontinued operations 2,446 2,464 Impairment testing of goodwill and trademarks: In accordance with the Total Group 14,882 13,592 accounting principle described in point 2.10, impairment testing is currently performed annually through analysis of individual assets’/cash-generating units’ recovery value. The Group tests goodwill for any impairment on an annual basis EBITDA or whenever events or objective circumstances indicate that the fair value of Specialties & Solutions 394 238 acquisition-related goodwill may have decreased. To determine whether the Advanced Chemicals & Derivatives 1,410 1,520 value of goodwill has decreased, the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill is attributable must be valued and this is done by discounting the future cash Other/eliminations –108 –60 flow. In applying this method, the Company relies on several factors, such as Continuing operations 1,696 1,698 profit/ loss, business plans, financial forecasts and market data. For further Discontinued operations 495 1,003 information see note 7. Total Group 2,191 2,701 Valuation of shares in subsidiaries: Impairment testing is performed annually Non allocated items through analysis of the value of shares in subsidiaries, in each owning companies, taken into account discounted future cash flow based on the latest business plan. Depreciation, Amortization and write down –621 –728 For further details, see note 7. Operating earnings (EBIT) 1,570 1,973 Financial income and expenses –2,050 –1,453 Other participations: In accordance with the accounting principle other participations is valued at fair value. To determine the fair value the Company Earnings/loss before tax –480 520 relies on several factors, such as profit/loss, business plans, financial forecasts and Tax 704 –10 market data. For further details, see note 14. Valuation of tax-loss carry-forwards: The valuation of tax-loss carry-forwards Net result 224 510 is based on an assessment that it will be possible to utilize these carry-forwards in the foreseeable future. Assessments are based on, among other matters, an assumption about future business opportunities and earnings capability. EBITDA excluding non-recurring items The outcome is often dependent on tax rules that are current or likely to come Specialties & Solutions 398 238 into effect. Tax-loss carry-forwards have been assigned values in, primarily, the Advanced Chemicals & Derivatives 1,424 1,525 Group’s companies in Sweden, Germany and UK. For booked values see Note 24. Other/eliminations -8 –29 Pension benefits: The current value of the Group’s future pension commitments Continuing operations 1,814 1,734 regarding defined-benefit pension plans is based on a number of assumptions in connection with the actuarial estimate. Changes in these assumptions may affect Discontinued operations 510 399 the reported value of the pension commitment. For further details, see chapter Total Group 2,324 2,133 2.12 and note 23. Available funds: The future estimated available fund includes a number of The group is domiciled in Sweden. The result of its revenue from external customestimates and judgments based on the long term business plan. Perstorp is ers in Sweden is 10 % (12 %), and the total of revenue from external customers constantly monitoring the available funds to secure that available funds are from other countries is 90 % (88 %) on a satisfied level for the coming periods. No single external customer accounted for more than 10 % of our sales. 38 A N N UA L R E P O R T A SSE T S A ND LI A BILITIES BY OPER ATING SEG MENT, TOTA L G ROUP Advanced Chemicals & Specialties & Solution BioProducts Other Total Group Derivaties 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Goodwill 1,591 1,521 508 501 – – – – 2,099 2,022 Other intangible assets 2,365 2,403 356 409 – – – 0 2,721 2,813 Tangible assets 3,869 3,685 810 798 – 18 494 480 5,173 4,981 Shares in associated comp 72 68 0 – – – – – 72 68 Working capital, net 575 352 187 104 – 80 27 11 789 546 Deferred tax liabilities –630 –666 –70 –74 – – – – –700 –740 Operating Capital 7,842 7,363 1,791 1,738 – 98 521 490 10,154 9,690 NOTE 6. TANGIBLE FIXED A SSE TS 1, 2) Group Land Buildings & land Plant & machinery Equipment, tools, Work in progress incl. Total improvments fixtures & fittings advance payments SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Acquisition value Opening balance 186 195 1,453 1,422 7,833 7,302 335 333 399 462 10,206 9,714 Investments 26 – 5 12 42 29 108 1 396 474 577 516 Acquisition of subsidiary – – – 12 – 100 – – – – 0 112 Divestments of subsidiary – –12 –23 –27 –79 16 – –6 –4 – –106 –29 Divestments and disposals – – – – –7 –39 –1 –6 –1 –6 -9 –51 Reclassifications – 1 10 38 192 477 13 6 –199 –522 16 0 Translation effects 7 2 19 –4 147 –52 11 7 4 –9 188 –56 Assets held for sale –13 – –62 – –988 – 0 – –175 – –1,238 0 Closing balance 206 186 1,402 1,453 7,140 7,833 466 335 420 399 9,634 10,206 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance 0 0 –559 –527 –4,189 –3,859 –265 –261 0 0 –5,013 –4,647 Depreciation – – –54 –54 –332 –355 –15 –11 – – –401 –420 Divestments of subsidiary – – 2 21 21 –38 – – – – 23 –17 Divestments and disposals – – – – 4 38 – 12 – – 4 50 Reclassifications – – – – – – 2 1 – – 2 1 Translation effects 0 0 –8 1 –81 25 –10 –6 – – –99 20 Assets held for sale – – 23 – 544 – 0 – – – 567 0 Closing balance 0 0 –596 –559 –4,033 –4,189 –288 –265 0 0 –4,917 –5,013 Write-downs Opening balance –7 –7 –19 –5 –180 –47 –2 1 -4 –3 –212 –61 Reversal of previous year – – – – – 3 – – – 3 0 Write-downs during the year – – – –14 –55 –134 – –2 – –1 –55 –151 Divestments of subsidiary – – – 55 1 – – – – 55 1 Divestments and disposals – – – – – – – – – 0 0 Reclassifications – – – – – –3 –1 – – –3 –1 Translation effects –1 – 0 –2 – – – – – –3 0 Assets held for sale – – – – – – – – – 0 0 Closing balance –8 –7 –19 –19 –182 –180 –2 –2 –4 –4 –215 –212 Closing book value 198 179 787 875 2,925 3,464 176 68 416 395 4,502 4,981 1) The Group’s tangible fixed assets were assessed in 2006 in connection with an acquisition analysis. The assessment was based on replacement cost, remaining life and the difference in operating costs between newly acquired plants and existing ones. The re-assessment, after deductions for deferred tax, was credited to Other reserves under Shareholders’ equity. 2) Buildings and land with a value of SEK 1,593 (1,487) m are used as collateral for bank loans, whereof 670 (607) m relates to assets held for sale. Depreciation per function 2018 2017 Parent company Tangible fixed assets Cost of goods sold 331 332 2018 2017 Selling Cost 1 1 Opening balance 2 4 Administration 3 2 Investments – 0 R&D 3 3 Depreciation –1 –2 Continuing operations 338 338 Closing balance 1 2 Discontinued operations 63 82 Total 401 420 Impairment and the result effects of scrapping are included in Other operating expenses. 39 P E R S T O R P 2 018 NOTE 7. INTANGIBLE FIXED A SSE TS Patents, licenses & Customer Development Group Goodwill Trademarks similar rights Know–how relations costs Reach Other 1) Total SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Acquisition value Opening balance 2,484 2,496 1,363 1,363 207 207 1,216 1,216 1,554 1,500 229 220 65 63 312 306 7,430 7,371 Investments – – – – – – – – – – 5 – 6 7 35 23 46 30 Acquisition of subsidiary – 2 – – – – – – – 74 – – – 3 – 0 79 Divestment of subsidiary – – – – –6 – – – –488 – – –3 –4 –9 –2 –3 –500 –15 Divestments and disposals – – – – – – – – 2 – – – – – 2 0 Reclassifications –2 – – – –6 – – – – – – 12 – –5 –12 –13 0 Translation effects 79 –14 – 0 – 0 3 0 30 –20 – 0 – 1 5 –2 117 –35 Assets held for sale –297 – –179 – –179 – – – –290 – – – –10 –252 –1,207 0 Closing balance 2,264 2,484 1,184 1,363 16 207 1,219 1,216 808 1,554 234 229 57 65 93 312 5,875 7,430 Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance 0 0 –94 –85 –139 -126 –500 –461 –911 –862 -73 –48 –14 –12 –252 –255 –1,983 –1,849 Depreciation – – –9 –9 –13 -13 –39 –39 –73 –58 -25 –25 –3 –3 -1 –1 –163 –148 Divestment of subsidiary – – – 2 – – 359 – – – 1 – 3 361 4 Divestments and disposals – – – – – – – – – – – 0 0 Reclassifications – – – 6 – – 14 – – – – – – 20 0 Translation effects – – – 1 – -2 0 –15 9 0 – – –6 1 –22 10 Assets held for sale – – 98 – 130 – – 288 – – 2 – 252 – 770 0 Closing balance 0 0 –5 –94 –13 –139 –541 –500 –338 –911 -98 –73 -15 –14 –7 –252 –1,017 –1,983 Write-downs Opening balance –462 –462 0 0 –4 0 –13 –13 –130 –130 0 0 –1 0 –2 –2 –612 –607 Write-downs during the year – – – – – –4 – – – – – –3 – –1 – – 0 –8 Divestment of subsidiary – – – – – – – – 130 – – – – – 2 – 132 0 Divestments and disposals – – – – 4 – – – – – – 3 – – – – 4 3 Reclassification – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – 0 0 Translation effects – – – – – – –1 0 – – – – – – – – –1 0 Closing balance –462 –462 0 0 0 –4 –14 –13 0 –130 0 0 –1 –1 0 –2 –477 –612 Closing book value 1,802 2,022 1,179 1,269 3 64 664 703 470 513 136 156 41 50 86 58 4,381 4,835 1) Other intangible assets refer to tenancy rights, development costs, advance payments for intangible assets and non-compete agreements in connection with acquisitions. Depreciation per function 2018 2017 Assets not depreciated – goodwill & trademarks from acquisition Goodwill and the trademarks assigned a value in connection with the acquisition Cost of goods sold 53 52 allocation following the acquisition of the Group at the end of 2005 (Perstorp) Selling Cost 51 37 have been adjudged to have an unlimited life. Goodwill and trademarks for the R&D 0 1 acquired caprolactones business were added in 2008. A summary of the allocation per cash-generating unit, for goodwill and trademarks, is presented below. Administration 12 13 Continuing operations 116 103 Discontinued operations 47 45 2018 (SEK m) Goodwill Trademarks Total Total 163 148 Polyols 737 495 1,232 Oxo 854 568 1,422 Know-how and customer relations are depreciated linearly. The remaining Food & Feed 211 116 327 average life length is 17 (18) and 13 (13) years respectively. For further details Continuing operations 1,802 1,179 2,981 concerning accounting principles for intangible assets, see note 2.6. Assets held for sale 297 81 378 Impairment testing Total 2,099 1,260 3,359 Goodwill and other assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications of a decline in value. This testing is based on defined cashgenerating units (CGU) and comprise of Polyols, Oxo, Caprolactones, Food & Feed, 2017 (SEK m) Goodwill Trademarks Total and other business. On December 10th, 2018 Perstorp announced the agreement Polyols 662 495 1,157 to sell its Caprolactone business. The transaction was closed on February 13th 2019 Oxo 858 567 1,425 and are reported as assets and liabilities held for sale in the balance sheet. Caprolactones business 291 91 382 Allocation of Goodwill & Operating capital to the CGU’s have been performed Food & Feed 211 116 327 based on relative values and original PPA. The recoverable amount has been determined on the basis of calculations of value in use. These calculations are based Total 2,022 1,269 3,291 on internal budget and strategic plan over the next five years. The assessments of management are based on both historical experience and current information Parent company relating to the market trend. Following the forecast period, the cash flows were Other extrapolated using an assumed rate of growth of 2 % (2). When calculating the present value of future cash flows for the total group, a weighted average cost Acquisition value 2018 2017 of capital (WACC) of 10,5 % (11.0) after tax was applied to CGU Polyols and Oxo, Opening balance 2 4 while 11.0 % (11) after tax was applied to CGU Feed & Food . Investments – – The calculations indicated no need for impairment in any of the CGU’s . Depreciation –1 –2 A sensitivity analysis shows that an increase in the WACC with 1 % after tax, Closing balance 1 2 wouldn't lead to a need for impairment for any of the cash-generating units. 40 A N N UA L R E P O R T NOTE 8 . LE A SING NOTE 10. BRE AKDOWN OF COSTS SEK m SEK m Group Financial leasing agreements Costs divided by type 2018 2017 Group Raw materials, goods for sale, energy, Future minimum leasing fees 2018 2017 transport and packaging costs –8,829 –7,483 Due: Other external costs –644 –622 Year 1 0 0 Employee remunerations (note 27) excl.restructuring costs –1,315 –1,328 Year 2–5 0 0 Depreciation (note 6 and 7) –454 –441 Year 6– 0 0 Other operating income & expenses (note 11) –12 –5 Total continuing operations 0 0 Earnings from participations in associated Discontinued operations 0 0 companies 3 4 Total 0 0 Total continuing operation –11,251 –9,875 Discontinued operations –2,061 –1,744 Operational leasing agreements: Total –13,312 –11,619 The operational leasing agreements that exist are attributable to activities in Sweden. Future payment commitments for these contracts are as follows: Group Future minimum leasing fees 2018 2017 Due: NOTE 11. OTHER OPER ATING INCOME & COSTS Year 1 31 25 Group Parent Company Year 2–5 42 38 SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Year 6– 4 4 Insurance remuneration 20 0 – – Total continuing operations 77 67 Operations-related exchange rate Discontinued operations 3 4 differences 26 –39 – – Total 80 71 Restructuring costs –34 –14 – –1 Write downs,disposal (note 6,7) –57 –4 – – Operational leasing costs during the period 2018 2017 Other 33 52 –28 –14 Minimum leasing fees 45 38 Total continuing operations –12 –5 –28 –15 Variable charges 2 2 Discontinued operations –104 348 – – Total continuing operations 47 40 Total –116 343 –28 –15 Discontinued operations 3 3 Total 50 43 NOTE 12 . E ARNINGS FROM PARTICIPATIONS NOTE 9. NE T SALES IN A SSOCIATED COMPANIES & JOINT VENTURES SEK m Group SEK m 2018 2017 Net sales by type of income 2018 2017 Goods 12,289 11,042 PetroPort Holding AB, Sweden 3 4 Services 147 86 Total 3 4 Total continuing operations 12,436 11,128 The companies´sales amounted to a total of SEK 83 (78) m in 2018 Discontinued operations 2,446 2,464 and earnings after tax was SEK 7 (8) m. Total 14,882 13,592 Group Net sales by geographic region 2018 2017 EU and rest of Europe 6,754 5,830 North and South America 2,805 2,671 Asia 2,662 2,427 Africa 188 176 Oceania 27 24 Total continuing operations 12,436 11,128 Discontinued operations 2,446 2,464 Total 14,882 13,592 The Parent Company did not report any net external sales in 2018 or 2017. 41 P E R S T O R P 2 018 NOTE 13. PARTICIPATIONS IN A SSOCIATED NOTE 16. NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS COMPANIES & JOINT VENTURES Book value Book value Share of Group’s Book value, SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 capital/ share of Group Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemicals Co., voting shareholders’ Ltd, China 127 144 rights, % equity Elogio AM B.V. 1 – SEK m Total 128 144 PetroPort Holding AB, Sweden 50/50 72 72 Total 72 72 SEK m 2018 2017 Opening book value 144 89 SEK m 2018 2017 Translation effects 7 –4 Opening book value 68 64 Change in the period 39 65 Earnings from participations 3 4 Contribution from non controlling Rounding 1 2 – interests Closing book value 72 68 Dividend –64 –6 The assets of associated companies amounted to SEK 271 (279) m Closing book value 128 144 at the end of 2018 and liabilities amounted to SEK 127 (142) m. Perstorp´s share in Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemicals Co.,Ltd at the end of the year is 68.3 (68.3) %. Perstorp´s share in Elogio AM BV at the end of the year is 51.0 (-) % NOTE 14 . OTHER PARTICIPATIONS NOTE 17. OTHER LONG -TERM RECEIVABLES Group Parent Company SEK m Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Book value Book value Book value Book value SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Interest-bearing long-term receivables Opening Other receivables 1 0 247 475 247 475 book value Total 1 0 New shares 3 – – – Interest-free long-term receivables Sale of Other receivables 3 7 – –239 – –239 shares Total 3 7 Revaluation –42 11 –41 11 Closing 208 247 206 247 book value Other participations consists of Parent Company shareholding in Vencorex Holding France SAS 9.2 (9.2) % and group holding in Adesso BioProducts AB 10 (-) %. During the end of Q2 2017 the earn-out from the divestment of Perstorps 34 % shares in Vencorex in 2014, was settled. The earn-out amounted to approximately EUR 30 m. At the same time, Perstop’s ownership in Vencorex Holdings SAS was reduced from 15 % to 9 %. NOTE 15. NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS’ SHARE IN NE T PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YE AR MSEK 2018 2017 Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemicals Co., Ltd, China 40 65 Elogio AM B.V. –1 – Total 39 65 42 A N N UA L R E P O R T NOTE 18 . PARENT COMPANY SHARES IN GROUP COMPANIES Direct holdings in Group companies Corp. Reg. number Registered 2018 2017 2018 2017 head office Holding, Holding, Book Book % % value value Perstorp Financial Services AB 556762-4563 Perstorp, Sweden 100 100 7,712 7,712 Perstorp Services AB 559036-9574 Perstorp, Sweden Perstorp AB 556024-6513 Perstorp, Sweden Perstorp Quimica do Brasil Ltda NIRE 35.218.522.982 Brazil Perstorp Sales France 442650768 R.C.S. Nanterre France Perstorp SpA 171 467 Italy Perstorp Japan Co Ltd 9-0100-0105-3962 Japan Perstorp (Shanghai) Chemical Trading Co.,Ltd 91310000681008322R China Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemical Co. Ltd 782323786 China Perstorp Chemicals Asia PTE Ltd 199905508W Singapore Perstorp Iberica SL B65592503 Spain Perstorp UK Ltd 02715398 UK Elogio AM B.V. 2) 72069813 Netherlands Perstorp Services UK Ltd 2) 11632438 UK Perstorp BioProducts AB 1) 556728-5779 Sweden Perstorp BioProducts AS 1) 815643062 Norway Perstorp Fastighets AB 556571-3798 Sweden Perstorp Oxo AB 556041-0895 Sweden Perstorp Formulas AB 559178-6297 Sweden Perstorp Specialty Chemicals AB 556247-6290 Sweden Perstorp Specialty Fluids AB 2) 559160-9309 Sweden Perstorp Holding (U.S.) Inc. 26-3020217, Delaware USA Perstorp Polyols Inc. 34-1386676, Delaware USA Perstorp Industries India Private Ltd U24299MH2017FTC294152 India Perstorp Polialcoli S.r.l. 1) 04188090163 Italy Perstorp Equipment S.r.l. 2) 4320860168 Italy Driveadd GmbH HRB 148860, Hamburg Germany Perstorp Holding B.V. 34089250 s-Hertogenbosch, Netherlands Perstorp Specialty Chemicals BV 23091252 Netherlands Perstorp Specialty Chemicals Holding BV 23092336 Netherlands Perstorp Waspik BV 18116759 Netherlands Perstorp Chemicals India Private Ltd 04-32032 India Perstorp Chemicals Korea Co. Ltd 230111-0095660 South Korea Perstorp Specialty Chemicals Holding BV HRB 7465, Arnsberg Arnsberg, Germany 6% 6% 19 19 Perstorp Waspik BV HRB 1900, Arnsberg Germany Perstorp Chemicals India Private Ltd HRB 6542, Arnsberg Germany Total book value in Parent Company 7,731 7,731 1) Company was sold during 2018. 2) Company was acquired during 2018. All companies are wholly-owned by the Group except for Shandong Fufeng Perstorp Chemical Co. Ltd, for which the ownership is 68.3 (68,3) %. and for Elogio AM B.V. for which the owndership is 51% (-). SEK m 2018 2017 Opening book value 7,731 7,731 Reversal write down shares in group companies – – Closing book value 7,731 7,731 43 P E R S T O R P 2 018 NOTE 19. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE & OTHER NOTE 20. C A SH & C A SH EQUIVALENTS OPER ATING RECEIVABLES Group Parent Company Group SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Unrestricted SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 357 457 – – cash Accounts receivable, gross 873 1,013 Restricted Bad debt provision –10 –9 cash 1) 208 164 23 0 Accounts receivable, net 863 1,004 Total 565 621 23 0 Other operating receivables 1) Cash in Perstorp accounts in countries where international movement of funds are restricted and cash held in escrowed accounts as collateral for different Value added tax 46 51 business activities. Emissions credits 30 25 Receivables from suppliers 24 20 Other current receivables 76 23 Prepaid insurance premiums 10 4 Other prepaid costs and deferred income 102 133 NOTE 21. INVENTORIES Total other operating receivables 288 256 Group The parent company other recievables totaling SEK 10 (8) m, and accounts SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 receivables amounting to SEK 0 (0). Raw material and consumables 490 448 Products in progress 24 21 Analysis of accounts receivable Dec.31, 2018 Dec.31, 2017 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,097 969 Not due 824 908 Work in progress on behalf of others 6 1 Due: Advance payment to suppliers 8 10 1-10 days 29 87 Impairment reserve –5 –15 11-30 days 17 13 Total 1,620 1,434 31-60 days 10 7 61-90 days 0 –1 2018 2017 91-180 days 2 2 Impairment reserve opening balance 15 7 180 days or more -9 –3 Provision utilized during the year –4 – Accounts receivable, gross 873 1,013 Allocation for the year 2 8 Translation effects – – Reservation for bad debts -10 -9 Assets held for sale –8 – Accounts receivable, net 863 1,004 Impairment reserve closing balance 5 15 Proportion of accounts receivable due 5,6 % 10,4 % Of the total value of inventories, SEK 16 (22) m is assesed at net sales value. Proportion of accounts receivable due During the assessment of net sales price, impairment that affects earnings over 60 days –0,8 % –0,2 % (Cost of goods sold) amounts to SEK 2 (2) m. The net value of the year´s allocaReservation in relation to total accounts tions/provisions utilized during the year affects earnings for the year. receivable 1,1 % 0,9 % For more details about the credit risk in outstanding receivable, and effect of applying the expected credit losses model following the adoption of IFRS 9, see the section on Counterparty risk in note 3.1. During the second quarter 2014, Perstorp implemented an off-balance, non recourse, long-term trade receivables program. Trade receivables, for which substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred are de-recognized and excluded from the reported figures. This program was expanded during first six months of 2015, to also include legal entities in US, Germany and UK Allocation for bad debts 2018 2017 Allocation, opening balance –9 –15 Recovered predicted customer losses 1 1 Established customer losses 3 3 Reservation for predicted customer losses –5 0 Exchange rate effects and other 0 2 Allocations at year-end –10 –9 44 A N N UA L R E P O R T NOTE 22 . BORROWINGS & FINANCIAL COSTS A . SPEC IFIC ATION NE T DEB T Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Senior secured notes/loans 6,885 6,519 6,885 6,519 Second lien secured notes/loans 1) 3,768 3,458 3,768 3,458 Mezzanine loans 2,936 2,641 2,936 2,641 Revolver 200 200 0 0 Inter-company financial liabilities 0 0 1,224 1,851 Other financial liabilities, excluding loans from Parent Company 1) –124 –141 –141 –168 Financial liabilities, excl. Shareholder loans and pension liabilities 13,665 12,677 14,672 14,301 Interest-bearing pension liabilities, net 403 418 0 0 Loan from Parent Company – 22 0 22 Total interest-bearing debt 14,068 13,117 14,672 14,323 Cash and cash equivalents –565 –621 –23 0 Inter-company financial receivables – 0 –11,525 –7,107 Other interest-bearing receivables, longand short-term 2 0 – – Interest-bearing assets –563 –621 –11,548 –7,107 Net debt including pension liabilities and shareholder loan 13,505 12,496 3,124 7,216 1) Second Lien recorded at a discount at the time of listing. The difference between the issue price and par value amounts to -68 (-83) million by the closing date and recognized over the vesting period. This item is included in other financial liabilities. The Net debt includes secured loans (secured notes and other borrowing against collateral). See note 29 for further information. B . M AT UR IT Y S TRUC T UR E Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Between 1 and 2 years – – – – Between 2 and 3 years 11,079 – 10,879 – Between 3 and 4 years 2,569 10,188 2,569 9,988 Between 4 and 5 years – 2,462 – 2,462 More than 5 years – – – – Long-term borrowing, excl. Shareholder loans & pension liabilities 13,648 12,650 13,448 12,450 Short-term borrowing, 0-1 year 17 27 – – Inter-company financial liabilities – – 1,224 1,851 Financial liabilities, excl. Shareholder loans & pension liabilities 13,665 12,677 14,672 14,301 The related financing agreements include quarterly key indicators (covenants) linked to net debt in relation to EBITDA and EBITDA in relation to interest payments. These key indicators has not been breached. C . CUR R ENC Y COMP OSITION , INTER ES T R ATES & DUR ATION Average interest rate on Actual Local balance sheet duration currency SEK m date, % days SEK 200 200 3.8 % 821 EUR 757 7,777 9.0 % 1,124 USD 633 5,675 10.1 % 972 Other currencies – 13 5.1 % 21 Financial liabilities, excl. shareholder loans & pension liabilities 13,665 9.4 % At the end of the year 59 % of the loans had a fixed rate of interest. There was no hedge contracts at the end of 2018 45 P E R S T O R P 2 018 D. UNU TILIZED C R EDIT S Available funds at the end of the year amount to SEK 1,120 m (1,220) where the Group's available credit limits amounts to SEK 763 m (763). E . FIN A NC I A L INCOME & COS T S Group Parent Company SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest income 9 5 0 Interest income from discontinued operations 128 132 Interest income, Group companies 741 681 Total financial income 137 137 741 681 Notes and loans –1,330 –1,379 –1,314 –1,356 Loans from Parent Company –2 –2 –2 –2 Periodised borrowing costs –75 –175 –75 –175 Pension costs, interest –8 –9 – – Currency gains and losses from financing measures, net –462 190 –431 118 Interest costs, against discontinued operations –3 –1 – – Interest costs, group companies – – –97 –85 Trade receivables financing cost –60 –60 – – Other financial costs –67 –46 –60 –20 Total financial costs –2,007 –1,482 –1,979 –1,520 Net financial items continuing operations –1,870 –1,345 –1,238 –839 Discontinued operations –180 –109 – – Total –2,050 –1,454 –1,238 –839 F. M A R K E T VA LUATION OF FIN A NC I A L IN S TRUMENT S Interest terms for around 59 % of the external loans are based on fixed rates that apply throughout the loan period. For the remaining 41 % of external loans, interest terms are based on an underlying official market rate plus an interest margin. The market value for forward currency contracts was calculated using the rates on the closing date. All outstanding financial derivative instruments were held for hedging purposes. All recognized derivatives are classified under level 2 of the value hierarchy. The reported amount, after possible impairment, for accounts receivable and accounts payable, is expected to correspond to the fair value because these are current items. Internal loans are subject to customary restrictions under debt agreements. NOTE 23. PENSION OBLIGATION & COSTS The group has both defined contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. During the year costs for these plans, including Discontinued operations had an accumulative effect on earnings of SEK 267 (265) m, of which SEK 238 (228) is attributable to defined-contribution plans ans SEK 29 (38) m to defined-benefit plans. Pension costs attributable to non comparable items of SEK 25 (4) are included in the accumulated amount. The distribution of costs in the income statement are as follows: A . PEN SION COS T S IN THE INCOME S TATEMENT SEK m 2018 2017 Cost of sold goods 133 120 Sales and marketing overheads 28 50 Administrative costs 50 57 Research and development costs 14 14 Non comparable items 25 4 Net financial items 4 9 Continuing operations 254 254 Discontinued operations 13 11 Total 267 265 Defined-contribution pension plans There are defined-contribution pension plans in most of the countries in which the Group is active. In the Swedish units, these mainly consist of state pension contributions and negotiated pensions for blue-collar workers. In the United States, such plans are called 401K and in Germany they are called Staatliche Rente und Pensionskasse, etc. The costs that are capitalized during the year attributable to defined-contribution pensions plans can be classified as follows: 46 A N N UA L R E P O R T B . PEN SION COS T S , DEFINED CONTR IBU TION PL A N S Most of the Group’s Swedish companies have secured their obligations for old-age and family pensions via pension insurance with Alecta. In accordance SEK m 2018 2017 with a statement by the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council, UFR3, this is a de.ned-bene.t plan that covers several employers. For the 2018 and 2017 State pension plans 77 85 financial years the Group did not have access to information that enabled it to Other defined-contribution pension plans 79 59 report this plan as a defined-benefit pension plan, so it is therefore reported ITP, insured through Alecta 70 73 as a defined-contribution pension plan. The surplus at Alecta may be divided between the plan provider or the insured. At year-end 2018, Alecta’s surplus in Continuing operations 226 217 the form of its collective funding ratio amounted to 142 % (159). The collective Discontinued operations 12 11 funding ratio equals the market value of Alecta’s assets, in percentage of the insurance obligations as computed in accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculaTotal 238 228 tion assumptions; this does not comply with IAS 19. Defined-benefit pension plans There are defined-benefit pension plans in most of the companies and countries in which the Group is active. The main provisions for defined benefit pension plans pertain to the Pension Registration Institute (PRI) and Pensionszulage (Germany), pension plans for employees in certain currently divested units and specific pension insurance plans for senior executives in various countries. In the table below, the defined-benefit pension obligations are specified, divided into funded and unfunded pension plans. C . PROV I SION S FOR PEN SION S , DEFINED BENEFIT PL A N S SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 The plan assets presented here relate primarily to Group Unfunded pension plans companies in the US, 99 (99) %, of which 70 (53) % are Defined-benefit obligations 155 152 invested in debt securities and 27 (35) % in equity securities. The expected return is assumed to be 3.5 (4.0) % , which is Continuing operations 155 152 based on historic returns. The actual return on plan assets in 2018 was SEK 34 (-22) m. Funded or partly funded pension plans Defined-benefit obligations 588 623 In addition to the above, so-called direct pensions are included under assets with 110 (114) m and liabilities with Salary taxes 21 18 SEK 136 (141) m including salary tax. The asset is capital Fair value of plan assets –361 –375 insurance, with assets and liabilities reported separately Total 248 266 at gross amounts. Healthcare insurance is not included in pension commitments. Net Value 403 418 Development during the year for the Group’s commitments, plan assets and unrecognized actuarial profit/loss is Commitments are divided as follows by region: Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 presented below: Sweden 247 231 Germany 148 140 Other EU 5 25 USA 0 20 Other countries 3 2 Net liability concerning defined-benefit pension plans 403 418 D. C H A NGES DUR ING THE Y E A R IN COMMITMENT S , PL A N A SSE T S , UNR E A LIZED AC T UA R I A L G A IN S & LOSSES & PA S T SERV IC E COS T S 2018 2017 Defined-benefit Defined-benefit Defined-benefit Defined-benefit plans, unfunded plans, funded Plan plans, unfunded plans, funded Plan SEK m plans or partly funded assets plans or partly funded assets Opening balance 152 641 –375 160 641 –360 Costs for current year service 4 17 – 4 24 – Expected return on plan assets – – 24 – – –33 Interest expense 3 20 –14 3 20 –13 Settlement payments – –51 50 0 – Fees from employer – –6 –26 –6 –31 Disbursement –5 –15 12 –8 –24 11 Actuarial profit/loss –5 –13 0 –11 41 0 Acquisition – – – – 20 – Divestment – –21 – – –42 17 Translation effects 6 37 –32 4 –33 34 Closing balance 155 609 –361 152 641 –375 47 P E R S T O R P 2 018 E . NE T PEN SION PROV I SION S , C H A NG ES DUR ING THE Y E A R G . K E Y AC T UA R I A L A SSUMP TION S SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance 418 441 Discount rate, % 2.2 2.3 Pension costs during the year 29 37 Future salary increases, % 3.0 2.1 Disbursements during the year –40 –56 Anticipated return on plan assets, % 3.8 3.8 Gains/losses from change in assumptions 6 3 Anticipated average remaining Acquisition – 20 employment term, year 13.9 14.8 Divestment –21 –25 Translation effects 11 –2 The principal actuarial assumptions, weighted in accordance with closing amounts for the various pension obligation/plan assetss, are specified in the Closing balance, provision for pensions, net 403 418 table above: Amounts reported in the income statement are as follows concerning defined benefit pension plans: F. PENSION COSTS, DEFINED-BENEFIT PLANS H. PARENT COMPANY The parent company reports a pension expense of SEK 42 (27) m, which is solely SEK m 2018 2017 based on defined-contribution plans as there were no benefit-based pension Costs for current year service 21 28 plans at the end of the two most recent financial years. For classification reasons, the entire amount is reported as administration costs in the income statement, Expected return on plan assets – – with the exception of SEK 19 (0) m of the cost attributable to non-recurring items Interest expense 8 9 which is included in Other income and expenses Gains/losses on a curtailment or settlement 0 – Total pension costs, defined-benefit plans 29 37 NOTE 24 . CURRENT & DEFERRED INCOME TA XES A . INCOME TA XES IN THE INCOME S TATEMENT Group Parent Company SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current tax –41 –106 0 – Deferred tax 745 96 84 – Total 704 –10 84 – The tax on pretax earnings differs as follows from the theoretical amount that would have arisen from applying a weighted average tax rate for the earnings in the consolidated companies: Tax cost Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pretax earnings –480 520 3,993 –778 Tax computed on basis of national tax rates applying in each particular country 97 –102 –878 171 Non-taxable revenues 26 110 242 19 Non-tax-deductible costs –120 –66 –27 –16 Re-measurement of deferred tax -31 46 – – Tax loss carry-forwards for which deferred tax asset has been recognized 787 – 752 – Tax loss carry-forwards for which no deferred tax asset has been recognized –52 –34 – –174 Tax cost not related to current year’s profit/loss 0 –2 – – Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax 2 38 –5 – Other tax expenses –5 0 – – Tax cost 704 –10 84 0 The effective tax rate for 2018 is estimated to be 20 % (22). 48 A N N UA L R E P O R T B . DEFER R ED INCOME TA X , NE T C H A NG E Group Parent Company SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Opening balance, net deferred tax liability –576 –637 – – Divestment 9 –9 – – Acqusition – –33 – – Exchange-rate differences –7 8 – – Assets/Liabilites held for sale 15 – – – Tax recognized in the income statement (table A) 745 96 84 – Tax recognized in shareholders' equity –1 –1 – – Closing balance 185 –576 84 – C . DEFER R ED TA X A SSE T S , SPEC IFIC ATION Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Loss carry-forward 818 127 84 – Provisions 50 55 – – Other receivables 27 25 – – Total 895 207 84 – D. DEFER R ED TA X LI A BILIT Y, SPEC IFIC ATION Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Tangible ﬁxed assets 182 211 – – Intangible ﬁxed assets 504 554 – – Other receivable 24 18 – – Total 710 783 – – E . TA X LOSS C A R RYFORWA R DS The value of unutilized tax loss carry-forwards is capitalized in cases where it is expected that the carry-forwards will be utilized in the foreseeable future. Tax loss carry-forwards mainly relates to the groups subsidiary in Sweden, Holland and Germany. In addition, there are unutilized tax loss carry-forwards totaling SEK 351 (3,453) m that have not been assigned any value, since it is considered that these will not be utilized in the foreseable future. EFFEC T S OF C H A NGED TA X RULES IN S WEDEN The proposal for new tax rules in Sweden was adopted on the 14th of June 2018. The new rules will enter into force from the 1st of January 2019. The areas that affects the accounting and reporting in this report are the change in the corporate tax rate and the general interest rate deduction rules. A change in the tax rate affects the valuation of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, while the interest-rate limitation rules can have an effect on the companies’ ability to report deferred tax assets related to tax losses carry forward. NOTE 25. OTHER LIABILITIES, PROVISIONS Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Provision for environmental measures 30 30 – – Other provisons 35 38 – – Other liabilities, provisions 65 68 – – NOTE 26. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE & OTHER OPER ATING LIABILITIES Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Accounts payable 968 1,074 13 21 Other operating liabilities Value added tax 7 34 – – Advance payments 3 3 – – Payroll tax 26 25 2 2 Other operating liabilities 188 189 19 5 Accrued wages, salaries and social security costs 200 314 25 48 Allocation for restructuring costs 7 12 – – Other accrued costs and prepaid income 642 517 5 14 Total 1,073 1,094 51 69 49 P E R S T O R P 2 018 NOTE 27. EMPLOYEES & WAGES, SAL ARIES & OTHER REMUNER ATION AV ER AG E NUMBER OF EMPLOY EES WAGES , SA L A R IES & OTHER R EMUNER ATION , BY COUNTRY 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total of which Total of which Board Other Board Other Country employees men employees men SEK m and CEO employees and CEO employees Sweden Sweden Parent company 31 15 30 16 Parent company 18 33 34 37 Subsidiaries 851 580 824 533 Subsidiaries 5 516 5 521 Belgium 1 1 1 1 Belgium 0 1 0 2 France 3 2 2 2 France 0 3 0 2 Italy 31 23 103 91 Italy 0 45 0 26 The Netherlands 40 32 44 35 The Netherlands 0 32 0 29 Spain 3 2 3 2 Spain 0 4 0 2 Poland 2 1 2 1 Poland 0 2 0 2 UK 88 76 83 75 UK 3 50 3 47 Slovakia 0 0 1 1 Ireland 0 1 0 0 Ireland 1 1 0 0 Germany 0 84 0 86 Germany 122 108 120 107 Total EU 26 771 42 754 Total EU 1,173 841 1,213 864 Turkey 0 2 0 2 Turkey 3 0 3 0 Norway 0 11 0 12 Norway 17 15 16 16 Russia 0 1 0 1 Russia 4 2 3 1 Total non-EU Europe 0 14 0 15 Total non-EU Europe 24 17 22 17 Brazil 0 4 0 4 Brazil 11 5 9 4 Argentina 0 1 0 1 Argentina 1 1 1 1 USA 0 100 0 100 USA 122 106 120 100 Total North & Total North & South America 0 105 0 105 South America 134 112 130 105 India 2 4 2 4 India 24 17 21 15 Japan 0 6 0 5 Japan 10 3 9 3 China 0 32 0 26 China 145 100 141 99 Singapore 0 5 0 4 Singapore 7 1 6 1 Dubai 0 3 0 2 Dubai 3 1 2 0 South Korea 1 3 0 2 Taiwan 0 0 0 0 Total Asia 3 53 2 43 South Korea 6 3 5 2 Total 29 943 44 917 Total Asia 195 125 184 120 of which discontinued Total average no. operations 5 62 5 60 of employees 1,526 1,095 1,549 1,106 of which discontinued operations 108 92 101 91 Proportion of men,% 71,8 71,4 R EMUNER ATION TO EMPLOY EES Group Parent Company 1) Of which discontinued operations SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Salaries and other remuneration 972 961 51 71 67 65 Pension – defined contribution (note 23) 238 228 42 27 13 12 Pension – defined-benefit (note 23) 29 38 0 0 0 0 Social fees 170 186 11 15 9 8 Total 1,409 1,413 104 113 89 85 1) Cost reported in accordance with IFRS. 50 A N N UA L R E P O R T R EMUNER ATION TO THE G ROUP ’ S BOA R D OF DIR EC TOR S & M A N AGEMENT Bonus & other Pension SEK thousands Board fee Salary remuneration costs 1) Total Chairman of the Board 461 554 – 91 1,106 Other Members of the Board 170 1,894 – 239 2,303 President – 8,249 6,775 22,321 37,345 Other members of Group management – 17,261 10,119 23,456 50,836 Total 631 27,958 16,894 46,107 91,590 1) All pension costs refer to defined-contribution plans. Other members of group management comprised of 7 (6) persons during the year. Principles Members of the Board receive director fees in accordance with resolutions passed at the Annual General Meeting. Employee representatives do not receive director fees. Remuneration to the President and other members of Group management comprises basic salary, variable remuneration, company car and pensions. The President is also entitled to a bonus corresponding to a maximum of 150 % of his ﬁxed salary. Other members of Group management are covered by a bonus system that provides a maximum of 50% (50) of their basic salary. The variable remuneration is based on the Group’s earnings trend and cash ﬂow. In addition, bonuses can be paid out on the fulfillment of certain strategic projects, after approval from the Remuneration Committee. Pension & employment termination A defined contribution (DC) pension plan, in addition to the traditional Swedish ITP pension, has been taken out for the President corresponding to 15% of his basic salary. In addition, a more beneficial ITP pension plan has been signed with premiums equivalent to 10% of basic salary in the range of 20-30 times the basic insurance amount and 25% of basic salary above 30 times the basic insurance amount. According to a special undertaking, the employment contract can be terminated by both the company and the President as of age 60. The period of employment termination notice is 18 months if notice is served by the company and six months if it is served by the President. If the company terminates the President’s employment, the President will also receive severance pay corresponding to 18 monthly salaries. If organizational changes or other changes initiated by the owners results in significant limitations on the President’s responsibility or authority, the President is entitled under certain circumstances to terminate his employment and be subject to the same employment termination terms as those that would have applied if the company had terminated his employment. Other members of Group Management are covered by an agreement regarding DC pension plan, the aim of which is to enable the executives concerned to retire at age 60. The period of employmenttermination notice for other members of Group Management is six months. If the company terminates the employment of a member of Group Management, the sum total of salary during the period of notice, severance pay and corresponding beneﬁts will be paid for 12 months. 51 P E R S T O R P 2 018 NOTE 28 . CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Group Parent Company SEK m Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Guarantees 206 200 206 200 Guarantees and other contingent liabilities for subsidiaries 33 28 379 363 Total 239 228 585 563 These contingent liabilities are not expected to result in any material liabilities. NOTE 29. A SSE TS PLEDGED Group Parent Company SEK m Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Property mortgages 1,593 1,487 – – Chattel mortgages 1,514 1,431 – – Shares in subsidiaries 0 1) 3,874 1) 7,731 7,731 Other participations 206 247 206 247 Liquid funds 23 0 23 0 Internal financial assets (loan) – – 7,154 6,822 Investments, receivables, inventories 523 503 – – Endowment insurances 106 111 104 108 Total 3,965 7,653 15,218 14,908 1) Net assets for Perstorp Financial Services AB, including it´s subsidiaries Endowment insurance relates to pension commitments, see note 22. NOTE 30. FUTURE UNDERTAKINGS At the end of the year the Group had no material undertakings that had not been included in the accounts. NOTE 31. TR ANSAC TIONS WITH REL ATED PARTIES Perstorp Holding AB is 100 % owned by the Luxembourg-based Financière Forêt S.à r.l., which is controlled by the private equity company PAI partners. Within the framework of an incentive program, PAI partners offered senior Group executives an opportunity to become shareholders in the Parent Company Financière Forêt S.à r.l. and a total of around 50 manager and others key personnel participate, with contributions amounting to around EUR 4 million. Shares and options were priced on normal commercial terms. Perstorp Holding AB has SEK – (22) m borrowed from the Parent Company. The receivables and liabilities in relation to associated companies are reported in the balance sheet. Remuneration to the Group’s Board of Directors and Management is reported in Note 27. NOTE 32 . PROPORTION OF BOARD MEMBER S & SENIOR E XECUTIVES WHO ARE WOMEN 2018 2017 of whom, of whom, Total women % Total women % Board members 114 11 10 % 120 9 8% Other senior executives 104 25 24 % 114 31 27 % The numbers exclude BioProducts and Perstorp UK. The Board members category comprises ordinary members of the boards of all companies within the Group. The same person may be counted several times if he or she is a member of the board of more than one company. The other senior executives category comprises the Group´s executive management team, management teams within each business area and department, and the management teams of the major companies. 52 A N N UA L R E P O R T NOTE 33. AUDITOR S' FEES NOTE 36. DIVESTMENT Group Parent Company On December 10th, 2018 Perstorp announced the agreement to sell its Caprolactone business. The transaction was closed on February 13th 2019, the net proceeds SEK m 2018 2017 2018 2017 from the transaction was approximately EUR 579 m. The capital gain amounts to PricewaterhouseCoopers approximately SEK 4,6 billion. At year end 2018 the assets and liabilities are classified as assets and liabilities held for sale in the balance sheet. In the income statement this Audit assignments 6 6 2 2 is classified as discontinued operations. Tax consultancy 1 0 – – Other 5 3 3 2 In November 2018, Perstorp announced and completed the divestment of its Total 1) 12 9 5 4 BioProduct business in order to streamline the portfolio. The BioProduct business was concentrated to Sweden and Norway. In the income statement this is classified as 1) Of which discontinued operations 1 1 – – discontinued operations. Other auditing firms In the end of Q1 2017 Perstorp divested its facility in Gent Belgium, Perstorp Belgium Audit assignments 1 1 – – (Perstorp Oxo Belgium AB) to Synthomer (Synthomer plc). The total consideration for Tax consultancy 2 1 the sale is €78 million (subject to certain adjustments). The divestment is in line with Perstorp’s strategy to focus on and expand its core chemicals activities. The capital Other 3 14 3 13 gain amounts to SEK 604 m and is reported as Discontinued operations. Sum 1) 6 16 3 13 1) Of which discontinued operations 1 1 – – SEK m 2018 2017 Audit assignments comprise verification of the annual report and accounts and the administration of the Board and President, other assignments that are Discontinued operations required to be performed by the company´s auditors and advice or other support Net sales 2,446 2,464 arising from observations made during verification or performance of other Operating earnings/loss (EBIT) 385 720 duties. All other work is referred to as Other and mainly refers to consultation on accounting activities. Earnings/loss before tax 205 835 Tax –26 –13 Net earnings/loss for the year 179 822 NOTE 34 . CURRENC Y E XCHANGE R ATES Currency Year-end exchange rates Average exchange rates Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 SEK m 2018 2017 BRL 2.316 2.485 2.391 2.679 Assets held for sale CNY 1.307 1.264 1.314 1.263 Tangible fixed assets 672 – EUR 10.275 9.850 10.257 9.633 Intangible fixed assets 439 – GBP 11.348 11.105 11.593 10.990 Deferred tax asset 41 – INR 0.128 0.129 0.127 0.131 Inventories 86 – JPY 0.081 0.073 0.079 0.076 Accounts receivable 54 – KRW 0.008 0.008 0.008 0.007 Other operating receivables 28 – NOK 1.025 1.001 1.069 1.033 Cash and cash equivalens 0 – SGD 6.561 6.156 6.440 6.181 Total 1,320 – USD 8.971 8.232 8.692 8.538 Liabilities held for sale Deferred tax liability 56 – Accounts payable 65 – Other operating liabilities 66 – NOTE 35. ACQUISITION Total 187 – At the end of the third quarter 2017, Perstorp acquired the Neo, TMP and TMPDE as well as the associated Formate businesses from Polioli SP, located in Italy. Theoperational result due to the acquisition is included in the consolidated accounts from NOTE 37. KE Y E VENTS AF TER THE END OF October 2017. THE FINANCIAL YE AR Market Value After the balance sheet date but before the publication of this report Perstorp Purchase price allocation SEK m 2018 2017 announced a new organization. As a consequence and during the first quarter 2019 there will be three new Business Areas (BAs) to manage our different Intangible asset – 62 customer categories and maintain strong customer intimacy: Targible assets – 113 • BA Specialty Polyols & Solutions: BU Penta, BU TMP & NEO and BU Formates Other Current assets – 7 • BA Advanced Chemicals: BU Oxo and BU Plasticizers Deferred tax liabilities – –28 • BA Animal Nutrition: BU Feed Additives and BU Acids & Salts Post-employ benefits – –20 On December 10th, 2018 Perstorp announced the agreement to sell its Current liabilities – –5 Caprolactone business. The transaction was closed on February 13th 2019, the Total – 129 net proceeds from the transaction was approximately EUR 579 m. The capital gain amounts to approximately SEK 4,6 billion. Following the company’s positive development and the sale of the Bioproduct and Caprolactone business, Perstorp, together with its shareholders, assessed the refinancing of the capital structure. Perstorp issued redemption notices for all outstanding bonds and notes issued by Prague CE S.A.R.L during the first quarter 2019. The redemption is financed by the proceeds of the Caprolactone sale as well as new credit facilities, with lower interests, committed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs Bank USA, DNB, SEB , Standard Charted Bank and Nordea. No other major events have occurred since the balance sheet date and up to the publication of this report. 53 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Proposed treatment of unappropriated earnings 54 A N N UA L R E P O R T SEK The Board of Directors and President propose that the funds available for distribution by the Annual General Meeting, as shown in the Parent Company´s balance sheet, namely: Retained earnings 841,808,798 Net result for the year 4,077,167,824 be distributed as follows: To be retained in the business 4,918,976,622 Perstorp, April 11, 2019 Tore Bertilsson Jan Secher Fabrice Fouletier Brendan Cummins Chairman President & Chief Executive Officer Claes Gard Karin Markides Ragnar Hellenius Gerry Ackert Per-Olov Hornling Anders Magnusson (elected by employees) (elected by employees) (elected by employees) Our audit report was submitted April 30, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Michael Bengtsson Mats Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead auditor 55 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Auditor’s report Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions Basis for Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International accounts of Perstorp Holding AB (publ.) for the year 2018 except Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing for the statutory sustainability report on pages 10-13. standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden material respects, the financial position of parent company and and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in the group as of 31 December 2018 and its financial performance accordance with these requirements. and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2018 and their financial performance Other Information than the annual and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with accounts and consolidated accounts International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by This document also contains other information than the annual the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 4-5, the statutory sustainability report on pages 10-13. The statutory 8-9 and 14-17. The other information comprises of President’s administration report is consistent with the other parts of the Comments, Corporate Governance Report, Board of Directors annual accounts and consolidated accounts. and Executive Leadership team (but does not include the annual We therefore recommend that the general meeting of accounts, consolidated accounts and our auditor’s report shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet thereon). The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are for the parent company and the group. responsible for this other information. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. 56 A N N UA L R E P O R T In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are information identified above and consider whether the responsible for the assessment of the company's and the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts group's ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors materially misstated. and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We Auditor’s responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about have nothing to report in this regard. whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether Responsibilities of the Board of Director's due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that and the Managing Director includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence also responsible for such internal control as they determine is the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and annual accounts and consolidated accounts. consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/ revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor´s report. 57 P E R S T O R P 2 018 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. of Director's and the Managing Director of Perstorp Holding AB This includes among other things continuous assessment of the (publ.) for the year 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company's and the group's financial situation and ensuring that company’s profit or loss. the company´s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to statutory administration report and that the members of the the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among Board of Director's and the Managing Director be discharged other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the from liability for the financial year. company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Basis for Opinions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted Auditor’s responsibility auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain section. We are independent of the parent company and the audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities Director in any material respect: in accordance with these requirements. • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is which can give rise to liability to the company, or sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Responsibilities of the Board of Director's Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. and the Managing Director Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the Companies Act. company's and the group's type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company's and the group’ equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. 58 A N N UA L R E P O R T Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report on pages 10-13, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, April 30, 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB MICHAEL BENG T SSON M AT S ÅKERLUND Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 59 One molecule can change everything Perstorp believes in improving everyday life – making it safer, more convenient, more fun and more environmentally sound for millions of people all over the world. As a trusted world industrial leader, our innovations provide essential properties for products used every day at home and work. You’ll find us everywhere from your car and mobile phone to towering wind turbines and the local dairy farm. Simply put, we work to make good products even better. Perstorp’s focused innovation builds on more than 135 years of experience, representing a complete chain of solutions in organic chemistry, process technology and application development. Manufacturing is based in Asia, Europe and North America, with sales and support in all major markets. The Perstorp Group is controlled by funds managed and advised by the European private equity company PAI partners. For more information, visit perstorp.com
