Sustainability Report 2018 This report is published as a section in FPL’s Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report About This is our fourth consolidated Sustainability Report that summarises the sustainability practices and performance of Frasers Property Limited (the this Group) for the period of 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 (FY18). Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting requirements of the SGX-ST Listing Manual (Rules 711A and 711B), as well as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. We have also included consideration of the GRI G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures in preparation of this report. Report scope We have included activities and performance of our key business units1 and our listed trusts2 in this report. This covers our significant locations of operations which are Singapore, Australia, China and the United Kingdom (UK). Contents Data disclosed covers the above scope, unless otherwise stated, for assets that we own and/or manage, over which we have operational control. As we have influence over our Singapore and Australia development sites, 95 About this Report we have included health and safety data of our principal contractors’ 96 Board Statement employees working at these sites. 97 Sustainability Framework 98 The Year at A Glance Feedback 100 Managing Sustainability We seek to continuously improve our sustainability performance and your 102 Materiality Assessment feedback is vital to us. Please write to: 106 Acting Progressively 112 Consuming Responsibly Dr Pang Chin Hong, 122 Focusing on People Vice President, Group Sustainability & 136 GRI Index Chairman, FPL Sustainability Working Committee Frasers Property Limited Email: sustainability@frasersproperty.com 1 Frasers Property Singapore, Frasers Hospitality, Frasers Property Australia, Frasers Property China, Frasers Centrepoint Asset Management Ltd, Frasers Commercial Asset Management Ltd, Frasers Hospitality Asset Management Pte. Ltd, Frasers Logistics & Industrial Asset Management Pte Ltd. 2 Frasers Centrepoint Trust (FCT), Frasers Commercial Trust (FCOT), Frasers Logistics & Industrial Trust (FLT) and Frasers Hospitality Trust (FHT) Annual Report 2018 | 95 Sustainability Report Board At Frasers Property, we believe our business goes beyond the integrated portfolio and services we provide across the property value chain; it is Sustainability Our Sustainability Framework sets out our sustainability priorities as a Group through to 2030. The Framework is driven by three pillars, namely Acting Statement Framework also about building communities. As a multi-national business operating Progressively, Consuming Responsibly and Focusing on People. These three across five asset classes residential, retail, commercial and business parks, pillars form a multi-disciplinary approach that recognises 13 corresponding logistics and industrial properties, and hospitality we are committed to Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) focus areas. The Sustainability meeting the changing needs of individuals, businesses and communities by Framework also provides common ground upon which we will direct our bringing the right expertise and value to the table. efforts to manage and deliver our sustainability priorities across the value chain, while providing individual business units and listed REITs with sufficient Our unifying idea, ‘experience matters’, is at the core of everything we do. flexibility to develop and implement strategies and action plans tailored to Our customers’ experience matters and our experience matters. Our values their business model, operations and plans. In FY19, key business units and of being collaborative, respectful, progressive and real are the building listed REITs will review their practices, policies, performance and targets in blocks of our culture. They unify us and drive our actions as we live out relation to the ESG focus areas in the Sustainability Framework which they ‘experience matters’. identify as relevant to them. And in line with our unifying idea and values, sustainability is a key FRAMEWORK consideration in every aspect of our business. We safeguard the well-being of our people by celebrating their diversity and supporting their professional and personal development. Strategic considerations and actions for sustainability also comprehensively elevate the resilience of our portfolio and business. By focusing on our customers’ needs, we gain valuable insights that guide our products and Acting Progressively Consuming Responsibly Focusing on People services, helping us create sustainable value for our stakeholders. To ensure our offering remains relevant, we developed a Sustainability Framework in FY18, which sets out our sustainability priorities as a Group till 2030. FOCUS AREAS We are supported by the Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) and Sustainability Working Committee (SWC) as we integrate sustainability Materials & Supply Chain into the way we do business. The SSC and SWC comprise top and senior Community Connectedness Innovation Achieving the sustainable Considering social value principles management of various business functions, including our listed REITs. We Fostering an innovation culture management and efficient use of for communities work together to determine, manage and communicate sustainability risks that creates value and strengthens material along the supply chain and opportunities relevant to our business. We also jointly oversee the our competitive edge implementation of the Sustainability Framework going forward. Biodiversity Health & Well-being We look forward to sharing our progress with you. Enhancing the environment Ensuring healthy and balanced and ecosystem through our work and community Resilient Properties developments environments Strengthening the resilience and climate adaptive capacity Board of Directors Frasers Property Limited Energy & Carbon Increasing substantially energy Diversity & Inclusion efficiency and renewable Empowering and promoting the energy used social inclusion of all, irrespective Risk-based Management of age, sex, disability, race, Comprehensive assessment to ethnicity, origin, religion or address environment, health Waste economic or other status and safety risks Reducing substantially waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Skills & Leadership Developing skills and leadership Responsible Investment programmes that support Incorporating social, environment Water productive activities, creativity and governance criteria in the Increasing substantially water and innovation to deliver evaluation process efficiency and the recycling and high-value products and services safe reuse of water discharged 96 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 97 Sustainability Report The Year at Established Frasers Property Singapore Frasers Property invested in A Glance Frasers Property Group (FPS) won the BCA Green JustCo to develop a Sustainability Framework Mark Champion co-working platform which is driven by Award and in Asia three pillars: Frasers Tower • Acting Progressively is certified Green • Consuming Responsibly Mark Platinum • Focusing on People Frasers Property raised Established Frasers Property Frasers Logistics & Singapore’s and Learning Academy Industrial Trust (FLT) & FPA Southeast Asia’s first dedicated to staff learning led across the board in syndicated green loan and development GRESB 2018, with FLT ranking worth $1.2 billion 1st in the Real Estate Industrial under the Green Loan category, and FPA Principles ranking 2nd in the Global Developer category Frasers Property Australia FPA launched Reconciliation Global staff participated (FPA) was named one of 11 Action Plan to design in inaugural Frasers businesses in the world communities that are inclusive Property Global Eco and to sign up for the Net of Australia’s Aboriginal and Wellness Zero Carbon Buildings Torres Strait Island peoples Challenges Commitment launched by the World Green Building Council 98 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 99 Sustainability Report Managing With our belief that experience matters at every moment, we are committed to creating properties and offering services that will generate sustainable We communicate and engage our stakeholders through different methods and channels, as shown below. Sustainability value for our business and our stakeholders. We do this by adapting and Frequency of Engagement responding to changing dynamics in the real estate industry as well as Key Stakeholders Key Topics of Concern Mode of Engagement and FY18 Highlights sentiments within our communities. Contractors / consultants / • Health and safety • Safety briefings, • Daily, weekly and Sustainability governance suppliers exercises and monthly safety Frasers Property’s sustainability agenda is determined by the SSC, which is declarations briefings, exercises and chaired by our Group Chief Executive Officer, Panote Sirivadhanabhakdi, and declarations conducted includes our Group Chief Corporate Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group at our development sites Chief Human Resources Officer, Group Chief Investment Officer, Chief Strategy & Planning Officer and the CEOs of all our strategic business units. The SSC Customers • Customer satisfaction • Customer service • In FY18, 500,000 meets to review the Group’s sustainability priorities and performance. In FY18, • Quality of facilities and counters customers engaged services • Customer care and through rewards the SSC validated the Group’s Sustainability Framework, which sets out our • Health and safety rewards programme programme in Singapore corporate sustainability agenda through to 2030. • Surveys and feedback • Surveys conducted for channels tenants, homebuyers and The SWC is responsible for realising the corporate sustainability agenda. guests – results on pg 131 Composed of middle and senior management from key business units and the listed REITs, the SWC implements action plans, monitors progress made Employees • Career development • Training programme • In FY18, 248,169 hours of and communicates our sustainability performance to our stakeholders. Going • Employee engagement • Surveys and feedback training was completed forward, the SWC will be reporting on our progress in the implementation of • Staff bonding channels • Annually, 100% of staff the Sustainability Framework. • Health and safety • Team building activities received appraisal reviews • Impacts on the • Environmental and • Staff engaged in annual Stakeholder engagement environment and society Health & Safety global Frasers Property A diverse mix of stakeholders are involved in our activities across the entire awareness activities Environment and Health property value chain. We proactively engage our stakeholders to better & Safety Months understand their expectations, address their concerns and enhance our sustainability performance through collaboration. Investment community • Financial results • Results briefings • Half-yearly briefings • Business performance • Annual General Meeting • Annually for AGM and outlook • Investor conferences • 14 investor meetings & • Corporate governance • ESG surveys conferences held in FY18 • FPA & FLT’s participation in 2018 GRESB Real Estate Assessment Development Investment Operations Sales & • FPA’s inaugural • Land acquisition • Property • Leasing Transaction participation in 2018 • Design & acquisition • Property • Property sales planning • Asset management • Capital GRESB Developer • Construction management • Customer service management Assessment • Project • Divestment of management non-core/ Local community • Community investment • Feedback channels • Close to 130 community mature assets • Impact on the • Staff involvement in development initiatives environment and society local communities implemented in FY18 • Community • Over 2,600 man-hours Development initiatives volunteered • Over $1 million contributed to community investment Regulators / • Regulatory compliance • Participation in NGOs • Participation in Company Non-Governmental • Corporate governance • Surveys and focus of Good by National Organisations (NGOs) • Industry trends and groups Volunteer & Philanthropy standards Centre, Australia Property Industry Foundation, Singapore Security Tripartite Cluster in FY18 100 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 101 Sustainability Report Materiality To refresh and validate our first materiality assessment conducted in 2015 guided by GRI Reporting Principles and AA1000 Principles, we engaged our As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we have identified the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) relevant to our business operations Assessment employees, contractors and suppliers, customers and tenants, and investment to support and contribute to the global sustainable development agenda. community in 2018 to gather their feedback on the sustainability issues most important to them. For each material factor, the table below shows where significant impacts occur and where we have caused or contributed to the impacts through our This year, responses from our stakeholders were mostly in line with our business relationships: existing material factors. We will continue to review and assess these material factors to ensure relevance to our business activities, stakeholders interests, and the ESG focus areas set out in our Sustainability Framework. Material Factor Boundaries FPL Sustainability Material Suppliers/ Customers/ NGOs/ Local Corresponding Topic-specific Framework Pillars Factors Materiality to FPL FPL Contractors tenants Communities GRI Standards Relevant SDGs Economic Sound economic performance is the cornerstone to sustainability of our GRI 201: performance1 business. Our financial success directly impacts our ability to operate and contribute to society. • Economic Performance 2016 Environmental Compliance with relevant environmental laws and regulations is critical to GRI 307: Environmental Acting compliance our development activities. • • Compliance 2016 progressively • • Anti-corruption We must maintain high standards of integrity and accountability to earn the GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 trust of our stakeholders. Ethical We believe buying property is more than just a transaction. We ensure that GRI 417: Marketing and marketing our communications and marketing practices are responsible to cultivate long-lasting, positive relationships with our customers. • • Labelling 2016 Energy Energy consumption in the building sector is one of the largest sources of GRI 302: Energy 2016 Consuming management energy usage around the world. We recognise its importance to building operations and proactively manage our energy consumption. • • GRI 305: Emissions 2016 responsibly Water Water is a scarce resource. We strive to conserve water whenever possible to GRI 303: Water 2016 management reduce unnecessary usage and wastage. • • Staff A progressive leadership team and a dedicated, well-developed workforce GRI 401: Employment 2016 retention and development empowered to innovate are central to our success. • GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Labour / Our employees are the foundation of our success. We believe that GRI 402: Labour/Management management relations maintaining effective two-way communications with our employees is key to fostering a collaborative and progressive culture. • Relations 2016 Focusing on people Health and We are mindful that our business operations may be vulnerable to health GRI 403: Occupational Health safety and safety incidents. Ensuring that our employees and contractors, who are at the heart of our operations, have a safe working environment is our top priority. • • • and Safety 2016 Local We have the potential to create significant positive impacts in the GRI 413: • • communities communities that we operate in through our properties. We endeavour to run Local Communities 2016 a business that responds to our communities’ needs. 1 Please refer to our annual report for further details. 102 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 103 “We are honoured to partner Frasers Property to raise its inaugural $1.2 billion green loan to refinance the development of Frasers Tower, a Green Mark Platinum Premium Grade A office building in Singapore. In so doing, they have led the way for other companies to adopt green financing options to support their own environmental commitments.” Gerrit Stoelinga, Regional Head, ING Wholesale Banking, Asia Pacific Frasers Tower | Singapore Sustainability Report Acting Upholding corporate integrity Good governance serves as an indispensable foundation upon which we can In FY18, there were: Progressively evolve and innovate as a business. We have established corporate policies • No substantiated cases with regards to bribery and corruption to ensure we maintain the highest standards of integrity, accountability and • No substantiated cases following two complaints received through whistleblowing channels governance in our daily operations. • No incidents of non-compliance with regulations and industry codes concerning marketing communications for which fines were issued We believe a progressive • Code of Business Conduct • Three cases of environmental breach by contractors working on our development sites that resulted in one stop-work • Whistle-blowing Policy order, a restrictive manpower hiring order and fines totalling $372,000 to the contractors and innovative mindset • Anti-bribery Policy • Two cases of safety breach which resulted in one stop-work order in a development site, and a fine of £132,387 for a is vital to business • Policy for Disclosure and Approval of Purchase of Property Projects hotel in the UK under management sustainability. We • Competition Act Compliance Manual • Personal Data Protection Act Policy We have since taken extra measures together with our contractors to minimise further incidents. incorporate innovative • Environment, Health and Safety Policy solutions and sustainability Affiliation with Industry Bodies criteria into the way we In addition to abiding to our corporate policies, we adopt the following We believe we can play a role in encouraging and driving sustainability in the real estate sector. Frasers Property practices to ensure our compliance with laws and regulations in the following manage our portfolio to areas: therefore actively participates in and engages with various industry bodies. strengthen our resilience e and competitive edge as Industry Body Representative from Frasers Property a business. • Adhere to the Code of Corporate Governance 2012 Green Building Council of Australia Rod Fehring, Chairman of Board • Conduct due diligence checks in respect of AntiCorruption Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Marine Calmettes, Member of Australia Regional Real Estate Money Laundering and Counter Financing of and fraud (GRESB) Benchmark Committee Terrorism for all customers who are interested in purchasing or leasing a property from us Livable Housing Australia Simone Dyer, Advisory Board Member Since 2016, we have been a Living Future Institute of Australia Paolo Bevilacqua, Chair of Board signatory to the Real Estate Developers’ Association of Singapore Panote Sirivadhanabhakdi, Management Committee UNGC, the world’s largest corporate • Implement ISO 14001 (Environment) and Real Estate Investment Trust Association of Low Chee Wah, Vice President sustainability ISO 50001 (Energy) Management Systems Singapore Eu Chin Fen, Member of Regulatory Subcommittee Environment, initiative and we are commited to across key business units health & Singapore Green Building Council Pang Chin Hong, Board Member ten principles across the areas of • Adopt OHSAS 18001 and AS/NZS 4801 safety human rights, labour, environment Occupational Health & Safety Management Singapore Hotel Association Eu Chin Fen, Board Member and anti-corruption. System Singapore Quality Award, Enterprise Singapore Choe Peng Sum, Governing Council Member Urban Development Institute of Australia Cameron Jackson, Vice President and Councillor, NSW Jill Lim, Secretary and Councillor, Victoria • Adhere to the Singapore Code of Advertising Cameron Leggatt, Queensland Member of the Board of Directors Practice, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Marketing Singapore’s (URA) Housing Developers Rules and communications Housing Developers (Show Unit) Rules 2015 for all Endorsement and Participation in Sustainability Initiatives advertising materials, including unit rendering and We endorse and participate in the following external initiatives to align our business with the global sustainability show units trends, which allows us to proactively identify and implement best business practices. • A signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and pledged to its 10 principles • The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) To monitor the effectiveness of our risk management, control and governance • Paris Agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) processes, internal audits are conducted across the Group. Our Group Internal • Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP) Audit Head reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee to ensure • Net Zero Carbon Buildings Commitment of World Green Building Council the independence of the internal audits conducted. For further details, please refer to pages 145-171 of the Corporate Governance Report. 106 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 107 Sustainability Report Acting Progressively Innovating the way we do business We aim to strengthen the resilience and performance of our portfolio and business through innovation thereby enhancing our customers’ and tenants’ experiences. Investing in collaborative communities Committing to net zero carbon Enabling our customers to purchase renewable energy The advent of the sharing economy has changed the way office space is designed, leased, buildings Real Utilities is an energy company set up by FPA that used and operated today. In response to the ever-evolving needs towards office space, Frasers FPA has joined the first global Net provides cheaper and greener energy to selected Frasers Property has partnered with GIC, Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund and JustCo, one of Asia’s Zero Carbon Buildings Commitment, Property retail and residential developments in Australia leading co-working space providers to develop a co-working space network in Southeast Asia. officially launched by the World Green through embedded networks. These networks allow tenants The joint investment of US$176.9 million ($241.6 million) will enable JustCo to expand its Building Council as part of the Global to take advantage of energy efficient or renewable energy presence in Asia, as well as enhance technology solutions and service offerings in its co-working Climate Action Summit in September technology in our buildings. Real Utilities uses a combination space. We believe the combination of thoughtful design, curated service offerings and smart2018. We are one of the 37 founding of renewable energy sources and carbon offsets and is office technology, can transform office buildings into inspiring, collaborative workspaces that signatories, comprising 11 businesses, independently certified carbon neutral under the National enhance our workplace communities. 22 cities and four states and regions, Carbon Offset Standard. We also benchmark our gas and to commit to eliminating 244 million electricity rates twice a year against the three biggest tonnes of carbon emissions equivalent energy retailers in the developments’ region, keeping prices by 2030. As part of the Commitment, low for our customers all year round. We have already every new building created by FPA begun the service at the Tailor’s Walk community in Botany must operate at net zero carbon from in Sydney, where 320 customers have signed up with Real 2030, and all existing buildings must Utilities. We target to extend this service to 7,000 customers operate at net zero carbon by 2050. in other communities by 2025. Financing of sustainable Climate adaptation plans Enhancing experiences through digital solutions building with green loan FPA aims to develop Climate Adaptation In FY18, FPS launched the ‘Go-digital’ Programme with the aim In September 2018, Plans (CAP) across all future developments of developing digital solutions that deliver more convenient we raised Singapore’s to manage climate adaptation and and better experiences for our customers and tenants. As part and Southeast Asia’s resilience concerns where appropriate. We of the programme, a new multi-feature app ‘Frasers Experience’ first syndicated secured acknowledge the impacts that extreme was introduced. Designed to heighten the consumer experience, green loan under the Green Loan Principles1 to refinance existing weather and climate change may have this cross-divisional app can be used across all Frasers retail, loans relating to the development of Frasers Tower, a Green Mark on our assets and that addressing climate commercial, and residential properties. The phase one launch Platinum Award office tower. The $1.2 billion five-year term green change is a responsibility to our key of our revamped rewards app includes the exclusive digital F&B loan meets the eligibility criteria set for green commercial buildings stakeholders. The CAPs outline the climate concierge service, Makan Master, where customers can reserve as well as reporting the use and impact of the proceeds following risks likely to impact the developments, a table at partnering F&B outlets across our properties. In phase the Green Loan Framework. This is a testament to the attractiveness how we have assessed these risks and how two of the app, which will be launched in 2019, customers can of our property’s value proposition and financial institutions’ we will address the priority risks. This will also enjoy the convenience of pre-ordering their meals through growing interest in supporting projects that are environmentallyallow FPA to build resilience into the assets Makan Master. Another feature of the ‘Frasers Experience’ app friendly. and communities in which we operate. is Digital Gift Cards, which were introduced as part of our drive towards realising mobile-first customer experiences at our stores. By scanning the member’s QR code, stores were able to accept Frasers Property gift cards as a form of payment, while according reward points to members at the same time. 1 The Green Loan Principles were launched by Loan Market Association and Asia Pacific Loan Market Association in March 2018. The Green Loan Principles set out a clear framework to promote integrity in the development of the green loan market and define the characteristics of a green loan. 108 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 109 “Frasers Property has demonstrated strong commitment towards environmental sustainability. In recognition of its long-standing contribution to building a sustainable city, with more than 20 Green Mark-rated developments since 2006, BCA has awarded them the BCA Green Mark Champion award in 2018. We look forward to working together with Frasers Property to push the envelope through more BCA initiatives.” Ang Kian Seng, Group Director, Environmental Sustainability Building and Construction Authority, Singapore Waterway Point | Singapore Sustainability Report Consuming Conserving energy We continually look for opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of Green portfolio In Singapore, Frasers Property has received a total of 30 In Australia, we have the highest rated Industrial Green Star Performance2 portfolio with 64 Green Star-rated Responsibly our operations. Green Mark certifications1 to date, of which three are Industrial properties. We have set the requirement for Platinum, eight are GoldPLUS, 14 are Gold, and five are all our new offices, retail and industrial developments to In FY18, we completed LED lighting upgrades for 21% of our Australia Certified. Our latest projects, Frasers Tower and Seaside achieve a minimum 5 Star Green Star Design & As Built portfolio by net lettable area. The total percentage of our properties in Residences have garnered the Platinum and GoldPLUS rating. This year, our industrial property in Yatala achieved As our operations span Australia with LED lighting is 67%. To date, FPA has installed 5.6MW of solar awards, respectively. the first 6 Star Green Star Design & As Built rating for an photovoltaic cells on their building rooftops with another 8.1MW in the industrial facility in Queensland. the property value chain, pipeline. we are mindful of the resources required to In Singapore, we added green features to Northpoint City South Wing, such Number of Green Mark certifications Number of Green Star ratings as lush greenery, low emissivity double-glazed glass, highly efficient air support our business conditioning and lighting system, and sensors in the stairway which helped 35 140 130 30 activities. To ensure the the mall achieve the Green Mark GoldPLUS rating. 30 25 26 29 120 105 sustainability of the 25 19 21 22 100 76 83 Our Singapore Office Building Management is certified ISO 14001 environment we operate (Environmental Management) and ISO 50001 (Energy Management). In 20 14 80 60 in, we work to decrease 15 FY18, Frasers Hospitality started to implement an EHS Management System 8 8 10 40 conforming to ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety) in its our own environmental Singapore properties. 5 20 1 1 2 5 9 12 footprint. We also engage 0 0 with our business partners, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FY18 performance The Group’s overall energy intensity reduced to 111 kWh/m2 in FY18, as Industrial | Retail | Corporate | Office tenants, and customers to compared to last year. In tandem, the Group’s carbon footprint (greenhouse Office | Retail | Residential Developments (Residential, Commercial & Industrial) join us in doing so. gas (GHG) intensity) decreased by 1.2% year-on-year to 63.6kg of CO2 equivalent (CO2e/m2). FPS accorded the BCA Green FLT and FPA recognised by GRESB for sustainability excellence Electricity consumption (GWh) Energy intensity (kWh/m2) Mark Champion Award FPS was accorded the BCA FLT recognised as Global Leader FPA placed in top 90th percentile 300 295 250 265 259 Green Mark Champion Award for Industrial by Global Real Estate by GRESB in the 2018 Real Estate 250 in 2018 for our achievement in Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) in Assessment out of 875 global 200 obtaining a substantial number the 2018 Real Estate Assessment participants 200 150 116 of Green Mark buildings at • Ranked 1st for Industrial, Global • Ranked 2nd for Diversified 112 111 150 Gold level and higher. FPS has (listed) category Office Industrial, Asia Pacific 100 100 received a total of 30 Green • Ranked 1st for Industrial, Australia category 50 Mark awards thus far. (indirectly managed) category • Ranked 3rd for Diversified 50 • Ranked 1st in the Health and WellOffice Industrial, Global (non 0 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 being category amongst global listed) category industrial participants • Ranked 1st for Health & Wellbeing module out of all 282 GHG emissions (‘000 tonnes of CO2e) GHG intensity (kg CO2e/m2) FPA recognised as Global Leader for global participants Developer Residential by GRESB in the 200 174 100 2018 Developer Assessment 146 145 • Ranked 1st for Developer 80 150 Residential, Global (non-listed) 60 64.7 64.4 category 63.6 100 • Ranked 1st for Developer 40 Residential, Asia Pacific category 50 • Ranked 2nd for Developer, Global 20 category 0 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Hospitality | UK Business Park Hospitality | Group 1 Green Mark certifications are awarded by the Building and Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA), which evaluate the overall environmental design and performance of buildings in the real estate market. It is categorised in four levels: Green Mark Platinum, Green Mark GoldPLUS, Green Mark Gold and Green Mark Certified 2 Green Star Performance ratings are awarded by the Green Building Council of Australia (GBCA), which assess properties against nine key performance Refer to Notes, page 139 for energy reporting scope criteria – management, indoor environment quality, energy, transport, water, materials, land use and ecology, emissions and innovation. 112 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 113 Sustainability Report Consuming Responsibly Saving water FY18 Performance Reducing waste distributed to staff and tenants. Recycling and food We work towards reducing our consumption of the scarce Overall, we note a decrease in water intensity across our Frasers Property recognises the role that we play as waste bins are also conveniently placed at prominent resource and increasing our water efficiency by installing asset portfolio by 0.7% year-on-year in FY18. This was a property owner and manager in reducing our own, areas to encourage recycling. water-saving equipment, participating in water-saving mainly due to an improvement of water efficiency in our customers’ and tenants’ waste generation. We schemes and conducting water efficiency audits for our Singapore Retail portfolio and lower occupancies at encourage waste reduction through infrastructural In FY18, 20,109 tonnes of waste were generated from 17 our properties. Alexandra Techopark in Singapore. support and awareness raising. In Singapore’s office commercial properties in Singapore. The waste intensity is buildings, educational green talks, guides and posters 32.1kg/m2 this year, a 4.8% decrease from last year. Concerted efforts have been made to install water-saving promoting resource conservation and recycling are and water-recycling features at many of our properties. They include: • Certified water-efficient fittings and appliances, including tap-flow restrictors/regulators, low-flush Collective efforts from the ground Incentivising recycling in malls Reduce, reuse, recycle water, and waterless urinal systems We are proud that our operational staff also took it In collaboration with food and beverage company, F&N, In our corporate offices, we encourage our employees • On-site rainwater storage tanks, where rainwater upon themselves to contribute towards our watersupermarket chain, NTUC FairPrice and supplier of the to reduce the amount of paper used through default is collected and used for non-portable applications, saving efforts. One such initiative took place at Fraser reverse vending machine, Incon Green Singapore, FPS setting of all printers to double-sided printing and such as irrigation, washing, water features and cooling Place Kuala Lumpur, where our staff repurposed 15 has installed reverse vending machines (RVMs) at two of discouraging printing. A total of 5,239 reams of A4 towers units of old water heater tanks and paint containers to our shopping malls, Waterway Point and YewTee Point. paper and equivalent were used in FY18. All paper • Efficient irrigation systems, such as under mulch drip collect rainwater for the cleaning of the property. Customers can recycle simply by inserting an aluminum procured are certified with FSC (Forest Stewardship irrigation systems and irrigation systems with rain can or plastic bottle into the machine. With every five Certification), PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement sensors bottles or cans deposited, a customer can claim a F&N of Forest Certification) or SGLS (Singapore Green • Water treatment systems that reduce water refill product discount coupon. The machine encourages Label Scheme). We also provide bins at our frequency of cooling towers customers to recycle by providing a convenient location properties to encourage guests and tenants to • Use of NEWater and air handling unit condensate for and incentives for recycling. recycle their waste. non-potable purposes Since the installation of the RVMs in January 2018, till In addition to reducing waste production in our In recognition of our efforts to install water-efficient September 2018, a total of 34,786 bottles and cans have day-to-day operations, we make a conscious effort fittings in our properties, 89% of our commercial been collected from 14,654 patrons. to do so at the development stage. At FPA, we have properties in Singapore have achieved the Public Utilities developed an operational waste management plan, Board Water Efficient Building Certification in FY18. and have achieved one of the first NABERS Waste ratings. We have also achieved a recycling rate of We have also proactively completed water efficiency 94% across our development business. audits for three Australian logistics and industrial properties in FY18. A breakdown of water consumption at these properties, recommendations on water efficiency improvement projects and their estimated waterand E-waste recycling in malls and offices cost-saving benefits, were presented in the audit reports. In partnership with StarHub’s REcycling Nation’s Electronic Waste (RENEW) Programme, we have placed RENEW bins in all our malls and offices to encourage our tenants and visitors to recycle electronic waste (e-waste). The registered collector is notified when the bins are full. Thereafter, the Water Consumption (mil m3) Water Intensity (m3/m2) disposed materials are broken down into smaller 4 3.00 pieces, where the metals are extracted and melted 3.41 down for other uses. In FY18, 10,136 kg of e-waste 3.18 3 2.77 was collected from 15 commercial properties. 2.00 1.31 1.34 1.33 2 1.00 1 0 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY16 FY17 FY18 Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Hospitality | UK Business Park Hospitality | Group Refer to Notes, page 139 for water reporting scope 114 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 115 Sustainability Report Consuming Responsibly Designing for the Future A building’s sustainable design plays a key role not only in reducing the environmental impacts of our buildings but also helps in adapting to the changing climate. We are committed to designing sustainable spaces that are innovative and inspiring. Building a sustainable community Fostering connected living Ed.Square Burwood Brickworks development FPA is currently developing Ed.Square, a mixed-use FPA has set out an ambitious masterplan to transform the community that targets to obtain a 6 Star Green former Brickworks site in Melbourne’s eastern suburbs Star Community rating upon completion. It will be a into one of Australia’s most sustainable communities connected urban neighborhood comprising homes, a – including 700 homes and plans for the world’s most retail precinct and a hotel. sustainable shopping centre. Ed.Square is designed to foster community bonding. Ed’s The Burwood Brickworks mixed-use community is being Town Square will provide dining destinations, shopping designed to achieve a 6 Star Green Star Community and entertainment and a market place, where members rating, with approximately 500 new trees to be dotted of the community can meet. The 100% walkable throughout the civic plaza, open spaces, landscaped community is equipped with an array of walking tracks, reserves, neighbourhood parks and pedestrian greenways. cycle ways and pocket parks for the Ed.Square’s residents to interact and effortlessly reach every corner of the FPA is targeting 6 Star Green Star Design & As Built ratings One Bangkok: Sustainable and green design community. Creating a smart and sustainable workplace for Burwood Brickworks Shopping Centre, which will be One Bangkok aims to be the first LEED-Neighbourhood Frasers Tower an Australian retail first, as well as aiming to make it the Platinum Development (LEED-ND) development in Ed.Square is also built to be a green community. A 2.5MW Awarded the BCA Green Mark Platinum, tenants of first retail development in the world to achieve Living Thailand with towers built to LEED and WELL Platinum solar photovoltaics (PV) system, as well as geothermal Frasers Tower enjoy maximum natural light with floorBuilding Challenge certification, which includes targets standards, setting a new standard for green and heating and cooling will be installed to address growing to-ceiling high glass windows, cooler surface thermal such as achieving net positive energy and water use and sustainable development for the country. LEED-ND urban heat island concerns in the region. An embedded comfort and low heat levels within the building. net positive waste outcome. enhances the green certification concept beyond energy network will also be installed to distribute individual buildings and applies to the development of carbon neutral power generated on-site to tenants and Some of Frasers Tower’s environmentally friendly Tenants of the shopping centre will be able to choose to healthy and happy communities in the vicinity. residents. The community will also provide 20 car spaces features include: participate in the embedded energy network at Burwood It applies key sustainability design principles in these for electric vehicles. • Energy-efficient fittings double-glazed façade, Brickworks, which will offer best-in-market rates for key areas: photocell sensors for typical office perimeter use of the renewable electricity and thermal energy • Energy management – 22% energy reduction with lighting and motion sensors for toilet and staircase generated on-site. district cooling lighting • Water management – on-site 100% recycled water, • Water-efficient fittings private meters linking Provision has also been made for a 100-sq-m community rain water harvesting to Building Management System for water usage space to run programmes as well as annual open days • Safety & security – 24/7 monitoring with video monitoring and leak detection, automatic water to educate the community on the unique sustainability analytic and CCTV, Integrated fire, police and efficient irrigation system with rain sensor features of the shopping centre. ambulance response • Sustainable materials use Green Cement, • Smart living – universal WIFI connectivity, Recycled Concrete Aggregates and Washed Copper community applications Slag • Green transportation options secured bicycle In March 2018, One Bangkok officially opened a Green lots with end-of-trip facilities, electric vehicle Nursery, preserving existing mature trees onsite and recharging stations, seamless connectivity to MRT nurturing new native trees, which will be part of the stations green public spaces in the development, forming approximately 50% of the total land area for the project. Frasers Tower transforms the user experience by offering spaces for recharging, relaxation and vibrant lifestyle options. Unique to Frasers Tower are four community zones for tenants to connect and collaborate. Tenants enjoy a progressive and scalable workspace that can accommodate up to 300 people per floor. The open office areas and inter-connecting floors improve communication while allowing flexibility for businesses to bring their unique culture and brand into the building. 116 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 117 Sustainability Report Consuming Responsibly Raising Awareness As a prominent property brand, we recognise our Keeping natural spaces clean Educating the public on green buildings influence towards encouraging environment-friendly For the past 10 years, FPA has been an active Frasers Property is a supporting partner of the Singapore behaviours amongst our building users goes beyond the It is important to teach our future participant of Business Clean Up Australia Day. Every Green Building Council (SGBC) Climate Action Campaign hardware. We have therefore launched various initiatives throughout the year to raise awareness for environmentgenerations that one simple gesture year, our staff come together to clean up spaces such 2018. As SGBC’s first ever public engagement event, as parks and beaches in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane the campaign aimed to urge the greater community friendly habits that we can adopt. can make a big difference. I am very and Perth. In FY18, 73 employees contributed a total to be more aware of green buildings and how proud and enthusiastic to be part of a of 245 hours and collected a total of 75 bags of trash sustainability can be a concrete climate action. Themed company that inspires me every day to in our clean-up efforts. ‘Live.Work.Play.Green.’, it was organised in support of Inaugural Frasers Property Global Eco Challenge 2018 Singapore’s Climate Action Year. For two months, eight Environmental consciousness at Frasers Property goes be a better employee and better person public buses advertising the campaign travelled across beyond merely achieving energy and water savings. An by promoting different activities not Singapore, bringing nuggets of information about green incrementally important area of sustainable operations building features to the commuters. The public was also for us is green procurement. What do we purchase and only during the Environment Month but offered a chance to win attractive prizes by participating who do we purchase from? Are these products sustainably throughout the year. in a short quiz. sourced? Every purchase we make is a chance to vote with our wallet. In March 2018, we held our annual Frasers Property Environment Month themed ‘Greening Our Alba Torrescasana, Revenue Manager, Dollars’ to encourage all our colleagues to consider the Capri by Fraser Barcelona environmental impact of our purchases. During the month, we launched the inaugural Frasers Schools Tree Day Getting our tenants involved Property Eco Challenge to encourage all business Close to 100 FPA volunteers got their hands dirty The Singapore commercial building management units and properties to take ownership of creating an for Planet Ark’s annual initiative, Schools Tree Day. team collaborates with tenants to adopt environmentenvironment-friendly culture within their teams. Each Planet Ark is an Australian not-for-profit organisation friendly practices where possible. Educational property conducted at least one activity related to the with a vision of a world where people live in balance green talks, guides and posters promoting resource theme for the challenge, and outstanding submissions with nature. conservation and recycling are distributed to staff were selected as winning entries after evaluation by and tenants. Recycling, e-waste and food waste bins senior management. We helped schools near FPA’s developments in are also conveniently placed at prominent areas to Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Perth to plant trees encourage recycling. Fraser Suites New Delhi engaged a local organisation and reinvent green spaces that connect the children to construct and install bamboo blinds at its restaurant with nature. This is our tenth year participating in extension, encouraging continuation of the green craft Australia’s largest community tree planting and and providing local employment opportunities. Capri by nature care event. Fraser Barcelona donated a total of 181 old beds to lower income families in the neighbourhood instead of throwing them away. The Frasers Property Singapore’s commercial team organised a charity garage sale to encourage shoppers to purchase and reuse pre-loved items and donated the proceeds to a children charity. 118 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 119 “With 75% of all mental illness having its onset before the age of 24, we know we can make the biggest impact by focusing on supporting young people to develop the skills they need to thrive. Our partnership with Frasers Property Australia will allow us to reach children from 90 schools over three years. These children will directly benefit from free access to our mindfulness training programmes, helping them build resilient and healthy minds from a young age. We know by creating more well-rounded and prepared individuals we will be able to create healthier, more harmonious communities.” Dr Addie Wootten, Chief Executive Officer, Smiling Mind Sustainability Report Focusing on Growing family at Frasers Property People are at the heart of our business. We celebrate the diversity and Celebrating experiences and diversity To champion our belief that experience matters, the People expertise our people bring and are committed to enabling their professional Frasers Property Experience Ambassadors programme and personal growth. We place emphasis on their career development, has been designed to help make the scale and diversity welfare, health and safety to ensure that we attract and retain people with the of our multi-national business real to our employees. right experiences and expertise across the globe. The programme offers employees the opportunity to Our business viability relies travel and experience life at another Frasers Property Frasers Property is committed to adopting fair employment practices and Group office location for a week. Between December on our ability to respond principles to encourage diversity in our workforce. We are a signatory to the 2017 and April 2018, six chosen employees, Experience to our stakeholders’ needs Tripartite Guidelines in Fair Employment Practices in Singapore, and a member Ambassadors, travelled to Singapore, Bangkok, Sydney, and expectations. We are of the Singapore National Employer Federation. All our employees are also Melbourne, London and Shanghai and then returned to appraised on their performance through an open review process annually. share their experiences with the rest of the Group. committed to supporting the development and In FY18, our headcount grew by about 5.4% across the Group, due to our enhancing the well-being continued expansion in Singapore and overseas markets such as China, the UK, Europe and Thailand. Our hiring rate of 44.2% is higher than the turnover rate of our employees, tenants, (voluntary) of 33.6%. Due to the labour-intensive hotel/serviced apartment customers and communities industry that we are in, as well as the large number of non-executive staff, The Experience Ambassador the level of movement was significant. The hiring and turnover rates through our business (voluntary) were much lower for our Singapore operations at 22.3% and programme has allowed me to activities and community 16.5% respectively. immerse myself in another culture, investment initiatives. to share my insights and also learn from the colleagues working in vastly Employee Profile (Permanent) different environments. It truly celebrates the diversity across the By Type (%) By Gender (%) By Age (%) By Country (%) Group. FY18 FY18 FY18 FY18 7 14 25 Lynn Tay, Experience Ambassador from 14 6 29 25 Singapore FY17 27 FY17 FY17 FY17 48 46 54 52 56 55 31 30 73 43 45 71 19 18 5 7 Number of Employees, New Hires & Turnover by Region Executive | Non-Executive Male | Female < 30 years old | 30-49 years old Singapore | Australia | China 5,000 4,635 >50 years old EMEA | Others 4,399 4,000 Employee Type by Age (%) Employee Type by Gender (%) 3,000 56% 57% 80 80 9.3 9.7 1,849 1,946 60 60 2,000 32.7 32.8 1,595 1,559 35.3 34.3 19% 18% 40 40 1,000 80% 80% 84% 83% 4.2 4.7 25% 25% 20 20 13.7 14.8 39.6 37.8 8% 7% 19.9 21.6 28.0 26.5 5% 5% 14.0 14.6 0 12% 13% 11% 12% 3.3 3.2 0 0 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 Permanent New Voluntary Executive Non-Executive Executive Non-Executive Employees Hires Turnover < 30 years old | 30-49 years old | >50 years old Male | Female Singapore | Australia | Rest of Overseas 122 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 123 Sustainability Report Focusing on People Cultivating talent In FY18, our employees clocked an average of 50 training As our success depends on being able to bring the right hours each globally, compared to 44 hours a year ago. expertise to the table, we are committed to investing in Approximately 24% of total training hours were recorded Industry updates for our leaders Fostering peer-learning at Frasers Property the growth of our people. In FY18, we dedicated 2.5% of by executive employees while non-executives accounted The Leadership Education Series (LES) is a platform to The Lunch & Learn series is a peer-learning platform our payroll costs to employee learning and development. for 76%. keep our middle to senior management abreast of the that is open to all employees. Colleagues from various latest industry trends and developments that could departments and functions are invited to share exciting Under the guidance and broad direction set out by Training Hours have an impact on our business. In FY18, three LES projects they have worked on, allowing colleagues from Group Human Resources, our global network of sessions were organised, where leaders from LinkedIn, across the company to hear about developments in in-house Learning & Development (L&D) specialists 250,000 100 Carousell and Amazon were invited to discuss a range other parts of the business. In FY18, two sessions were design a range of training programmes that seek to equip of contemporary topics. A total of 145 employees organised, with a total of 177 employee attending. our colleagues with future-ready skills and knowledge. attended the sessions. • A case study for land valuation and pricing conducted 200,000 80 These programmes are tailored to meet the needs of their by our Executive Vice President for Business professional function, seniority, and the cultural context Development 57 in which they operate. 150,000 50 60 • Robotic Process Automation pilot project that our four 45 44 44 Management Associates have been leading 40 On-site training programmes are complemented by 100,000 40 technology, including video conferencing and e-learning modules hosted on FPL’s HR platform, My HR Hub. These 50,000 20 are to ensure that training programmes are as inclusive as Launching a holistic L&D platform Reaching out to younger colleagues practicably possible. 53,737 60,351 128,703 187,818 182,440 248,169 Launched in 2018, the Frasers Property Learning The Heart to Heart Talk Series is a newly launched 0 0 Academy is a $1.3 million facility dedicated to L&D. platform that is designed for our younger Frasers Property FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 colleagues, where they can have an open dialogue with Excutive Non-Executive All Employees The Academy’s classroom and seminar room are our senior management in a more relaxed setting. The equipped with teleconferencing abilities to connect junior colleagues are encouraged to voice their views, Total | Average with overseas employees. Hospitality and retail concerns, ideas, and aspirations to our leaders, while mock-up rooms have also been installed to conduct getting first-hand perspectives right from the top about specific trainings and test out innovative procedures our Group’s growth strategy. They are also able to meet New General and Job-specific Young Senior Other L&D e.g. new check-in methods. their peers and expand their network within the Group. employees soft skill training Talents Leadership initiatives training Coupled with the launch of the Academy, Frasers Property will also establish a holistic L&D roadmap for • Orientation • Building • Service • 1.5-year • Leadership • Leadership all employees and organise forward-looking courses programme effective excellence Management Essentials Education such as design thinking and digitalisation trainings in working training Associate for General Series the future. relationships • Course work programme Managers • Lunch and • Professional/ in leasing • 1-week Leap of Retail Learn Series business certifications Programme and • SkillsFuture writing • Security for high Commercial Learning INSEAD leadership programme • Emotional training potential businesses Leave for Over 20 members of our global intelligence • Sustainability employees • Executive Singaporean leadership team gathered for the training in Frasers Programme employees inaugural Frasers Property Leadership • Building Hospitality with • Lean Six Summit a rigorous three-day maintenance INSEAD, Sigma executive education programme and Strata designed Foundation developed in collaboration with INSEAD. Management for C-suite Yellow Belt Act (BMSMA) officers programme Topics ranging from disruptive workshop change, design thinking to the global macro environment were actively debated. The insights that our leaders shared puts the Group in good stead as we ready ourselves for our next lap of growth. More importantly, we believe that every member of our Frasers Property family should adopt a progressive, adaptive mindset. 124 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 125 Sustainability Report Focusing on People Safeguarding our people Safety across our value chain in our key operations We believe that our employees deserve a safe workplace. We have introduced and adopted workplace safety Design Tender Construction Pre-operation Operation for management systems across key business operations to for properties properties put in place various policies and procedures, including under under risk, incident, contractor management procedures and management management health and safety auditing procedures. These policies and procedures help us control hazards, monitor performance, Carry out risk Require all • Conduct a Carry out risk Conduct risk conduct audits and identify areas for improvement. assessment contractors joint monthly assessment for assessment using a Design tendering for safety daily facilities and review risk Close to 90% of our commercial and retail properties in for Safety jobs to have committee management areas annually. Singapore are certified with OHSAS 18001 and bizSAFE procedure. The safety standards meeting with activities. Prior Appointed term Star by the Workplace Safety and Health Council (WSHC). risk assessment certification our principal to attaining contractors More than 80% of our Singapore commercial properties covers design, (i.e. BizSafe building the Temporary are required are also certified bizSAFE Partners by the WSHC. Our structure, certifications, contractors Occupation to submit risk residential, retail, commercial and industrial units are mechanical and OHSAS 18001 • Carry out Permit, the assessment certified with AS/NZS 4801 (Australia/New Zealand electrical (M&E) standard) and safety main contractor prior to Standard for Occupational Health & Safety). function and to carry out inspection and specialised commencing landscape. various safety tours at all contractors (e.g. work. Safety We are glad that in FY18, our construction sites in trainings for development M&E) jointly drills for tenants Singapore and Australia recorded zero fatalities. In their employees sites quarterly inspect and train are carried out Singapore, the total lost-time injury rate was 1.24 in order to • Audit our the Facilities every quarter. incidents per million man-hours and the severity rate was qualify for subcontractors Manager (FM) in 38.82 lost-days per million man-hours for contractors’ consideration. every second operations and staff working on our sites. In Australia, our construction month maintenance procedures. operations experienced a lost-time injury rate of 3.39 per million man-hours and severity rate of 153.48 per million man-hours, for both our staff and contractors’ staff. For the completed properties that Frasers Property manages, we continue to work on improving our safety Championing design for safety Launch of the improving maintainability programme in Singapore processes across various business units and follow up Our Development & Projects (D&P) This programme aims to identify safety risks at source and to promote safe with corrective action where necessary. We closely Team in Singapore champions execution of construction and maintenance works to building infrastructure. monitor our performance in these completed buildings. Design for Safety (DfS) processes Identified risks are mitigated by adopting engineering control measures such In FY18, we recorded zero fatalities. The table below in project management. DfS is as the erection of working and step platforms and railings. Proper working shows our employee safety performance in the existing implemented at the three levels platforms with handrails have been installed at our properties to eliminate the buildings of our key locations. of Planning, Programme and need for our workers to climb and balance on the pipes while they are cleaning People, where the party creating the cooling tower in-fills. the risk must address the issue at source. The guideline in DfS helps In addition, the management has identified the downlighting installed under Corporate Office Singapore China Australia Hospitality Completed reduce accidents and fatalities the escalators in our properties to be a potential safety risk for maintenance Buildings FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 FY17 FY18 by addressing risks from design workers. These lights are positioned high above ground and workers risk falling development through construction, off the escalators to the main atrium when lighting works are required. An No. of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 to usage and maintenance. In alternative solution that has been suggested includes installing track lights at No. of lost-time FY18, two of our employees have the escalator landings instead, eliminating the need for the workers to work injuries 1 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 27 31 completed DfS courses and are at the escalator steps and reducing any risk of falling from height. Marked on their way to obtaining the DfS improvement in safe work maintenance has been observed at our Singapore No. of lost-days 65 0 14 15.5 0 0 0 0 616 917.5 professional certification. Retail & Commercial properties since the programme launch. Lost-time injury rate 0.2 0.00 0.4 1.23 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 5.67 2.39 Severity rate 14.8 0.00 5.6 6.23 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 129.3 70.61 1 Lost-time injury rate = No. of Workplace Accidents Reported / No. of Manhours Worked x 1,000,000 2 Severity rate = No. of Man Days Lost to Workplace Accidents / No. of Manhours Worked x 1,000,000 126 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 127 Sustainability Report Focusing on People Promoting health and well-being We offer measures and benefits that help our employees Inaugural Frasers Property Global Wellness Engaging our staff to achieve work-life balance. In Australia and Singapore, Challenge 2018 • Family Day: Our Frasers Property family extends beyond employees are given the choice of flexible work arrangement such as working from home. This allows our At Frasers Property, we see wellness as more than The design approach makes conscious the workplace. We organise an annual Family Day just physical health. Complete wellness is about where employees can spend time with their family employees, especially care takers with children or elderly pursuing a better quality of life in areas including the use of passive design as part of a members in a fun setting. In FY18, 1,630 employees and parents, to balance their work and responsibilities at home. physical, mental, emotional, social, environmental and strategy to encourage movement. their families went to the Science Centre Singapore for a even financial well-being. During this year’s Frasers Fundamental to the design is the day of games and learning with free admission. In addition to a range of health and well-being benefits, Property Health & Safety Month, themed ‘Live Well’, • Eat With Your Family Day: In FY18, we introduced we work to ensure that our employees enjoy competitive we seek to enable and empower our employees to belief that the built environment can regular ‘Eat With Your Family Days’ to encourage our remuneration packages. In FY18, FPS was presented with the Partners of Labour Movement Award, which take care of themselves and achieve better work-life directly affect our health – making employees to spend quality time over dinner with their balance. loved ones. Every last Friday of the school semester, recognises contributions to the Security Tripartite Cluster employee wellbeing a top priority. employees on regular work schedules are encouraged in setting out recommendations to implement a more More than 4,500 staff and external parties including to leave work early at 5pm. progressive wage model for the security industry. tenants and guests from over 150 properties • Back to School With Dad: In support of our staff’s Reini Otter, Executive General Manager, participated in various activities during the month. involvement in their child’s academic life, Frasers The Corporate Wellness Committee, together with the C&I & IP, FPA Property partnered with Centre for Fathering on their Sustainability Working Committee plan various health and There were over 190 submissions for the inaugural Back to School with Dad initiative. Fathers are given wellness related activities throughout the year. Activities are Global Wellness Challenge where staff initiated their time off on any one day during the first school week to planned annually based on guidance provided by the Health own activities to ‘Live Well’. Some of these activities Building a healthy workplace send their children to school. Promotion Board (HPB), as well as results from our annual included: FPA’s new headquarters, based in Rhodes Corporate • Dinner and Dance: An annual get-together is organised employee health check-ups and annual employee survey on • De-clutter Hour at our Singapore Development & Park, has achieved WELL Building certification by for all Frasers Property employees, allowing them to health knowledge. In FY18, all initiatives planned centred Properties team where staff spent time cleaning the International Well Building Institute, receiving a bond outside of their work functions. around the theme ‘physical and mental wellness’. up their individual work spaces to create a more GOLD rating. It is the second in Australia to receive the • Frasers Challenge: At Frasers Hospitality, we organise conducive and safer workplace for themselves highly coveted sustainability certification and the 14th monthly activities such as bowling, badminton, For the second year, we partnered with the SGBC to host • Lifeguard & Bomb Threat Competition where staff globally (GOLD certification). It is also one of the first go-karting and karaoke to engage our employees. the Better Places for People workshop for our employees at Frasers Suites Sukhumvit, Bangkok built on their in Australia designed to target both 6 Star Green Star Approximately 30-50 employees participated in each of and tenants. The workshop shared on how a building’s capabilities to better manage guest safety Interiors v1.1 and WELL certifications. WELL buildings our Challenge events in FY18. design impacts the health, well-being and productivity • Flexible Work Programme for our construction staff are given credits for seven categories including air, • Happy Helper: An employee-led work unit in Golden of its occupants, and what we can do to create better at New South Wales, Australia where flexible start water, nourishment, light, fitness, comfort and mind. Land Property Development Public Company Limited environments for building users. and finish times were arranged according to their Staff Indoor Environment Quality satisfaction scores (Golden Land), which is listed on the Stock Exchange personal commitments, allowing them more time have dramatically improved following the move into of Thailand and 39.9%-owned by FPL, has been with their families and ensuring they get the rest the new fit-out. There has been a 56% improvement in established to coordinate employee engagement, they need to work safely on site staff satisfaction for overall health and productivity. building activities and social volunteer events. Building a healthy workplace ecosystem Promoting physical well-being HPB partners with landlords and developers to • National Steps Challenge: Employees are encouraged establish Healthy Workplace Ecosystems throughout to clock 10,000 steps a day as part of the challenge by Singapore. Participating landlords and developers the HPB. In FY18, 229 employees participated in the provide venues to bring healthier food options, free Challenge. exercise sessions, educational workshops and health • Marathon subsidies: In Singapore, we encourage our screenings to their employees, tenants and community staff to participate in marathons by providing subsidies members. Alexandra Technopark is a participating for registration fees since 2010. In FY18, 32 employees workplace. In FY18, since the start of the partnership applied for the subsidies to participate in marathon in June, we have successfully organised 45 activity races. sessions including yoga, zumba, futsal sessions, and • Activities across business functions: In our corporate lunchtime health talks and cooking classes. These office in Singapore, walk & jog sessions are organised. activities were well attended by over 1,200 Frasers Our employees at Frasers Hospitality are also allowed Property employees and tenants in the Alexandra to use the gym in our hospitality properties during Technopark and Alexandra Point premises. specified hours. • Health check-ups: All staff in Singapore are offered a free health screening package. In Australia, where skin cancer is a prevalent risk, employees are offered free skin cancer checks in all four of our state offices. Injections and inoculations are also made available to staff. 128 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 129 Sustainability Report Focusing on People We’re glad that Frasers Property Connecting communities Singapore has made the initiative As a property owner, developer and manager, we are Incorporating inclusiveness in community design to create a nicer environment and presented with precious opportunities to positively Launched in July 2018, FPA’s Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) cultivate a more balanced lifestyle influence how a community is designed, built and managed. We aim to understand and address the aims to collaborate with Australia’s Aboriginal and Torres Strait for its tenants. The weekly evening Islander community on the land on which we develop and needs of our communities through engagement as build. Through the implementation of the RAP, we will design exercise sessions and community early as during the development stage. We also strive communities that are inclusive of them and their interests by events have brought more life and to dedicate spaces and hold activities for community engaging them in our design processes. vibrancy to the area, which we love. members to come together. The RAP charts out our commitments, 59 targets and their timeline up until July 2020. Angela Low, Senior Marketing Manager, the Food Barn, tenant at Alexandra Technopark, Singapore Creating inclusive malls through a Pioneering trusted meet-up spots Building a community at Alexandra Technopark participatory approach FPS partnered with Carousell, one of the world’s largest At ATP, the Asset Enhancement Initiative (AEI) had Under the Company of Good Fellowship Programme and fastest growing marketplaces, to pioneer ‘Trusted transformed and repositioned the property to a by the National Volunteer & Philanthropy Centre, Meet-Up Spots’ at 10 of our shopping malls in Singapore, contemporary, vibrant and engaging business campus Frasers Property has secured a grant to implement including The Centrepoint, Causeway Point and Robertson that offers a green and spacious environment with a a project to develop inclusive mall spaces for Walk. These are designated areas that will be surveilled multitude of food and beverage, social and wellness persons with disabilities in Singapore. This is an by security officers and our CCTV network, providing amenities. One of the new additions as part of the AEI expansion of Project EMMA @ Frasers, a student-led Carousellers with peace of mind as they transact. Under is an amenity hub which houses an array of food and community project that involved the implementation this partnership, our malls will be recommended as beverage, social and communal amenities. Various of retrofitted wheelchairs at our malls. The project preferred meet-up spots when Carousellers select a community engagement activities held such as pop-up is in the development stage and plans to involve location for transacting. bars, wine appreciation classes, futsal games, Zumba and participation from students from all local tertiary lunchtime yoga sessions had injected greater vibrancy universities and the beneficiaries themselves to coat the property and improved tenants’ and visitors’ create implementable solutions for selected malls. experiences at the property. Enhancing community resilience Building customer confidence community development manager programme We now live in the age of experience, where customers are There are a total of eight Community Development prioritising experience over ownership. Managers serving all residential projects across Australia to help enhance community resilience at Tenants’ experience Hospitality guests’ experience Homebuyers’ experience the property level. Annual tenant satisfaction surveys are conducted as part of our In FY18, 89,436 guest reviews and ratings were collected. In FY18, average ratings of 87% and 76% for home • Establishing community groups, such as ongoing efforts to foster partnership with Frasers Property’s Average ratings of 91%, 82% and 88% for positive collection and live-in experience were obtained Neighbourhood Watch, play groups and Resident stakeholders to drive customer experience. In FY18, tenants reviews, popularity score and performance score were respectively. This year, we conducted the surveys using a Association reflected an improved satisfaction level of 97%. obtained respectively. digital platform instead of over the phone, which helped • Providing community resources such as Community us gather an outstanding 90% response rate. % % % Users Guide/Welcome Kit, stakeholder engagement 96 97 plans 100 94 100 91 91 100 90 88 88 88 • Supporting local economic development 87 82 82 83 78 80 78 78 by including local business development in 80 80 80 76 community development plans and supplying space for local small businesses 60 60 60 • Implementing community metrics, including 70 67 78 surveys on community events 40 40 40 • Garnering community partnerships for community activities, such as Live Life Get Active fitness camp 20 20 20 • ‘Green Shoots installation’ – a grassroots idea 24 29 19 where existing residents welcome and connect 0 0 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 with new residents with welcome messages, tips Positive Popularity Performance How was your home How is everything? and advice Review Score Score collection experience? Satisfied to very satisfied | Neutral to Satisfied FY16 | FY17 | FY18 FY16 | FY17 | FY18 130 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 131 Sustainability Report Focusing on People Investing in communities Financial giving In addition to our efforts in designing and building connected communities, we contribute to our communities by Building healthy minds Singapore green building week – tree planting event making community investments that are centred on the theme of ‘wellness’. We believe the mental, physical and social Smiling Mind is a not-for-profit organisation that aims sponsorship well-being of our community members are fundamental to creating a sustainable community. to enhance mental health and wellbeing by bringing the FPS was the official sponsor of the BCA’s Tree Planting benefits of mindfulness meditation to everyone through Event on 24 August which served as a lead-up to the In FY18, Frasers Property contributed over $1 million and 2,600 volunteer hours to various charities and community its unique app-based programs. Smiling Mind’s schoolInternational Green Building Conference 2018. Held at groups. We have also carried out close to 130 community investment activities throughout the Group globally. Featured based programs are designed to take a pre-emptive Springleaf Nature Park, over 100 invited guests and staff community investment activities during the year are highlighted as below: approach to building healthy minds from a young age. volunteers came together to plant 50 trees to contribute towards reducing our carbon footprint, accounting for the FPA has become a signature partner and the firstreduction of almost 300 kg of carbon emissions per year. ever national community partner of Smiling Mind, a Space sharing relationship which will ensure even more school children, Play It Forward at Singapore’s largest rope playground Supporting arts training for financially-disadvantaged teachers, parents and other community members in The malls of Frasers Property brought back Play It children in Singapore Australia will have access to their formal, face-to-face Forward for a second year, with a new concept to bring FPS also supported the opening of Little Arts Academy’s training programmes. FPA’s donation of A$700,000 everyone together with the set-up of Singapore’s (LAA) new campus at Northpoint City through URA’s ($692,885) over three years will enable Smiling Mind to largest crochet rope playground. The 10m by 7m vibrant Community and Sports Facilities Scheme. The LAA was offer the Smiling Mind training programme to teachers RopeScape was set up at four malls island-wide from founded in 2008 to provide free training in music, dance, of 30 schools near FPA’s developments each year. The 29 May to 1 July 2018. A scaled-down version was set theatre and visual arts for the beneficiaries of The Business programme also provides each school with 12 months up at three malls. With a $5 donation for 20 minutes of Times Budding Artists Fund, which supports arts training ongoing support via online resources, plus training for play time, shoppers let their young ones have fun while for financially-disadvantaged children in Singapore. parents and the wider community on mindfulness. chipping in for a greater good. A total of $32,405.25 LAA’s campus at Northpoint City features the new Cave was raised and all proceeds raised were donated to the Automatic Virtual Environment studio, which is one of Association for Persons with Special Needs (APSN) Centre the first in the region specifically designed for younger for Adults, providing special education and vocational children to experience learning through virtual reality and training for people with mild intellectual disabilities. 3D technology. The new campus is also equipped with Tech At the end of the event, the ropes were upcycled and + Art modules where students can pick up skills in creative transformed into a variety of everyday items from key media technologies. chains and baskets, to floor rugs and flower pot holders, by members of APSN and a team of dedicated volunteers. These newly crafted products were put up for sale on 1 Procurement of home collection kits from Wise December 2018 at Waterway Point, where all proceeds Enterprise went to APSN Centre for Adults as well. Wise Enterprise Pte Ltd is a Social Enterprise set up to enable the lives of the socially disadvantaged. They create job opportunities for people with physical or medical conditions who find it difficult to secure stable employment. They also work closely with the Management of Muscular Dystrophy Association (Singapore) to identify creative youth among their beneficiaries, who have keen interest in bag designing, Supporting the alma mater to be part of their Product Design Team. Through Wise To enhance educational opportunities for children Enterprise, FPS purchased home collection kits to be in a remote area and inspire the public to love their distributed to homebuyers of Parc Life and North Park neighborhood or hometown, Golden Land has organised Residences. In FY18, a sum of $116, 250 have been the campaign ‘GOLD Giving – Back to School’ in Thailand. contributed for the purchases. It called for staff to submit essays reminiscing their time at school, and explaining difficulties that their schools are facing currently. Golden Land then selects Christmas kettling by the Salvation Army one needed school and provided assistance in terms of The Centrepoint provided free entrance space for the scholarships, educational tools, sport equipment, or funds Salvation Army to raise funds during the Christmas festive for renovation. This campaign has been running for three period and raised a total of $21,233. years in a row. 132 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 133 Sustainability Report Focusing on People Time sharing Experience sharing Trekking for eye health services Serving meals to people in need 2018 SID Directors Conference Lendlease’s International Women’s Day Wild Women on Top organises a regular walking event in FPA colleagues helped out The Big Umbrella in Melbourne Group CEO, Panote Sirivadhanabhakdi, shared his Chief Strategy & Planning Officer, Zheng Wanshi, Sydney, Melbourne and the Sunshine Coast to raise money in November 2017 and February 2018 by distributing expertise at the 2018 SID Directors Conference. He spoke at Lendlease’s International Women’s Day event, for the Fred Hollows Foundation, which supports the surplus food to homeless members of the Melbourne was a panelist for the breakout session titled ‘ASEAN themed Press for Progress. She shared her thoughts and delivery of eye health services on the ground in remote community on the streets via pop-up soup stations. integration: Is the regional economic community a myth personal experiences on achieving gender equality in areas of Australia and across the world. The Big Umbrella is a charity organisation in Australia or reality?’. the workplace. that commits to addressing issues impacting Teams of four, with at least 50% women, have between marginalised people. 10 to 18 hours to complete a 30 or 60km challenge along Forbes Global CEO Conference the Australian coastline, getting fit while raising money Group CEO, Panote Sirivadhanabhakdi shared his insights to transform lives. In FY18, 20 teams of FPA staff joined at the Forbes Global CEO Conference, which was held in the challenge and raised a total of A$81,129 for the Bangkok on 30 – 31 October. He joined a panel of other Foundation through their participation in the walk as well distinguished leaders to discuss the topic ‘Breaking new as corporate donations. ground’ imagining, building and operating the spaces needed in a rebooted world. Running for charity Every year, the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (SGX-ST) rallies the financial community and its listed companies to support the needs of underprivileged children and families, persons with disabilities, and the WELL Journey launch elderly. Frasers Property is a keen supporter of this cause Anthony Arundell, Director, Sustainability, Smart City, and continued to sponsor and participate in the SGX CUP and Estate Management at Frasers Property Holdings Bull Charge in 2018, a charity run to raise funds for five Thailand was a panelist at the WELL Journey launch event adopted beneficiaries, namely the AWWA Ltd., Autism in Bangkok, Thailand in August. WELL Journey is a series Association (Singapore), Fei Yue Community Services, of events organised by the International WELL Building Shared Services for Charities and Community Chest. Institute to educate and engage stakeholders to help them achieve WELL, a leading tool for advancing health and well-being in buildings globally. There, he spoke Providing an educational and fun experience for children about the importance of human sustainability beyond just Over the past seven years, the FPS commercial team has the environment. been working with the Children’s Aid Society to seek out enriching experiences for the beneficiaries residing at Melrose Home, one of the children’s home. This year, Inter-Tertiary HR Symposium, Singapore Management the team partnered with homegrown ice-cream parlour University (SMU) OBHR Society Scoopz to organise an ice-cream making workshop to Group Chief Human Resources Officer, Sebastian Tan, teach the children to make their own healthy fruit-based shared his views on how HR professionals can become ice-cream. future-ready and add value to their organisations with aspiring HR professionals and university graduates. International Green Building Conference (IGBC) 2018 General Manager of Sustainability at FPA, Paolo Bevilacqua, spoke at the IGBC on how sustainability Rejuvenating neighbourhoods near our developments can be framed to drive individuals and businesses to Golden Land is dedicated to improving the life of local change and the critical success factors to achieving the International Finance Corporation-International Capital communities where it operates. Golden Land would sustainability vision. Market Association Green Bonds Executive Education contribute to the improvement of infrastructure (eg. footpath upgrade, landscape rejuvenation) at the Course surrounding areas of its development projects. Besides, Dr. Pang Chin Hong, Vice President of Group Sustainability, Golden Land has been enhancing the public area by Frasers Property Limited, was a panel speaker at a donating art pieces for public display, which the local roundtable discussion on Green Finance in Asia, sharing residents could appreciate. Frasers Property’s experience on its green loan issuance in September 2018. 134 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 135 Sustainability Report GRI Index GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and 2016 Number Title Page Reference / Notes 2016 Number Title Page Reference / Notes Universal Standards Universal Standards Organisational Profile Stakeholder Engagement 102-1 Name of the organisation Frasers Property Limited 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and Corporate Narrative, pg. 3 Engagement, pg. 100 services Our Business, pg. 4-5 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements There are no collective bargaining agreements in Our Global Presence, pg. 6-7 place. 102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Information, pg. 23 102-42 Identifying and selecting Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder 102-4 Location of operations Our Global Presence, pg. 6-7 stakeholders Engagement, pg. 100 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate Narrative, pg. 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder Our Business, pg. 4-5 engagement Engagement, pg. 100 Our Milestones, pg. 8 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder Group Structure, pg. 10 Engagement, pg. 100 102-6 Markets served Corporate Narrative, pg. 3 Reporting Practice Our Business, pg. 4-5 102-45 Entities included in the Group Structure, pg. 10 Business Review, pg. 36-87 consolidated financial statements Notes to Financial Statements, pg. 193-308 102-7 Scale of the organisation Corporate Narrative, pg. 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic About This Report – Report Scope, pg. 95 Our Business, pg. 4-5 Boundaries Materiality Assessment, pg. 102 Financial Highlights, pg. 11 102-47 List of material topics Materiality Assessment, pg. 102 Focusing on People – Growing Family at Frasers GRI 102: 102-48 Restatements of information Restatements of employees information in pages Property, pg. 122 General 122-123 were due to the changes to voluntary 102-8 Information on employees and Focusing on People – Growing Family at Frasers Disclosures turnover basis. other workers Property, pg. 122 Restatements of energy, GHG emissions, and water Information on temporary and part-time data in FY16 and FY17, pg. 112-114 were due to a employees are not available due to inconsistent change in computational basis. GRI 102: data collection for our operations across the Restatements of hospitality guests’ surveys in FY16 General globe. We are undergoing a HR system update and and FY17 were due to changes in portfolio of assets. Disclosures aim to disclose the information in our next report. 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-9 Supply chain Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder 102-50 Reporting period About This Report, pg. 95 Engagement, pg. 100 102-51 Date of most recent report December 2017 102-10 Significant changes to Our Milestones, pg. 9 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual organisation and its supply chain About This Report – Report Scope, pg. 95 102-53 Contact point for questions About This Report, pg. 95 102-11 Precautionary principle or FPL does not specifically refer to the precautionary regarding the report approach approach when managing risk; however, our 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance About This Report, pg. 95 management approach is risk-based, and with GRI Standards underpinned by our internal audit framework. 102-12 External initiatives Acting Progressively – Upholding Corporate 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index, pg. 136 Integrity, pg. 106 102-56 External assurance We have not sought external assurance on this data; 102-13 Membership of associations Acting Progressively – Upholding Corporate however we intend to review this stance in the future. Integrity, pg. 106 Strategy Management Approach 102-14 Statement from senior decisionBoard Statement, pg. 96 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality Assessment, pg. 102 maker Management and its boundary Ethics and Integrity Approach 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Experience matters, pg. 3 norms of behaviour Acting Progressively – Upholding Corporate Topic-specific Standards Integrity, pg. 106 Economic Performance Governance 103-2 The management approach and 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Information, pg. 23 GRI 103: its components Managing Sustainability – Sustainability Management FPL Group Strategy, pg. 3 103-3 Evaluation of the management Governance, pg. 100 Approach approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated Financial Highlights, pg. 11 Economic and distributed Financial Statements, pg. 172-308 Performance 136 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 137 Sustainability Report GRI Index GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and 2016 Number Title Page Reference / Notes 2016 Number Title Page Reference / Notes Topic-specific Standards Topic-specific Standards Anti-corruption 404-1 Average hours of training per year Focusing on People – Cultivating Talent, pg. 124 GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and per employee We aim to provide more detailed breakdown, eg. Management its components by gender, in our next report, as we are currently Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Acting Progressively – Upholding Corporate updating our HR system to collect the data. GRI 404: approach Integrity, pg. 106 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee Focusing on People – Celebrating Experiences and Training and GRI 205: Anti205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption skills and transition assistance Diversity, pg. 123 Education corruption and actions taken programs Focusing on People – Cultivating Talent, pg. 124 Environmental Compliance 404-3 Percentage of employees Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and receiving regular performance Engagement, pg. 100 Management its components and career development reviews Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Labour/Management Relations Acting Progressively – Upholding Corporate approach 103-2 The management approach and Integrity, pg. 106 GRI 103: GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with its components Focusing on People – Growing Family at Frasers Management Environmental environmental laws and 103-3 Evaluation of the management Property, pg. 122 Approach Compliance regulations approach Ethical Marketing GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice periods This is currently not covered in Group-wide 103-2 The management approach and Labour/ regarding operational changes collective agreements. The notice period varies. GRI 103: Management its components Management Relations 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach Acting Progressively – Upholding Corporate approach Topic-specific Standards Integrity, pg. 106 GRI 417: 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Health and Safety Marketing and concerning marketing 103-2 The management approach and GRI 103: Labelling communications its components Focusing on People – Safeguarding our People, Management Energy Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management pg. 126 Approach 103-2 The management approach and approach GRI 103: its components 403-1 Workers representation in formal FPL has a Health and Safety senior management Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management joint management–worker health committee. Approach GRI 403: approach and safety committees Occupational 302-1 Energy consumption within the Consuming Responsibly – Conserving Energy, 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Focusing on People – Safeguarding our People, Health and GRI 302: Energy organization pg. 112 occupational diseases, lost days, pg. 126 Safety 302-3 Energy Intensity and absenteeism, and number of The breakdown by gender is not available, and we 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG work-related fatalities aim to disclose the info in our next report. GRI 305: Local Communities emissions Emissions 103-2 The management approach and 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GRI 103: Water Management its components Management Focusing on People – Connecting Communities, 103-2 The management approach and 103-3 Evaluation of the management GRI 103: Approach pg. 130 its components approach Management Consuming Responsibly – Saving Water, pg. 114 413-1 Operations with local 103-3 Evaluation of the management GRI 413: Focusing on People – Investing in Communities, Approach All water consumed is from purchased utilities. community engagement, impact approach Local pg. 132 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source assessments, and development Communities programs Staff Retention and Development 103-2 The management approach and Focusing on People – Growing Family at Frasers GRI 103: its components Property, pg. 122 Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Focusing on People – Celebrating Experiences and Notes: Approach approach Diversity, pg. 123 • Energy and water consumption are reported for landlord area for commercial properties and total area for serviced residences and hotels • Energy and water consumption, and GHG emissions data is inclusive of all completed buildings that we own and/or manage with operational control in FY18 Focusing on People – Cultivating Talent, pg. 124 • Energy, water and GHG intensities exclude properties that we acquired and/or began managing less than one year ago, and those that were divested within FY18 401-1 New employee hires and Focusing on People – Growing Family at Frasers • The GHG emission factors are from Singapore Energy Statistics 2018, Australia National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2017, Covenant of Mayors for Climate & Energy – Default Emission Factors for Local Emission Inventories 2017 for Spain, Hungary, France, Germany, UK Government GHG Reporting employee turnover Property, pg. 122 2017 & 2018, Defra Overseas Electricity Guidance 2015 for Turkey, UAE and Qatar, Clean Development Mechanism Designated National Authority for Saudi Information on the breakdown of new hire and Arabia 2010, United Nation Framework on Climate Change Second Biennial Report 2017 and Electric Power Statistics Information System 2018 for Republic of Korea, Baseline Emission Factors for Regional Power Grids in China 2015, Study on Grid Connected Baselines in Malaysia 2014, National Grid Emission GRI 401: turnover rates by gender and age group are not Factor for National Emission Grid for Luzon-Visayas Grid 2015-2017 for Philippines, Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organisation 2017, Central Employment available due to inconsistent data collection Electricity Authority India – CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector 2018, Joint Crediting Mechanism Indonesia Secretariat – Emission Factor for our operations across the globe. We are for 2016, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Vietnam 2017, Kansai Electric Power Group Report 2018 for Osaka, Switzerland Energy Efficiency Report 2011, Clean Development Mechanism – Grid Emission Factor for West African Power Pool 2017 for Nigeria, and International Energy Agency – Key undergoing a HR system update, and aim to World Energy Statistics 2018 for Bahrain. disclose the information in our next report. 138 | Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2018 | 139
