2018 Communication on Progress Letter from our Managing Partner Axcel’s mission is to generate a return for our investors by acquiring, developing, improving and selling medium-sized Nordic companies. Working towards this mission, we believe not only in economic sustainability, but also in sustainability when it comes to the environment, our social responsibility and good cor­p­ orate governance. For this reason, Axcel has pledged to act responsibly towards the companies we own and in the way we run our business in general. Christian Schmidt-Jacobsen, Managing Partner, Axcel. Running a sustainable business is a ceninitial screening of po­tential investments, tral issue on the agenda of every compaand a more structured analytical process ny today. For Axcel, this responsibility as the company moves forward in the inalso extends to the companies under vestment process. our management. Our goal is to improve sustainability, and For new investments to be successful, we aim to steer potential investments in both the investor and the company itself this direction. By putting in time and effort need to be alert to potential ESG issues. in the initial phases of the investment, we Therefore, this year Axcel has sharpened hope to optimise companies’ priorities its focus on ESG in the due diligence proand thereby solve ESG challenges at a cess, which now includes a more thorough faster pace. 2 Corporate social responsibility Axcel believes sustainability Axcel joined the UN Global Compact back However, we also wish to promote socioin 2010 and has worked strategically with economic development in general and at both fund and company corporate social responsibility (CSR) at therefore encourage portfolio companies level to be crucial for successboth fund and company level ever since. to contribute to their local communities and their development where this makes ful investments. Sustainability We submitted our first report under the commercial sense, in line with the UN’s issues are therefore on the UN’s Principles of Responsible Invest17 Sustainable Development Goals. ment (PRI) initiative in 2016, and the most agenda at all portfolio com­ recent was filed in April 2018. We are also keen for individual boards to panies. be involved in reporting to the Global Axcel aims to invest in companies which Compact, and it is a requirement that behave responsibly, as this will ensure each annual Communication on Progress the best possible risk profile. (COP) is considered at board level. 3 Reporting Investment Axcel’s active to investors decision ownership and public Monitoring Global Due diligence of Axcel’s Compact COP companies 7 companies All portfolio companies are required to join the Global Compact within one year and work on continuous improvement against its ten principles. Axcel is also working to ensure that its up with an external partner tasked with Annual networking meetings give port­ companies: producing independ­ent reports on enfolio companies an opportunity to share vironmental, social and governance risks knowledge, compare approaches to • comply with relevant laws, rules and at both company and sector level. The aim sustainability, and draw inspiration from internationally recognised principles is to ensure that all future investments live external speakers. up to sustainability expectations. • consider risks relating to CSR issues All this forms part of Axcel’s active and address them proactively Axcel works with portfolio companies on ownership and helps ensure that every developing CSR and sustainability not aspect of the investment process is • are in a position to meet the requirements only in their day-to-day operations but followed up. and expectations of customers and busialso in their reporting, including the an­ ness partners concerning supply chain nual CSR reports required by the Global management and codes of conduct Compact and Danish legislation. • consider future business opportunities and positioning in relation to CSR Global Compact status of Axcel-owned companies as at 30 April 2019 • comply with the DVCA’s guidelines on Joined Global Compact First COP openness and transparency Danish Ship Finance 2017 Delete Group 2015 2018 saw Axcel stepping up its focus European Sperm Bank New investment on portfolio companies’ moves towards Frontmatec 2019 greater sustainability. Objectives were drawn up in five specific areas on which GUBI New investment all companies are to report so that Axcel IsaDora can monitor their progress on CSR. Loopia Group New investment Mountain Top Industries Axcel also looked to improve the screening Nissens of potential investments both before and Orion Diagnostica during the due diligence process, teaming 4 Sustainable innovation at Delete In order to grow and add Delete Group has developed a solution – The SkipUp system enables skips to SkipUp – that can halve carbon emissions be stacked on top of one another like value, today’s companies need from on-site logistics. Sustainability has LEGO bricks. This avoids having to drive increasingly to be both inno­ been a priority for Delete Group in recent around with empty skips, as they are years, especially reductions in environinstead stacked on top of a full skip on vative and sustainable. Axcel mental impact. the same truck. actively encourages sustainable The company has focused on the circular By doubling the number of skips that innovation at its companies, economy by ensuring that materials from each truck can carry, both costs and and Delete Group’s SkipUp demolition projects are re-used, and it carbon emissions on the transport side has worked on making the transportation of a demolition project can be halved. concept is a shining example. of building waste and equipment more This is a great example of how Axcel’s efficient. This can have a big impact in portfolio companies are adapting to the an industry that makes great use of sustainable agenda. machinery and various materials. 5 ESG in the investment phase In 2018, Axcel revised its ESG criteria have long been part of the Initially, a screening of the company will analysis when Axcel screens potential identify the most obvious risks asso­ approach to ESG factors in the investments. However, in order to ensure ciated with the business in terms of due diligence phase as part of that the assessment of every potential geography, sector, supply chain, etc. investment covers all ESG risks, Axcel a process to ensure that future has engaged an external advisor to pro­ Secondly, if the company still seems investments meet not only vide insights into the individual company attractive to Axcel, a risk assessment of as well as the surrounding business enthe company’s ESG issues will be per­ Axcel’s own sustainability vironment. By integrating this ESG assess­ formed. requirements but also those ment model into our current due diligence process, we will be able to identify Lastly, an in-depth ESG analysis will be of society in general. and evaluate pos­sible risks and incor­ conducted with the purpose of identifying porate these into our valuation process. issues that could affect Axcel’s valua­tion of the investment. The assessment will The ESG assessment process is a threealso include recommendations for restage model where the depth of analysis solving any issues. ramps up as the process con­tinues. Axcel’s ESG due diligence approach Initial ESG Initial ESG In-depth ESG due ESG materiality maturity ESG due diligence implementassessment assessment diligence checklist ­­­ation • E  SG value chain • In-depth ESG • Focused ESG due • ESG due diligence • Address significant impact assessment materiality asses­s­ diligence in key reports. ESG risks and assign and preliminary ment and preli­ areas. Assessment checklist and all responsi­bilities ESG materiality minary assessment of company sites/ due diligence reports (100-day plan) assessment. Based of maturity within subsidiaries, review to be included in on desktop research identified risk areas. of available documentmaterial for the • CSR self-assessment, from both a societal Based on documen­­t­ tation, management Investment Board. CSR roadmap for year impact and a business ation from and com­ interviews, etc. 1, and BoD decision to risk perspective. munication with the join Global Compact company. (nine-month plan) • Join Global Compact (one-year plan) • Axcel has formalised the integration of ESG into the due diligence process • An external partner has been brought in to ensure a thorough and independent process • First Communication • The ESG due diligence is divided into different stages matching the investment process on Progress (two-year plan) 6 Status of portfolio companies Human rights Risks regarding equality, life and security, personal freedom and economic, social and cultural freedoms Labour Risks regarding freedom of association and recognition and the right to collective bargaining, elimination of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour, and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environmental issues Risks regarding environmental impact, damage to ecosystems, pollution, land degradation, the impacts of chemicals use and disposal, waste production and depletion of non-renewable resources Corruption issues Risks regarding corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment of risk by category: = Low risk = Medium risk = High risk Assessment of risk by category Fund Portfolio company Human rights Labour Environment Corruption Axcel IV K/S Exited 2019 Conscia Danish Ship Finance Delete Group Exited 2019 EG Frontmatec Exited 2018 LESSOR Group Exited 2019 Mita-Teknik Exited 2017 Nordic Waterproofing Axcel V K/S European Sperm Bank GUBI IsaDora Loopia Group Mountain Top Industries Nissens Orion Diagnostica 7 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria Mountain Danish Ship Delete European Loopia Orion Frontmatec GUBI IsaDora Top Nissens Finance Group Sperm Bank Group Diagnostica Industries Is there any written environmental policy in place Not Yes No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes within the company?* applicable Has the company obtained any environmental label/ Not Environmental Yes No No No No Yes Yes No certification (e.g. ISO 14000, EU Ecolabel)? applicable practices of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 Not Has the company benefited from energy cost savings? Yes Yes No No Yes Yes Yes Yes applicable Did the company make any acquisitions in 2018? No Yes No No No Yes No No No If yes, please indicate the number of employees 4 of add-ons prior to integration Has the company benefited from a reduction in Information absenteeism rate? No Yes No No Not applicable Yes No No not available Social behaviour of the Information Not Not incident rate? No No No Yes No Yes portfolio company not available applicable applicable Do employees have access to the capital of the Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No company/stock option plans? If yes, please select proportion of employees More than 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% benefiting from such policy 50% Has the company established a safety and/ Information Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes or a health plan for its employees? not available Not Information Does the GP sit on the portfolio company board? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes applicable not available Has the company implemented internal procedures or an ethical code covering: Governance within the portfolio Not Not Not Not Not Child labour and forced labour Yes Yes Yes Yes company applicable applicable applicable applicable applicable Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, No No No No No No No No No or subject to any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria? If yes, please provide additional information * Such as energy efficiency, waste management and carbon footprint reduction. 8 Governance structure at Axcel’s portfolio companies Each year, Axcel sends out a reporting form to portfolio companies to check on the current state of their corporate governance. On this form, each portfolio company reports on whether the most common tools for corporate governance are in place. Mountain Danish Ship European Loopia Orion Delete Group Frontmatec GUBI IsaDora Top Nissens Finance Sperm Bank Group Diagnostica Industries Rules and procedures for the BoD CEO instructions Code of conduct Ethical guidelines Environmental policy Whistleblower protection Evaluation of executive management Evaluation of the BoD Agreements covering executive shareholdings Employment contracts for executives Annual planning – ”annual wheel” 9 Key performance indicators Axcel’s portfolio companies are encouraged to employ key performance indicators (KPIs) where relevant in the four focus areas of the UN Global Compact: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Employing KPIs means (1) formulating the specific KPI, (2) setting a target, (3) explaining the actions taken, and (4) reporting on the status by allocating resources to data collection. In 2019, Axcel sent out a spreadsheet for companies to report on a set of five different indicators in order to provide a general overview of ESG challenges at each company. Danish Ship European Loopia Mountain Top Orion Delete Group Frontmatec GUBI IsaDora Nissens 1 Finance Sperm Bank Group Industries Diagnostica Employees must know and have signed an adequate data protection policy* n/a 2 n/a3 70 100 100 52 (% of workforce) Overall sickness absence 1.7 5.73 1.59 n/a 1.53 n/a 3.5 (% of total working days) Absence rate due to work-related injuries 0 16.10 0.045 n/a 0 0.115 0.013 (lost working hours per million working hours) Carbon intensity** n/a 1004 n/a5 n/a n/a n/a n/a (CO2 in tons per employee) Full integration of anti-corruption compli­ance and successful resolution of any 0 0 0 n/a 0 0 0 incidents in the whistblowing scheme * Own data protection policy fulfilling EU’s GDPR as at 24 May 2018, https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/ data-protection/reform/rules-business-and-organisations_en ** In the first year, companies are to report within scope 1 & 2 (standard), collect data, create a baseline and set a reduction target. 1 Nissens will report on its KPIs in its own COP in June. 2 The company has a new and adequate data protection policy, but has not asked employees to formally sign it as they are otherwise obliged to adhere to the policy. 3 Data protection policy has been implemented, and workforce signing is in progress. 4 Tons of CO2 per million euros of revenue. 5 This indicator has been changed to accommodate three separate indicators. Please see Frontmatec’s own COP. 10
