SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Contents Camfil and Sustainability CAMFIL AND SUSTAINABILITY 3 BUSINESS ORGANISATION SDGS ETC 4 MISSION STATEMENT 4 VISION 4 CORE VALUES 4 GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY GOALS 4 For over half a decade Camfil has been talking about high-performance products with low ORGANISATION 5 pressure drop. Low pressure drop is important in air filtration because it directly relates to the RISKS 6 amount of energy needed to push air through a filter. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 7 UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 7 CEO INTERVIEW 8 BUSINESS AREAS 10 FILTER 10 NEW FILTER PRODUCTS, TOOLS ETC 11 In the beginning, high performance was usually associated with and a healthier work environment? At Camfil, we believe this can be FILTER CASE STUDIES 12 protecting processes and the energy savings were mostly related accomplished with the right air quality. APC 14 to cost. Over time, this has changed. While safeguarding significant This information mostly pertains to the environmental impact of our NEW PRODUCTS, TOOLS ETC 15 performance properties for our filters remain highly important, we filters, but as you will read in this report, we have a bigger approach CASE STUDIES 15 are pleased our customers now talk about protecting people’s health to sustainability where we look at our role as an employer and POWER SYSTEMS 16 and lowering energy consumption to become more sustainable. how we work with suppliers, distributors and customers to protect NEW PRODUCTS, TOOLS ETC 17 MINIMIZING THE IMPACT OF OUR PRODUCTS human rights, comply with trade regulations and ensure that we CASE STUDIES 17 help prevent corruption. At Camfil, we provide a replacement product which puts pressure MOLECULAR CONTAMINATION CONTROL 18 on us to deliver filters with the least possible effects on the Clean air is our passion, and we believe it should be a human NEW PRODUCTS, TOOLS ETC 19 environment. Several examples are given in this report, such as right. Don’t you agree? CASE STUDY 19 reducing the environmental impact of filter frames by switching to FOCUS AREAS 20 reground plastic. ENVIRONMENT 20 Over the years, we have constantly focused on minimizing the 100% RECYCLED PLASTIC IN HI-FLO XL FRAMES 20 environmental footprint of our products, however, by reflecting WASTE, WATER AND ENERGY 20 on ourselves, we see we can really make a change by supplying LABOUR 21 our customers with products delivering high filtration and energy OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH INCIDENTS 21 efficiency. Our Life Cycle Analysis calculations show, for example, CAMFIL CAIRING 21 that approximately 90 percent of the environmental impact of a CAMPAIR RESULTS 21 filter comes from the usage phase of the filter. Therefore, a 10 CAMFIL ACADEMY – NEWCOMERS COURSE CELEBRATES 30 YEARS 21 percent reduction in energy consumption would have an impact as HUMAN RIGHTS 22 big as the total raw material impact. RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS AND CODE OF CONDUCT 22 CLEAN AIR IS ALSO OUR MISSION ANTI-CORRUPTION 23 Going forward, we are also dedicated to focusing on one more TRADE COMPLIANCE POLICY 23 area: the positive impact of clean air on people and health. WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY 23 Just to indicate the magnitude of clean air’s beneficial effects, we NEW OWNERS DIRECTIVE 23 can look at the operating costs for an office building. According to FINANCE 24 REHVA Guidebook 6, utilities represent slightly more than one perACQUISITIONS / MAIN INVESTMENTS DURING 2018 24 Erik Markman cent of the total cost, while salaries are approximately 84 percent 5 YEAR SUMMARY 24 CMO & of total costs. If poor air quality increases employee absenteeism INDEX IN LINE WITH GRI 25 Group Sustainability Officer and reduces work efficiency, it can easily cost much more than the whole cost spent on energy. What would happen if we could instead increase productivity by one percent by providing clean air C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 3 A b ou t C amfil Camfil AB is a Swedish, family-owned, shareholding company founded in 1963 and headquarterd in Stockholm, Sweden. Mi ssi on Statement Our mission is to protect people, processes and the environment by defining, developing and delivering solutions that combine clean air with energy efficiency in a sustainable and profitable way. V i si on Statment Clean air A human right? HEAD OFFICE P R O D U C T I O N U N I T, I N C L . S A L E S SALES OFFICE G rowt h and Profitabili ty G o als Camfil agents/distributors are not included on this map. To find Camfil agents/distributors, please use the Camfil's goal is to achieve organic growth well above contact locator at camfil.com market growth with maintained profitability. Core Va lues CEO Reliability HR & Internal Mark Simmons Finance Communication We are reliable because we know the market; we are honest and truthful. Our people, Eva Bergenheim products and processes must always meet, or supersede, agreed results. Holmberg Per Carlsson Commitment Continental Air Pollution Northern Asia Pacific & We are committed to always striving for the best possible solutions, and we are in the forefront of Power Systems Control Europe Europe & Americas Middle East British Isles technological and environmental developments in our fields of expertise. Fredrik Westgård Alain Bérard Torbjörn Bäck Don Donovan Armando Brunetti Alan O’Connell Customer satisfaction Marketing and Product Information/Group Sustainability Officer We put our customers first. We focus on identifying customer needs and creating long-lasting Erik Markman customer value. Supply Chain – Operations, Sourcing, R&D and Product Management Teamwork Stefan Larsson, Dan Larson Molecular Contamination Control Working together makes us stronger and increases employee satisfaction both locally and globally. Guillaume Gallet Local presence Local understanding and presence on local markets builds customer relations and satisfaction. C A M F I L 2018 / 4 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 5 UN Global Compact Camfil is a member of the UN Global Compact and Business Ethics, which are part of our CamfilCairing supports and complies with the Compact’s 10 principles Code. To raise awareness, the Code is part of the regarding human rights, labour, the environment and onboarding program for new employees. In the most anti-corruption. Camfil also believes access to clean recent CAMPAIR survey, we asked all our employees if air is a human right. they were familiar with the CamfilCairing Code and 84 We respect all internationally proclaimed human rights percent responded “yes.” as reflected in our Code of Conduct and Code of Risks United Nations Sustainable We arranged the sustainability related risks in the same way as the rest of this report. They Development Goals are all very important for Camfil, and we are already working on many new areas to cover in the coming years to further improve our work: The United Nations has 17 sustainability development goals (SDGs), and Camfil identified four the Group should focus on during the coming years. Two of them are areas where Camfil should always strive to improve, and two are areas where we can contribute with our expertise. Area Risk Action LABOUR Health issues or injuries Set a forum in place to share best practice and prevent similar We provide satisfactory working conditions for more For the best indoor air quality to promote good health accidents/incidents from happening in the future than 4,500 employees at 29 manufacturing sites and well-being, Camfil offers high-efficiency air filters backed by strong human resource management and to remove harmful particles and contaminants in local employee care and health programs. This global ventilation air, as well as air pollution control systems Not being able to attract/retain talent The bi-annual employee survey, CAMPAIR, ensures we get input. Global workforce steadily helps us to increase our annual sales and earnthat collect dust, mist and fumes in manufacturing for safer work Development Program for future leaders. Work with Camfil’s purpose ings to contribute to economic growth in more than 30 countries. environments. and vision to make “clean air a human right” We need to continue this work and also ensure that our partners, This is an area where our ambition to always provide better suppliers and distributors also help contribute to this goal. We do filtration for both particles and gases can help to give people a so by strengthening the requirements for the companies we work better life. Once again, it is an ongoing work where we continue to with to ensure they also provide decent working conditions. In mix smaller incremental changes with step changes. ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery Updated trade compliance policy. Assign Trade Compliance Officers. addition to this, we support their growth by doing more business Camfil’s air filters and clean air solutions are the Share owners’ directive (“clean hands”). Keep promoting CamfilCairing together to ensure economic growth. most energy-efficient on the market and create more Code. The environmental impact of Camfil’s production sustainable buildings in cities around the world. The plants is being continuously reduced each year environmental impact of Camfil’s production plants is through in-house improvement measures and green being continuously reduced each year. ENVIRONMENT Negatively impacting the environment Constantly work on minimizing waste, energy and water consumption. initiatives to conserve energy, water and reduce landfill waste. This work will never be complete, and we will continue to improve our own operations and, in addition, work on minimizing the environmental impact our products have during their HUMAN RIGHTS Violating human rights Work with suppliers to ensure they follow Camfil Code of Conduct lifetime. There are also SDGs where Camfil can contribute positively with our knowledge and expertise. C A M F I L 2018 / 6 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 7 CAMFIL’S MISSION: To Protect People, Processes And The Environment WHAT IS CAMFIL’S VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY? AOC As Mark mentioned, it’s difficult for us to talk about sustainability without talking about the business and vice versa. We were green and sustainable already 55 years ago, but at the time these words were not established terms. MS In addition to being the core of the company, we see sustainability as a competitive advantage. We can differentiate In 2018, Camfil achieved another good year with growth in all regions and business areas. ourselves from the competition by providing products with better performance and lower pressure drop. The pressure drop is We asked CEO Alan O’Connell ( AOC ) and CEO Designate Mark Simmons* ( MS ) to comment directly related to energy consumption for the fans in the air briefly on Camfil’s business model and the company’s view of sustainability. handling units of building ventilation systems where our filters are typically installed, so lower energy usage is a cost saver for the customer and has a positive impact on the environment. WHERE DO YOU SEE SUSTAINABILITY IN THE FUTURE? AOC We have always focused on sustainability from the customer’s perspective. We can still improve internally within the Camfil Group, and we do every year, but the biggest sustainability impact we can have is helping our customers shrink their environmental footprint. FIRST, FOR THOSE WHO DO NOT KNOW CAMFIL, CAN YOU As Mark mentioned, we can accomplish this in many ways: filtration QUICKLY EXPLAIN THE MARKET YOU ARE IN, AND WHAT YOU solutions create products with longer shelf life, which reduces food DO? waste, for example. AOC The short answer is we help clean air. As clean air is MS As I mentioned, I think sustainability is good for us in all important everywhere, we supply air filters and clean air solutions Mark Simmons, CEO Designate possible ways. At Camfil, we need to focus even more on this. We to almost every industry available. This is part of the fun of working identified the UN Sustainability Development Goals where we think at Camfil – we get involved in so many industries. There are always we can make an impact, and we need to work more with them and new challenges to face and air to clean. MS We have selected UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 3 as provide value for our customers, Camfil and society. MS The market is growing quickly as our customers become one of the four we will focus on. Goal 3 is about Good Health and more and more aware of the positive impact clean air has. We WHERE WILL YOUR FOCUS BE ON SUSTAINABILITY GOING Well Being. We are not medical doctors but looking at the latest work to help protect people, processes and the environment from FORWARD? information about air pollution from the World Health Organization, harmful air pollutants. AOC We will continue to work with our own operations to ensure I think this area is starting to get the attention it deserves. Briefly described, this means we work with buildings where people we constantly fulfil ISO, REACH and other important requirements. This is a true win-win situation where we can make people feel spend their days, such as schools, offices, malls, sports facilities Today, all our factories are ISO 9000-certified, and the majority better, be more productive at work, and reduce costs for sick leave and, of course, residential buildings. We work with the biggest are also certified to ISO 14000. We will challenge our R&D team and healthcare. I think this is one of the things really motivating life science and food and beverage customers to ensure their to continue to deliver top notch products. We already have many people to work here at Camfil: we can run a healthy business and do processes are safe and they get long shelf life for their products. products that are A+ certified by Eurovent, but for each revision of good at the same time. To me, this is definitely one of the reasons We also work with nuclear facilities and biosafety labs to ensure Eurovent, energy and filtration efficiency requirements get tougher, I want to work here. nothing harmful escapes into the environment. These are just a few which is why we must always strive to improve our products for *Mark Simmons officially succeeded Alan O’Connell as President of Camfil examples of our many customers. customers. AB and CEO of the Camfil Group on January 1, 2019. Alan O’Connell, CEO C A M F I L 2018 / 8 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 9 Busi ness Area THE NEW ISO 16890 STANDARD example is in the U.S., where Camfil’s premium filters carry a In the air filtration industry, a new international standard – ISO 5-Star rating. Our most energy-efficient filters also have names to 16890 – has introduced a global testing and classification standindicate this, such as Hi-Flo ES and Durafil ES2, with ES standing ard making it easier for customers to select the right filter for the for energy-saving. right application. The standard might eventually replace ASHRAE AIR FILTERS AND HEALTH 52.2, dominant in the U.S., and replaced EN779:2012, dominant in Europe, in July 2018 (both coexist in Asia and the Middle East). Clean air matters for good health, and Camfil believes clean air is a human right. We want people to breathe with total confidence ISO 16890 is significant because it is harmonizing the industry and and we also want them to be more aware of the fine particles in leading to transparency, equality and opportunities for air filter air pollution which constitute an invisible threat and a public health manufacturers. It is also creating a level playing field because challenge today. To meet this objective, we actively take steps to the standard makes it easier and fairer to compare competing raise awareness about indoor and outdoor pollution through online products and will eliminate poor-performing filters to the benefit initiatives and other actions such as our global “Take a Breath” of customers and end-users. It will also lead to higher indoor air campaign, European Camfil Roadshow campaign and IAQ Forums quality because a filter’s efficiency is tested with three different and the newly developed “PM1 People Matter 1st” campaign. particle sizes and the results are related directly to performance against PM1 (≤1µm), PM2.5 (≤2,5µm) and PM10 (≤10µm). Camfil Clean air is not only crucial to good health but also affects already offers many high-efficiency air filters rated for PM1 removal workplace productivity because of the employee absences due to pollution-related ailments. Clean air also influences the rate of Filters and high IAQ. classroom attendance because children with asthma and other ENERGY CLASSIFICATIONS FOR FILTERS respiratory conditions tend to miss more school when air pollution The energy consumption of air filters in general ventilation systems levels are higher. has become the focus of attention as energy prices increase and – Sustainable filters save demands to reduce CO2 emissions get tougher. With the push to lower the energy consumption of HVAC systems, a filter’s energy Please visit www.camfil.com for detailed information about sustainable air filtration, energysaving filters for HVAC systems and energy and protect health Camfil’s full range of world-class products and solutions. class gives customers a clearer understanding of a filter’s annual energy usage, initial efficiency and minimum efficiency. NEW FILTER PRODUCTS, TOOLS ETC In recent years, professional trade organizations put greater Understanding the mechanisms behind IAQ emphasis on the energy aspects of air filters. An example is the Many factors are rather well known for their ability to create a good latest Eurovent rating system for air filter energy efficiency based indoor air climate, but when it comes to airborne particles there is Sustainable air filtration solutions provide a concrete answer to new requirements from on ISO 16890 and introduced by Eurovent on January 1, 2019. It little documentation, or few specific guidelines, to consult and set authorities for mitigating climate change and implementing energy efficiency policies without replaces Eurovent’s first energy classification system from 2015. requirements. As in the original energy rating system, air filters can be graded from The free online calculation tool, Comfort IAQ, from Camfil helps compromising indoor air quality. The result is the right balance between energy conservation A+ to E with grade A+ standing for the lowest energy consumption to understand the mechanisms behind IAQ and gives a good and protecting people’s health and the environment. and E for the highest. There is a difference, however, in the newer indication of how air exchanges, the outdoor air environment, air and revised version: under the new Eurovent classification, energy filter selection and building envelope characteristics impact indoor Camfil’s solution is to make energy-efficient filters with a long allergens, contaminants, molecular gases and, in some cases, even efficiency requirements are more stringent meaning many filters air quality (IAQ). lifespan. Longer lasting filters maintain high energy efficiency and life-threatening radiation depending on the application: previously considered A+ have been downgraded to A, forcing Comfort IAQ allows simulations of the concentrations of particulate drastically cut installation and service costs for customers and • For “comfort air” in public and commercial buildings, Camfil has manufacturers to improve the performance of their filters and matter (PM1, PM2.5, PM10) in a specific ventilated room depending help shrink their environmental footprint. Using fewer filters also the most energy-efficient filters for heating, ventilation and air acknowledging the general developments within the industry since on the chosen supply air filter quality. To model the room and the reduces the consumption of critical raw materials such as metals conditioning (HVAC) systems. These products, including a range the original ratings introduced in 2015. The new classification supply air conditions in a realistic way, the software helps define and wood resources for packaging, and the number of adhesives, of air purifiers, deliver clean air to protect people by improving system also gives customers a better understanding of the annual outdoor air conditions (ODA), room dimensions, air changes, the plastics and filter media used in filter production. Energy is also indoor air quality (IAQ), protecting the HVAC system from energy consumption, average efficiency and minimum efficiency. recirculation air rate and the supply air filter quality based on ISO naturally saved in the amount of energy used to produce filters. contamination and helping the owners of buildings to reduce By classifying the air filters based on Eurovent’s new test standard, 16890, EN 779 or ASHRAE 52.2 standards. THE CAMFIL RANGE their energy consumption and carbon footprint. meeting these new energy efficiency challenges will now be more Based on these values, Comfort IAQ provides an estimation of the Camfil products are used to filter and clean the air in indoor • In the production world, Camfil’s clean air solutions protect straightforward, helping specifiers, building and facilities managers indoor particle concentration and gives engineers and planners a environments. Every filter is backed by more than half a century advanced and sensitive manufacturing processes by eliminating save money and maintain healthy indoor air quality. From now on, good tool to optimise the indoor air quality by choosing the best of experience – from replacement filters capable of removing molecular and microbiological contamination that jeopardizes Eurovent-certified products must show annual energy consumption combinations of supply air filter qualities and ventilation rates for submicron particles and gases, to complete air circulation and output, product quality or workplace health. In the nuclear (kWh/y) specific to each ISO efficiency rating and be tested in a specific application. filtration systems. Customers can choose from the widest and power industry, particulate filtration, gas-phase filtration independent laboratories and through sampling on manufacturers The tool was developed by Camfil in collaboration the Department most advanced range of air filters in the industry to improve health and containment are other specialties, as well as advanced sites. This certified data will be available to view at the Eurovent of Architecture & Civil Engineering, Chalmers University, Sweden. and performance, protect critical manufacturing processes, boost biocontainment systems and filter housings for high-risk website. productivity and safeguard the environment. Clean air, the filtered research facilities and biosafety labs, hospitals and clinics. Camfil’s labels include the A+ to E energy rating to point out the end-product, is free of harmful or damaging pollutants, dust, dirt, difference between our filters and competitor products. Another C A M F I L 2018 / 10 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 1 1 Case study TOTAL FILTRATION UPGRADE FOR MERCEDES-BENZ’S CHINESE Despite its higher price, Hi-Flo’s A+ energy efficiency rating, low As a final component of the analysis, all four air filter manufacturers SUNPOWER CHOOSES SMART LOW-ENERGY FILTRATION HQ TO PROTECT EMPLOYEES FROM BEIJING AIR POLLUTION pressure drop and stable performance proved to be more costwere asked to supply current ASHRAE 52.2 test reports of their SunPower Corporation is an American energy company that effective than competitor filters. After Hi-Flos were installed, filters. Camfil was the only supplier able to provide a current test designs and manufactures crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and After more than 10 years of operation in the Chinese capital, Shenyang Sinqi found the replacement time was extended from report proving filter removal efficiency by particle size. solar panels in China, Mexico and the Philippines. Working only global automaker Mercedes-Benz planned to retrofit the general ventilation system at its Beijing headquarters to prevent heavy three months to six months and sharply reduced purchasing costs with socially equitable and eco-friendly suppliers, the company GREEN SOLUTION FOR TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR FAB smog pollution from affecting the indoor air quality (IAQ) of the for filters, not to mention labour costs for replacement and maintemakes smart choices about materials and products to reduce the Taiwan is the centre of microelectronics manufacturing in Asia. For company’s environmental impact. Saving energy in production is premises and impacting employee efficiency and health. nance and waste management. years, the country’s flat TV panel and wafer foundry industries have a priority. With outdoor levels for PM2.5 particles reaching or exceeding taken the lead in the global market. HELPING U.S. HOSPITALS SAVE ENERGY AND COSTS the harmful level of 374 micrograms (μg)/m3*, Mercedes-Benz Camfil was contacted to conduct an in-depth study and calculations Texas cancer centre In the thin-film-transistor liquid-crystal (TFT-LCD) display field, there of SunPower’s air filtration costs from an energy perspective. It is specified indoor levels had to be reduced to a maximum of 35μg/ When a nationally recognised cancer centre in Texas learned of Camfil’s are four major manufacturers in Taiwan: Innolux, CPT, Hanstar and a well-known fact that air filters can account for up to 30 percent m3 in the ventilation supply air without deploying standalone air 5-Star energy saving filters, it requested quantifiable data comparing AU Optronics Corporation (AUO). of the total energy cost of a general ventilation system; at the purifiers in offices. Camfil’s filters to the centre’s two current supplier air filters. Camfil put The latter, AUO, embraces the highest standards in corporate govsame time, filters are also the most inexpensive part of a system To meet this challenge, Camfil China teamed up with the building its mobile CamField Lab to work and successfully demonstrated that ernance, environmental sustainability and social concern. The comto improve and the savings with the right filters can be substantial management and consultants to engineer and install more than 100 Camfil’s Durafil ES 4V box-style and Hi-Flo ES pocket-style products pany owns four fabs – Gen 5/6/7.5/8 – in Central Taiwan Science for manufacturing plants if they use high-efficiency filters with a low new and refurbished makeup air units (MAU) and air handling units were both good options to combine with Camfil’s 30/30 prefilter. Park, in Taichung, of which the Houli Gen 8.5 Fab has become the pressure drop development. (AHU) equipped with Camfil’s high-efficiency filters. After only four months of testing, Camfil proved over a half-inch first TFT-LCD green fab in the world with platinum LEED certification. Camfil’s calculations focused on documenting the potential energy FOUR FILTRATION STAGES reduction in static pressure, or resistance to airflow – equating to a Green energy-saving measures were introduced at the Gen 7.5 Fab, savings with Camfil air filters versus a competitor’s products The tower’s variable air volume system delivers all supply air where Camfil played a key role in reducing the energy costs for the savings of approximately $130 U.S. per filter opening annually. The currently used by SunPower. through air handling units and exchanges the air at a rate of eight air handling systems. cancer centre is now saving several hundred thousand dollars in Camfil’s filtration experts’ in-depth study of the energy consumption times per hour. It was concluded that polluted outdoor air would electrical fan energy each year by converting to Camfil. It has also To help achieve its energy savings target, AUO asked Camfil to of SunPower’s current air filters found that approximately 16 have to be cleaned in four filtration stages in the MAUs and AHUs reduced the air filter change frequency with the prefilters easily install HEPA filters in one area for replacement in the Gen. 7.5 fab. percent of the electrical power used in SunPower’s air handling to achieve the IAQ goal. Camfil’s Hi-Flo filter is being used in MAUs lasting a year and final filters lasting as long 2.5 years. Camfil proposed the Megalam Fabsafe ES filter, the most efficient, units attributed to air filters. and S-Flo in AHUs. Southwest hospital energy-saving HEPA filter panel for turbulent and laminar airflow SunPower uses more than 3,000 primary, secondary and HEPA After Camfil China completed the project, the result exceeded applications in the high-tech cleanrooms of fabs. Megalam’s low An integrated delivery network of over 20 hospitals in the southwest filters for air filtration. expectations – the mean PM2.5 level was 3.9 μg/m3 per floor, well pressure drop and high efficiency reduced AUO’s energy costs by U.S. has a keen eye on energy usage, despite having some of the The calculations by Camfil, based on the use of Camfil’s 30/30 for beyond WELL certification, the strictest standard in China. Because about 50 percent compared to currently used HEPA filters from lowest energy rates. The hospital network challenged Camfil to an primary filters, the energy-saving Opakfil ES for secondary filters of the stable and outstanding performance of the ventilation another manufacturer. “energy shoot-out” against the incumbent supplier. and the Camfil HEPA-VEXL for absolute, high-efficiency filters system in the Mercedes-Benz tower, Camfil was also awarded Caterpillar Tower, the building next door, where the same filtration Camfil deployed the mobile CamField Lab equipped with four test IKEA SINGAPORE COMBATS HAZE WITH AIR PURIFIERS indicated SunPower could save more than $400,000* USD in solution was installed. ducts – two housed the incumbent supplier’s products and the Haze pollution has been a recurrent problem in Singapore for more annual energy costs, or 45 percent, compared to the competitor’s other two housed Camfil 5-Star energy-rated products. Testing than 40 years. Forest clearing causes haze in Indonesia during filters. Additional benefits included increased air quality and fewer * Camfil prefers to measure PM1 but in China/Asia, PM2.5 is widely being used and recognised. against the competitor’s most energy-efficient air filters, Camfil the annual dry season, particularly when fires are set to clear filter change-outs for lower service and maintenance costs. was able to demonstrate a 33 percent reduction in fan energy. The undergrowth. Sensitive people can be hospitalized for respiratory BETTER AND MORE ENERGY-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS LOWER confirmed low energy rate was equivalent to a savings of $64 per problems when this densely polluted air hovers over the country PHARMA FACILITY’S TOC full-size filter opening each year. and spreads fine, suspended particles. Camfil has supplied a full range of solutions from prefilters for air U.S. Catholic health network The local IKEA home furnishings store in Tampines, the east region handing units (AHUs) and HEPA filters for terminal supply/exhaust Camfil was contacted by one of the largest U.S. Catholic health of Singapore, is one of many companies in the country whose housings to multiple facilities located around the world to protect networks and asked to validate energy savings potential and demoperations have been affected negatively by this air pollution. processes and personnel while reducing their carbon footprint in a onstrate the risk of using charged media in hospital air filters. During haze periods, IKEA’s employees tended to have a high sick profitable way. Camfil prefilters and final filters were tested against three leave rate and haze smell penetrated office space. An example is Shenyang Sinqi Pharmaceutical, a high-tech listed comother manufacturer brands. This test was somewhat problematic As an air filtration supplier to IKEA in countries like Sweden and pany engaged in ophthalmic R&D and production in northern China. because of repeated product failures from two of the competitors’ India, Camfil conducted a site survey and indoor air quality test Since the start of operations in 2014, the company has exclusively prefilters. During the test, one of the competitive filters failed three and recommended the installation of eight CC300 concealed air used Camfil’s high-performance terminal filter housings to supply times for four months, while the other competitor’s product failed purifiers suspended from the ceiling. Each air purifier is equipped constant clean air to the production workshop. This HEPA filtration two times during the same period. with Camfil’s Camcarb CC600 VOC media and HEPA filters. solution greatly reduced the product replacement cost and workshop downtime to safeguard production and lower operating costs. From an energy standpoint, Camfil had the lowest average pressure The air purifiers improved air in the work environment significantly drop for both preand final filters – while experiencing no product during haze periods by eliminating harmful particles and odour, With the goal to further optimize operating costs for all air handling failures. The third competitor’s filter remained intact, but since increasing employee comfort and health and improving overall systems in its facility, Shenyang Sinqi recently decided to test it relies on an electrostatic charge, the product fell well below ventilation performance. The purifiers also helped reduce the sick and compare bag filters from three different manufacturers for air compliance levels days after the test began. leave rate during haze episodes. handling units and chose Camfil’s Hi-Flo. C A M F I L 2018 / 12 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 1 3 Busi ness Area Case study considering recirculating the air back into the plant downstream PROTECTING EMPLOYEE HEALTH IN AUSTRALIA of collectors instead of exhausting it outdoors. When using Jag Welding (Brisbane, Australia) is a steel processing and recirculating dust collection systems, Camfil APC ensures special fabrication company offering everything from engineering and safety and performance concerns are addressed. drafting to steel supply, cutting, drilling, painting and powder coating. The company works with mild and galvanized steel, as TEST FACILITY well as structural steel and aluminium for schools, office buildings, Camfil APC has a state-of-the-art dust collection test facility where hospitals, government buildings, bridges, shopping centres and full-scale tests of customer dust are performed. By identifying more. dust characteristics properly, Camfil APC can select the right Expanding its service offering with a new plasma cutting table – type of collector and filtration media for optimal energy savings and knowing the health and safety risks associated with the fine and operational efficiency, minimizing maintenance problems and dust emissions from this technology – Jag Welding sought to reducing emissions while extending filter life. protect its employees by purchasing Camfil APC’s Gold Series dust NEW PRODUCTS, TOOLS, ETC collector, which also met space and performance requirements. Air Pollution Control Gold Series X-Flo industrial dust collector Jag Welding is now providing additional services to its customer The new Gold Series X-Flo (GSX) industrial dust collector is the base without jeopardizing employee health and safety. Dust industry’s best-in-class dust collection system built on the awardand fumes are extracted away from the table before it has the – dust, mist and fume collectors for winning Gold Series dust collector. GSX dust collectors are ideal potential to harm the operator or other employees. By pre-empting for industrial applications that produce or process fine, fibrous and potential air quality issues, Jag Welding protected its business from heavy dusts and fumes in the pharmaceutical, mining, food and increased employee absenteeism, loss of productivity and longcleaner and healthier work environments chemical processing industries, or in metalworking applications. The collectors are modular and equipped with the new Gold Cone term liability issues. The Gold Series dust collector also prevents build up on the table and other equipment in the facility ensuring longer equipment life, less maintenance and reduced downtime. X-Flo filter filter cartridges with more pleated media and surface area than ever before, allowing the GSX to move more air and ELIMINATING A RESPIRATORY HAZARD WITH EM PROFI process more dust without increasing its overall footprint. A new Operating in North America, Europe and Asia, Camfil APC (Air Pollution Control) is one of the In industrial turning centres, mist can build up during machining and unique baffle configuration creates a more uniform airflow to world’s largest manufacturers of dust, mist and fume collection equipment. The business area extend the life of the filters. with high-pressure coolant within the machining enclosure. This is a growing problem for a manufacturer of process equipment in is represented on six continents and draws upon more than five decades of experience to GSX dust collectors exceed Occupational Safety and Health North East England. Upon opening the door to check components ensure customers are kept safe and productive. Administration (OSHA) mandates for indoor air quality and tested to mid-cycle, or at the end of the machining cycle, a visible plume of meet National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) and ATEX standards. GSX mist escaped into the factory environment. dust collectors come with many explosion protection options as well. The company was aware that this presented a respiratory hazard Many manufacturing processes create some kind of dust, mist and Handte Vortex and Venturi wet scrubbers for safe handling of Gold Cone X-Flo filter cartridges for the operators. Cycle times increased because the door to or fume and these by-products can be harmful to workers combustible and/or flammable dust. Building on the proven performance of HemiPleat Gold Cone the machine remained closed until the mist dissipated. Rising, and cause machinery to become less efficient. In the global The Gold Series utilizes Gold Cone™ cartridge technology to deliver technology, Camfil APC’s new Gold Cone X-Flo (GCX) Filter warm mist could also impinge on the overhead crane rail and the market, Camfil APC’s collection equipment is used in a variety of clean air and long life while utilizing the smallest floor space of any Cartridges stay cleaner and last longer than conventional pleated associated electrical, and when it cooled and descended, cooling applications including abrasive blasting, chemical processing, food dust collector available today. Camfil APC's exclusive HemiPleat® filters used for industrial dust collection. fans would draw it into the electrical cabinets of neighbouring and beverage, laser and plasma cutting, mining, pharmaceutical, state-of-the-art filter pleating technology holds the pleats of the GCX cartridges use a proprietary inner pleat pack with an openmachines causing damage to computers, switchgear and other thermal spray, welding and machining. Each industry has its own cartridge open with wide pleat spacing not found in competitive bottomed, inner-cone of media that greatly expands the usable equipment. unique set of collection challenges, and Camfil’s products deliver cartridges, which are packed too tightly to maximize media use. surface area of the cartridge. Because the HemiPleat design Camfil APC recommended mist extraction equipment with the EM clean air to the workplace for better health and safety while This ensures 100 percent media use, resulting in longer filter life exposes more media to the airstream, more dust is loaded on the Profi. This range of coolant mist control units incorporate a threereducing outdoor emission levels to protect the local environment. and lower pressure drop while improving cleaning efficiency. filter and released during pulse cleaning. These filters are available stage filtration system. Stages one and two use demisters inserted in a selection of regular or nanofiber media and guaranteed to at an angle to facilitate drainage of the collected coolant, while the FLAGSHIP COLLECTORS AND FILTERS HELPING CUSTOMERS COMPLY meet the particle emission requirements of the U.S. Environmental final stage uses an F9 or HEPA filter. Camfil APC’s best-known products for dry dust and fume collection In every country it operates, Camfil APC helps customers stay on Protection Agency (EPA). To meet the customer’s low maintenance requirement, the EM include the Gold Series® dust collector for industry, Gold Series top of the latest regulations and standards for occupational safety Gold Cone X-Flo filters are designed for Camfil APC’s new Gold Profi was fitted with a unique, patented, automatic in-situ demister Camtain for pharmaceutical and containment applications, the and health and fire protection. Camfil APC is also experienced in Series X-Flo (GSX) dust collector, the most powerful and cost-efficleaning system, using clean coolant or water, eliminating the type compact Quad Pulse Package, the new state-of-the art Gold Series recirculating air from dust collectors. Whether dust collectors are cient dust collection system on the market. The system maximizes of downtime associated with manual filter cleaning methods. With X-Flo (GSX) dust collector, machining mist collectors like the Oil used in a plant to control indoor air quality (IAQ), keep equipment airflow while minimizing filter change-outs, compressed air usage filter life of up to five years for the demister stages, and one year Expert and EM Profi for oil mist and emulsion/coolant separation clean, and/or recover high-value process dusts, many plants are and energy costs. for the post filter, the EM Profi operates virtually maintenance-free. C A M F I L 2018 / 14 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 1 5 Busi ness Area To ensure optimum system designs, Camfil has a unique R&D centre gas turbines that successfully increased plant efficiency and the in Sweden with a specially dedicated test-rig for turbomachinery operator’s profitability by means of longer filter life, fewer filter applications. Here, tests are conducted with the latest technologies purchases and labour requirements for filter replacement. Now to develop new filters matching new customer demands. Camfil was asked to bid on H13 efficiency final filters to solve the By leveraging its considerable international resources and noise issue. experience, Power Systems has the knowledge, expertise and R&D Acoustical analysis facilities to assess, analyse and recommend optimal solutions for Camfil’s acoustical engineering team performed an analysis to turbomachinery applications anywhere in the world. explain the sound insertion loss of Camfil’s CamGT 4V-300, H13 efficiency final filters at different frequencies when compared to HOW POWER SYSTEMS HELPS CUSTOMERS REDUCE THEIR the existing competitor’s H13 filters. CARBON FOOTPRINT The CamGT 4V-300 has a higher sound insertion loss throughout Educating customers each frequency and reduces noise by 4 dBA in excess of the local Power Systems’ Test & Learn Centres in Canada, Sweden, competitor filter (an increase of 3dBA means double the noise). Germany, Malaysia and China are used to educate and share our With the 4 dBA improvement, the CamGT filter has over twice the expertise with customers. With these facilities, Power Systems noise reduction in apparent sound compared to the competitor can bring more visibility to the actual performance of a specific filter used at the plant. filtration system. The centres allow customers to test and compare The acoustically superior CamGT also increased Plant A’s turbine different solutions to better understand the differences between availability and fuel efficiency, enabled a higher and more stable poor and optimal filtration. In-house labs have a large variety of power output and extended turbine life. testing capabilities for analysing new and used filters to enhance knowledge about the environmental conditions at the customer’s RETROFIT SOLUTION FOR OFFSHORE PLATFORM site. An upstream oil and gas player, manages a gas exporting platform Power Systems Analysing field performance situated offshore Ivory Coast, Africa, where they operate two Power Systems globally deployed several mobile CamLabs to allow mechanical drive gas turbine units (5MW each) driving compressors customers to compare and analyse filter performance on location, with high availability requirements. under real-life conditions, with the main goal being to reduce their The units are exposed to harsh environmental conditions that lead – protecting turbomachinery equipment carbon footprint to a minimum by boosting turbine efficiency and output with lower fuel consumption. to spikes in pressure drop (dP) and excessive engine degradation from fouling and corrosion. As a result, the company was forced to On-site services schedule unwanted shutdowns for maintenance. In addition to causTo better understand the customer’s local environmental conditions ing expensive, unscheduled downtime corroded, it could eventually and operations, Power Systems performs air analyses, conducts break off from the turbine due to the high speed. The Camfil Power Systems business area specialises in air inlet filtration and acoustical syssite surveys and installs IIoT (the Industrial Internet of Things) Compact filter house tems for turbomachinery, mainly for gas turbines, generators, industrial air compressors and systems on site. With these services, customers can improve their Together with their OEM, the company contacted Camfil to evaludiesel engines. The result is more efficient power generation and use of carbon fuel resources operational excellence and reduce their impact on climate change. ate a higher performance filtration system. Although the platform’s contributing to reducing Green House Gas (GHG) emissions. Case study limited available space restricted expansion of the filter housings, they requested higher efficiency grade filters at a lower dP and a longer life to meet their lower maintenance requirements. THE POWER OF SILENCE Systems are designed to meet the priorities and requirements of India and China in line with the customer’s priorities, operating Thailand’s leading independent energy producer operates gas Camfil recommended to redesign the filter house to the Compact Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), Engineering Procurement needs and local environmental conditions. The teams also work turbine combined cycle power plants with an output of 1600 EPA Filter Offshore solution, consisting of a new filter house using Construction companies (EPCs), operators and end users. With closely together with Camfil’s subsidiaries, agents and distributors MW each. Power is produced by gas turbines, steam turbines nine pre-filters back-to-back with nine high efficiency filters to fit the Power Systems as their partner, these customers can rest to increase the filtration knowledge of customers with a view to and generators. Due to noise complaints from neighbouring existing footprint. Other system components include CamVanes, assured their turbomachinery will operate in the most profitable improving and retrofitting their existing systems or to define the communities, the plants decided to evaluate a noise-reducing the Prefilter CamGTR 3V-600 F8 and the CamGT 3V-600 E10 final and environmentally friendly way with maximum availability and best solution for new equipment investments. filtration system for Plant A, located in the Ayutthaya Province barrier filter. reliability. FILTRATION BOOSTS EFFICIENCY AND CUTS EMISSIONS approximately 70 km north of Bangkok, and Plant B, situated 25 Camfil’s compact, high-efficiency solution met the company's SYSTEMS AND SERVICES Turbomachinery technology evolved tremendously over the last km north of Plant A in the Saraburi Province. challenging goals by saving up to three shutdowns per year and With more than 50 years of experience, Power Systems has over decade, and the use of more innovative technologies and materials An earlier Environmental Impact Assessment on noise generation of eliminating corrosion on the platform. The new filter house has 2,000 installation references worldwide for power generation, boosted the efficiency of this equipment to a much higher level the original air intake systems passed requirements. However, both the same footprint as the former, involves three times less filter oil and gas, and industrial air compressor customers. Solutions helping increase their industrial merit and lower GHG emissions as plants eventually replaced their final filters with a local competitor’s changes and water washes, and increases turbine efficiency and are engineered and manufactured to the highest standards much as possible. H13 filters which were noisier and disturbed the surrounding area output for reduced greenhouse gas emissions. and equipped with proprietary Camfil filter products to ensure However, these evolutionary improvements also made and operators working nearby. As a result, the client needed a new Worker productivity was positively impacted: the minimized customers operate their assets reliably and efficiently. turbomachinery more susceptible to fine airborne particulates filter but with acoustical testing as a requirement before purchase. degradation and lower pressure drop of the turbines allows In addition to complete air inlet filtration and acoustical systems causing fouling, corrosion and faster degradation of performance. Reducing Plant A’s noise platform workers to focus on other projects rather than spending (inlet silencers and noise enclosures), the range includes a variety At the same time, stricter emission regulations changed the time on washing, filter replacement and engine repair. Camfil was contacted to solve noise issues at Plant A, where it of options for anti-icing and/or cooling. These systems are particulate distribution dramatically, requiring newer filtration had previously supplied 1,248 30/30 G4 prefilters for two of the engineered by Power Systems teams in Sweden, Germany, Canada, technologies of increasingly high efficiency. C A M F I L 2018 / 16 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 1 7 Busi ness Area contamination control in microelectronic facilities with the renewable source of energy, it is becoming an important global introduction of GigaPleat™, the cleanest product on the market industry in the U.S., Europe and Asia to replace non-sustainable designed for cleanroom applications, where activated carbon fossil fuels. particle emissions and outgassing cannot be tolerated. GigaPleat Anaerobic (without oxygen) digestion processes are used to make is available with a wide range of adsorbent media adapted to the biogas. Any biodegradation process produces a complex mixture chemicals observed in microelectronic facilities, including acids, of gases, which can create an odour nuisance or, in the case of bases, condensables, oxidants, VOC, dopants and refractory biogas, a corrosion hazard for the combustion engine. Molecular compounds. filtration helps to eliminate these problems. Heavy-duty products are most often applied to the exhaust field HYDROGEN SULPHIDE with a range of “deep bed” products (ProCarb) for high loads and/or very high removal-efficiency requirements. The product line includes When organic waste is digested in an anaerobic process, the combination filters for air handling units with limited space to control resulting methane – the fuel for energy production – may be heavily both particulate matter and gaseous chemicals within a single filter contaminated with hydrogen sulphide (H2S). If high concentrations stage (CityCarb). of H2S reach the gas engine where the methane is combusted, the engine can suffer internal corrosion, because of the combination All these products are specially designed and tested with chemiof acidic gas and high temperatures. Engine corrosion requires cals relevant to each application. Camfil MCC’s unique ISO 10121 unscheduled downtime for maintenance and repair resulting in loss Molecular molecular test rigs for full-filter sizes, as well as lifetime calculation of output and profit. and design software, bear witness to 55 years of experience in this field and help to ensure proper dimensioning and guaranteed results. Siloxanes Contamination Control Another risk for biogas engines comes from siloxanes. These NEW PRODUCTS, TOOLS ETC compounds are widely used in consumer products reaching landfill In 2018, Camfil launched a new MCC product line for the protection disposal sites. Biogas generated at these facilities may be contamiof biogas engines against corrosive and abrasive gases generated nated with siloxanes such as D5. When siloxanes are combusted, – air filters for harmful gases and odours by microorganisms during anaerobic digestion of organic waste. they leave behind deposits of solid silica and silicates. These cause Those products have been designed to maximize filter lifetime by abrasion in moving parts and put engine components out of balreducing media replacement intervals and transport of adsorbents. ance leading to loss of efficiency and unscheduled downtime. Additionally, molecular products directly impact the maintenance procedures of the engines by e.g. reducing the quantity of CAMPURE 32 MEDIA lubricants used by end users. The preferred molecular filtration media for H2S biogas applications Camfil Molecular Contamination Control (MCC) operates globally in North America, Europe, Camfil’s new version of the now famous molecular lifetime is CamPure 32, a high-quality chemical adsorbent based on a the Middle East and Asia to deliver molecular filtration solutions for light processes, industrial determination software (MCC LD) released in 2018. This new version combination of mineral and activated carbon powders treated applications, cleanrooms and large installations concerned with indoor air quality, such as integrates more precise calculations of filter lifetime thanks to with a chemical impregnation system. This media has a very high many years of full-size filter tests and includes a new user interface capacity for hydrogen sulphide and prevents corrosion in biogas airports. engines and grid injection damage that can lead to expensive, enabling comparison of several solutions. As many applications require simultaneous estimation of filter life for several gaseous unplanned maintenance downtime. Many chemicals are present in gas form in the atmosphere either paper, metal refining, printed circuit board manufacturing, data contaminant, making a product selection with optimized results Why biogas must be cleaned outdoors or inside buildings, including sulphur dioxide, hydrogen centres and wastewater treatment facilities. Corrosion control is was a very complicated task in the past. Many companies were Biogas cleaning is a very important for: sulphide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, kerosene, formaldehyde and also important for protecting artefacts in museums and storage therefore choosing to replace products based on very conservative • Avoiding toxic concentrations for workers at biogas plants, ammonia. Other examples are polyaromatic hydrocarbons, volatile facilities. and sub-optimized estimates without using lower life cycle cost especially those with H2S and aldehydes, which pose health organic compounds (VOC), benzene, isocyanates and siloxanes. • Microelectronics: Yield enhancement for semiconductor wafer solutions. The MCC LD is meant to close the gap by calculating and hazards in the work environment. The latter include intoxication All these gases require molecular filtration to protect people, manufacturing, flat panel displays, hard disk drives and equipment. displaying results for three gases and three different solutions in by H2S or ammoniac (NH3), suffocation by carbon monoxide processes or machinery, or simply to remove odours. Protection from outdoor and process chemicals present at trace an intuitive setup. It is our belief Camfil customers will be delighted (CO2) and methane (CH4) explosion risks. With more than 130 million registered chemicals in the world today, levels in the air. to reduce their running costs and CO2 emissions thanks to the new • Cleaner emissions from exhaust gases of the machines involved Camfil’s list of filtration references and applications keeps growing. features available in the MCC LD software. VERSATILE AND EFFICIENT PRODUCTS in energy production like engines, turbines and boilers. MAIN APPLICATION AREAS: The corrosion control product range is supported by a Case study • The optimal operation of machines and vehicles involved in Camfil MCC provides solutions in these main areas: comprehensive range of filters, sales tools and site services. biofuel production. PURIFYING BIOGAS FOR OPTIMAL OPERATION AND WORKER SAFETY • Indoor Air Quality: Protection of people staying inside buildings Camfil MCC is a leading manufacturer of UL-certified activated • Reducing maintenance costs for machines and extending their alumina adsorbents (CamPure™), plastic modules (CamCarb™), When biodegradable organic waste is collected or segregated like airports, offices, hospitals or laboratories. useful life. housings for filters and adsorbents (PSSA, VDBs) and analytical from a mixed waste stream, it provides value as a fuel for energy • Exhaust: Protection of people and the environment from odours services (corrosion coupons, ISA Check online monitors, media production or as raw material for compost or fertilizer. Important and toxins emitted in exhaust air streams from industrial facilities. post-mortem tests). categories of organic waste include manure, food waste, grass • Corrosion Control: Protection of sensitive electrical process cuttings and crop residues. Over the past 20 years, Camfil has revolutionized molecular control systems from acidic gases in petrochemical, pulp and Biogas is a good example of recycled organic waste. As a green, C A M F I L 2018 / 18 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 Environment Labour 100% RECYCLED PLASTIC IN HI-FLO XL FRAMES WASTE, WATER AND ENERGY OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH INCIDENTS and part of the increase in lost days is related to this improved Hi-Flo, Camfil’s best-selling bag filter for air handling units, comes in Camfil is continuously tracking consumption of waste, water and At Camfil, we always believe employee well-being, health and safety reporting routine. We believe this negative trend will flatten out in several versions, including Hi-Flo, Hi-Flo XL and Hi-Flo ES. energy. As Camfil is growing, we decided to list comparisons of our are an essential part of being a sustainable employer. the coming years for this reason. A majority of the increase in lost Hi-Flo is the preferred choice of customers for energy savings. This production cost (cost of goods sold). This of course depends on work days for 2018 is related to two acquisitions during 2018 which This is why Camfil’s global operational scorecard measures the premium filter has the lowest initial and average pressure drop to raw material prices and product mix, but for Camfil as a group, we has significantly higher numbers. We believe these will come down number of recordable Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) ensure the lowest energy cost in the industry. It is also the longest believe it gives a good enough indication of our work in this area. to Camfil levels as we implement Camfil’s routines for health and injuries, one of the company’s KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). lasting pocket-style filter on the market requiring fewer changes for safety in these acquisitions. In 2016, we further improved our reporting initiatives on OSHA less filter waste. ENERGY USE  Goal: 2% improvement in ECI* annually NUMBER OF SICK LEAVE DAYS LOST WORK DAYS DUE TO OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES FIRST PLASTIC FRAME PER 100 WORK DAYS  Goal: 2.5% PER 100 WORK DAYS  Goal: 0.07% Ten years ago, Camfil Sweden introduced a new, incinerable ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF FACTORIES, GWh Number of Sick leave days per 100 workdays Work lost days due to work related injury per 100 workdays * ENERGY CONSUMPTION INDEX = ENERGY USE kWh/PRODUCTION COST plastic frame for the Hi-Flo XL series which was well received in 6,00% 0,35% 70 25 the Nordic market. 0,30% 60 5,00% Camfil’s moulded two-piece clipped, assembled frame with soft, 20 50 0,25% rounded corners is easier to handle by service technicians. The 4,00% plastic also reduces the overall weight of the product. Based on 40 15 0,20% the success of the first version, Camfil developed 23 different sizes 3,00% 30 0,15% 10 to fit more than 85 percent of the air handling units on the market. 20 2,00% 0,10% NEW HI-FLO XL FRAME 5 10 1,00% 0,05% Hi-Flo, Camfil’s best-selling bag filter for air handling units, comes 0 0 in several versions, including Hi-Flo, Hi-Flo XL and Hi-Flo ES. Hi-Flo 0,00% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0,00% is the preferred choice of customers for energy savings. This 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 premium filter has the lowest initial and average pressure drop to WATER USE  Goal: 2% improvement in WCI* annually ensure the lowest energy cost in the industry. It is also the longest lasting pocket-style filter on the market requiring fewer changes for less filter waste. TOTAL WATER USE m³ * WATER CONSUMPTION INDEX: WATER m³/PRODUCTION COST Camfil Cairing 100000 40 90000 CAMPAIR RESULTS 35 80000 Our global Employee Survey – CAMPAIR – has shown stable, high results on a Group level for different key areas: 30 70000 60000 25 100 50000 20 JOB SITUATION LEADERSHIP TEAMWORK CAMFIL We see that our dedicated 40000 30000 15 82 80 80 78 78 78 78 77 78 82 80 82 work has paid off but we 20000 10 INDEX still have work to do. 10000 5 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 WASTE DESTINATION WASTE  Goal: 2% improvement in WGI* annually 2014 2016 2018 TOTAL WASTE TONS * WASTE GENERATION INDEX: WASTE/PRODUCTION COST 2008 2017 2018 7000 25 Our employees feel they know our core values well (6.12 out of 7.00). Our leadership was given a positive evaluation. In the opinion of the employees, our managers are familiar with their job situation (5.96 out of 7.00) and give them support when needed (5.83 out of 7.00). In 6000 20 addition, Camfil employees are highly confident about their manager’s professionalism (5.79 out of 7.00). 32% 33% 35% 44% 5000 44% 50% 15 CAMFIL ACADEMY – NEWCOMERS COURSE CELEBRATES 30 YEARS values and business concept. The course focuses on the product 4000 Our internal competence development organization, Camfil portfolio and the fundamental aspects of air filtration technology. 3000 10 Academy, offers internal training programs. A substantial amount of time is spent learning about energy efficiency and Camfil’s Life Cycle Cost calculations. 24% 17% 21% 2000 One of the Camfil Academy’s most popular training courses is our 5 Newcomers Course, primarily designed to educate new sales and 2018 marked the 30th anniversary of the Newcomers Course. LANDFILL LANDFILL INCINERATION INCINERATION RECYCLING LANDFILL INCINERATION RECYCLING RECYCLING 1000 marketing employees. The training, conducted in the idyllic coastal One of the first participants was Alan O’Connell, former CEO of 0 0 the Camfil Group. He was succeeded by Mark Simmons, Executive town of Trosa, Sweden (where Camfil was founded more than half a 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 century ago) gives our new hires an introduction to Camfil’s culture, Vice President of Camfil’s European operations on January 1, 2019. C A M F I L 2018 / 20 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 2 1 Human Rights Anti-corruption TRADE COMPLIANCE POLICY NEW OWNER’S DIRECTIVE RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS AND CODE OF CONDUCT TAKE A BREATH CAMPAIGN In 2018 Camfil AB employed a legal advisor. Part of this position is Camfil’s owners introduced a new owner’s directive in 2018 which At Camfil, we take human rights issues seriously. We are a Breathing air is essential for life. It is the very first thing we do when to handle and ensure Camfil fulfils all legal requirements related to was accepted by the board. The directive considers multiple areas member of the UN Global Compact and support and comply with we are born. This is an instinct, and we naturally expect the air to EU, U.S. and UN sanction lists, U.S. Nexus, export licenses and Dual including many relating to sustainability. Relevant points include: the Compact’s ten principles regarding human rights, labour, the be clean, but we do not instinctively question the quality of the air Use products. During 2018, our trade compliancy policy updated, • “Clean Air – A Human Right?” environment and anti-corruption. that we breathe. and in 2019 regional trade compliance officers will be assigned We want to create awareness about the impact air quality has We respect all internationally proclaimed human rights as reflected To increase awareness about the significance of clean air, we ran and trained on this new policy. Camfil will from now on follow up on on people’s health and wellbeing in our Code of Conduct, which covers important topics like forced a campaign called “Take a Breath” aiming to educate professionals how many employees who have been trained in trade compliance. labour, child labour, freedom of association, working conditions and and the general public about the health threats of air pollution. • “Cool Heads, Passionate Hearts & Clean Hands” Camfil’s owner’s directive is very clear on this point and requires elimination of discrimination. Externally, Camfil’s suppliers are also “Take a Breath” is focused on the all-important connection between We want to be business minded but at the same time have Camfil steps away from making business if there might be a risk of required to follow this Code in their relations with Camfil. health, air quality and effective air filtration. The campaign also a passionate heart and make sure we have clean hands by not being in line with our moral and ethical values. helps explain what the most harmful airborne particles are for stepping away from business not in line with our values We also believe strongly in what we are experts at – Clean Air Solutions – and clean air should be a human right. Therefore, we humans and what people can do to improve their situation. WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY • “People” use our knowledge, expertise and resources to create awareness For many years, Camfil’s whistle blowing policy has been well We want to attract, retain and build great people with the right HELPING TO DEVELOP INDUSTRY STANDARDS and educate on the topic: known in the organisation according to our bi-annual employee mindset who shares Camfil’s values In addition, we focus a lot on working with standards committees survey CAMPAIR. In 2019, we will take this policy to the next level by • “Sustainability” MOBILE ROADSHOW to ensure there is a good balance between filtration efficiency using an external specialist company to handle our whistle blowing Sustainability has been very important for Camfil in the past, Our Mobile Roadshow has been touring Europe since 2011 to and energy efficiency in general ventilation systems. Industry process. This will further strengthen transparency in the group and and we see it as a key point to work on to remain educate politicians in many countries about air pollution and the standards and governmental regulations preserve this balance and ensure all employees feel comfortable in reporting anything they successful in the future. Sustainability should not related costs to society. We have also trained many of our partners help drive the development of new innovative solutions increasing feel is not legal or in line with Camfil’s ethical and moral values. be something we do; it should be who we are. in the facility management business to better understand how they both parameters at the same time to safeguard people’s health and can reduce the energy consumption of buildings and maintain the conserve energy. efficiency of air filters to ensure a healthy and productive work environment for occupants. C A M F I L 2018 / 22 C AM F IL 2 0 1 8 / 2 3 Index in line with GRI Financials ACQUISITIONS In April, Camfil made two acquisitions in the European market In the third quarter, Camfil also acquired the shares in Nomitec A/S in within the Filters business area. Denmark. The company is part of the Northern Europe business unit. In France, Camfil acquired the filter manufacturer ChimbaultIn addition, Camfil acquired the shares of the Servifiltro S.L. Disclosure Section in Disclosure Section in Disclosure Title Disclosure Title Peyridieux SAS and its associated real estate property company Group, a filter manufacturer and distributor operating on the Number Camfil report Number Camfil report Owners directive, SCI Longchamp. Iberian Peninsula. The acquired group is part of the Continental 102-1 Name of the organisation About Camfil 205/103Management Approach Risk, Anti1/2/3 In the U.K., Camfil purchased Bushbury Holdings Ltd and its subEurope & British Isles business unit. Intro, CEO corruption 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Interview & Operations assessed for risks related to sidiary MC Air Filtration Ltd. MC Air Filtration produces and sells Business Areas 205-1 corruption Risk products that are used mainly in the nuclear power industry. In 102-3 Location of headquarters About Camfil Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 Anti-corruption 2018, the two acquisitions added SEK 82 M to Camfil Group sales. policies and procedures United Nations sustainable 302/103Environment, 102-4 Location of operations Management Approach development 1/2/3 SDG12 goals 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environment FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY – CAMFIL GROUP 102-5 Ownership and legal form About Camfil 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment 102-6 Markets served Business areas 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Intro, 303/103United Nations Management Approach Environment, 1/2/3 sustainable SDG12 102-7 Scale of the organization Income statement development 303-5 Water consumption Environment goals Net sales 8 298 7 294 6 722 6 250 5 461 Significant changes to the organization and its Intro, 102-10 Financial 306/103Operating profit 1 114 896 775 657 572 supply chain Management Approach Environment, 1/2/3 SDG12 Profit after net finance costs 1 044 829 725 558 502 UN Global 102-12 External initiatives Compact 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environment Tax -239 -258 -205 -189 -148 UN Global 308/103Profit for the year 805 572 521 369 354 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Compact & CEO Management Approach Human right 1/2/3 interview New suppliers that were screened using 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk 308-1 Human right Balance sheet environmental criteria Intangible assets 1 555 1 432 1 416 1 260 1 185 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 403/103102-16 About Camfil Management Approach Labour, SDG8 behavior 1/2/3 Property, plant and equipment 1 100 980 963 914 947 ·· Whistle blowing, Occupational health and safety management 403-1 Labour Financial assets 109 109 128 85 183 UN Global system 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compact & Human Inventories 804 930 1 056 827 1 088 Earnings before financial items, appropria403-9 Work-related injuries Labour rights Cash and cash equivalents 598 615 316 453 659 tions and taxes, as a percentage of sales. 102-18 Governance structure Organisation 403-10 Work-related ill health Labour Other current assets 1 803 1 428 1 352 1 228 1 214 ·· EBT margin (profit margin before tax) Executive-level responsibility for economic, 404/103Assets 5 968 5 496 5 231 4 767 5 275 Earnings before tax, as a percentage of sales. 102-20 Intro, organisation Management Approach Camfil Academy environmental, and social topics 1/2/3 ·· Equity ratio Consulting stakeholders on economic, Programs for upgrading employee skills and 102-21 Owners directive 404-2 Camfil Academy Equity as a percentage of total assets. environmental, and social topics transition assistance programs Equity 2 577 1 919 1 462 2 162 1 842 Composition of the highest governance body and 408/103Interest-bearing liabilities 1 868 1 934 2 084 1 229 1 895 ·· Interest-bearing net debt 102-22 Annual report Management Approach Human right its committees 1/2/3 Interest-free liabilities 1 524 1 643 1 684 1 376 1 539 Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual report Operations and suppliers at significant risk for equivalents and other interest-bearing receivables, 408-1 Human right incidents of child labor Equity and liabilities 5 968 5 496 5 231 4 767 5 275 such as derivative financial instruments. 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual report 409/103Management Approach Human right 1/2/3 ·· Debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) Role of highest governance body in setting Cash flow 102-26 Owners directive Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Interest-bearing net liabilities as a percentage of purpose, values, and strategy 409-1 Human right Cash flow from operating activities 713 849 684 712 601 incidents of forced or compulsory labor equity. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risks 412/103Cash flow from investing activities -306 -281 -262 -190 -356 Management Approach Trade compliance ·· Capital employed 1/2/3 Cash flow from financing activities -455 -260 -571 -728 -275 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Whistle blowing Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities Employee training on human rights policies or 412-2 Trade compliance Cash flow for the year -48 308 -149 -206 -30 including non-interest-bearing provisions. Average procedures 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual report capital employed is calculated as capital employed Entities included in the consolidated financial at January 1 plus capital employed at December 102-45 Annual report Key ratios statements 31 divided by two. Intro, CEO Operating margin, EBIT 13.4% 12.3% 11.5% 10.5% 10.5% 201/103·· Return on capital employed Management Approach Interview & 1/2/3 Profit margin before tax, EBT 12.6% 11.4% 10.8% 8.9% 9.2% Business Areas Profit after financial items plus financial expenses Equity ratio 43% 35% 28% 45% 35% as a percentage of average capital employed. 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5 year summary Interest-bearing net liabilities 1 217 1 275 1 740 760 1 143 ·· Return on equity Net debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) 47% 66% 119% 35% 62% Profit after tax as a percentage of average equity. Return on capital employed 30.6% 29.3% 28.2% 21.4% 22.3% Average equity is calculated as equity at January 1 plus equity at December 31 divided by two. Return on equity 35.8% 33.8% 28.7% 18.4% 21.9% Investments 231 182 163 129 200 ·· Investments Investments in intangible assets and property, Employees (average for the year) 4 509 4 225 4 076 3 811 3 736 plant and equipment. C A M F I L 2018 / 24 Camfil Sustainability Report 2018 Camfil – a global leader in air filters and clean air solutions. For more than half a century, Camfil has been helping people breathe cleaner air. As a leading manufacturer of premium clean air solutions, we provide commercial and industrial systems for air filtration and air pollution control that improve worker and equipment productivity, minimize energy use, and benefit human health and the environment. We firmly believe that the best solutions for our customers are the best solutions for our planet, too. That’s why every step of the way – from design to delivery and across the product life cycle – we consider the impact of what we do on people and on the world around us. Through a fresh approach to problem-solving, innovative design, precise process control and a strong customer focus we aim to conserve more, use less and find better ways – so we can all breathe easier. The Camfil Group is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, and has 29 manufacturing sites, six R&D centres, local sales offices in 30 countries, and about 4,500 employees and ­growing. We proudly serve and support customers in a wide variety of industries and in communities across the world. To discover how Camfil can help you to protect people, processes and the environment, visit us at www.camfil.com. www.camfil.com. camfil camfilgroup camfilgroup camfil
