UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2018‐19 1|Page ABOUT REPORTING ORGANIZATION: JUBILANT LIFE SCIENCES LIMITED Jubilant Life Sciences Limited is an integrated global pharmaceutical and life sciences company engaged in Pharmaceuticals, Life Science Ingredients and Other businesses including Drug Discovery & Development Solutions and India Branded Pharmaceuticals. The Pharmaceuticals segment, through its wholly owned subsidiary Jubilant Pharma Limited, is engaged in manufacturing and supply of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs), Solid Dosage Formulations, Radiopharmaceuticals, Allergy Therapy Products and Contract Manufacturing of Sterile Injectables and Non-sterile products through 6 US Food and Drug Administration (‘USFDA’) approved manufacturing facilities in the US, Canada and India and a network of over 50 Radiopharmacies in the US. The Life Science Ingredients segment is engaged in Specialty Intermediates, Nutritional Products and Life Science Chemicals through five manufacturing facilities in India. The Drug Discovery & Development Solutions business provides proprietary in-house innovation and collaborative research and partnership for out-licensing through two world class research centers in India. Jubilant Life Sciences Limited has a team of around 7,600 multicultural people across the globe and is committed to deliver value to its customers across over 100 countries. Jubilant is a public limited company, listed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited & BSE Limited in India with a revenue of INR 91108 million in FY 2018-19. The Company is always sensitive to its stakeholders’ aspirations and expectations. We work in close collaboration with our stakeholders by regularly engaging with them, which helps us to continually address challenges in the sustainability realm. Our Promise of Caring, Sharing and Growing is the essence of our activities that are directed towards sustainable growth. Jubilant’s approach to sustainable development focuses on the triple bottom line of Economic, Environment and Social performance along with strong focus on corporate governance. Jubilant Life Sciences Limited has been publishing its sustainability report since 2003 following GRI guidelines and its principles. The Company has been publishing Sustainability Report for the past 16 years following GRI Guidelines. The latest Sustainability Report for FY 2018-19 has been prepared in accordance with the ‘GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’ and externally assured by Ernst & Young. This 17th sustainability report of the Company is available in following URL. This sustainability report reflects our commitment towards sustainable development and continued efforts directed towards protecting the environment & human rights and maintaining sound labor practice wherever we operate. Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv.shah@jubl.com 2|Page VISION VALUES PROMISE Jubilant symbolizes positivity, dynamism, triumph and joy, all of which guide and shape the Group’s collective experiences and efforts. 3|Page STATEMENT OF SUPPORT AND COMMITMENT SIGNED WITH UNGC Contact: Mr. Rajiv Shah, Company Secretary Phone No.: 0120-4361141, E-mail: rajiv.shah@jubl.com 4|Page UNGC AND JUBILANT The twin goals of signing the UN Global Compact are: (i) Internalizing its Ten Principles within the Company’s Strategies, Policies and Operations; and (ii) Undertaking projects to advance the broader development goals of the UN, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals (earlier Millennium Development Goals). While Chapter One offers a general overview of what the ten principles are and how Jubilant Life Sciences as a responsible corporate citizen with its best practices has tried to comply with them, Chapter Two deals with Jubilant’s efforts towards achievement of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 5|Page CHAPTER ONE UNGC The Ten Principles The Global Compact asks its signatories to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Principle Statement Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 6|Page IMPLEMENTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The ten principles of the Global Compact are clustered around four areas including human rights (1-2), labor (3-6), environment (7-9), and anti-corruption (10). This section delineates examples of how Jubilant has imbibed each principle in its true spirit: UNGC UNGC PRINCIPLE JUBILANT’S ENDEAVOURS PRINCIPLE NO. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should  Jubilant respects and follows universal support and respect declaration of human rights and fundamental the protection of freedom. The Company also complies with all internationally human rights related regulatory requirements of proclaimed human the land of incorporation of its businesses across rights the world.  These fundamental principles of human rights are embedded in Jubilant’s Code of Conduct and all employees are required to respect and follow these principles strictly.  The Company has formulated policies and implemented systems to ensure protection of Human Rights of all concerned and these are defined in its Code of Conduct. These policies cover issues like Child Labor, Forced & Compulsory Labor, Non Discrimination, and Bribery & Corruption. The Company has made the Code of Conduct available to all employees through intranet and conducted training to improve awareness and implementation on ground. To oversee the implementation of code of conduct, along with other regular responsibilities, the Company has implemented a well-structured Human Resource department both at corporate offices and all manufacturing sites. During FY 2017-18 the ‘Code of conduct’ was revisited and around 3650 hours of training on revised content and related topics like Values, POSH, Compliance etc. was provided to 28% of the employees, by our HR team across all offices and operations. 7|Page PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should  At Jubilant, implementation and monitoring of make sure that they the aforesaid Human Rights policies and Code of are not complicit in Conduct lies on the Human Resource (HR) Head human rights abuses at each manufacturing location, reporting to the Corporate HR Head. HR Head oversees implementation of the human rights policies and takes responsibility of resolving any violations arising.  Jubilant has a Whistle-blower Policy and a dedicated Ombudsman office for addressing employee grievances in neutral and unbiased manner. A charter of the Ombudsman has been prepared and made available on the Company intranet. This Charter allows stakeholders including employees to voice their concerns and guide the Company to resolve issues efficiently.  Under this policy, the employees can report any information which they believe reflects serious malpractice, impropriety, abuse or violation of Code of Conduct in relation to the Company’s functioning. The Company has a dedicated email address which can only be accessed by the Ombudsman Office, for anonymous reporting.  The online portal (www.cwiportal.com) is another way of reporting concerns and maintaining complete anonymity of the whistleblower.  There have been no incidence recorded through formal organizational grievance mechanism pertaining to Human Rights, corruption, labor practices during this reporting period.  The Company has operations at various locations across India and North America. Jubilant supports & accepts the local cultures of various geographies it operates in. There have been no violations involving rights of indigenous people or those related to human rights in Jubilant during this reporting period.  The principal goal of supply chain management (SCM) at Jubilant is to provide a substantial and sustainable value contribution for the success of our businesses. The guiding principles for our 8|Page supply chain have been set under our Green Supply Chain policy. All suppliers of LSI and Pharmaceuticals business have been communicated about Jubilant supplier’s code of conduct which mandates ethical business conduct. The same has been also uploaded on our company’s website. Supplier Audits are conducted annually to cover critical vendors at least once in three years. Supplier quality audits include performance assessment against parameters such as environment, labor practice, human rights and social impact. LABOR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should  The Company never prohibits its employees to uphold the freedom form an association in accordance with the local of association and the laws. effective recognition of the right to  The Company engages in open and continuous collective bargaining dialogue with the employee associations at its manufacturing facilities. There are no operations where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining are at significant risk.  The Company encourages its employees, both permanent and contract, to maintain good relations and constructive bargaining practices with the management. Trade Unions exist at three locations and Works Committee with bargaining capabilities has been formed by the employees at one location in India. The entire workforce at Jubilant is represented in formal joint managementworker Health and Safety Committees. Health and safety topics are also included in the local formal agreements of the manufacturing facilities of the Company with trade unions. In India 537 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with trade unions and worker committee. At the Montreal Unit of the Company, as of March 31, 2019,183 employees were covered by Trade Unions/ Collective Bargaining Agreements. 9|Page  There have been no incidence recorded through formal organizational grievance mechanism pertaining to labor practices during this reporting period. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should  The Company respects the dignity of labor and uphold the denounces all forms of forced and compulsory elimination of all labor. The Company, therefore, ensures that its forms of forced and terms of employment are transparent and compulsory labor voluntary.  The Company encourages its suppliers and service providers to adhere to a ‘no forced and compulsory labor’ code.  The employees are free to quit work at any time after serving the requisite notice period as stipulated in the terms of appointment.  Minimum notice period varies for the staff depending on their position in the organization. The minimum notice period followed for termination of permanent worker is 30 days and the same is mentioned in their appointment letter. In case of significant operational change that could substantially affect employment, the notice period and or Voluntary Retirement Schemes (VRS) are determined as per the local regulation and direction by local regulatory body.  No incident of forced or compulsory labor at the suppliers’ end came to the Company’s notice during this reporting year. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective  The Company has formulated policies and abolition of child systems to ensure protection of Human Rights at labor workplace, which are defined in the Code of Conduct. This Code of Conduct is available to all employees through intranet. It is Code not to employ children as labor. In order to ensure this, in certain jurisdictions, every applicant is required to submit a proof of age.  The Company is committed to work in a proactive manner to eradicate child labor by actively contributing to the improvement of children’s social situation. To promote this, the Company 10 | P a g e encourages its Suppliers also to work towards a ‘no child-labor’ Code.”  There were no cases of child labor reported within the organization or came to the Company’s notice involving its suppliers during FY 2018-19. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the  Jubilant prohibits any form of discrimination or elimination of harassment on the basis of age, caste, sex, discrimination in religion or any other ground. Our code highlights respect of a zero tolerance policy. employment and occupation  The Company has formulated a ‘Whistle Blower Policy’ to enable the employees and Directors to voice their concerns anonymously without the fear of retaliation / victimization / discrimination which is a sine qua non for an ethical organization. No discrimination is practiced during the Human Resource processes of recruitment, employee development and rewarding performance. This is also mentioned in the Code of Conduct of the Company.  Jubilant is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EoE) as there is no consideration of gender or any other indicators of diversity. This is also mentioned on the Company’s website www.jubl.com.  Members of the highest governing body, being the Board of Directors, are also selected on merits.  Jubilant is a signatory to the CII Code of Conduct on Affirmative Action that reconfirms the Company’s commitment to equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society.  Equal remuneration is provided to the male and female members of the workforce for the similar set of work. The prevailing law in North American manufacturing locations is very stringent and any form of gender discrimination is prohibited.  During FY 2018-19 no case of discrimination was reported to the Ombudsman’s office. 11 | P a g e However, four incidents involving sexual harassment were recorded and resolved during the reporting period. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a  For a sustainable world, environmental precautionary protection is the need of the hour. Knowing that, approach to Jubilant proactively works towards environmental implementing initiatives to balance challenges environmental and business needs of the company and community. The management has adopted and implemented international management systems and technologies to mitigate environmental challenges arising due to daily operations.  Environment, Occupational Health & Safety (EHS) Policy, Responsible Care Policy, Energy Policy, Climate Change Mitigation Policy and Sustainability Policy set overall the direction of the Company’s commitment towards achieving environment performance excellence. In addition, the Company has also adopted and communicated Green Supply Chain Policy to its suppliers, expecting them to be sensitive towards the environment.  The Company sets environmental targets to monitor its environmental performance in an ongoing basis. The performance against these targets are reported to the Board of Directors and presented in the Corporate Sustainability Report. Environmental goals of key manufacturing sites are set and tracked under ISO 14001, RC 14001 based certified Environment Management Systems. Dedicated EHS teams at the Corporate Office and manufacturing facilities effectively manage the environmental aspects of the organization. Environmental performance is reviewed regularly through internal and external audits. New projects are assessed for identifying any potential hazards related to environment, health and safety. The CEOs and the Sustainability & CSR Committee review the EHS performance on a half yearly basis along with sustainability performance. All our 12 | P a g e employees are provided with induction training, covering Sustainability aspects and technical training to support their work. EHS and Sustainability related Key Result Areas (KRAs) are also set for Company CEOs and down the line, to ensure sustained focus on environmental challenges.  In order to track timely closure of environmental issues ‘Jagriti’an in-house developed software has been deployed for tracking environmental related observations. This helps us to identify and implement preventive measures.  The Company proactively makes investment for environmental protection and management. During the year, the Company (LSI Business) incurred capital expenditure of Rs. 266.63 million for environmental pollution control and management measures in Indian operation. The Company has a system of Statutory Compliance Reporting System (SCRS) for managing compliances as a part of the precautionary approach to prevent any non-compliance. This system is web-based and is hosted on the intranet portal of the Company and covers all Indian manufacturing locations of the Company. The status of statutory compliances is reviewed on a quarterly basis by the CEOs of the Company. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should  Jubilant Life Sciences aims to operate through a undertake initiatives low carbon footprint and actively supports in to promote greater mitigating the risk of climate change. The environmental commitment from the top management is visible responsibility in the form of climate change mitigation policy which aims to mitigate the risk of climate change through participatory and collaborative efforts. The Company sees cleaner production as a new market opportunity. The Company also monitors changes in regulation which may result in financial implication with respect to energy and other resources relevant to the Company’s business.  In FY 2018-19, the Business Excellence team of the Company took up 85 energy saving projects which led to an estimated savings of 544 TJ 13 | P a g e energy and reduction of 52238 tCO2e of GHG emission.  The Company is also monitoring and reporting its GHG emission regularly. It is one of the few companies in India disclosing GHG emissions and taking voluntary reduction initiatives by participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which holds the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world.  Aligning to India’s commitment on reduction of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emission as communicated in its INDC (Intended Nationally Determined Contribution) during COP21 (21st Conference of the Parties), the Company has set its own targets for GHG emission reduction.  During reporting period the Company has implemented RC 14001 based responsible care management system at Bharuch facility and ISO 50001 based energy management system at Gajraula facility and got certified in both the cases. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should  Being in the chemical sector, managing of wastes encourage the requires intensive use of environmentally sound development and technology for its handling and disposal. Waste diffusion of minimization, waste recovery & reuse and environmentally scientific disposal of waste are the three friendly technologies approaches adopted by Jubilant for all type of wastes, whether hazardous or non-hazardous. However in Jubilant, the focus is always on waste minimization. At Jubilant, the nonhazardous wastes are either recycled or reused by the third parties. Fly ash, metal scrap, plastic scrap, paper and wooden material scraps are a few major contributors of non-hazardous waste. Further, the products are packaged in bulk quantity which considerably reduces the Company’s consumption of packaging materials. Certain products are transported in tankers thus eliminating the use of packaging material and some products are sent in drums and carboys, which are reused wherever feasible.  For hazardous waste generated at its facilities, the Company follows the following methods for 14 | P a g e its proper disposal depending on the nature of waste and local regulation:  Recycle and reuse through authorised third party  Co-processing at cement kiln  Secured land fill  Incineration (both solid and liquid)  The Company focuses on improving process energy efficiency, find alternate sources of uninterrupted low cost energy and increasing the percentage of renewable energy in its overall energy portfolio.  Solar, bio-gas, biodiesel and biomass are the direct renewable energy sources used by the Company at present. The Company has invested significantly to generate energy from its distillery effluent in the form of bio-gas, fired in the process furnace. During reporting period projects implemented to increase the efficiency of the existing bio-gas plants by infusing cavitation technology at Nira Facility. VoDCa Cavitation reactor was installed on 2 biodigesters at Nira site. As result the bio-gas generation was enhanced from 43.6 to 51.1 nM3 per m3 of RSW (Raw Spent Wash) fed to Biodigesters. This intervention at Nira Bio-gas plants led to maximum 17% increase in bio-gas generation. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND PREVENTION OF BRIBERY PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should  Jubilant became a member of the UN Global work against Compact (UNGC) in 2010 with the aim of corruption in all its internalizing the 10 Global Compact Principles forms, including in the areas of human rights, labor, environment extortion and bribery and anti-corruption within its strategies, policies and operations.  Jubilant has a Policy on prohibition of ‘Bribery and Corruption’ which is stated in the Code of Conduct. The policy prohibits any personal payment or bribes by employees of the Company. Around 832 employees (48%) of total 15 | P a g e number of executive employees (LSI Business) have received anti-corruption training during the reporting period.  In terms of the Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management, the Directors and Senior Management must promptly disclose (to the Board of Directors in case of Directors and to the Co-Chairman and Managing Director (‘CCMD’) in case of Senior Management) if their personal interest interferes with the interest of the Company. Further, in terms of Regulation 26 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, the Directors and Senior Management are also required to confirm to CCMD on an annual basis, that they have not entered into material financial or commercial transaction, which could have potential conflict with the interests of the Company at large. These affirmations are placed before the Board.  Apart from ensuring honest and ethical conduct, the Code of Conduct of the Company also covers issues related to integrity, confidentiality, insider trading, dealings with outsiders, gifts & donations and action on violation of the Code. The Company has made the Code of Conduct available to all employees through the intranet.  The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading with a view to regulate trading in securities of the Company by the Designated Persons. The Code has been broad-based effective from April 1, 2019 pursuant to the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended. Salient changes in the revised Code include revised definitions of Designated Persons, Unpublished Price Sensitive Information ('UPSI') and material subsidiary, additional disclosures requirements, etc. The Company has also implemented the Policy and Procedure for inquiry in case of leak or suspected leak of UPSI, pursuant to the Regulations. Dealing in the shares of the Company by the Designated Persons is effectively monitored for 16 | P a g e ensuring compliance with the Code. Report on dealing in shares of the Company by the Designated Persons is placed before the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board.  In order to prevent and detect frauds and errors, perpetual internal audit activity is carried out by Ernst & Young Associates LLP across all operations. Subsequently, follow-up audits are also carried out by in-house internal audit team to ensure implementation of the suggestions. Special audits are also performed in areas that may be vulnerable to fraud and corruption.  There have been no incidence recorded through formal organizational grievance mechanism pertaining to corruption during this reporting period. 17 | P a g e 18 | P a g e 19 | P a g e 20 | P a g e 21 | P a g e 22 | P a g e 23 | P a g e Sustainable Development Goals CHAPTER TWO On 1 January 2016, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development officially came into force. Over the next fifteen years, with these new Goals that universally apply to all, countries will mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind. The SDGs, also known as Global Goals, build on the success of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and aim to go further to end all forms of poverty. The new Goals are unique in that they call for action by all countries, poor, rich and middle-income to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. They recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and address a range of social needs including education, health, social protection, and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and environmental protection. Jubilant very well understand this vision of the UN and wish to join hands with other corporate houses and local government agencies to contribute its own pie and want to be a partner of the great change UN wants to bring in to address basic needs of a major part of global population who are still left behind. From 2016-17, we are co-relating our sustainability initiatives including community programs with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by UN and find another meaningful and visible purpose of doing business, purpose of becoming a partner in contributing to achieve global common goals, the SDGs. These SDGs will act as an impetus for our existing business and reinstate the foundation of our inclusive business model integrating the sustainability principles. Moving ahead, we have now set new and higher goals in the form of ‘Sustainability Goals 2024’. These goals are inspired from United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (UN Paris Agreement), NITI Aayog etc. Jubilant is partnering with its surrounding communities and has been working with them for a long time to bring progressive social change through its community development programs. Majority of its community programs are already aligned with some of the SDGs like alleviation of poverty & hunger, encourage good health & improve quality of education and others. Jubilant embeds sustainability in its business strategy to deliver substantial stakeholder value through innovative social development models that focus on four key pillars Education, Health, Livelihood and Social Entrepreneurship. We put people and communities at the heart of our CSR initiatives. All our initiatives are in line with the United Nation’s SDGs. 24 | P a g e The Company through Jubilant Bhartia Foundation, which is a Section 25 Company (Sec 8 as per new Act), implements its CSR activities (in line of the provision of the Act) for the community around its manufacturing location. It follows the approach of 4P model (Public-PrivatePeoplePartnership) for empowering communities. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (JBF) is a “not for profit” organization established in 2007 by Jubilant Bhartia Group to implement its Corporate Social Responsibility programs. Primary education, basic healthcare service and livelihood generation programs focused on improving the employability of women and local youth are the areas where the Company is focused and taking up well-structured long term community development programs through JBF. JBF, along with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), has set up Food and Agriculture Centre of Excellence (FACE) to contribute to the ongoing policy dialogue related to agriculture and food security concerns. The Centre, through its integrated approach of action-oriented programs and capacity building, will address the issues from the farm gate to the consumer end. Alignment of our sustainability initiatives including Community programs with the SDGs has been provided in this chapter. The Sustainable Development Goals are: No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Well-Being Quality Education Gender Equality Clean Water and Sanitation Affordable and Clean Energy 25 | P a g e Decent Work and Economic Growth Industry Innovation and Infrastructure Reduced inequalities Sustainable Cities and Communities Responsible Consumption and Production Climate Action Life below Water Life on Land Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Partnerships for the Goals 26 | P a g e JUBILANT’S SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES ALIGNING WITH THE SDGs Given below is the summary of initiatives taken by Jubilant towards each SDG during the year 2018-19: Goal 1: No Poverty The first goal of SDGs mention that poverty is more than lack of income or resourcesit includes lack of basic services, such as education, hunger, social discrimination and exclusion, and lack of participation in decision making. Jubilant, in cognizance of the importance of skill development in enhancing the employability of potential workforce, conducts skill development programs. The Vocational Training Centers (VTC) at 3 locations Gajraula, Nira and Nanjangud provide training on array of skill oriented trades like soft skills, embroidery, paper quilling and jewelry making etc. These VTCs are aimed at helping the trainees find ‘vocation for life’ on successful completion. In addition to VTCs JBF’s computer literacy program (World on Wheel) continued at Gajraula, Bharuch, Roorkee and Nira, it was also introduced at Nanjangud, Noida and Varanasi to support digital literacy. This comprises a mobile computer lab which is taken to surrounding villages, schools and colleges to train students, youth and villagers on basic computer skills. Goal 2: Zero Hunger End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture is the objective of this goal (SDG2). And as we know, poor nutrition is one of the major cause of death of children under the age of five. In response to this major social problem, the Company is implementing integrated malnutrition project in villages at Gajraula location in U.P. The project aims towards improving the nutritional status of children under the age of 5 years at select areas. The project focuses on behaviour change communication and creating a supporting environment to fight malnutrition. During this reporting period the Company continued real time growth monitoring of children of age group 0 – 5 years through mobile based biometric enabled IT platform by the select women health guard (Swasthya Praharis) of JBF, at 32 villages of Gajraula location in Uttar PradeshThis is followed by the grading of the target children as per their weight. The children falling in the first two grades are advised on improvement of diet and nutrition. The children in Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) category are recommended for Nutrition Rehabilitation Center (NRC), a Government health facility where SAM children are admitted and managed. In the FY 2018-19 more than 10,000 children from the age of 0-5 years were tracked for growth monitoring under the malnutrition project in Gajraula. 27 | P a g e Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being This SDG aims at ensuring healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. The Company is able to contribute to this objective of ensuring healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages through its various health programs delineated below: Swasthya Prahari: Under this program pregnant ladies and new mothers were being consulted by the Swasthya Praharis at Gajraula with an objective of planning and monitoring birth rate, Monitoring and reducing Infant Mortality Ratio (IMR), Monitoring and increasing Institutional delivery to reduce Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR). They are also working on the integrated malnutrition project of JBF. Community Health Services: JBF Medical Centre at Gajraula location provides health services to the patients (16000+) as Outpatient Department (OPD), Day Care, Lab Tests, and Directly Observed Treatment, Short course (DOTS) for Tuberculosis, Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC), X-Ray etc. At other locations the basic healthcare services are provided to the community through mobile health units. The states and districts in India where the projects were undertaken during the reporting period are Uttar Pradesh (Gajraula Distt. Amroha), Maharashtra (Nira Distt. Pune and Ambernath Distt. Thane), Gujarat (Samlaya, Distt. Vadodara and Vilayat, Distt. Bharuch) Goal 4: Quality Education This goal is all about inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. The Project ‘Muskaan’ implemented by Jubilant aims at strengthening the rural government primary education system through enhanced quality of education. The project aims at filling in the quality gaps in the already existing education system. In addition to supporting infrastructure development at project schools there is a flagship program ‘Jubilant Pratibha Puruskaar’ where a monthly scholarship amount of Rs 500/is given to meritorious students in Gajraula. A total of 20 students received scholarship under the program in this financial year. This year, JBF is supporting a construction of a model government school at Kallahali village in Nanjangud. The model school will have urban school’s feature like science lab, computer lab and a library. At Gajraula, JBF supported five-government primary school as model school with fully equipped science lab in each school and at Nira, JBF supported the renovation of Jubilant English Medium School. The states and districts in India where the project Muskaan was undertaken during the reporting period are Uttar Pradesh (Gajraula Distt. Amroha), Maharashtra (Nira Distt. Pune and Ambernath Distt. Thane), Gujarat (Samlaya, Distt. Vadodara and Vilayat, Distt. Bharuch). Case Study: Using technology to improve productivity in schools Initiative: Promoting quality of education in government schools in different states of India through launching a mobile application ‘Jubilant Education System’ for government schools. 28 | P a g e Actions: Through this app teacher & student information/ data is entered and delivered directly to the centralize server with the latitude and longitude of the place of submission. Thus reduce the hard work of teachers in documenting and provide teachers more time to teach. Pilot test using this app was conducted in the state of Uttar Pradesh covering approximately 40,000 students. Future Plans: The appbased School Management System aims to mainstream the stakeholder engagement and create an accountability framework in 178 Government Schools in Bisrakh Block, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, India Goal 5: Gender Equality Jubilant support gender equality and strive to empower women and girls both at work place and through community initiatives. Jubilant strongly adheres by its policy of non-discrimination and aims at providing every one with equal access to health care, quality education, career and vocational guidance, employment, remuneration, occupational health and safety and social security etc. There are projects which reflects Jubilant’s commitment to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Projects like the stitching centre at Nanjangud (operated by all women SHG) and Swasthya Prahari (Women Health Guards are actively involved in most of the health projects at Gajraula) are an efforts towards attaining gender equality. During this reporting period Jubilant Generics has been conferred with the FICCI Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Award for the commendable work done in the area of women empowerment in the community around Nanjangud site. Case Study: Developing Women Entrepreneurs from Local Community Stitching centre at Nanjangud is a self-sustainable initiative by creating employment opportunity for entrepreneurs from local community. This Provides subsistence level training to women to form SHGs (Self-Help Groups) for starting its own Uniform Stitching Centre. Significant number of women have secured employment or have become an entrepreneur under this program. The project has become selfsustainable it will be further scaled up in the coming years by providing more forward linkages and increasing the number of women associated with the program. Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation This goal deliberates on availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Jubilant is also working for the same in some of its project locations. The Company understand that with time portable water is becoming one of the scare resource across the globe and India is also vulnerable to this problem. Company understand that we need to judiciously use our water 29 | P a g e resources surrounding our manufacturing sites and make this critical resource mutually convenient for both community and business. During FY 2018-19, the Company has adopted 195 ponds and has established 135 water recharge structures at the pond so that extra water accumulated in the pond during rain can be recharged to improve level of ground water. The Company has also established RO water systems at Gajraula and Nanjangud location. During this reporting period 30 Taraltec water reactor have been installed in hand pumps in Gajraula to kill microbes in water to make it safer than earlier for drinking. This year the Company has further improved its performance in recycle and reuse of treated effluent in the manufacturing sites. During this reporting period there was 125% increase in overall recycled & reuse water usage as compared to previous year (FY 2018-19). Also there was 3.5% reduction in total fresh water withdrawal during this year. The Company is also evaluating options for other sources of water like treated sewage and surface water to further reduce its dependency on ground water. Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy To achieve the global goal (SDG) of ‘Affordable & Clean Energy’ for all, industries can play a major role through judicious selection and use of energy to meet their energy demand. Jubilant is focused on improving energy efficiency and finding alternate sources of uninterrupted low cost energy and increasing the percentage of renewable energy in its overall energy portfolio. Solar, bio-gas, biodiesel and biomass are the direct renewable energy sources used by the Company at present. The Company, through its Business Excellence team, has been able to implement several energy saving projects which have directly contributed towards reduction of energy consumption. During the FY 2018-19 the Company has implemented more than 85 energy saving projects that have directly contributed towards reduction of around 544 TJ of energy consumption which is equivalent to 52238 MT of CO2. In addition to this, the Company has taken several resource savings initiatives also at its manufacturing facilities. Capital investment on energy conservation equipment during the Financial Year 2018-19 was INR 184.70 Million. Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Jubilant recognises the role of decent work environment in creating inclusive economic growth. Jubilant not only generates employment through its economic activities but also is sincere in nurturing conducive work environment to realise maximum human resource potential of its employees. Jubilant encourages its employees, both permanent and contract, to maintain good relations and constructive bargaining practices with the management. Local human resource personnel take care of the employee relations and interact with the employees and contractors about various services, measures and initiatives to assist them in creating and maintaining a sound work environment. Trade Unions exist at three locations and Works Committee with bargaining capabilities has been formed by the employees at one location in India. All arrangements with respect to collective bargaining and trade unions are as per applicable laws of the land. The entire workforce at Jubilant is represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. Health & safety topics are also included in the local formal agreements of the manufacturing facilities of the Company with trade unions. The Company engages in open and continuous dialogue with the 30 | P a g e employee associations at its manufacturing facilities. In India 537 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with trade unions and worker committee. At the Montreal manufacturing facility of the Company, 183 employees were covered by trade unions/ collective bargaining agreements as of March 31, 2019. There are no operations where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining are at significant risk. Jubilant respects and follows universal declaration of human rights and fundamental freedom. The Company also complies with all human rights related regulatory requirements of the land of incorporation of its business across the world. These fundamental principles of human rights are embedded in Jubilant’s Code of Conduct and all employees are required to respect and follow the same strictly. The Company is committed to its Sustainability Mission and is signatory to the UNGC Principles with human rights commitments. The Company has formulated policies and systems to ensure protection of Human Rights of all concerned and these are defined in the Code of Conduct of Jubilant. These policies cover issues of Child Labor, Forced and Compulsory Labor, Non Discrimination, Bribery and Corruption. The Company has made the Code of Conduct available to all employees through intranet portal of the Company and conducts training to improve awareness and implementation on ground. The Company has also implemented policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) at workplace to further improve the work environment for its employees. For further details, please refer the ‘Social Impact’ section of our Sustainability Report for FY 2018-19 Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure The Company is operating through multiple locations and thereby contributes to the development of the respective local areas by providing employment, developing basic infrastructure, etc. With increasing unemployment across the globe, there is increasing demand for local employment in the communities surrounding our manufacturing facilities, particularly in India. Even though, Jubilant recruits employees based on their skills and merit, around 90% of employees at significant operations are local employees. They are preferred as long as they meet the specific roles set by the Company. Employee salaries are always higher than the minimum wages mandated by the local regulation.The Company sources its material, machinery, spares, stores, etc. from across the globe without compromising on quality and value. Preference is given to the local suppliers if they satisfy the requisite specifications. In monetary terms, the Company sources 15.55% of its material, machinery, spares stores etc. domestically. Whereas, 84.45% was sourced from other countries for Indian operations in 2018-19. Research and Development (R&D) in the technologically intensive industry is the lynchpin of innovation and plays a vital role in developing and adopting new technologies. At Jubilant, the basic mission of R&D remains to enhance innovation level, scientific efficiency and effectiveness in compliance with Jubilant core values. The R&D keeps itself updated with the regulations, upcoming technological changes and trends and proactively aligns with pharmacopeia methods and industry best practice. Our R&D Centres conform to International Standards and are well equipped with world class infrastructure. All multi-located dedicated R&Ds are diversified but internally integrated to leverage knowledge and innovation in allied scientific domains. The Company’s consistent endeavours to invest in R&D have helped it create a robust product pipeline ensuring sustainable 31 | P a g e growth. All R&D centres support the execution of business strategies. We protect our inventions by filing patent applications in India, US, Europe, Canada, Australia, China, International Patent Applications (PCT) etc. We pursue them till grant and maintain them in countries of business interest. Expenditure incurred on R&D during FY 2019 was INR 219.22 million. This include capital and recurring expenditures. Case Study: Addressing medical challenges through Innovation Challenges: Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer that starts in certain forms of very early-stage nerve cells, most often found in an embryo or fetus (the term ‘neuro’ refers to nerves, while ‘blastoma’ refers to a cancer that affects immature or developing cells). This type of cancer occurs most often in infants and young children. It is rare in children older than 10 years (source: American Cancer Society). Action:  Jubilant DraxImage Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jubilant Pharma Ltd. is working closely with the medical community on a treatment for patients with a rare disease called Neuroblastoma  In response to the needs of patients, their families and the Neuroblastoma community in its entirety, Jubilant DraxImage has been consistently and reliably providing therapeutic 131ImIBG to hundreds of patients, under an Investigational New Drug (IND) program approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) and for other select Investigational Clinical Trials since 2007. Future Plans: Based on the positive outcomes of these initial programs, Jubilant DraxImage in collaboration with key paediatric Oncologists, the National Institute of Health (NIH), selected academic centres and Neuroblastoma consortiums, plans to further advance its therapeutic 131I-mIBG program with the USFDA. Jubilant DraxImage is committed to improving lives through nuclear medicine and making a positive impact on the lives of patients and families faced with this challenging paediatric cancer Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities Jubilant prohibits any form of discrimination or harassment on the basis of age, caste, sex, religion or any other ground at workplace. Equal remuneration is provided to the male and female members of the workforce for the similar set of work. Jubilant is a signatory to the CII Code of Conduct on Affirmative Action that reconfirms the Company’s commitment to equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society. Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities The SDGs have talked about making human settlements inclusive and sustainable. The Company through JBF is implementing the projects which are sustainable and inclusive. The company believes in sustainable development, which we interpret as growing our business while meeting the legitimate concerns of our stakeholders. Jubilant takes a proactive role in empowering local communities to improve their quality of life so as to achieve the goal of inclusive growth. The Company’s CSR projects/programmes are designed in such a way where the community is involved from the planning to impact assessment level. The community shares human capital as well as various other resources in terms of land and cost of additional infrastructure development. 32 | P a g e Since the selected community programs are based near our manufacturing locations our involvement in the community initiatives will be for a long tenure. However, we have a focused approach of developing the projects in self-sustainable model. Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Environment, Occupational Health & Safety (EHS) Policy, Responsible Care Policy and the Climate Change Mitigation Policy set the overall direction of the Company’s commitment towards achieving environment performance excellence. In addition, the Company has also adopted and communicated Green Supply Chain Policy to its suppliers, expecting them to be sensitive towards environment. The Company submits annual report against Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to Indian Chemical Council (ICC), which is a member of International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Last year the LSI plants and Corporate Office in India has been issued RC Logo by ICC. Our Bharuch site have been certified by DNV for successful implementation of RC 14001 based Responsible Care Management System following the American Chemistry Council (ACC) standards during this reporting period. Our largest manufacturing site at Gajraula & corporate office at Noida was already certified under RC 140001. Plan was also rolled out to implement this across all other Life Science Ingredients (LSI) business plants in India. To remain cost competitive, Jubilant always practices efficient use of quality materials in its processes. The Company utilizes molasses as its key raw material which is biogenic in nature. Other major raw materials are alcohol and process chemicals. Molasses (by-products from sugar industries) and corn cob are renewable in nature and constitute over 50% of the total major raw material consumption. Process chemicals like solvents are recovered and recycled wherever possible. Goal 13: Climate Action Climate Change and its impact is now very much evident and is a global phenomenon and our company is no exception to this. Jubilant understands the damage potential Climate Change can bring to our businesses with respect to natural resources like water and agro-based raw materials like molasses. To be a partner to this global drive for climate action the Company is striving to reduce its carbon footprint in all possible means. Growing cost of energy and its linkage with climate change impact is a major business concern at Jubilant like any other industry. To tackle this issue, Jubilant has decided to focus on improving process energy efficiency, find alternate sources of uninterrupted low cost energy and increasing the percentage of renewable energy in present energy mix. Bio-mass, biogas, bio-diesel and solar energy are the key renewable energy sources in the overall energy mix of the Company. It has invested significantly to generate energy from its distillery effluent in the form of Bio-gas, fired in the process furnaces. The Company is also monitoring and reporting its GHG emission regularly. Jubilant is one of the few companies in India disclosing GHG emissions and taking voluntary reduction initiatives by participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. In the reporting year, we reduced our total GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) by 1.75% with respect to the previous year, (from 983572 tCO2e to 966371 tCO2e). From FY 2016-17 we have started to capture Scope 3 GHG emission, in absolute term, arising out of our raw material and finished goods transportation. To start with, we have calculated total GHG from complete domestic logistics (Inbound and Outbound) of Life Science Ingredient (LSI) 33 | P a g e business. During FY 2019 total scope 3 GHG emission due to LSI business reduced to 13348 tCO2e from 20428 tCO2e during 2017-18. The Company conducted life cycle based carbon footprint studies by a reputed external agency during FY 2011-12. The study was conducted on 15 key products of the Company using the cradle to gate approach. Goal 14: Life below Water Global demand for water will exceed supply by 40% by 2030. Business will be subjected to water shortages, water quality decline and water price volatility. Being a Life Sciences company, we are dependent on water for many of our manufacturing processes. At the same time, we also deeply understand how critical this natural resource is to human life and ecosystems. Jubilant is continuously monitoring, reviewing & optimizing water consumption through process modification and adoption of new technologies. The Company strives to recycle back usable water from the effluents after treatment in order to reduce fresh water consumption. Most of our Indian manufacturing facilities are zero liquid discharge. In addition to process modification, site management has also put in place the best available effluent treatment technologies for better recycling and reuse. Further, the Company has also implemented rainwater harvesting structures at several locations to support to water conservation. Goal 15: Life on Land No species listed in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and National Conservation List was found to exist in or near the manufacturing operations of the Company. Most of our manufacturing facilities are located outside biodiversity sensitive or notified protected areas. Therefore, there is no such case of habitats significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff from Jubilant. Goal 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions The Board of Directors (‘Board’) is the apex and highest governing body in Jubilant Life Sciences Limited. The Board along with its Committees provides leadership and strategic guidance to the Company’s management while discharging its fiduciary responsibilities thereby ensuring that the management adheres to high standards of ethics, transparency and disclosures. The Board’s objective is to create sustainable value for all stakeholders, provide vision to the Company and oversee implementation of the Board’s decisions. Jubilant is led by a team of eminent individuals who inspire, lead and contribute to the growth of the Company. The Board of Directors of Jubilant has a judicial mix of executive, non-executive, independent and non-independent Directors. All members of the Board are well experienced and bring expertise in the fields of Life Sciences, Pharmaceuticals, Chemical Engineering, Banking, Accounts, Taxation, Administration, etc. to the table. The Independent Directors constitute half of the Board’s strength, thus ensuring independence and transparency of the Board’s decision-making process. The Independent Directors are not associated with the Company in any executive capacity. They do not have any material pecuniary relationship with the Company other than their remuneration. The Independent Directors, by furnishing a Certificate of Independence to the Board, affirm their independence on an annual basis. 34 | P a g e Co-Chairman and Managing Director (CCMD) is the highest Executive Officer of the Company. He belongs to the promoter group and along with the Chairman, has led the Company to its present growth and success. The Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of various businesses are responsible for smooth functioning of their respective businesses. This also includes development of business strategies as well as due consideration of the interests of all the stakeholders. The business strategies and plans are reviewed during the annual strategy meet by the Chairman, Co-Chairman and Managing Director, Executive Directors and CEOs. To focus effectively on the issues and ensure expedient resolution of diverse matters, the Board has constituted several Committees with clearly defined terms of reference and scope. Committee members are appointed by the Board with the consent of individual Directors. The Committees meet as often as required. Minutes of the meetings of all Committees of the Board are placed at the subsequent Board meeting for noting. Key Committees of the Board are:  Audit Committee  Nomination, Remuneration and Compensation Committee  Stakeholders Relationship Committee  Sustainability & CSR Committee  Finance Committee  Capital Issue Committee  Fund Raising Committee  Risk Management Committee The role, terms of reference and composition of these committees are available in detail in the Corporate Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report. There are several codes and policies framed by the Board in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (the ‘Listing Regulations’). Following are the salient key codes and policies which provide broad guidelines for smooth and transparent functioning of the Board:  Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management  Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading  Policy and Procedure for Inquiry in case of Leak or Suspected Leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information  Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and Dealing with Related Party Transactions’  Corporate Social Responsibility Policy  Policy for Determining Materiality of Events and Information  Policy on Board Diversity  Succession Plan for Board Members and Senior Management  Performance Evaluation Policy  Appointment and Remuneration Policy  Whistle Blower Policy  Policy for Determining Material Subsidiaries  Dividend Distribution Policy  Policy for Preservation of Documents 35 | P a g e  Archival Policy  Code of Conduct for Employees  Policy for Prevention of Sexual Harassment At Jubilant, good governance is a tradition and a way of life and ‘Our Promise’ and ‘Our Vision’ set the overall direction on corporate governance of the Company. The Vision, Values and Promise statements of the Company are adopted by businesses and all other functions in the Company. There are several internally developed policies and codes adopted by the Company for good corporate governance. In addition to the above mentioned policies framed by the Board, there are several other policies adopted by the Company ensuring effective governance in regular operations. The information is also available on the Company’s website (http://www.jubl.com/sustainability/policy/sustainability-policy). Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals To harness the benefit of synergy generated in working together, Jubilant always emphasizes upon working in partnership with other institutions with similar goals. The Company is partnering with several local and global organizations, to make its CSR activities more impactful and beneficial for its communities. Jubilant Bhartia Foundation (JBF) joined hands with the Schwab Foundation in 2010 for Social Entrepreneurship to launch the Social Entrepreneur of the Year (SEOY) Award in India every year. The Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship and the Jubilant Bhartia Foundation are dedicated in promoting social innovation in India through recognizing social entrepreneurs who address the needs of under-served communities in both scalable and sustainable ways. SEOY Award provide unique regional and global platform to these social entrepreneurs of the country to promote social entrepreneurship as a key element to advancing societies and addressing social problems innovatively and effectively. It also fosters a close-knit community of social entrepreneurs for idea exchange and replication of best practices. Following are the key initiatives where Jubilant participated jointly with some of its major partners during this reporting period:  Jubilant Bhartia Foundation in partnership with the Schwab Foundation is working towards providing unparalleled platforms to leading social entrepreneurs as a key element for inclusive growth.  Jubilant Bhartia Foundation in partnership with CII Foundation has successfully implemented a project under education for remote locations of Uttrakhand.  Jubilant Bhartia Foundation in partnership with Panasonic is implementing a health project at Jajjhar district of Haryana.  Jubilant Bhartia Foundation in writing the jury report and due diligence process of Social Entrepreneur of India Award (SEOY).  Jubilant Bhartia Foundation in association with Ogaan Cancer Foundation observed Cancer Awareness Day at Jubilant on 26th October, 2018. The employees wore pink to the workday to show their support for the cause. The health talk was also organised by JBF for the employees.  Dr Sarika Gupta, Senior Gynea-Oncologist, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital presented a session at HO, Noida  Dr Puneet Gupta, Director Oncology Services, Metro Group of hospitals presented a session at the Greater Noida office 36 | P a g e  The Foundation encourages its employees also to contribute towards society. The employees actively participated in the voluntary Blood Donation organised in association with Rotary Blood Bank on 12th February 2019 at Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd, Noida and employees were very excited and forthcoming to donate blood  Jubilant Bhartia Foundation is implementing Digital Literacy Program in association with HP inc at Gajraula, Roorkee, Nira, Nanjangud, Bharuch, Noida and Varanasi.  JBF organised a workshop on Clean to Green Movement in the view of World Environment Day on 5th June, 2018. Reverse Logistics presented a talk on e-scarp for the employees of Jubilant in the workshop.  Jubilant Bhartia Foundation is implementing a project in partnership with Stichting Metaflex to support a government residential school. Under the project, fund is provided to the school for sports equipment and for salary of coaches. A scholarship has also been provided to two students. The Company also has membership of various associations and the list has been provided at page no 102 of Sustainability Report FY 2018-19. 37 | P a g e
