Autodesk FY2019 Sustainability Report Letter from our President and CEO made sustainability commitments and many are record as a sustainability leader, proud of our aligning their business with the UN Sustainable progress building a diverse and inclusive team, and Development Goals, now gaining momentum as proud of the impact we have had. I am also acutely a universal blueprint for our collective future. aware that the next 10 years will demand more from Companies are shifting to clean energy and circular businesses and from CEOs. Just as investors are materials, designing for health and resiliency at a starting to move beyond ESG analysis to impact global scale, and demonstrating that meaningful investing, corporate leaders are beginning to measure work and widespread prosperity is possible. impact returns alongside financial returns, balancing short-term results with long-term impact. These customers are looking to us to help transform their business in positive and productive ways. We are This is new territory for many of us, but I’ve never committed to leading by example while also helping been more confident that business can and will each customer, and even entire industries, transition deliver impact at scale. We invite you to read our their design and make practices to align with their report and join us in creating a prosperous, equitable, aspiration of a better world. and resilient future for billions of people. Much of this progress is powered by rising levels Sincerely, of automation, increasing both our capacity and our efficiency. While there is growing concern that automation will displace workers, I sincerely believe that technology, when steered in the right direction, It is humbling to serve as the CEO of Autodesk at will instead help us to make informed decisions and such a pivotal time for our company and the corporate better address the complexity of designing a future sector more broadly. The challenges we face as a Andrew Anagnost with billions of people. global community, from rising inequality to a changing President and Chief Executive Officer climate, demand more from us as leaders—more Our customers need and deserve trusted technology Autodesk intention, more ambition, and more courage. platforms that transform complex data into actionable insights. To this end, we are investing in our For Autodesk and our customers, designing and technology and acquired three companies this year making a sustainable, resilient, and prosperous future that extend our solutions beyond design, into for billions of people is a daunting responsibility—but also an incredible business opportunity. The most construction and manufacturing, anticipating the Table of contents convergence ahead. successful companies will be those that align Customers 4 business success with positive impact in the world. As We need to stay vigilant, to automate the right Operations 7 I told our investors recently, we want to lead the way decisions and to design technology that supports Employees 9 in demonstrating this proposition. and assists us as a collaborative partner, unlocking our human abilities. Philanthropy 11 Many of the companies stepping up to this challenge are Autodesk customers. I am continually inspired by This is our tenth year reporting on our social and Ethics 13 their creativity and ambition. More than half have environmental performance. I’m proud of our track UNGC index 14 2 Highlights from fiscal year 2019 We have a tremendous opportunity to help our customers and employees imagine, design, and make a better world. Although our biggest opportunity to improve our shared future is through the designers who use our software, we also work hard to improve the direct impact of our operations. This report provides a high-level view of our progress in sustainability over the past several years. To learn more about our commitment to sustainability and our vision for the role design can have in addressing global challenges, visit our website. See our Investors website for information about Autodesk's financial performance. Expanded 1,100 73,000 our portfolio through three customers and employees hours of instructional video acquisitions that extend our surveyed to inform workforce watched on the Autodesk solutions into construction development research University website and manufacturing 41% 100% 74% reduction in GHG emissions of facility and data of employees participated footprint compared to fiscal center electricity from in our first-ever Diversity & year 2009 renewable sources Inclusion survey $838,000+ $6 million $26.3 million in employee volunteering time in company and Autodesk in Autodesk® product donations (26,000+ hours) Foundation cash contributions Performance data included in this report is based on the Autodesk fiscal year when noted, and the calendar year otherwise. The Autodesk 2019 fiscal year ran from February 1, 2018, through January 31, 2019. Performance data covers Autodesk’s global operations, unless otherwise stated. In some cases, segments in tables do not add up to the total due to rounding. Dashes indicate where data was unavailable. 3 Customers Our customers have a broad and global reach. They process itself also offer significant potential for include a wide range of companies, design firms, improvement. Research indicates that up to 30 percent Education academic institutions, nonprofits, students, and of construction activity on-site is related to rework,3 entrepreneurs in the architecture, engineering, and as much as 30 percent of construction material is We offer flexible, self-paced online learning construction, product design, and manufacturing wasted on-site,4 costing time, money, and natural opportunities to help people get more out of fields. Designing and making more of everything is resources. The urgency of reducing these impacts is Autodesk tools and to teach sustainable design inevitable as global population increases. Autodesk compounded by global demographic trends. As the concepts to those already practicing or considering technology helps our customers to design and make global population shifts and urbanizes over the next a career in architecture, engineering, design, or better things with less negative impact on the world. 30 years, the construction industry will need to build related fields. an average of 13,000 buildings every day in urban Autodesk Knowledge Network, a repository of more Architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC): areas.5 Indeed, 60 percent of urban areas anticipated than a million contributions from Autodesk, its Operational energy use in buildings is responsible for to exist in 2030 have yet to be built.6 As a result, community, and its partners, includes more than 32 percent of energy consumption globally and 19 industry demand will continue to rise for solutions 250 videos and articles related to sustainable design. percent of energy-related greenhouse gas (GHG) that enable architects, engineers, and contractors to emissions.1 While it is not uncommon for operational Autodesk® Design Academy offers free projects, support this rapid growth more sustainably by energy use to account for as much as 90 percent of courses, webinars, and more for educators and improving energy and materials productivity. a building’s environmental impacts,2 the embodied design students at all levels. During fiscal year carbon of building materials and the construction 2019, the site received more than 4 million page views from over 1 million unique visitors. Autodesk® Education Community enables students, faculty, and educational institutions to access more than 80 titles of Autodesk professional-grade software at no charge.7 In fiscal year 2019, 6 million students and educators registered 12 million copies of Autodesk software. Autodesk University, a learning community for design and engineering professionals from around the globe, offers conference experiences and free access to online learning resources year-round. In fiscal year 2019, 2 million people visited the Autodesk University website and watched 73,000 hours of instructional video. 1. https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/ipcc_wg3_ar5_chapter9.pdf, Chapter 9: Buildings. 2. http://www.journalofgreenbuilding.com/doi/abs/10.3992/jgb.7.3.151 3. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/291000555_Cost_Management_in_Construction_Projects_Rework_and_Its_Effects 4. https://www.sciencedirect.com/book/9780123814753/waste, Chapter 15: Construction Waste. 5. According to internal research with market research firm Statista. 6. https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/25219 7. Free Autodesk software and/or cloud-based services are subject to acceptance of and compliance with the terms and conditions of the software license agreement or terms of service that accompany such software or cloud-based services. Software and cloud-based services subject to an Educational license may be used solely for Educational Purposes. 4 Our customers are increasingly working to make net-zero energy buildings, implement low-waste and industrialized construction, and develop smart and sustainable cities. A study of Autodesk AEC customers showed United Nations Sustainable that approximately 47% of those customers have commitments to implementing sustainable practices.8 Providing Development Goals automation tools to support these objectives affordably and at scale is central to our sustainability efforts. The Autodesk® Architecture, Engineering & Construction Collection and our cloud platform help enable customers to The United Nations Sustainable Development achieve these outcomes. Goals provide an important framework to drive social, environmental, and economic progress Autodesk® Revit®, InfraWorks® 360, AutoCAD® Civil 3D®, Autodesk® BIM 360®, Assemble Systems, PlanGrid, globally. Although Autodesk addresses all 17 CFD, FormIt® 360 Pro, Insight, Navisworks®, Fabrication CAMductTM, ReCapTM, and RobotTM Structural Analysis goals to varying degrees, we focus particularly Professional software on the following to maximize our positive impact through our products, operations, and Building design and • Design high-performance buildings philanthropic activities. retrofit • Conduct energy analysis from concept through to complex modeling • Prioritize retrofits across property portfolios • Use structural materials efficiently • Plan for smart decommissioning of buildings and related materials recovery Infrastructure • Plan for resilience and adaptation to climate change • Prioritize projects based on social, environmental, and economic impacts • Manage bioretention and green stormwater • Conduct traffic impact analysis • Conduct pollution modeling Construction • Streamline schedules and logistics • Minimize waste during construction • Design for offsite and prefabrication design • Increase precision to maximize built performance Image courtesy of Johnson Controls 8. Autodesk engaged Business Advantage, a market research consulting firm, to conduct a study of 1400 Autodesk customers to understand their commitments to sustainability. The study determined a “commitment to sustainability” if the customer committed explicitly to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and/or showed evidence of a commitment to sustainability on their corporate website. 5 Product design and manufacturing (D&M): Time, money, energy, and materials are often wasted due to poor design and inefficient production cycles, creating bottlenecks, machine idling, and slow product runs. Manufacturers can reduce energy use by up to 25 percent and increase productivity through smart and connected manufacturing techniques.9 Consumers’ demand for more environmentally friendly products, as well as new environmental regulations, push manufacturers to commit to sustainable outcomes in their work. In fact, a study of Autodesk’s Design & Manufacturing customers showed that approximately 52% of these customers have commitments to implementing sustainable practices.8 To address these challenges and meet their commitments, Autodesk customers are implementing smarter and more efficient design and manufacturing approaches, increasing materials productivity, developing more circular business models, reducing energy use, and enhancing supply chain responsibility. Utilizing automation to integrate design and manufacturing processes plays an essential role and helps designers and engineers achieve productivity boosts and deliver more sustainable products. The Autodesk® Product Design & Manufacturing Collection and our cloud platform help customers deliver on these objectives. Autodesk® Fusion 360®, Inventor®, CFD, Moldflow® Design, NetFabb®, TruNest, PowerMill®, Fusion LifeCycle, and Factory Design Utilities software Material efficiency and • Improve materials efficiency, create lighter products, and reduce waste through circularity generative design and composites • Make greener materials choices • Conduct simulations to test and design more durable products • Nest pieces to optimize flat sheet cutting and reduce waste • Pack products and use support-material efficiently to reduce waste in additive manufacturing • Improve print accuracy and success rate to decrease waste in additive manufacturing • Minimize waste by repairing parts with hybrid manufacturing Energy efficiency and • Design and create energy-efficient electronics and machines smart manufacturing • Reduce energy use and waste in production by optimizing machine use and cooling cycles • Use digital twins to track energy consumption and conduct predictive maintenance • Analyze and optimize factory building energy consumption Responsible supply chain • Audit suppliers to ensure product quality and compliance • Increase quality through failure analysis and reports • Comply with regulations with material and supplier declaration Learn more about how our customers are leveraging Autodesk technology to make a better world on our Sustainability Center. 9. McKinsey Global Institute – The Internet of Things: Mapping the Value Beyond the Hype. 6 Operations Autodesk continually works to address the causes and consequences of climate change and to improve our overall environmental performance. The following commitments and targets demonstrate our broad and bold approach in this area. Our Environmental Policy underpins the company's efforts in our own operations, with our suppliers and business partners, and to help customers improve the environmental performance of their products. COMMITMENTS • Continue to report climate change information in mainstream financial reports (see Autodesk FY2019 Annual Report). • Continue to conduct responsible corporate engagement in climate change policy (see Public policy). • Continue to use an internal price on carbon. • Continue to integrate sustainable design capabilities into our products and services (see Customers). TARGETS PROGRESS IN FY2019 We are committed to following our Corporate Finance Approach to Achieved. Since fiscal year 2009 (our baseline), Climate-Stabilizing Targets (C-FACT) methodology through 2020, which we have decreased absolute GHG emissions by aims to reduce GHG emissions in line with an 85 percent reduction by 41 percent, meeting our goal. 2050. C-FACT helps companies develop GHG emissions reduction targets in proportion to their relative contribution to the economy. • Reduce carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions across our value chain by 41 percent by fiscal year 2019. • Reduce CO2e emissions across our value chain by 43 percent by fiscal year 2020. Power our facilities and cloud services with 100 percent renewable energy Achieved. by fiscal year 2021. Remove commodity-driven deforestation from Autodesk’s supply In progress. We continue to inventory our paper use and are chain by 2020. transitioning to FSC-certified and recycled paper. Reduce short-lived climate pollutant emissions. In progress. We continue to inventory and mitigate refrigerant emissions across our facilities. 7 (Baseline) Carbon footprint Performance data FY2009 FY2018 FY2019 During fiscal year 2019, our absolute GHG emissions Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions [metric tons CO2e] (market-based) 301,000 187,000 178,000 across our value chain decreased by 3 percent C-FACT carbon intensity ratio [metric tons CO2e/relative contribution to world GDP] 9.12 8.60 6.28 compared with the prior year. Since fiscal year 2009 GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/million US$ revenue] 130 90.8 69.2 (our baseline), we have decreased absolute GHG GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/employee] 38.7 20.8 18.5 emissions by 41 percent, achieving our goal. GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/1,000 active square feet] 167 91.6 81.2 Business travel: We seek to reduce the GHG emissions Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned/controlled operations [metric tons CO2e] 4,250 2,270 2,650 of meeting travel through virtual meetings, partner Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the use of purchased electricity, steam, heating, 18,100 100 72 education, a green rating system for hotels, and by and cooling (including renewables)11 [metric tons CO2e] incorporating sustainability expectations into our Scope 3: Upstream [metric tons CO2e] 278,000 184,000 175,000 standard meeting contracts.10 Purchased goods and services 12 132,000 110,000 105,000 Facilities: We assess our facilities’ environmental Capital goods12, 13 25,000 13,600 23,200 operating practices related to energy use and other Fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 4,180 4,550 3,850 impact areas and create customized sustainability Transportation and distribution 12 19,400 7,140 7,940 improvement plans. We also use our operations as test Waste generated in operations 1,080 630 684 cases to help refine the functionality of our solutions, improve our environmental performance, and Business travel12 77,300 35,700 21,600 showcase how customers can use our solutions to Employee commuting 19,000 13,100 13,100 meet their sustainability objectives.10 Leased assets 12 249 32.7 20.9 Data centers: In addition to using 100 percent Scope 3: Downstream [metric tons CO2e] 1,000 21.7 9.2 renewable energy for our cloud services, we strive Transportation and distribution 898 19.3 7.2 to minimize data center energy use through server End-of-life treatment of sold products 104 2.41 2.00 virtualization, selection of efficient equipment that Energy use [MWh] 53,200 59,000 57,800 meets respected industry standards, and by Direct energy use 11,700 2,400 1,770 streamlining our code. These efforts help us provide Indirect energy use 41,500 56,600 56,000 customers a faster, more reliable experience, with Renewable energy [as a percent of total indirect energy use] 4.91% 91% 99% reduced environmental impacts.10 Carbon offset from renewable energy [metric tons CO2e] 752 25,100 23,500 Major conferences: Since fiscal year 2016, Autodesk Carbon offset from other projects [metric tons CO2e] 0 39,600 71,300 University has been carbon neutral, and in fiscal year Carbon offsets [as a percent of total GHG emissions] 0.271% 34.6% 53.3% 2017, we extended this effort to include One Team Conference, our annual channel partner and sales LEED certifications14 2 16 15 summit. We decrease the climate impact of our Buildings with LEED certification [as a percent of total active square footage] 1% 24% 31% conferences and other events by enhancing efficiency, Waste generation [metric tons]15 -8,030 9,150 providing virtual attendance options, reducing waste, Landfill diversion rate [percent] -41% 43% and purchasing carbon offsets.10 Environmental violations and fines [US$] 0/$0 0/$0 0/$0 10. Greenhouse gas emissions from business travel are included in Scope 3: “Business travel.” Emissions from facilities are included in Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3: “Waste generated in operations” and “Leased assets.” Emissions from data centers are included in Scope 2 (related to purchased electricity) and Scope 3: “Purchased goods and services.” Emissions from major conferences are included in Scope 3: “Purchased goods and services.” 11. Data for fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2019 are calculated using the market-based accounting method, which takes into account purchased renewable energy and carbon offsets. Data for fiscal year 2009 uses a locationbased methodology to calculate GHG emissions. 12. These data are calculated based on the economic input-output lifecycle assessment model, using industry-specific emissions factors in conjunction with Autodesk’s spend. 13. Data for capital goods were calculated based on annual spend. 14. LEED certifications as of January 31, 2019, include facilities in Beijing, China, Mumbai, India, Tel Aviv, Israel, Milan, Italy, Singapore, Farnborough, United Kingdom, and the following in the United States: San Francisco, California; San Rafael, California; Boston, Massachusetts. 15. Includes waste from major conferences and facilities. Data are extrapolated to our full real estate portfolio based on sites where data are available. 8 Employees Diversity and inclusion • Conducted our first-ever Diversity & Inclusion survey bono consulting, sustainability-related benefits, and to gauge employee perception of how well we’re company matching funds that are available when they We’re building a place where people can bring their fostering an environment of inclusion. We were pleased give their time and money to nonprofits. authentic selves to achieve personal and professional with the high participation rate of 74 percent, and See data. Learn more. success. This requires a commitment to diversity, with the overall results, which show that employees inclusion, and equity—three principles to which we subscribe. As a company driving change, we work in at Autodesk feel a greater sense of belonging than Training and development 47 countries and speak more than 14 languages. We peers at other sample technology companies. We provide a curriculum that is easy to access anytime, believe diversity encompasses so much more than Learn more. anywhere, and accommodates varying learning styles, gender, race, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. It also time constraints, and accessibility concerns. includes valuing backgrounds, perspectives, and Employee impact beliefs that are different from our own. In 2018, we: Whether they’re developing our latest sustainable Health and safety design tools, volunteering in local communities, or We help employees work safely and productively, • Launched a series of listening sessions across the empower them to maintain a strong health and helping nonprofits create change, our employees bring globe. Employees shared their unique stories and safety culture at all of our workplaces through active our vision of a better world to life and drive our culture ideas on how we might help people thrive at participation in and awareness of programs and of positive impact. We encourage all our employees Autodesk. More than 800 employees participated to take advantage of professional development resources available, and work with employees to in 28 sessions at 13 locations. opportunities in sustainability and social good, pro reduce ergonomic risks. 9 Performance data16 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of employees 17 9,000 8,800 8,879 Regional breakdown of employees [percent of employees] Americas 52% 53% 52% Asia Pacific 25% 23% 24% Europe, Middle East, Africa 23% 23% 24% Total turnover18 [percent of employees] 17.7% 17.7% 18.5% Voluntary turnover18 [percent of employees] 7.2% 8.4% 9.1% Employee engagement [percent] 19 81% 77% 79% Global gender diversity20 [percent female] Board of directors 30% 50% 44% Company officers, executives, and senior management 21% 21% 25.8% Managers and supervisors 23% 24% 39.8% All employees 29% 31% 32.2% U.S. ethnic diversity [percent of employees] 21 White 70% 67% 66% All nonwhite 31% 33% 34% Black/African American 2% 2% 1.6% Hispanic 5% 5% 6.2% Asian 20% 21% 23.8% Training budgeted per employee globally, approximate [US$] $1,000 $1,000 $1,000 Whether they’re developing our latest Incident rates22 sustainable design tools, volunteering Recordable incident rate 0.15 0.13 0.16 in local communities, or helping Days away, restrictions, and transfers (DART) rate 0.02 0.04 0.01 nonprofits create change, our Fatalities 0 0 0 employees bring our vision of a better 16. Employee count data for all years in this table include employees who were part of the Delcam acquisition. The other data in this table include world to life and drive our culture of Delcam employees beginning with fiscal year 2017. 17. Data are as of the end of the fiscal year noted. positive impact. 18 Ibid. 19. Represents the percentage of employees who responded favorably to questions that measure different aspects of employee engagement. These data are reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2019 corresponds to calendar year 2018, and so forth. 20. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year, except for the board of directors, which are as of the annual meeting date (typically a few months following the end of the calendar year). In these rows fiscal year 2019 corresponds to calendar year 2018, and so forth. 21. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year. In these rows fiscal year 2019 corresponds to calendar year 2018, and so forth. Segments for “All nonwhite” do not add up to the subtotal due to nonwhite employees in nonspecified categories (such as American Indian, Native Hawaiian, and others). 22. For consistency, we use U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) definitions to record incident data worldwide. Rates are calculated based on the OSHA standard using 200,000 labor hours, which is equivalent to 100 employees working a full year. Contingent workers are not included in incident rates. Data reflect injuries and illnesses at all sites worldwide, and are reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2019 corresponds to calendar year 2018, and so forth. 10 Philanthropy Autodesk Foundation takes an expansive view of investments have focused on low carbon innovation academic institutions worldwide with free access to philanthropy that includes our Foundation, software (reducing GHG emissions) and resilient communities Autodesk software and online learning opportunities.23 donation programs, education initiatives, and (helping climate-vulnerable communities adapt Read more about how we’re educating the next Employee Impact programs. and thrive). generation to be problem-solvers and encouraging job readiness in the industries we serve in the The Autodesk Foundation supports the design and In 2018, we made additional investments in workforce Education sidebar in the Customers section. creation of innovative solutions to the world’s most development initiatives that address issues related to pressing challenges, such as climate change and inequality in the automation age. These investments We match charitable donations and encourage paid inequality. We seek out impact-driven, design-oriented complement a focus on climate change, with a goal volunteer time so that our employees can support the organizations—from social enterprises and startups to of ensuring that human beings not only survive but causes and organizations they care about most. In accelerators and incubators—and help them scale. thrive through the disruptions brought on by new response to the many natural disasters that occurred We provide funding, software, training, and related technology. Read more about the impact of our in 2018, our employees joined forces to raise tens of support, so these organizations can have the greatest grantees and investees on the Foundation website. thousands of dollars for disaster relief and resilienceimpact possible. building efforts. Many also volunteered their time to Autodesk, Inc. business units also provide direct provide direct aid in the days, weeks, and months Since its launch in 2014, Autodesk Foundation has funding for design and engineering programs and following these destructive events. See the Employees supported entrepreneurs and innovators who are projects in their respective industries. For example, section for more information about traditional and pro designing and making a better world. Recent Autodesk Education supports students, teachers, and bono volunteering. 23. Free Autodesk software and/or cloud-based services are subject to acceptance of and compliance with the terms and conditions of the software license agreement or terms of service that accompany such software or cloudbased services. Software and cloud-based services subject to an Educational license may be used solely for Educational Purposes. 11 Performance data FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Company and Foundation cash contributions24 [US$] $7,400,000 $6,500,000 $6,000,000 Company product donations25 [US$] $26,100,000 $19,100,000 $26,353,906 Employee giving [US$] $1,200,000 $1,500,000 $1,297,944 Foundation match of employee giving of time and money $1,300,000 $1,400,000 $1,331,953 [US$] (also included in the “Company and Foundation cash contributions” line above) Employee traditional volunteer hours26 24900 22000 24054 Value of traditional volunteer hours26 [US$] $574,000 $507,000 $554,926 Employee pro bono volunteer hours (donated to nonprofits and 3860 4000 2612 impact-related startups) Value of pro bono hours27 [US$] $270,000 $416,000 $283,575 24. Data reflects combined cash giving from Autodesk, Inc., and the Autodesk Foundation. 25. Autodesk calculates its product donations at commercial value. Data for fiscal year 2017 was updated to include more complete information. These data do not include the value of products granted to students, faculty, and educational institutions at no cost through the Autodesk Education Community. 26. Autodesk does not track what percentage of traditional volunteer activities take place during company time. Value of traditional volunteer hours aligns with data cited by Taproot Foundation ($23.07 per hour), which is based on 2014 Bureau of Labor Statistics data. 27. Value of pro bono hours based on hourly rates for various skills cited by Taproot Foundation. In 2018, we made investments in workforce development initiatives that address issues related to inequality in the automation age. These investments complement a focus on climate change, with the goal of ensuring that human beings not only survivebut thrive -through the disruptions brought on by new technology. 12 Ethics Ethics and compliance as well as how we promote human rights among Public policy our employees, suppliers, business partners, and All Autodesk employees are required to complete We participate in public policy debate to advance customers. View our Conflict Minerals Policy. annual training on our Code of Business Conduct innovation, sustainability, economic growth, and (CoBC). Our officers, directors, contingent workers, The privacy and security of our customers’ data is policies that are good for people and the planet. and global subsidiaries are also required to abide important to Autodesk. Autodesk is committed to Our Corporate Sustainability and Government Affairs by our CoBC. incorporating the core principles and requirements of teams meet regularly to align on current and future the General Data Protection Regulation into its global policy activities and opportunities. During fiscal year Autodesk’s Ethics and Compliance Hotline enables privacy and data protection program. Learn more 2019, we engaged with government officials, employees and third parties to report suspected about privacy and compliance at the Autodesk Trust nonprofit organizations, think tanks, and other violations for investigation and resolution. Center and Privacy Statement. entities to advance sustainability principles. For We are committed to complying with all applicable example, Autodesk participated in the Global anticorruption laws and regulations. This includes the Suppliers and business partners Climate Action Summit in September 2018 in San U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, Our Partner Code of Conduct outlines the standards Francisco and, through a partnership with C40 Cities, and any similar local regulations in the areas where and practices we expect our partners to follow while interfaced with mayors from cities around the world we operate. Partners must abide by these same conducting business with or on behalf of Autodesk. on climate policy action. standards while conducting business with or on It also specifies that business partners must support Autodesk does not have a political action committee behalf of Autodesk. internationally recognized human rights and comply and thus does not contribute to U.S. federal elections. with all applicable laws and regulations regarding Human rights health and safety in the workplace, the eradication of The company did not contribute to state or local candidate committees in fiscal year 2019. Autodesk promotes and protects human rights human trafficking and slavery, and the elimination of wherever it does business. The Autodesk Human child labor. We also expect our partners to support fair Rights Policy describes our commitments in this area, labor practices. 13 United Nations Global Compact index In 2011, Autodesk endorsed the United Nations (UN) UN Global Compact principle Response Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that outlines 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Human rights environment, and anticorruption. This Sustainability Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Suppliers and business partners; Human rights; Autodesk Human Report and the policies and codes we’ve posted the protection of internationally proclaimed human Rights Policy; Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct online serve as our Communication on Progress for rights; and fiscal year 2019 and describe how we are integrating Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Suppliers and business partners; Human rights; Autodesk Human these principles into our business. The table to the human rights abuses. Rights Policy; Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct right indicates where relevant content can be found. Labor In 2015, Autodesk also endorsed Caring for Climate—an initiative led by the UN Global Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Suppliers and business partners; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; of association and the effective recognition of the Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct Compact, the UN Environment Programme, and right to collective bargaining; the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change—aimed at advancing the role of Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Suppliers and business partners; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; and compulsory labor; Autodesk Partner Cod e of Conduct business in addressing climate change. Information about Autodesk’s progress against the Caring Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Suppliers and business partners; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; for Climate commitments can be found in Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct the Operations section and in the company’s Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Employees; Suppliers and business partners; Human rights; CDP submission. respect of employment and occupation. Autodesk Code of Business Conduct; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct Autodesk does not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on a person’s race, color, creed, religion, national origin, citizenship, “We endorse the principles of the age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, mental or physical United Nations Global Compact, which disability, or any other classification protected by law. This protection applies to all Autodesk employees and contingent align with our company values to workers worldwide. We require all managers with U.S. employees operate ethically and responsibly. We to complete harassment training every two years. support collective action to address Environment global challenges, such as climate Principle 7: Businesses should support a Operations precautionary approach to environmental challenges; change, corruption, and human rights Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Operations; Autodesk CDP submission; Autodesk endorsement of and labor abuses, and we embrace environmental responsibility; and Caring for Climate our role as a corporate citizen to make Principle 9: encourage the development and Operations; Autodesk CDP submission; Autodesk endorsement of a positive impact in these areas.” diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Caring for Climate Anticorruption — Andrew Anagnost President and Chief Executive Officer, Autodesk Principle 10: Businesses should work against Ethics and compliance; Autodesk Code of Business Conduct; corruption in all its forms, including extortion Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct and bribery. www.autodesk.com Autodesk, the Autodesk logo, AutoCAD, BIM 360, CAMduct, Civil 3D, FormIt, Fusion 360, InfraWorks, Inventor, Moldflow, Navisworks, Netfabb, PowerMill, ReCap, Revit, and Robot are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and services offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document. © 2019 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
