MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP INTEGRATED REPORT For the Year Ended March 31, 2018 Our Principles We deliver reliable and innovative solutions that make a lasting difference to customers and communities worldwide. We act with integrity and fairness, always respecting others. We constantly strive for excellence in our operations and technology, building on a wide global outlook and deep local insights. Corporate Identity Statement MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines MHI strives to move the world toward a more secure future. Through our technology, our business practices and our people, we: Care for the planet We are eco-conscious, and engineer environmentally This corporate identity statement represents our intention friendly technologies that improve sustainability and to “continuously provide an assured future where people protect the Earth can live safe, secure, and enriched lives through technoloCreate a more harmonious society gies that can excite people and passion as a manufacturer We embrace integrity and proactive participation to solve for the sustainability of the earth and humankind.” societal challenges Inspire the future We cultivate global talent who share a vision and desire to move the world forward for generations to come ©Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd./JAXA MHI Group practices management with a focus on CSR and conducts a wide range of activities to enhance its business, the environment, and society. Thanks to efforts like these, MHI has been selected for inclusion in the Asia Paciﬁc Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), a representative environmental, social, and governance (ESG) index. We have also been selected for inclusion in the FTSE Blossom Japan Index and the MSCI Japan Empowering Women index (WIN). (As of August 2018) MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Our overarching goal is to create te an affluent society in which all people, everywhere, can live with full peace of mind. Today, a myriad of social issues—environmental issues especially—are coming to the fore as never before. In MHI Group, we believe that through our businesses we can resolve such issues, thereby enabling the realization of a sustainable planet. In order for MHI Group to remain an entity always needed by society, we will continue to address the difficult and complex challenges facing society today, tomorrow, and well into the future. By providing products and solutions consistently responding to contemporary needs, we will conﬁdently make steady contributions to improving the quality of people’s lives everywhere. Hideaki Omiya Chairman of the Board MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 1 REASON FOR PUBLISHING THIS REPORT Keeping its principles and Corporate Identity Statement as its base, MHI Group aims to continue its development alongside the changing world by responding to the present and future issues and needs of society with a variety of technologies and services. To enhance the understanding of our philosophy among shareholders, investors, and a host of other stakeholders, from ﬁscal 2013 (the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014) we have integrated ﬁnancial information, including management strategy and operating performance, with non-ﬁnancial information related to the Group’s environmental and social activities into this MHI Report. Financial Information Non-Financial Information Important MHI Report Financial Section of CSR MHI Report Website Website “CSR” DATA BOOK (Separate “Investors” booklet) Detailed (Exhaustive) Reference Guidelines International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) • International Integrated Reporting Framework Global Reporting Initiative • Sustainability Reporting Standards Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan • The Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation Ministry of the Environment of Japan • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) Structure of Information Disclosure MHI Report contains information that is important to understanding MHI. More detailed information is available on our website. https://www.mhi.com/ﬁnance Previous editions of the MHI Report are available on our website. https://www.mhi.com/ﬁnance/library/annual/ 2 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP CONTENTS MHI’s Vision and Steps Toward Its Realization Our Target: Triple One Proportion (TOP) 4 Long-Term Vision: MHI Future Stream 6 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan: A New Step Toward a Sustainable Growth Trajectory 8 Management Strategies Members of the Board of Directors 10 President’s Message 12 CFO’s Message 20 Cover photo for MHI Report 2018 CSO’s Message 26 An offshore wind turbine operated by Technology Strategy 28 MHI Vestas Offshore Wind Human Resource Strategy 30 Special Feature: Roundtable Discussion Between Outside Director and Employees—No Change, No Growth 32 Corporate Governance 35 Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses MHI Group × SDGs 46 Business Segment Highlights 48 Power Systems 50 Industry & Infrastructure 54 Aircraft, Defense & Space 58 Financial and Non-Financial Data, Corporate and Stock Information Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 62 Eleven-Year Financial and Non-Financial Data 64 Consolidated Balance Sheets 66 Consolidated Statements of Income 68 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 69 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets 70 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 71 Corporate Data 72 Global Network 73 History 74 Status of IR Activities 75 Forward-Looking Statements Forecasts regarding future performance in these materials are based on judgments made in accordance with information available at the time this presentation was prepared. As such, these projections involve risks and insecurity. For this reason, investors are recommended not to depend solely on these projections for making investment decisions. It is possible that actual results may change signiﬁcantly from these projections for a number of factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, economic trends affecting the Company’s operating environment, currency movement of the yen value to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies, and trends of stock markets in Japan. Also, the results projected here should not be construed in any way as being guaranteed by the Company. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 3 OUR TARGET: TRIPLE ONE PROPORTION (TOP) MHI Group has set a management target for responding sustainably and harmoniously to the needs of stakeholders and society. We call this target “Triple One Proportion” (TOP), referring to a 1:1:1 ratio of net sales (scale of business), total assets, and market value. The ﬁrst step toward this target will be to improve the efficiency of our total assets, which currently exceed ¥5 trillion. We also aim to grow by increasing the efficiency and proﬁtability of existing business. Additionally, we will make various investments based on shifting megatrends while maintaining ﬁnancial soundness. For the time being, we will concentrate development of the MRJ and growth investments Customers on business scale expansion opportunities that will produce immediate results, and through these initiatives, increase net sales to ¥5 trillion. To achieve a market value of ¥5 trillion, in Net sales Provide products and addition to increasing business growth and proﬁtability, we services matching will enhance shareholder returns (dividends). Furthermore, we customer needs will meet the expectations of investors and customers by achieving steady growth over the medium-to-long term in alignment with shared social values, including ESG and SDGs. TOP is closely connected to the basic policies of the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan Embed business reforms and prioritize STEP 1 efficiency and quality (total assets). STEP Increase business scale (net sales) by 2 implementing growth strategies. Increase market value through business STEP growth, increased proﬁtability, and 3 shareholder returns. Optimal portfolio Shuffle / maintain Increase corporate value stably over STEP 4 the long term. Earnings base 4 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Shared Social Values (ESG*1/SDGs*2) MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization *1 ESG: Environmental, Social, and Governance *2 SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals *3 ROE: Return On Equity Management Strategies Investors Market value Improve ROE*3 and enhance shareholder returns Management Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Total assets Financial and Non-Financial Data, Long-term growth investment (including Corporate and Stock Information human resources) Employees / partners Sound ﬁnancial structure Maintain Quality and efficiency Investment base MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 5 LONG-TERM VISION: MHI FUTURE STREAM Over the years, MHI Group has utilized its business to meet market needs for low carbon, energy conservation, and safety. However, the business environment is changing rapidly, as demonstrated by the shift from low-carbon energy to carbonfree energy and revolutionary advances in digitalization technology, such as AI and the IoT. Amid these conditions, we will need to solve complex and difficult social issues of the present and the near future. In the future that lies beyond, we will Under “MHI FUTURE STREAM,” MHI aims to: Resolve complex and difficult social issues of today and the near future Take on challenges of the distant future Carry out continuous reforms to make MHI a company always in demand by humanity and society New market needs Response to SDGs climate change, urbanization, Realization of a sustainable world aging population, etc. Social values MHI GROUP × SDGs Carbon-free Page 46 (Low-carbon Urban society) problems Safety Logistics Advanced Hydrogen and security combustion transportation products Low-carbon systems and society EnergyGTCC autonomous Existing market needs Waste (Carbon-free) efficient Safety SOFC treatment operation GTCC Industrial Defense IGCC and technologies logistics Launch Nuclear machinery vehicles MHI’s businesses Today Near future Fundamentals Supporting the Company Overall (CEO) Finance (CFO) Strategy (CSO) CFO’s Message Page 20 CSO’s Message Page 26 Corporate Governance (GC) 6 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP continue to ceaselessly reform and make ongoing contributions in line with MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization society’s developments. In this manner, we will continue striving to be the entity that humankind and society wishes to exist. To realize the objectives of this Long-Term Vision, we will strategically and organically leverage our management resources, including our technological, human, and ﬁnancial (capital) resources. Society where all human beings can live with peace of mind Management Strategies Take on challenges of the distant future Social infrastructure Co-existence, Carbon-free innovation co-prosperity Heat/electrical National storage, Future security systems conversion mobility and Space Nuclear logistics development Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses fusion reactors Mega Scan Exploring all realms of opportunity Finding business opportunities in the uncertain trends of the future Shift the Path Converting existing businesses Responding to emergent trends Mulling ways to convert current businesses Technology Scouting Exploring for innovative technologies Reﬂecting technological trend analysis in Mega Scan and Shift the Path A new set of initiatives under the 2018 Business Plan focused on MHI’s future MHI FUTURE STREAM Distant future Financial and Non-Financial Data, President’s Message Page 12 Human Resources Corporate and Stock Information Technology (CTO) (Standing Executive in charge of HR) Technology Strategy Page 28 Human Resource Strategy Page 30 Page 35 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 7 2018 MEDIUM-TERM BUSINESS PLAN: A NEW STEP TOWARD A SUSTAINABLE GROWTH TRAJECTORY The 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan is a three-year plan to realize MHI Group as a corporate entity that achieves global-level sustainable growth with a view to the future. The plan takes a more forward-thinking approach beyond the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan and takes a new step toward a sustainable growth trajectory. 1 Achieve Global Corporate Structure KEY POINTS • Achieve a Business Scale of ¥5 Trillion • Achieve Well-balanced Management through TOP Thanks to past initiatives, we were able to strengthen our ﬁnancial foundation beyond our original targets. During the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan we will allocate capital primarily to future growth in order to expand business scale from ¥4 trillion to ¥5 trillion. At the same time, we will aim to achieve the Triple One Proportion (TOP), which is the ideal balance of business scale, total assets, and market value at a ratio of 1:1:1. Net sales Total assets Market value TOP FY2017 ¥4.1 ¥5.5 ¥1.4 (actual) Trillion Trillion Trillion 1:1.3:0.3 FY2020 ¥5.0 ¥5.3 ¥3.0 (target) 1:1.1:0.6 Trillion Trillion or Less Trillion Next target ¥5.0 ¥5.0 ¥5.0 1:1:1 Trillion Trillion or Less Trillion 2 Embed Business Structure Reforms KEY POINTS • Evolve Domain System • Strengthen and Embed Risk Management • Strengthen Global Management and Develop Human Resources MHI Group has conducted various business structure reforms, such as introducing the strategic business evaluation systems (SBU*) and domain structure, and reviewing business portfolios. We have also focused on cultivating a risk management approach and developing human resources by strengthening risk analysis and management. To further promote these reforms and entrench a controlled risk-taking culture during the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan, we will continue to enhance our global management, create an engaging corporate culture, and develop human resources. These will enable us to gain resilience against uncertainties and adaptability to change, which will become a strong foundation for sustainable growth. We will use this foundation and TOP management to build a stronger global corporate structure. * SBU: Strategic Business Unit 8 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization 3 Implement Growth Strategies: MHI FUTURE STREAM KEY POINTS • Restructure the MRJ Business • Transform the Structure of the Thermal Power Generation Business • Reinforce the Mass and Medium Lot Manufactured Products Business Under the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan, we aim to create growth strategies based on our Long-Term Vision leveraging MHI FUTURE STREAM, and address two urgent tasks: to radically reinforce the structure of the MRJ business and to transform the structure of the thermal power Management Strategies generation business. At the same time, we would like to allocate adequate resources to the mass and medium lot manufacturing business that has been expanding its scale and proﬁts over the past few years. We are aiming not only to expand business but also to shorten the payback period. However, the mass and medium lot manufacturing business is susceptible to market volatility. Therefore, we need to maintain an ideal balance between medium and long-term resource allocation to pursue the stable growth of the entire MHI Group. Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan (Billions of yen) J-GAAP IFRS 2015 Business Plan FY2020 FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 3-year average targets ¥111.1/$ ¥129.9/€ ¥110/$ ¥130/€ ¥110/$ ¥130/€ ¥110/$ ¥130/€ Orders received 4,212.3 3,875.7 4,100.0 4,100.0 5,000.0*2 Net sales 4,023.9 4,110.8 4,200.0 4,200.0 5,000.0*2 Operating income*1 195.5 126.5 175.0 160.0 340.0 (Margin) (4.9%) (3.1%) (4.2%) (3.8%) (6.8%) Proﬁt attributable to owners Financial and Non-Financial Data, 74.0 70.4 80.0 80.0 170.0 of the parent ROE 4.2% 3.9% 4% 6%*3 11% Free cash ﬂow 106.6 207.9 50.0 50.0 200.0 Corporate and Stock Information Debt/equity ratio 0.45 0.38 0.4 0.4*3 0.4 *3 Equity ratio 32.1% 33.3% 35% 28% 31% Interest-bearing debt 930.2 813.1 770.0 770.0 760.0 *3 Total assets 5,490.1 5,487.6 5,300.0 5,100.0 5,300.0 Dividend per share ¥120 ¥120 ¥130 ¥130 ¥180 *1 Before Application of IFRS Operating income, After Application of IFRS Proﬁt from business activities *2 Including ¥400 billion in non-organic growth *3 Reviewed total assets and shareholder equity in accordance with change in valuation method of long-term receivable assets MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 9 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS As of July 1, 2018 Director, Executive Vice President, CSO,*3 Director, Senior Executive Vice President and CEO*1 and Head of Business Strategy Office President, CFO*2 Shunichi Miyanaga Seiji Izumisawa Masanori Koguchi Director, Full-time Audit and Director, Full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee Member Supervisory Committee Member Hiroki Kato Toshifumi Goto *1 CEO: Chief Executive Officer *2 CFO: Chief Financial Officer *3 CSO: Chief Strategy Officer 10 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Chairman of the Board Director Director Hideaki Omiya Naoyuki Shinohara Ken Kobayashi MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization (Former Professor, The (Chairman of the Board, University of Tokyo, Policy Mitsubishi Corporation) Alternatives Research Institute) Director, Audit and Supervisory Director, Audit and Supervisory Director, Audit and Supervisory Committee Member Committee Member Committee Member Nobuo Kuroyanagi Christina Ahmadjian Shinichiro Ito (Senior Advisor, MUFG Bank, Ltd.) (Professor, Hitotsubashi (Chairman of the Board, University Graduate School ANA Holdings Inc.) of Business Administration) Management Strategies Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Financial and Non-Financial Data, Corporate and Stock Information MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 11 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE Based on the solid management foundations we established through our agenda of structure reforms, today we are on the threshold of a sustained growth trajectory. Shunichi Miyanaga President and CEO 12 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Review of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan: Reasons behind Unachieved Targets, and Results of Structure Reforms Fiscal 2017 marked the end of our three-year Medium-Term Business Plan launched in ﬁscal 2015. Regrettably, the numerical targets we had set for MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization business scale expansion and proﬁtability enhancement went unachieved. Our operating income worsened for two main reasons: deterioration of our business environment, particularly the thermal power systems market, and the MRJ’s delayed development and increased development costs. In response we implemented a variety of measures, but improvement during the period of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan was rather limited. In retrospect we must recognize our shortcomings—including our inadequate resiliency to cope with these unanticipated turns of events and insufficient ﬂexibility in planning. Amid these adverse conditions, we did however achieve some targets and score some positive results. Through rigorous cash ﬂow management, balance sheet Management Strategies improvement, and robust asset management, we continued to generate a robust free cash ﬂow after absorbing the MRJ’s development costs, the burden from the South Africa project, and outlays related to other issue-laden projects. In ﬁscal 2017 free cash ﬂow reached ¥200 billion—the target we had set in our 2015 Medium-Term For details about ﬁnancial condition, please see the CFO’S MESSAGE on Business Plan. We also scored progress in reducing our interest-bearing debt and page 20. recorded a historically low debt/equity ratio of 38%, resulting in a solid ﬁnancial foundation. Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses In addition, having learned the necessity of responses to challenges in our large-scale engineering business and new business areas, we focused on improving and reinforcing our risk management structure. The various business structure reforms we launched in earnest in our 2012 Medium-Term Business For details about corporate governance, please see page 35. Plan, including corporate governance reforms, neared completion, clearly paving the way toward a new growth phase. Key Business and Financial Results Slow business scale growth, missed operating income target 5.00 Responded to unanticipated 4.05 3.91 4.11 450.0 changes in external environment, Financial and Non-Financial Data, 3.39 3.16 but effect of improvement meaNet sales 2.82 2.86 309.5 (trillions of yen) 221.9 sures were limited during period of 106.6 150.5 126.5 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Operating income 83.2 85.7 MRJ development delays and cost (billions of yen) Corporate and Stock Information increases 358.7 Free cash ﬂow (FCF), ¥200 billion FCF target achieved excluding extraordinary factors* 239.8 227.7 229.4 213.5 207.9 200.0 Burden from the power plant (billions of yen) 131.6 project in South Africa, MRJ, etc. 176.9 104.6 absorbed through CCC improveFCF 6.6 7.5 ment and other measures (billions of yen) –69.9 20002008 2010 2012 2015 2016 2017 2017 (FY) * Expenditures relating to the cruise ship construction 2007 avg. Business Business Business actual actual actual original business, development of the MRJ, and the power Plan avg. Plan avg. Plan avg. target plant project in South Africa; also, earnings accrued from asset management initiatives. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 13 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE TOP Concept: Well-balanced Management Serving the Needs of Customers, Investors, and the Company The history of humankind has been a progression from a lengthy period as an agrarian society to the industrial society that emerged after the Industrial Revolution. Today, society is once again in the throes of vast changes, this time caused by information and communication technologies, bringing us to the threshold of a new era—a “super-smart” era referred to in Japan as “Society 5.0.” Although machine-based industry, our sphere of excellence, won’t lose its value going forward, the world of tomorrow will clearly see new levels of demand for information, services, and systems. Moreover, society today is advancing with everquickening speed, the environment undergoing transformations at a dizzying pace. Starting from ﬁscal 2018, MHI Group is now pursuing a shift toward a more aggressive stance based on the management foundations we built up during the years of our 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan. To succeed, we will need to get a ﬁrm grasp on social changes expeditiously, and to respond continuously to the needs of both society and our stakeholders. Toward achievement of those objectives, we have created a new management concept called “Triple One Proportion” (TOP). TOP’s target is to achieve a favorable For details about TOP, please see page 4 and the CFO’S MESSAGE on balance—in the form of a 1:1:1 ratio—between net sales, total assets, and market page 20. value. The concept, which evolved out of commonly shared social values such as the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), maintains keen cognizance of the needs of our customers, our investors, and MHI itself. We believe TOP will serve as a guidepost along the path toward reaching our next phase. 14 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP MHI FUTURE STREAM: A Continuous Flow of Reforms to Keep MHI Always MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Needed by Society In order for MHI Group to remain an entity needed by society long into the future, it is vital that we provide the technologies and services required at each stage along the steady advance of society. Today, we consistently focus on projecting what society will need, what role we can play, and how we can contribute to society 10 or 20 years into the future. We ourselves must change accordingly. To respond to evolutionary changes in society, clearly we must proactively incorporate cutting-edge technologies and expertise in areas such as IoT and AI. But at the same time, we must also pay close heed to matters including climate change, demographic trends, and shifts in industrial structure. Management Strategies Earlier, in the days when Japan prospered on the strength of its steel and marine transport industries, MHI sustained growth, in tandem with Japan’s economic development, by providing products and services to domestic customers. But with the rise of the emerging economies and developments in globalization, MHI’s core markets shifted from Japan to other countries, thrusting MHI into a protracted period of sluggish performance. Today, in some of our business areas—air-conditioning and refrigeration sysAddressing Social Issues through Our Businesses tems and turbochargers, for example—production is expanding outside Japan as the overseas markets become our main markets. Even so, we need to always give constant consideration to where society’s needs are at present and how they are changing, and recalibrate our business portfolio continuously. Recently, as a vision expressing our ongoing reform agenda toward realizing a sustainable planet, we have launched “MHI FUTURE STREAM.” Like a stream For details about MHI FUTURE STREAM, please see page 6 and whose ﬂow never ceases, our new concept embraces a spirit of sustained TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY on page 28. self-reinvention. MHI possesses not only a wealth of diverse machine technologies but also a plethora of related elemental technologies accumulated through the years. In Financial and Non-Financial Data, order for us to provide services matching the needs of the times, these various technologies must be adeptly combined, making full use of AI, IoT, and outside knowledge, to enable innovations that will lead to new areas of business. Corporate and Stock Information In continuously taking up new challenges, obviously the outcome is at times success but at other times failure. Going forward, making active use of the knowhow in risk resilience that we have cultivated over the years, we will shun bold For details about business risk and reckless initiatives and instead pursue “controlled risk-taking” that will management, please see page 42. enable us to carry out carefully planned challenges. With this “controlled risk-taking” in mind, by undertaking activities continuously with a spirit of entrepreneurship, I am conﬁdent that we can be reborn as an all-new type of machine manufacturer. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 15 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE The 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan: New Step toward Sustained Growth Now that our agenda of business structure reforms is near completion and the various issues we confronted in recent years have been addressed, we are For details about the 2018 Mediumready to proceed to the next phase. We see the 2018 Medium-Term Business Term Business Plan, please see page 8. Plan—a three-year program commencing in ﬁscal 2018—as the new step toward putting MHI on a sustained growth path. Under this new plan we will take the business structure reforms implemented until now and apply them throughout our Group, and also drive our growth strategies forward, based on our LongTerm Vision, toward realizing a corporate structure having growth potential and sustainability on a global level. *1 From ﬁscal 2018 we apply Our numerical targets set for ﬁscal 2020*1 look for orders received and net International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). sales of ¥5 trillion, proﬁt from business activities of ¥340 billion, proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent of ¥170 billion, and ROE of 11%. We also aim for total assets of ¥5.3 trillion and market value of ¥3 trillion—two of our TOP indicators. We believe that a business scale of ¥5 trillion is necessary to enable a conglomerate such as MHI Group, that encompasses numerous mature product businesses, to continue making necessary investments and continuously grow, and also to pursue scale merits within the global markets. Please see the CSO’S MESSAGE on One measure newly implemented to put MHI Group on a solid growth trapage 26. jectory is the introduction from ﬁscal 2018 of the position of Chief Strategy Officer (CSO). Through the period of the 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan, the CFO simultaneously served as CSO, partly because highest priority was being accorded to business structure reforms and the establishment of a strong ﬁnancial foundation. We took the decision to create an independent CSO as a cornerstone of growth-oriented global management, strongly determined to achieve enhanced allocation of our management resources—ﬁnancing, technologies, human resources, etc.—and continuous review and recalibration of our portfolio. Going forward, we will strive to achieve the numerical targets of our 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan by investing more resources into mass and medium lot manufactured product businesses such as forklift trucks and airconditioning & refrigeration systems—areas that are in expansionary market trends and posting robust earnings—and by forming a new business model recalibrating our business portfolio while simultaneously responding to megatrends such as climate change and digitalization. 16 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Two Businesses Hold the Key: Radical MRJ Reinforcement and Structural Conversion of Thermal Power Systems Business Management Strategies Within the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan, two businesses will play especially critical roles: the MRJ and thermal power systems. The MRJ business was placed under direct oversight by the CEO starting in ﬁscal 2016, and since that time the project has progressed according to schedule toward delivery of the ﬁrst MRJ90—a 90-seat passenger jet—in ﬁscal 2020. One major hurdle that must be overcome is acquisition of type certiﬁcation, i.e. safety authorization, and remaining issues and their solutions have now been Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses clariﬁed, making the outlook clearer than ever before. Going forward, development will continue to be accelerated and the MRJ business structure will be radically reinforced, including increasing the capitalization of Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation, the entity in charge of the MRJ’s development. Through restructuring to a business that can endure a prolonged development period—for example, by strengthening sales and customer support structures, shifting to full-scale development of the MRJ70, and reinforcing links with the commercial aircraft (Tier 1) business—our intention is to develop the MRJ business into a major pillar of our operations in the years ahead. The thermal power systems business, sustained by a substantial order Financial and Non-Financial Data, backlog, will continue to operate at full throttle through ﬁscal 2020. During that period we will continue to pursue enhanced proﬁtability through efficient work performance, plant reorganization, reallocation of staff, and expansion of servicCorporate and Stock Information ing operations. Simultaneously we will also focus on converting the business structure with a view toward the years beyond ﬁscal 2020. Through the years MHI, as a global frontrunner in the industry, has already made ongoing contributions to reducing environmental burdens by improving thermal power generation efficiency, developing CO2 recovery systems, etc. Going forward, in line with changing social needs—for example, the shift from fossil fuels to renewable energies and increased adoption of distributed power sources—we will build a new business model incorporating digitalization. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 17 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE Reinforcement of Our Management Base: Culture and Mechanisms for Global Growth In order for MHI to get on a growth trajectory, most important will be to take our attention to cash ﬂow management and our ﬁxed focus on earnings—outgrowths of the reforms we have carried out to date—and embed them into the deepest corners of all MHI Group companies both at home and abroad, thereby forming a new corporate culture. It may take some time, but it is imperative that we share this awareness and develop a corporate culture in which we can take up new challenges with conﬁdence. In terms of corporate structure, on the occasion of relocating to Tokyo’s Marunouchi district in January 2019 we will establish a new global headquarters, marking the launch of a full-ﬂedged global management structure. Already overseas sales account for more than half our annual net sales, and in the *2 SBU: Strategic Business Unit coming years the percentage is expected to increase further, making global response capability indispensable. The global headquarters will take charge of formulating all Company strategies and allocating management resources. Meanwhile the business segments/SBUs*2 and regional headquarters will implement management and strategies suited to the traits of their respective regions. In these ways, we will pursue robust growth while maintaining a good balance between global and local needs. Reinforcement of Global Operations Global Headquarters (Marunouchi, Tokyo) • Focus exclusively on global management Secure and develop human Share and promote Formulation and execution of global strategies resources to support global mediumto long-term Resource allocation and results follow-up Risk management functions management growth strategies Europe, Middle East, North America and Africa China Domains / SBUs Japan Corporate / ST*1 framework Clarify role • Carry out management policies • Formulate business strategies based on globally megatrend analysis and regional strategies responsibilities • Optimize global, regional, and local • Reap synergies (cross-SBU business, Asia-Paciﬁc (Subsidiarity) functions (consolidate common resource utilization) functions, promote BPO*2, etc.) • Continuously shuffle the business portfolio Regional supervisory companies *1 ST: Shared Technology • Manage according to speciﬁc regional traits *2 BPO: Business Process Outsourcing • Reinforce marketing power by region Share regional business Learn region’s needs (information gathering strategies capability) Latin America + Enhance strategy planning functions and Clarify role responsibilities proposal ability 18 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP For details about human resource Additionally, we believe that developing and making excellent use of human strategy, please see page 30. resources to perform global management will also be of extreme importance. In MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization this regard we will carry out various measures that will contribute to sustained growth: for example, developing human resources based on a mediumto longterm perspective, and appointing officers from a younger generation. In 2004 MHI became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. In addition to For details about compliance, please see page 45. carrying out its Ten Principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and prevention of corruption, in 2015 we formulated the “MHI Group Global Code of Conduct” indicating rules of behavior for all MHI Group employees to follow. Going forward, we will continue to conduct our business activities with sincerity and high ethical standards appropriate to a global company. To Our Stakeholders: Management Strategies We Will Strive to Fully Explain Our Growth Process To achieve TOP, the area requiring improvement most is our market value. Up to now we have used considerable time to respond to various challenges, but now that resolution of these issues is in sight, my determination is to win awareness by all our stakeholders that we have now entered a growth trajectory. Of course, registering solid results is imperative. But at the same time, I hope Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses to win the market’s trust by fully and promptly explaining, to a degree never seen before, the situation we are in and the results we achieve. As all members of MHI Group continue to reinvent themselves and strive toward their goals, I am conﬁdent we can become the entity we seek to be. I humbly ask all our stakeholders to keep a close eye on MHI as we mark solid growth in the years ahead. Financial and Non-Financial Data, Corporate and Stock Information MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 19 CFO’S MESSAGE In pursuit of Triple One Proportion, we will undertake growth investments while maintaining ﬁnancial soundness. Masanori Koguchi Director, Senior Executive Vice President, CFO Stronger Financial Foundations through Focused Cash Flow Management For many years MHI Group evaluated its operating status using the ﬁnancial measures of orders received, net sales, and income. All those measures were indications of results, however, and they proved insufficient for detecting management issues or contributing to activities to enhance our corporate value. The outcome was entrenched stagnation of our business scale, sluggish income levels, and a severe ﬁnancial situation. As opposed to focusing on results, I believe we need to monitor free cash ﬂow and quality of orders received—proﬁt potential at the time of order receipt—as effective leading indicators. Particularly in the case of MHI, we know that free cash ﬂow has a close correlation with our income levels two to three years into the future. Furthermore, free cash ﬂow indicates the overall state not only of our proﬁt/loss statements but simultaneously also of our balance sheets, and for that reason I think free cash ﬂow is the management index most appropriate for evaluating our balance sheets—an area we previously paid relatively less attention to. 20 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Reﬂecting these changes in perspective, starting around 2010 we made a signiﬁcant shift toward management focused on cash ﬂows. Cash ﬂow has two constituent components: one derived from income and the other generated from the balance sheets. Whereas the former is vulnerable to outside factors, the latter can be generated without external input. At the time of the ﬁnancial crisis of 2008, I was serving as Senior General MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Manager of what was then the Finance Department, and I was gripped by the fear that we might run out of cash. From that experience I began speaking out on the importance of cash ﬂow throughout the Company: to people in sales and procurement, in engineering, on the factory ﬂoor, everywhere. After that, our measures of working capital* and cash conversion cycle improved markedly, * Working capital = Trade receivables and I think cash ﬂow management has now taken ﬁrm root as our corporate + Inventories – Trade payables culture. Improving cash ﬂow not only increases the amount of freely available – Advanced payment received on contracts (on a Companywide basis) capital, it also facilitates investments and boosts risk resilience. Perhaps more signiﬁcantly, as an abundant cash ﬂow enables improvements in production efficiency and business terms, it also leads to greater business competitiveness. Management Strategies Our shift to management focused on cash ﬂow, together with various initiatives implemented starting with our 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan, enabled us to generate huge cash ﬂows from ﬁscal 2010 onward. This abundant cash has funded appropriate cyclical investment into existing businesses, entirely met what are in a sense our “non-cyclical” capital needs—MRJ development costs, losses suffered in our cruise ship construction business, and construction costs relating to the South Africa project, for example—and also enabled us to Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses reduce our interest-bearing debt. Dealing with these numerous issues, achieving ﬁnancial soundness, and building up new cash reserves for tomorrow’s growth qualiﬁes as a major accomplishment. Key Financial Results InterestWorking capital improvement and squeezing bearing debt (CCC improvement) (billions of yen) Asset management 1,325.6 Financial and Non-Financial Data, 1.01 1,157.1 Debt/equity 0.89 1,031.2 1,052.1 (D/E) ratio 957.4 975.5 Affected by 925.5 900.0 Interest-bearing debt reduced (times) acquisition of 0.72 UniCarriers 813.1 beyond original target Corporate and Stock Information Investment curbed 0.54 0.53 Free cash ﬂow (FCF) 0.46 0.44 D/E ratio reached lowest level in (billions of yen) 0.38 0.40 history 200.5 211.6 Investment 153.3 increased 144.6 207.9 200.0 FCF target achieved 104.6 38.6 7.5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 (FY) Original target MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 21 CFO’S MESSAGE TOP (Triple One Proportion) Concept In the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan launched this ﬁscal year, we adopted a comprehensive new key performance indicator (KPI) of our own invention to measure the operating status of MHI Group as a manufacturer. Known as “Triple One Proportion” (TOP), the concept’s ideal is an equal balance—1 : 1 : 1—among three management factors: net sales (business scale), total assets, and market value. The underlying basis of TOP is our balance sheets (total assets). The fundamental role of corporate management, I believe, is to strive to maximize output—business scale, corporate value, etc.—through skillful use of the balance sheets. In order to provide ever-better products and services, we require advanced technologies, the newest production facilities, an expansive sales network, and an efficient after-sale servicing structure, and these are all projected in the balance sheets. The second constituent component of TOP, net sales (business scale), indicates how many business opportunities were created by the balance sheets and whether success was achieved in providing products to customers through market competition. By comparing business scale and the scale of the balance sheets, judgment can be rendered as to whether or not the balance sheets are efficiently generating business scale. Regarding TOP’s third component, market value, this is determined by a variety of factors. I believe the factor pulling the greatest weight is the steady income level generated through corporate activities. Shared Social Values (ESG/SDGs) Customers Investors Net Market Provide products and services sales value ManageImprove ROE and enhance matching customer needs ment shareholder returns Total assets Long-term growth investment (including human resources) Optimal portfolio Employees / partners Sound ﬁnancial structure Shuffle / maintain Maintain Earnings base Quality and efficiency Investment base 22 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Stated simply, if, for example, a net proﬁt margin of 6% can be achieved with a business scale of ¥5 trillion, then proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent is ¥300 billion. If MHI Group’s capital cost ratio is 6%, then market value is ¥5 trillion divided by the 6% capital cost of ¥300 billion in proﬁt attributable to owners MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization of the parent ( x16.7). Viewing the three constituent components of TOP from a different angle, one can also say that balance sheets indicate efficiency and quality from management’s perspective, business scale is indicative of satisfaction from the customers’ perspective, and market value is corporate value from the investors’ perspective. In short, when TOP is achieved, favorable levels of satisfaction are achieved from the respective viewpoints of management, customers, and investors. At the end of ﬁscal 2017 MHI Group had net sales of ¥4.1 trillion, balance sheets in the amount of ¥5.5 trillion, and market value of ¥1.4 trillion. In the context of TOP, the balance sheets are thus generating about ¥1.4 trillion below target in Management Strategies business scale and market value is short by roughly ¥4.1 trillion. In order for these situations to improve and MHI Group to increase its value continuously, a suitable cash ﬂow and sustained business scale to guarantee that ﬂow are indispensable. Stated another way, if we continue to provide products of high quality and services that meet social needs, then MHI Group will be able to achieve a suitable cash ﬂow to drive its growth and continuously raise its corporate value. Maintaining a balance between business and ﬁnances and seeking to maximize corporate Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses value within this framework are the crucial points of our ﬁnancial strategies in the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan and onward. Prioritize efficiency and quality Balance of maintaining sound ﬁnancial base and growth investment over the medium term Financial and Non-Financial Data, Seek long-term and stable improvement in corporate value Proﬁtability Investment efficiency Financial soundness Corporate and Stock Information Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent Net sales Total assets ROE = Net sales × Total assets × Shareholder equity = Net proﬁt margin × Total asset × Financial turnover leverage MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 23 CFO’S MESSAGE Financial Strategies in the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan During the three years of the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan, we are placing greater weight on “dynamic” capital allocation, including quick-impact growth investments, based on the ﬁnancial foundations formed under preceding Business Plans and our newly earned cash ﬂow. Over the next several years we plan to invest an additional ¥200 billion into the MRJ project in the run-up to delivery of the ﬁrst aircraft, currently scheduled for ﬁscal 2020; the end of the aircraft’s development phase is now in sight. Construction work on the issue-laden thermal power plant project in South Africa is also thought to have peaked. In view of these improving situations, in the three years starting ﬁscal 2018 we plan to make dynamic investments totaling ¥960 billion, mainly directed into new businesses. Among MHI Group’s various businesses, those that account for 70% of total net sales have already achieved TOP, and their earning capacity is stable. Going forward, we seek to improve cash ﬂow generating capacity and earning capacity by further strengthening these businesses and steadily addressing challenging businesses that require more attention. Our interest-bearing debt meanwhile is sufficiently low, and therefore rather than reducing debt, we aim to increase our shareholder returns. In ﬁscal 2018 we are planning to increase our dividend per share by ¥10, to ¥130, and in ﬁscal 2020 we hope to target ¥180. Regular operating CF during period 2018 MediumActual results during 2015 MediumTerm Business Plan *1 Term Business Plan CF income ¥1,000 billion CF income (proﬁt attributable to owners of BS improvement ¥500 billion the parent + depreciation costs) ¥1,310 billion Asset management ¥260 billion BS improvement + asset management ¥10 billion *2 Total ¥1,760 billion Total ¥1,320 billion *1 Not including MRJ and the power plant project in South Africa *2 BS improvement during 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan. Working capital to remain at current level during 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan despite the increase in business scale Dynamic allocation Allocation to maintain status quo Shareholder returns ¥960 billion ¥170 billion ¥190 billion New businesses Capital investment Investment Capital investment Risk Reduction Dividends New projects and productivity and lending facility response in interestincluding dividends MRJ improvement replacement bearing debt to non-controlling shareholders ¥580 billion ¥240 billion ¥140 billion ¥160 billion ¥50 billion -¥40 billion ¥190 billion *3 ¥50 billion *3 Includes appropriation (¥90 billion) of CF (cash in hand) acquired ahead of schedule in ﬁscal 2017 to reduce interest-bearing debt 24 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP To Our Shareholders and Investors MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Among our shareholders and investors, some may be of the opinion that given the relative maturity of many of our businesses, MHI Group is retaining an excessive level of capital. However, a relatively ﬂush amount of capital is necessary until we complete development of the MRJ and get the MRJ business, a major pillar of our future growth, on track. That said, our overriding aspiration Management Strategies is, to the extent possible, to simultaneously undertake MRJ investments and provide solid shareholder returns. As a standard measure, MHI Group has set a payout ratio of 30%—a ﬁgure that excludes impact from the MRJ. (When MRJ investment is factored in, the ratio is slightly higher.) For MHI Group to achieve sustained growth, we have to create businesses that will become new pillars of strength 20 to 30 years into the future. In retrospect we have confronted a variety of difficulties through the years, but noneAddressing Social Issues through Our Businesses theless our dividends have steadily increased—a manifestation of the steady improvement of our management capabilities. At the same time, though, a gap still remains between our current market value and the level we aspire to. Achieving TOP is the path toward bridging that gap, and we will devise an array of management measures toward reaching that goal. Through robust dialogue with the market, we will continue to convey precisely what MHI Group is doing as we set out toward our next growth phase. Dividend per share Financial and Non-Financial Data, (Yen) 180 130 Corporate and Stock Information 120 120 120 110 80 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 (FY) MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 25 CSO’S MESSAGE Through optimal allocation of management resources, I will execute growth-oriented Group management. Seiji Izumisawa Director, Executive Vice President, CSO Roles of the CSO Starting in ﬁscal 2018, MHI Group has taken a new step in its quest to enter a sustained growth trajectory toward becoming a conglomerate with global levels of continuity and growth potential. This year, to vigorously advance growthoriented Group management, the office of Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) was newly instituted. The duties of the CSO are to determine how to allocate and utilize Groupwide management resources, and then to play a leading role in propelling the strategies, taking market trends and social needs into consideration. In short, my core duties are to devise growth strategies and to promote globalized management. Growth Strategies for Tomorrow At MHI Group today, growth strategies encompass two types of initiatives: initiatives toward achieving the targets of the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan, and initiatives taken from a mediumto long-term perspective considering the subsequent Business Plan. With regard to the former, as CSO I closely monitor the progress being achieved toward the targets set for each SBU, conﬁrm whether the resources needed to compete globally are being properly allocated as planned, and when necessary I promptly prepare any additional measures that are needed. In that respect, coordination with the other Chief Officers—the CFO and CTO, for example—is vital, so I communicate with them closely on a regular basis. 26 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Regarding our longer-range initiatives, as we have set out in “MHI FUTURE STREAM,” our focus is on developing and creating new technologies, new products, and new business models that respond to current and future social challenges. Previously, MHI Group tended to ﬁrst develop technologies and then apply them in its business operations, or we made products we ourselves thought were MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization good and supplied them to our customers. Then starting around 10 years ago, top management began striving to change such tendencies. What I aim to do now as CSO is consider what social challenges currently exist, decide into which areas we should invest our resources, and in what amounts, in order to solve those social issues, and then develop growth strategies that further integrate our technologies and our various businesses. Then, based on those growth strategies, I will continuously review and recalibrate our business portfolio. MHI-style Global Management In recent years, in tandem with ongoing globalization, MHI Group is increasingly Management Strategies establishing new Group companies individually capable of more nimble and ﬂexible business operations. As a Group that undertakes myriad operations worldwide, with employees from backgrounds of remarkable diversity, we will pursue local management attuned to each speciﬁc location. Meanwhile, we will simultaneously strive to enhance the cohesive strength of MHI Group as a whole, in order to avail ourselves fully of the advantages we possess as a conglomerate. Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Our pursuit will focus not on the Japanese-style management of the past, nor on a copy of Western-style management. Ours will be a global management style unique to MHI. At the same time, we have aspects of our corporate culture that we want to pass on to future generations. I believe MHI should be a Group that provides safety, peace of mind, and comfort to people all around the world. Our insistence on delivering ever-better products to the customer that they can use with peace of mind—better not just in terms of monozukuri, the traditional concept of Japanese craftsmanship, but also with respect to kotozukuri, loosely translatable as value creation—and our professionalism are things we do not want to change. Financial and Non-Financial Data, I also believe that we can improve ourselves by providing new solutions and resolving issues faced by the customer through combinations of our products and services. To that end, collaboration between Group companies and crossing Corporate and Stock Information segment boundaries are indispensable. As an example, a variety of approaches can be taken toward today’s low-carbon and carbon-free trends, such as integrating products that promote greater power generation efficiency, systems for recovering CO2, and products that use hydrogen fuel. What I aim for is to nurture a corporate culture in which, before the customer even voices a demand, we proactively propose solutions of high added value that make optimal use of the broad spectrum of our business areas. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 27 TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY Through Groupwide technology and knowledge sharing, we will realize conglomerate synergies. Michisuke Nayama Senior Executive Vice President, CTO Realization of Conglomerate Synergies * The Shared Technology Framework Under our “Shared Technology Framework,”* MHI Group is striving to strengthen encompasses the Technology Strategy Office, Research & its technological and marketing infrastructures, optimize the value chain across Innovation Center, ICT Solution Headquarters, Value Chain the Group (including procurement), and reinforce the competitiveness of its Headquarters, and Marketing & Innovation Headquarters. businesses in the medium-to-long term. MHI Group handles a greater variety of products than its competitors, and in order to turn this product diversity into competitiveness, we are promoting Groupwide technology and knowledge sharing in product development. Applying cutting-edge technology from gas turbine development to numerous other products such as compressors, centrifugal chillers, and turbochargers is one example of what we are doing to realize conglomerate synergies by technology and knowledge sharing. Promotion of MHI FUTURE STREAM Today’s business environment surrounding MHI Group is both complex and uncertain owing to changes in social needs arising from climate change, urbanization, population aging, and other serious issues. In the energy ﬁeld, for example, as the supply/consumption structure changes, use of renewable energies will expand and consumers will increasingly adopt electricity over other energy sources. Accordingly, MHI Group today is required to achieve continuous growth while responding to society’s evolving needs with agility and ﬂexibility, and simultaneously contributing to realization of a sustainable planet. To achieve those multiple aims, MHI Group is now implementing a program known as “MHI FUTURE STREAM.” 28 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Under this program, we are scanning for both new business opportunities and potential business threats based on social mapping long into the future, to enable us to create measures for mediumto long-term shifts of our existing businesses. Speciﬁcally, we will pursue innovations in mobility and logistics, a clean recycling-oriented society, robotics, and other areas that will enable the achievement of a low-carbon and then carbon-free society, and resolve urban MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization problems. To realize these shifts, today we are scouting for and investing in cutting-edge technology in a quest for new products, services and businesses. In implementing MHI FUTURE STREAM, we will make active use of the Shared Technology Framework’s multifaceted market and technology sensing capabilities, and also pursue synergies by introducing and actively using innovative outside knowledge and technology through open innovation together with Innovation Accelerator LLC, established in April 2018, and centers of excellence. Active Use of AI Management Strategies Today MHI Group is actively applying artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) technology to diverse products and production facilities. Areas of application include work navigation systems, operation monitoring, malfunction detection and diagnosis, operation optimization, product inspection, automated welding, and scheduling. In areas relating to business processes, we have begun applying a “contract risk reduction system” jointly developed with IBM to actual projects, as a way of enhancing our risk management. Furthermore, we are also applying AI to design Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses work and to analysis of big data such as information on our business partners and expenditures, as a way of making our procurement operations more advanced and efficient. We will continue focusing on these initiatives going forward. Promotion of MHI FUTURE STREAM Pursuit of synergies Creative expansion of added value and entering Introduce and actively use Make active use of ST frameinto new business domain work’s multifaceted market innovative outside knowledge and technologies and technology sensing (Innovation Promotion capabilities Create measures for mediumto long-term Research Institute, etc.) Financial and Non-Financial Data, shift of existing businesses based on an understanding of megatrend changes Shift the Path T Technology h l Corporate and Stock Information Scouting Scout for technologies in cutting-edge areas that have signiﬁcant uncertainty Mega Scan but great potential impact Scout for technologies needed for the Scan for business opportunities and businesses depicted in “Shift the Path” threats based on social mapping long into the future MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 29 HUMAN RESOURCE STRATEGY Our goal is to be a ﬂexible and diverse global company where all members can work with conﬁdence. Hideaki Yanai Executive Vice President, Standing Executive in charge of HR, and Human Resources & Labor Relations Department Manager In our 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan announced in May 2018, we established two core HR-related strategies. Going forward, we aim to cultivate a vibrant and diverse corporate culture and to develop the human resources needed to drive sustained growth into the future. Promoting Group Members’ Engagement and Enhancement of Organizational Strength As the driving force that will enable our sustained growth and development, MHI must become a company where the diverse people who support our Group activities all work with conﬁdence, and to achieve that goal we will focus on promoting Group member engagement and enhancing our organizational strength. Speciﬁcally, we will concentrate on 1) internal sharing of strategies, visions, and goals, 2) reform of work practices, including more ﬂexible delegation of authority (subsidiarity), review of rules, and improvement of work processes and content, and 3) review of our HR systems and their operation. Making active use of employee awareness surveys, we will implement these measures throughout the Company on a continuous basis. In conjunction with our pursuit of greater diversity in management, today we are vigorously promoting active participation by female employees. In July 2014 we set a target of expanding our ranks of women in management positions—i.e. Section Manager and higher—threefold by 2020. We are focusing on four areas: 1) expansion of the total number of female employees, 2) support of female employees who are raising children or caring for relatives by introducing mechanisms to enable them to continue their career, 3) planned development of female managers, and 4) nurturing of an open and diverse corporate culture. In pursuit of ﬂexible workstyles that will 30 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP enable employees who have given birth or who are raising children to return to their jobs as early as feasible, we are enhancing our systems enabling shorter work hours or telecommuting. We are also creating an environment and mechanisms that will enable female employees to advance further in their career, through informal gatherings of employees on leave for childrearing, seminars on providing nursing care, and training programs starting with young employees. MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Acquisition and Retention of Global and Regional Managerial Talent To achieve sustainable business development well into the future, MHI is pursuing the establishment of a ﬂexible and diverse global management system. In order to continuously produce and secure global and regional managerial talent at every level to serve as the driving force of our corporate growth, HR will accelerate the following initiatives in carrying out the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan: Redeﬁne criteria such as experience, qualiﬁcations, etc. required in management Management Strategies positions For Section Manager and higher, select candidates for future executive positions under a new framework based on the redeﬁned requirements cited above For the candidates selected above, introduce a development process focused on younger employees that will provide them the experience needed as executives and enable them to proceed along the evaluation cycle Going forward, we will also take steps to achieve earlier appointments and expand Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses diversity in officers and executives, striving to produce and thereby ensure managerial talent in various ways; for example, by creating and applying more ﬂexible compensation systems with incentives suited to global management and global mobility policies affecting international assignments. In addition, as a cross-regional measure, we are now implementing a development program targeted at expanding horizons through acquisition of management literacy and HR exchanges with other regions. Under this program, outstanding middle managers recommended from Japan, the Americas, Europe, and Asia gather together in India. The program is effective in energizing our Group members from every region and nurturing a sense of unity among them. Furthermore, to secure outstanding human resources irrespective of nationality, we Financial and Non-Financial Data, are implementing the following measures making use of the special traits of each region: U.S. / Europe: Acquisition of superior personnel through introduction of talent Corporate and Stock Information acquisition platforms and active use of social media Asia: Reinforcement of HR development functions through provision of development programs common to the Asia region Through these measures, we are seeking to promote active use of diverse human resources as never before, hopeful that doing so will lead to a stronger global management system. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 31 SPECIAL FEATURE: ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION BETWEEN OUTSIDE DIRECTOR AND EMPLOYEES NO CHANGE, NO GROWTH MHI is globalizing its management and operations. What are the goals from managerial perspectives? What changes are occurring and what challenges do we have in the workplace? Here we will share a discussion in English between Prof. Ahmadjian (outside director, member of the Board, Audit and Supervisory Committee member) and ﬁve members of the Global Finance & Accounting Department. Mikiyo Itaoka Stefanie Jagoda-Schauwecker Tadashi Arakawa Finance Group, Global Finance & Finance Group, Global Finance & Group Manager, Finance Group, Global Accounting Department Accounting Department Finance & Accounting Department Christina Ahmadjian Yoshio Nakayama Kimiyo Hirowatari Outside Director and Audit and Senior Vice President and Senior Finance Group, Global Finance & Supervisory Committee Member General Manager, Global Finance & Accounting Department Accounting Department Titles and organization names are as of the date of the roundtable discussion in September 2017. Globalization is not a goal, but a method Ahmadjian: To my mind, a ﬁnance department is a group of relatively homogeneous specialists, but the people gathered here today seem to have followed a variety of career paths. What do you think are some of the beneﬁts of having such diversity in the workplace? Arakawa: We have been working to make our operations more visible and more global. Explaining to people with different career paths how to go about their 32 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP roles and operational responsibilities in the Global Finance & Accounting Department has made our operations more visible. We have begun using English for internal communications since Ms. Jagoda-Schauwecker joined our team. In that sense, communication has become smoother in the video and telephone conferences we hold with ﬁnance subsidiaries around the world. Nakayama: I agree. It has allowed the Global Finance & Accounting Department MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization to embrace a new form of communication and begin new activities like the global workshop with ﬁnance staff members from around the world. Hirowatari: Another big beneﬁt is that it gives employees a higher level of conﬁdence through interactions with overseas members. It also offers various ideas, which broadens our perspectives. Jagoda-Schauwecker: When I joined MHI, I encountered new situations almost every day, some of which were challenging. It is not always easy to decide whether differences, for example in working style, are based on the uniqueness of Japanese culture, MHI’s culture, or the working culture within my team. In this way, I learn new things every day. Management Strategies Arakawa: With foreign or mid-career members in the team, it is important that everything is explained clearly and precisely to ensure they are on the same page. While this may seem to be just additional work, it can actually give you a more comprehensive understanding of all your operations, including the tasks you might usually overlook, which then leads to reducing unnecessary errands and making for more efficient operations overall. Nakayama: Exactly. I believe it ultimately fosters a signiﬁcant competitive edge for Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses the Company. Globalization is not our end goal; rather it is just one method of growth. We are only at the beginning Ahmadjian: What are your opinions on the current state of globalization in MHI Group? Arakawa: Well, although the Company has been promoting globalization, we still have a long way to go. Currently, the ﬂow of human resources tends to be one-way; we have many Japanese employees working overseas, but not many foreign employees working in Japan. We need to put more emphasis on making Financial and Non-Financial Data, this a mutual exchange. Nakayama: Many Japanese employees who are currently working overseas may ﬁnd it difficult to ﬁt back into our conservative corporate culture when they Corporate and Stock Information return. Situations like this make it difficult for companies and people to grow. I believe we must create a workplace where everyone can make full use of their skills and capabilities. Hirowatari: Career advancement for women is another important step in promoting globalization. When I joined MHI, I was surprised at how few women were in the Company, and how few opportunities there were for women to voice their opinions during meetings. Creating a culture that embraces a greater diversity MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 33 of opinions would allow more female employees to actively develop their careers. Itaoka: By the way, Professor Ahmadjian, you are the only female director, right? Ahmadjian: That’s right. The other day I was showing my daughter the page with pictures of all the directors and executive officers in MHI Group. She said she was able to pick out my photo immediately, as I was the only woman among the 100 or so on the page. I thought she picked up on a good point regarding the reality of MHI Group. Nakayama: Indeed, we should embrace diversity in management, as well. Ahmadjian: Yes, but don’t forget about the more positive and encouraging aspects. MHI Group is promoting globalization and diversity management throughout the organization, and this is only the beginning. What matters most is that we continue to move forward with globalization. Jagoda-Schauwecker: I agree. Becoming more global prompts major changes in the environment around us. This has certainly been the case for me. I faced many obstacles at ﬁrst. Sometimes we may not be sure where to turn, but beyond this change lies growth. We need to be good cross-cultural communicators Itaoka: When most Japanese people hear the word “globalization,” we tend to associate it with the ability to speak English. While there is indeed a language barrier, it is imperative that we remind and motivate ourselves to keep trying to make a change. Hirowatari: English capabilities are of course important, but so are abilities to understand different cultures and perspectives. For example, in Japan we often separate employees into “new graduates” and “mid-career hires.” In other countries, by contrast, changing careers is common, and even diversity within one’s career is considered to be important, I understand. Jagoda-Schauwecker: Another example is the difference in how countries and cultures think of the word “meeting.” In Japan, the word has the context of conﬁrmation or checking, whereas in some countries meetings are considered places for discussion and problem solving. Nakayama: In other words, rather than being good English speakers, we need to focus on being good cross-cultural communicators. Ahmadjian: The ﬁrst step toward making this change in ourselves is to accept differences. As good cross-cultural communicators, let’s turn MHI Group into a strong group. We know it can be done. 34 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We are taking all stakeholders into MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization consideration and working to enhance corporate governance on an ongoing basis. Mutsuo Hiroe Executive Vice President, GC* Basic Approach Management Strategies * GC: General Counsel As a company responsible for developing the infrastructure that forms the foundation of society, MHI’s basic policy is to execute management in consideration of all stakeholders and strive to enhance corporate governance on an ongoing basis in pursuit of sustained growth of MHI Group and improvement of its corporate value in the medium and long terms. In accordance with this basic policy, MHI endeavors to improve its management system, such as by enhancing its management oversight function through the separation of management oversight and execution and the inclusion of outside Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses directors, and develop global management, focusing on the improvement of the soundness and transparency of its management as well as on diversity and harmony. Directors, Board of Remuneration of Organization or Recent Corporate Governance Reforms Directors directors structure FY Details • Shortened the term of office for directors from two years to one • Increased the number of outside directors from one to two and outside statutory auditors from two to three 2005 • Reduced the number of directors from 28 to 17 • Introduced an executive officer system • Abolished the system of director retirement allowances and bonuses, switching to a system of monthly 2006 remuneration and performance-linked remuneration • Introduced a stock option system for directors, except outside directors Financial and Non-Financial Data, 2007 • Increased the number of outside directors from two to three 2011 • Integrated a matrix structure of Business Headquarters and Works into the Business Headquarters Structure 2013 • Consolidated and restructured the nine Business Headquarters, transitioning to the Business Domain Structure Corporate and Stock Information • Introduced the Chief Officer System 2014 • Reduced the number of representative directors from 12 to six • Decreased the number of directors from 17 to 12 • Transitioned to a Company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee (set the ratio of outside directors to more than one-third) 2015 • Abolished stock options and introduced a new stock remuneration system for directors and executive officers • Formulated the Corporate Governance Guidelines of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. • Established the Nomination and Remuneration Meeting 2016 • Reduced the number of directors to 11 (with the number of outside directors remaining constant at ﬁve) • Conducted Board evaluation of Board of Directors effectiveness 2017 • Restructured into three business domains MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Structure and Roles (Including Internal Control Systems) MHI has adopted the form of a Company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee as its corporate structure under the Companies Act. Our corporate governance structure, which includes internal control systems, is as follows. 1 Directors (Board of Directors) auditors, and it collaborates closely with them in other Of the Company’s 11 directors (of whom ﬁve are Audit ways, including receiving audit results and attending and Supervisory Committee members), ﬁve (of whom accounting audits. Audit and Supervisory Committee three are Audit and Supervisory Committee members) members also receive reports from the internal control are elected from outside the Company. In addition, in department and other departments concerning the accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors status of compliance, risk management, and other based on the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the activities on both a regular and an individual basis. To Company delegates decisions on the execution of support auditing activities, an Audit and Supervisory important operations to the president and CEO. This Committee’s Office has been set up with its own approach enables swifter decision making and enhances dedicated staff of ﬁve to facilitate the work carried out the ﬂexibility of business execution while also by the Audit and Supervisory Committee. strengthening the Board of Directors’ oversight of business execution. 3 Chief Officers and Standing Executives in Charge of Operations 2 Audit and Supervisory Committee The CEO*1 takes charge of overall business operations, To ensure the effectiveness of the Audit and Supervisory and the domain CEOs take control of executing businesses Committee’s activities, the Company’s Articles of within their individual domains based on overall Group Incorporation stipulate the selection of full-time strategies. The CSO*2 is in charge of the planning of all members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee. business strategies and the CFO*3 takes charge of Accordingly, two full-time members of the Audit and ﬁnance, accounting, and management planning. The Supervisory Committee are mutually selected by the CTO*4 is in charge of the supervision and execution of committee’s members. overall operations related to technology strategies, The full-time members of the Audit and Supervisory research and development of products and new Committee attend meetings of the Executive Committee technologies, ICT, value chain, marketing, innovation, and and other key meetings related to business planning, engineering in general. In addition, the CSO, CFO, and enabling them to accurately assess and monitor the CTO have Companywide authority to give instructions status of management in a timely manner. As part of and commands and provide support to business the audit, Audit and Supervisory Committee members domains. The GC and standing executive in charge of make sure the execution of directors’ duties complies HR*5 assist the CEO with his duties by supervising and with laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation executing activities in line with the CEO’s mission. The and ascertain whether or not business operations of the GC takes overall control of management audits, general Company are being executed appropriately by conducting administration, legal affairs, and global base support. spot checks and verifying compliance with relevant The standing executive in charge of HR takes overall laws and regulations, and by monitoring the status of the establishment and operation of internal control systems, including those in relation to ﬁnancial reporting. *1 CEO: Chief Executive Officer The Audit and Supervisory Committee periodically *2 CSO: Chief Strategy Officer exchanges information and opinions with the *3 CFO: Chief Financial Officer *4 CTO: Chief Technology Officer Management Audit Department and accounting *5 HR: Human Resources 36 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP (As of June 21, 2018) General Meeting of Shareholders MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Election / Dismissal Proposal / Report Election / Dismissal Report / Provide opinions Election / Dismissal 1 Directors Audit / Report 2 Audit and Coordination Accounting Auditor (Board of Directors) Supervisory Committee Report on accounting audit Audit and Two Three Six Five internal outside Support Supervisory internal outside (All ﬁve are directors) Committee’s Office Accounting Audit Nomination / Oversight Proposal / Report Delegation of important Nomination and Audit decisions on Remuneration Meeting business execution Management Strategies Consult Opinions / Advice Report Consult 3 • CSR Committee President and CEO • Compliance Committee Recommendation Coordination • International Trade Control Committee Directions / Orders • Environment Committee, etc. Deliberate Partial delegation of authority and responsibility Executive Committee Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses 3 3 3 3 CSO CFO CTO Domain CEOs (Presidents 3 3 Directions / Standing and CEOs of GC Orders Executive in each domain) charge of HR Directions and Directions / orders on Orders Management Audit Report / Survey Consult business Directions / Department Directions / Directions / Directions / execution in Orders Orders Orders Orders domains Internal auditing / Supervision Senior Vice Presidents Senior Vice Presidents Management / Business departments Control Corporate Departments Financial and Non-Financial Data, (Domains, etc.) Support Corporate and Stock Information Management / Control Internal auditing / Supervision Supervision Group Companies MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Structure (Supervision and Execution) The Board of Directors comprises members with a variety of backgrounds, ensuring a balanced structure with which to supervise people handling business execution. FINANCE GOVERNANCE Chairman Outside Director Shinohara Outside Director (Audit and Supervisory Omiya Outside Director (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) Ahmadjian CEO Committee Member) Kuroyanagi Miyanaga Director (Audit and Supervisory Committee Director (Audit and Supervisory Member) Goto CFO CSO Committee Member) Kato Koguchi Izumisawa Supervision GLOBAL BUSINESS Outside Director Kobayashi Outside Director (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) Ito GC Hiroe CTO In charge of HR Execution Nayama Yanai Domain CEO Domain CEO Kimura Ando Changes in the Number of Directors and Statutory Auditors and the Percentage of Outside Directors (People) (%) 2004 50 50 Total number of directors and statutory auditors: 32 Percentage of outside Outside directors: 1 directors (right scale) Outside statutory auditors: 2 40 40 Percentage of outside directors: 9.3% Total number of statutory auditors 2018 30 30 Total number of directors: 11 Number of outside statutory auditors Outside directors: 5 Percentage of outside directors: 20 20 45.5% 10 Total number of 10 directors Number of outside directors 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 0 38 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Outside Directors MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization The Company has ﬁve outside directors (of whom three are Audit and Supervisory Committee members). Outside directors are expected to enhance the soundness and transparency of the Company’s management decision-making by providing beneﬁcial views and candid assessments on the Company’s management from an objective standpoint that is not biased by an internal company perspective. These individuals have diverse experience, knowledge, and skills in such areas as corporate management, public ﬁnance, and corporate governance. Each of the outside directors meets MHI’s independence criteria for outside directors.* Accordingly, the Company judges all outside directors to be independent * Indicated in the Corporate Governance Guidelines of Mitsubishi Heavy from its management team and has reported them as independent directors to Industries, Ltd. Management Strategies the Tokyo Stock Exchange and other ﬁnancial instruments exchanges in Japan. All the outside directors are independent from management and supervise or audit management. At meetings of the Board of Directors, they receive reports on the status of the establishment and operation of internal control systems, including compliance, risk management, and other activities, and the results of internal audits, and they state their opinions when appropriate. The Audit and Supervisory Committee, a majority of whose members are outside directors, Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses also conducts audits in collaboration with the Internal Audit Department, Management Audit Department, and accounting auditor. In addition, the Audit and Supervisory Committee shares information about the status of audits with outside directors who are not serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members. Board Evaluation MHI took the enactment of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code as an opportunity to analyze and evaluate the effectiveness each year of the overall Board of Directors. We seek to increase the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and Financial and Non-Financial Data, ensure it is substantially fulﬁlling its duty of accountability to shareholders by verifying the overall effectiveness and role of the Board of Directors. Based on a questionnaire of all directors, Board of Directors discussions, and Corporate and Stock Information so on, the Board of Directors conﬁrmed that it functioned effectively in ﬁscal 2017. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Officers’ Remuneration Structure The remuneration of directors (excluding Audit and Supervisory Committee members and outside directors) consists of base remuneration, performancelinked remuneration, and stock remuneration from the viewpoint of reﬂecting earnings and sharing values with shareholders. Performance-linked remuneration is determined based on consolidated earnings while also taking into account the roles of each director and the business performance and accomplishments of the business of which he or she is in charge, etc. For stock remuneration, the Board Incentive Plan Trust structure is used. MHI shares are issued, and remuneration is paid based on stock award points that are granted in accordance with return on equity (ROE) and other such indicators linked to MHI’s medium/long-term earnings and stock price. Remuneration of Directors Monetary remuneration Stock remuneration Total amount of Base remuneration Performance-linked remuneration remuneration Total amount Total amount Total amount (Millions of yen) Position People People People (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) Directors who are not Audit and 6 248 4 143 4 99 491 Supervisory Committee members (Of which, outside directors) (2) (29) (—) (—) (—) (—) (29) Directors who are Audit and 7 190 — — — — 190 Supervisory Committee members (Of which, outside directors) (3) (54) (—) (—) (—) (—) (54) Total 13 438 4 143 4 99 681 (Of which, outside directors) (5) (83) (—) (—) (—) (—) (83) Notes: 1. The recipients include two directors who were Audit and Supervisory Committee members who stepped down in ﬁscal 2017. 2. The maximum permitted monetary remuneration amount for directors who are not serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members is ¥1,200 million per year (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015). 3. The total amount of stock remuneration is the amount of expenses recognized for the 234,000 stock award points granted in total during ﬁscal 2017 (equivalent to 23,400 shares of MHI) concerning the Board Incentive Plan Trust, which is a stock remuneration system that delivers or provides shares of MHI and money in the amount equivalent to the liquidation value of MHI shares based on stock award points granted to directors (excluding outside directors and directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members) in accordance with, among other factors, the rank of the position of each director and the ﬁnancial results of MHI. The maximum permitted amount of stock award points is 500,000 points (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015) per ﬁscal year for directors (excluding outside directors and directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members). 4. The maximum permitted monetary remuneration amount is ¥300 million per ﬁscal year for directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee members (resolution of the 90th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 26, 2015). Remuneration of Directors*1 (Millions of yen) (People) 1,500 25 1,200 20 Stock options 900 15 600 10 Stock remuneration Performance-linked remuneration 300 Number of subject directors (including those who assumed 5 positions or stepped down during the ﬁscal year) Base remuneration 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0 *1 Remuneration of directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Committee members (excluding outside directors) 40 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Nomination and Remuneration Meeting MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization The Nomination and Remuneration Meeting is composed solely of the ﬁve outside directors and the president and CEO. Prior to deliberation by the Board of Directors, this meeting serves as a forum for eliciting the opinions and advice of outside directors on the nomination of director candidates, the dismissal of directors, the appointment and dismissal of the CEO and other chief officers, and matters related to remuneration.*2 The aim of this meeting is to further *2 Excluding directors who are serving as Audit and Supervisory Committee augment transparency and fairness. In ﬁscal 2017, the Nomination and members. Remuneration Meeting met three times. Taking into consideration the content of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code (Revised Edition), we are considering measures to revise officer-related personnel Management Strategies and remuneration processes from the perspective of enhancing procedural objectivity and transparency. General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Six directors who are not Audit and Supervisory Audit and Supervisory Committee Committee members Five directors who are Audit and Supervisory (of whom two are outside directors) Committee members Representative Outside (of whom three are outside directors) directors directors Auditing, reporting Outside directors CEO CFO CSO Chairman Supervision Auditing Business execution Financial and Non-Financial Data, Nomination and Remuneration Meeting (from January 2016) Corporate and Stock Information Positioning Advisory institution to the CEO To explain the CEO’s policies on director nomination and Explanation Objective remuneration to outside directors and to obtain the opinions and advice of outside directors Participants CEO and all outside directors Opinions/advice CEO Outside directors Held three times in ﬁscal 2017, in July 2017 and January and Meetings March 2018 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT Throughout its history, MHI Group has achieved sustained growth by taking up diverse new challenges and initiatives in numerous business areas. At the same time, on occasion we have experienced losses on a large scale. In recent years especially, with the globalization of its business activities, the expanding scale of individual projects, and ongoing development of increasingly complex technologies, the scale of attendant risks is becoming larger than ever before. In order for MHI Group to mark sustained growth amid an ever-changing business environment, it is necessary to continue to take up challenges in new ﬁelds, new technologies, new regions, and new customers as well as to improve and strengthen operations in its existing business markets. Such challenges will entail business risks, and a company’s ability to curb risks wields signiﬁcant inﬂuence on its business results and growth potentials. To promote challenges of this kind and prepare for the next leap into the future, MHI Group, applying its past experience and lessons learned, aims to create the mechanisms that will ensure the effective execution of business risk management. At the same time, we reinforce advanced, intelligent systems and process monitoring, both of which support top management’s strategy decisions. Through these approaches, we will pursue “controlled risk-taking” that will enable us to carry out carefully planned challenges toward expanding our business. Outline of Business Risk Management No corporation can avoid taking risks. We believe that risk management is a part of governance and functions only when the elements of systems and processes, corporate culture, and human resources are in place. For our Group Matrix of Business Risk Management Strategy risks Risks associated with business strategies (entry, continuance, and withdrawal) Top management (Officers) Middle management (Department and SBU* managers) Execution (People doing actual work) *SBU: Strategic Business Unit 42 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP to succeed in the global market, we need to take bold and daring risks, but we also need to manage those risks. That is the perfect combination for continually increasing our corporate value. In this sense, it is very important that all business participants, from people engaged in the actual business to management, comprehend and control risks in business, from processes to strategies. For details, please see the chart below MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization (Matrix of Business Risk Management). Business Risk Management Structure Through the following measures, MHI Group is pursuing more organized business risk management and clarifying the roles of management, business segments, and corporate departments. Observe and practice the Business Risk Management Charter as the Company’s foremost set of rules 1 Clarify, observe, and practice risk management targets, etc. Management Strategies Hold meetings of the Business Risk Management Committee, headed by the CEO 2 Share information on important risks and discuss policy response by top-level management “Business Risk Management Charter” CEO Business Risk Management Committee • Resource allocation based on strategic decision-making CFO CSO CTO • Fostering risk management culture Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Management officers (GC, HR, etc.) • Establishment of business risk Corporate departments management system; consolidation and strengthening of personnel • Implementation of risk management process • Deliberation on speciﬁc projects • Improvement of business execution capability • Monitoring project implementation • Development of highly risk-sensitive human resources Business Risk Management Division Business segments Financial and Non-Financial Data, Cultural risks Process risks Risks associated with corporate culture Risks associated with business (internal customs, corporate character, execution (planning and execution) history, values, and human resource system) Corporate and Stock Information MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT Content of Activities With the Business Risk Management Department acting since April 2016 as the responsible department that reports directly to the CEO, MHI Group engages in business risk management activities bringing together management, business segments, and corporate departments. The chart below (Business Risk Management Process) outlines speciﬁc activities. In addition to improving systems and processes to prevent business risks and reduce the frequency with which such risks manifest themselves, we also develop human resources in charge of business risk management and cultivate a culture of responding to risks through training by the Group’s management team. Business Risk Management Process Business risk management infrastructure Occurrence of Establish a participation system for experts business risk Prepare management tools (visualization, knowledge sharing) Create special response Educate business department managers, SBU managers team and carry out response (monitoring, etc. in PDCA cycle) Risk Monitoring designation Apply results of monitoring and improvement to management CHECK/ processes ACT Risk analysis Execution PLAN / evaluation DO Improve project execution capability through appropriate Designation Consideration / involvement of execution of of residual experienced human countermearesources risks Consideration of Risk sures Response Policy (reduce, avert, shift, and retain) •Deﬁne and categorize business risks Business risk •Have knowledgeable specialists participate in risk assessment discussions prevention and •Develop tools risk quantiﬁcation, visualization, AI utilization reduced frequency •Strengthen discussions participation of top management, business divisions, and of occurrence corporate departments 44 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE MHI Group attaches importance to complying with applicable laws and social norms and promoting fair and honest business practices. The Compliance Number of MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization participants at Committee, established in May 2001, meets twice annually to draw up groupwide compliance training compliance promotion plans, conﬁrm progress, and engage in other activities. Approximately Since 2003, to increase awareness of compliance among individual employees, we have conducted discussion-based compliance training every year at the 84,300 (FY2017) workplace level, themed on compliance cases that could arise on-site. In May 2015, we issued the “MHI Group Global Code of Conduct.” As a global group, MHI Group employs thousands of individuals from different backgrounds, nationalities, and cultures. This diversity of talent and perspectives is one of our greatest assets. Having diverse backgrounds, it is important to work together and to promote our business under a common corporate culture. Management Strategies This code of conduct sets out the basic principles and policies that all MHI employees should follow. We disseminate this code of conduct among MHI Group employees around the world through e-learning and by distributing booklets. In order to ensure thorough compliance throughout MHI Group, we are conducting e-learning and study sessions for Group employees in Japan and overseas on anti-trust laws, anti-bribery, and export-related laws and regulations. In addition, we have created a compliance guidebook for employees engaging in Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses technical and skilled jobs at MHI and Group companies in Japan, and we are promoting face-to-face education at each worksite to enhance compliance awareness. In September 2017, we formulated the “MHI Compliance Global Policy,” clarifying basic matters related to compliance promotion, such as the organizational framework, roles, and administration standards that each Group company should follow. Along with the Global Code of Conduct, this policy clariﬁes our common code of conduct and basic rules that must be complied with throughout the Group. In this way, we are working to strengthen internal controls and enhance the level of compliance throughout the entire Group. Compliance Promotion System (as of January 1, 2018) Financial and Non-Financial Data, President and CEO Chair: GC Members: senior general managers / general managers of Business Strategy Office / corporate Compliance Corporate and Stock Information departments, general managers from all administration departments of Research & Domain CEO Committee Innovation Center / each headquarters, business domain, and segments. Heads of headquarters Functions: promote compliance across MHI Group Heads of corporate Secretariat: Management Audit Department departments External Whistleblower Hotlines Departmental Compliance Committee All managers Compliance Liaison Conference Group companies All employees Guidance on initiatives for the speciﬁc country/region to be provided by administrative department of MHI MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 45 MHI GROUP × SDGS We deliver reliable and innovative solutions that make a lasting difference to customers and communities worldwide and contribute toward the achievement of the SDGs. MHI Group has been an innovative partner to society through a broad range of businesses for more than 130 years. We are now being called on as a company to play an even greater role in responding to the megatrends society faces and helping resolve the various issues outlined by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs*). Going forward, and in keeping with the spirit of its principles (“We deliver reliable and innovative solutions that make a lasting difference to customers and communities worldwide.”) and as a manufacturing company, MHI Group will deliver reliable and innovative solutions that make a lasting difference to customers and communities worldwide. We provide the world with products and technologies that support the social and industrial infrastructure. We also contribute toward the resolution of issues on a global scale. *SDGs: In September 2015, the United Nations adopted these 17 goals to be achieved by 2030. Our Principles 12 Please see the inside cover page for details of our principles. Flue Gas Desulfurization Plant 14 11 11 11 Fisheries Training Vessel Intelligent Transport Systems Waste-to-Energy Plant Automated People Mover (ITS) (APM) 7 7 13 7 13 7 13 13 ©MHI Vestas Offshore Wind Pressurized Water Geothermal Power Plant V164-8.0 MW Offshore Wind CO2 Recovery Plant Reactor (PWR) Turbine 46 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 3 14 7 MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Marine Exhaust Gas Cleaning Turbocharger for Gasoline Engine System 7 7 11 Highly Efficient Gas Engine Centrifugal Chiller Power Plant 7 Management Strategies M501J Gas Turbine 9 9 Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Three-wheel Electric Launch Services Counterbalance Forklift 9 9 Sinter Plant Equipped with Waste Gear Grinding Machines Gas Recirculation (Meros) Financial and Non-Financial Data, Corporate and Stock Information MHI Group is well-placed to focus its energies on Goal 13 of the SDGs: “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.” In addition to decreasing greenhouse gas emissions, we are striving to reduce environmental impact of all processes across our business activities. At the same time, we are pursuing speciﬁc measures to address climate change, such as by providing power plants with low environmental impact, renewable energy facilities, and CO2 recovery plants. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 47 BUSINESS SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS Power Systems Main Gas and steam power generation systems, nuclear power plant equipment (light-water reactors/nuclear fuel Businesses cycle & advanced solutions), wind power generators, aero engines, compressors, marine machinery Overview of Having been hit by global market factors such as the acceleration of the shift to low-carbon approaches and the Fiscal 2017 switch to renewable energy, coal-ﬁred power plants saw a signiﬁcant decline, and order volumes for gas turbine combined cycle (GTCC) systems also fell considerably. As a result, consolidated orders received decreased year on year, to ¥1,437.5 billion. Consolidated net sales rose year on year to ¥1,493.9 billion, driven by steady progress in work related to orders for gas and steam power generations, as well as increases in aero engines. Although there were improvements in the proﬁtability of the gas and steam power generations aftersales service, due to such factors as the decline in nuclear power plant equipment, operating income was ﬂat year on year at ¥108.9 billion. Industry & Infrastructure Main Metals machinery, environmental systems, paper converting machinery, mechatronics systems, ITS,*1 Businesses material handling equipment, engines, turbochargers, air-conditioning & refrigeration systems, automotive thermal systems, machine tools, commercial ships, transportation systems, chemical plants Overview of In addition to increases in metals machinery on the back of strong infrastructure investment, orders grew for Fiscal 2017 turbochargers, material handling equipment, air-conditioning & refrigeration systems, and other items due to economic expansion, primarily in developed countries. Consequently, consolidated orders received rose year on year, to ¥1,711.3 billion. Consolidated net sales exceeded the level of the previous ﬁscal year and rose to ¥1,898.9 billion, driven by increases in material handling equipment and turbochargers, for which orders were strong, and in commercial ships. Although higher sales had the effect of raising operating income, declines in transportation systems and chemical plants led to a year-on-year decrease, to ¥40.8 billion. Aircraft, Defense & Space Main Commercial aircraft, defense aircraft, missile systems, naval ships, special vehicles (tanks), maritime Businesses systems (torpedoes), space systems Overview of In commercial aircraft, orders for main wing boxes for the Boeing 787 increased, but orders fell for defense Fiscal 2017 aircraft and missile systems, for which signiﬁcant orders had been received in the previous ﬁscal year, and orders for space systems decreased, leading to a year-on-year decline in consolidated orders received, to ¥721.5 billion. Consolidated net sales rose year on year, to ¥722.9 billion, due in part to space systems, where launches of H-IIA launch vehicles increased, but higher MRJ development costs and other factors resulted in an operating loss of ¥15.1 billion. *1 ITS: Intelligent Transport Systems 48 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP INPUT OUTPUT FY 2017 Total Number of R&D Capital Orders Order Net Operating assets employees expenses investment received backlog *2, 3 sales *4 income *5, 6 ¥5,487.6 80,652 ¥176.8 ¥144.0 ¥3,875.7 ¥6,111.6 ¥4,110.8 ¥126.5 billion people billion billion billion billion billion billion MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization 24.5% 25.6% 30.7% 37.1% 36.3% Power Systems 45.7% 59.5% 12.3% 72.7% Management Strategies 35.1% Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses 48.1% 44.2% Industry & 31.0% 46.1% Infrastructure 56.8% 20.7% 35.9% Financial and Non-Financial Data, Corporate and Stock Information Aircraft, 13.3% 19.1% 27.3% Defense & Space 18.6% 19.7% 17.6% 7.8% 6.3% Others 4.2% 3.2% 0.1% 0.1% *2 Mass and medium lot manufacturing, such as turbochargers and air conditioners, is not included *3 Order backlog totals from close of ﬁscal 2017 onward do not include past orders for MRJ *4 Others, eliminations or corporate …¥–5.1 billion *5 Aircraft, Defense & Space …¥–15.1 billion *6 Others, eliminations or corporate …¥–8.1 billion MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 49 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW POWER SYSTEMS The Power Systems is supporting power supply throughout the world by offering a variety of energy solutions, including environmentally friendly gas turbine combined-cycle (GTCC) systems, geothermal and wind power generation, nuclear power generation that can be used as a baseload power and does not emit CO2, and gas and steam power generation that can be stably supplied with superior economic efficiency. Additionally, we manufacture compressors for use in fertilizer plants that are indispensable in solving food issues, and engines for commercial aircraft that support comfortable travel. We are a Power & Energy Solution Provider that responds to social progress and diverse needs by offering new products created through solution proposals and turbomachinery synergies, along with our advancing and improving core machineries. Operating Environment and Net Sales by Core Business* Addressing Social Issues Renewable Energy Marine Machinery Nuclear Power MHI believes that electric power demand will Aero Engines expand even further as electriﬁcation progresses, FY 2017 Compressors due to phenomena such as economic development ¥1,493.9 billion in emerging countries and the spread of electric Gas and Steam Power vehicles. At the same time, global warming is Generation Systems expected to spur movement toward low-carbon and carbon-free energy. Operating Performance* (Billions of yen) Geographic, economic, and social conditions 135.0 125.0 differ depending on country and region, so it is 108.9 (7.8%) (8.4%) (7.3%) Proﬁt from important to offer power sources that correspond Operating income business activities (Margin) (Margin) to these diverse needs. Demand for renewable 1,600.0 1,600.0 1,437.5 1,493.9 1,500.0 1,500.0 energy, such as wind power, is continuously increasing. Simultaneously, we can see a growing need for supply and demand load regulation systems and energy storage systems that secure necessary stabilization of electric power sources Orders Net Orders Net Orders Net received sales received sales received sales and address requirements for improved generation FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (forecast) (forecast) efficiency and lower generating costs. After application of IFRS *Results for our affiliate MHI Vestas Offshore Wind A/S (MVOW), which deals in offshore wind power systems, are not included in this graph because the company is accounted for using the equity method. 50 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP • Systems offering world’s highest levels of thermal efficiency and output S Gas and Steam Power • A full range of output levels, from small and medium-sized to large • State-of-the-art environmental technologies (AQCS,*1 IGCC*2) Nuclear Power • Highest levels in the world in safety technologies and product quality Strengths • Extensive track record in offshore wind turbines (second-largest share of the Renewable Energy world market) and launch of a 9.5 MW, high-output offshore wind turbine (MVOW) • Combustor and low-pressure turbine manufacturing techniques amassed over Aero Engines many years MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Compressors • Top share of the market in the chemical plant ﬁeld Marine Machinery • Flexible customization and the ability to provide solutions • Mutual use of technologies, human resources, and facilities Turbomachinery Synergies Gas turbines, aero engines, aero-derivative gas turbines [PWPS*3], compressors, pumps, MET turbochargers, organic Rankine cycle [Turboden] *1 AQCS: Air Quality Control System *2 IGCC: Integrated coal Gasiﬁcation Combined Cycle *3 PWPS: PW Power Systems Gas and Steam Power • Limited track record for delivery of aftermarket services W Nuclear Power • Little experience in constructing new plants overseas Renewable Energy • Limited lineup Weaknesses Aero Engines • Market led by European and US engine manufacturers Compressors • Track record in the oil and gas market Marine Machinery • Global service network • Need for high-efficiency, green power generation in line with increasingly O stringent environmental regulations Management Strategies Gas and Steam Power • Need for supply and demand adjustments in accordance with the expansion of Opportunities renewable energy • Introduction and expansion of new generation capacity, mainly in emerging Nuclear Power markets in anticipation of upcoming carbon-free societies • Growing demand for offshore wind turbines (markets are expanding in Europe, Renewable Energy the U.S., Taiwan, and Japan) Aero Engines • Sustained growth in the airplane market Compressors • Increasingly vigorous oil and gas markets Marine Machinery • Strengthened environmental regulations Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses • Increasingly stringent competition with overseas companies T Gas and Steam Power • Expanded use of renewable energy and backlash against coal-ﬁred thermal power Nuclear Power • Trend away from nuclear power generation Renewable Energy • Market susceptible to policy-driven subsidy trends Threats Aero Engines • Aircraft component business changing due to technological innovation Compressors • Delayed recovery in the oil and gas market, increasingly severe competition Marine Machinery • Long slump in the maritime transport and shipbuilding industries The Value We Deliver MHI Group provides stable electrical power with bining its diverse technologies. superior economic efficiency and offers solutions Additionally, we are able to offer environmentally Financial and Non-Financial Data, that allow for both societal development and comfriendly solutions in existing power generation ﬁelds, fortable livelihoods. We do this by promoting a harsuch as coal-ﬁred generation systems equipped with monious coexistence between renewable energy IGCC—which generates power with a low environCorporate and Stock Information and stable sources of electric power such as gas, mental impact by extracting gas from coal—and with coal-ﬁred power, and nuclear power. technology that recovers about 90% of CO2 emissions. For example, we also deal in hydrogen mixedMHI Group will propose an electricity supply fuel combustion power generation, which has a low system that ﬁts societal needs and fulﬁlls the basic environmental impact. MHI Group is aiming to conduct requirements of 3E+S (economy, energy security, hydrogen mono-fuel combustion power generation and environmental protection and safety), as outthat does not emit CO2 in the future, and will drive lined in Japan’s Strategic Energy Plan. the construction of an energy supply chain by comMHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 51 ©MHI Vestas Offshore Wind 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan: Growth Strategies Throughout the duration of the 2018 Medium-Term haul and parts repair business. Business Plan, we will steadily execute ongoing projMHI is also aiming to strengthen its competitiveects involving our abundant gas and steam power ness in renewable energy. To this end, we will systems and endeavor to secure proﬁt. At the same respond to an expanding offshore wind power market time, we will promote the growth strategies below, by bolstering our system of mass production and by which were formulated in anticipation of the 2021 releasing an offshore wind power generation device Medium-Term Business Plan. with a higher output than any other. Furthermore, we We will work to improve proﬁtability by establishwill propose solutions that raise added value through ing new gas and steam power systems, performing a combination of ﬂexible power sources (small size revamp work on existing power generation facilities gas turbines, etc.) and energy storage (storage batto reduce carbon emissions and enhance efficiency, teries, power to fuel, etc.). and expand the service business by making use of In the compressors business, we will secure orders leading-edge digital technologies. for petrochemical plants, which has been an area of In the nuclear power business, we will focus on strength for us. In addition, we will demonstrate our the safe and reliable construction of facilities that turbomachinery synergies and strive to expand our are compliant with new Japanese safety criteria and business into the upstream oil and gas market with that can handle speciﬁc large accidents. After the support of technologies such as our gas turbinerestarting facility operations, we will engage in all driven LNG compressor train, which combines comvarieties of maintenance. Furthermore, we will conpressors with smallto medium-size gas turbines. tinue to provide support for the Fukushima Daiichi Furthermore, MHI will work to open up new ﬁelds Nuclear Power Station of Tokyo Electric Power of business through its power and energy solution Company Holdings, Inc. business, which incorporates an integrated manageIn terms of aero engines, we will strive to expand ment system that utilizes AI and IoT technologies resources in order to respond to robust demand for such as MHPS-TOMONI® and ENERGY CLOUD®. commercial aircraft and focus on our engine overActivities Focused on the 2018 Medium-Term OUR GOALS Business Plan and Beyond Technology that contributes to the achievement of low-carbon and carbon-free societies Evolution of core technologies and Turbomachinery synergies commercial machinery Improvement of existing power generation Efficient business expansion through mutual systems use of turbine technology, human resources, (Safety improvements in high-efficiency and largeand facilities capacity GTCC, hydrogen, ammonia, and methane(Turbine products such as our gas turbines, fueled gas turbines and light-water reactor plants) aero engines, aero-derivative gas turbines, Renewable energy power generation compressors, pumps, MET turbochargers, (Wind, geothermal, hydroelectric, and organic Rankine cycle) and organic Rankine cycle) 52 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Measures Aimed at Achieving Goals in the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan Breakdown of Sales Plan (Billions of yen) • Improvement in proﬁtability through efficient construction in ongoing projects 1,900.0 • Expansion of the service business (modiﬁcaMarine machinery Renewable energy Gas and steam power tion to existing facilities aimed at reducing generation systems carbon emissions and improving efficiency, Nuclear power digitalization, and O&M* optimization, etc.) 1,493.9 Aero engines • Improvement in operating efficiency with MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Compressors continued implementation of PMI • Response to new Japanese safety criteria and promotion of safe and reliable construction of facilities that can handle speciﬁc large accidents • Implementation of maintenance after Gas and steam power restarting facility operations generation systems Nuclear power • Support for the completed construction of nuclear fuel cycle facilities • Support for stabilization of the Tokyo Electric Power Company’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station • Strengthening of risk management for parFY2017 FY2020 ticipation in overseas projects Net sales Net sales (actual) (forecast) • Expansion of business scale in response to Note: Results for our affiliate MHI Vestas Offshore Wind A/S (MVOW), robust demand for commercial aircraft Aero engines which deals in offshore wind power systems, are not included Management Strategies • Expansion of engine overhaul and parts in this graph because the company is accounted for using the repair business equity method. • Strengthening of competitive power in Renewable energy response to an expanding offshore wind As a Member of the Local power market Community • Creation of new compressor facilities and Others (compressors, enhancement of service facilities as the oil Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems turbomachinery and gas market environment recovers synergies, power and • Business creation and demonstration of Americas, Inc. (MHPS Americas), a synergies of our wide-ranging turbomachinenergy solution ery technologies power business company in the Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses business, etc.) • Opening of new business ﬁelds through the Americas, invites multiple local high power and energy solution business *O&M: Operation and Maintenance school and college student groups every year to its Orlando Service Center. Through this opportunity, the students learn how power plants work, and how natural gas turbines are manufactured and repaired. MHPS Americas aims to promote Integrated management that utilizes AI and IoT technologies science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and manufacFinancial and Non-Financial Data, Power and energy solutions turing careers. Services for power generating stations Corporate and Stock Information (Flexible operation, performance improvement, and O&M optimization) Services for customers (Support for energy infrastructure, O&M support, EMS* and utility optimization systems, and maintenance support) *EMS: Energy Maintenance System MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 53 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW INDUSTRY & INFRASTRUCTURE The Industry & Infrastructure and its diverse range of environmentally friendly products support people’s daily lives in countless ways: air-conditioning systems in households and offices; forklifts in logistics; transportation systems and ships in the movement of people and things; and metals machinery, chemical plants, and a wide range of machinery in the industries and societies, help to make people’s lives and society happier and more fulﬁlling. In January 2018, we completed a structural reform that transformed all operations into business companies. In this new stage of growth, through our technologies and products, we will move forward social infrastructures and living environments to the future. Operating Environment and Net Sales by Core Business Addressing Social Issues Commercial ships Chemical plants Material handling equipment Recently, achieving economic development while reducing environmental impact has become an Transportation systems FY 2017 increasingly important social issue. Environmental Environmental systems regulations are growing more stringent in various ¥1,898.9 billion Turbochargers ﬁelds, prompting MHI Group to increase social contriMetals machinery Machine tools bution through its technologies and experience. For Engines Machinery systems example, more stringent international emissions regAutomotive Air-conditioning and refrigeration thermal systems ulations on ship exhaust gas will go into effect in 2020. We forecast that demand for compliant equipment will rise in response. At the same time, needs are Operating Performance (Billions of yen) rising for turbochargers that help improve fuel consumption and reduce CO2 emissions in automobiles 80.0 75.0 (4.2%) and for centrifugal chillers adapted for use with low40.8 (3.9%) Proﬁt from (2.1%) Operating income business activities environmental-impact refrigerants. (Margin) (Margin) At the same time, the rapid expansion of e1,898.9 1,950.0 1,900.0 1,950.0 1,900.0 1,711.3 commerce has exacerbated labor shortages in the global logistics market and prompted the need to improve distribution efficiency. In the medium and long term, we expect a greater demand for initiatives that respond to urban issues Orders Net Orders Net Orders Net such as waste treatment, as well as the shift to elecreceived sales received sales received sales FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 triﬁcation and automation in logistics and transporta(forecast) (forecast) tion systems. After application of IFRS 54 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Expertise cultivated in a wide range of product ﬁelds and effective utilization of resources within the domain S Material Handling • Third largest business scale in the world Equipment Strengths Turbochargers • Development of highly efficient products leveraging high-speed rotational technologies Thermal Systems* 1 • Extensive product lineup and world-class environmental and energy-saving technologies Metals Machinery • Full product lineup and global presence Transportation • Advanced system integration capabilities in urban transport and extensive experience MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Systems with APM*2 Chemical Plants • Advanced EPC*3 management capabilities based on extensive plant experience Commercial Ships • Superiority over competitors in environmental and energy-saving technologies *1 Thermal Systems: Air-conditioning and refrigeration, automotive thermal systems *2 APM: Automated People Mover (fully automated, driverless vehicles) *3 EPC: Engineering, Procurement, and Construction Tendency to be affected by short-term economic ﬂuctuations W Chemical Plants • Volatility in orders received • Relatively weak cost competitiveness on repeated construction of ships with the same Weaknesses Commercial Ships specifications Material Handling Equipment • Increasing market for logistics solutions with expansion of e-commerce business O Management Strategies • Growing trend toward downsized engines with turbochargers in response to Turbochargers environmental and fuel performance regulations Opportunities • Growing power generation market in line with increases in demand for distribEngines uted power systems Thermal Systems • Rising awareness toward environmental preservation • Increasing demand for energy savings and low-environmental-impact products, Metals Machinery expanding demand for high-value-added products such as high-grade steel sheets Transportation Systems and • Market growth in emerging countries due to economic development and Environmental Systems urbanization • Increasing plant investment in natural-gas-producing countries (including the Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Chemical Plants U.S. and Central Asian countries) Commercial Ships • Increasingly stringent environmental regulation of maritime transport Rise of manufacturers in emerging countries T Sense of uncertainty in the global economy Transportation • Expansion of competitors’ businesses through M&A Systems Threats Chemical Plants • Increasing geopolitical risks Commercial Ships • Increasingly severe competition as the gap between supply and demand for new ships persists The Value We Deliver We offer a variety of value based on the principle of unmanned, and labor-saving technologies such as Financial and Non-Financial Data, creating a society that helps people live happier and the AGF, we respond to needs for safety, security, more fulﬁlled lives. We help prevent climate change and increased efficiency. MHI will also mitigate traffic with turbochargers that reduce CO2 emissions by congestion and secure comfortable travel for people Corporate and Stock Information enabling engine downsizing and with centrifugal through transportation systems such as ITS*2 and chillers with low-environmental-impact refrigerants. APM. Furthermore, we will create environmentally At the same time, we are offering more direct solufriendly urban spaces with a variety of environmental tions to climate change through marine exhaust gas systems, including waste-to-energy systems. We will cleaning systems and CO2 recovery plants with the also support industrial technology innovation with highest processing capacity in the world. Additionally, our metals machinery and machine tools. Through we are strengthening our solutions business initiaall of these products and solutions, we will contribute tives related to the logistics market, which is changto the realization of sustainable societies. ing and growing remarkably. At the center of these *1 AGF: Automated laser-Guided Forklift *2 ITS: Intelligent Transport Systems initiatives is our AGF*1. Through automated, MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 55 Automated laserCentrifugal chiller guided forklift 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan: Growth Strategies After three years of portfolio management under our structural reforms to secure earnings. Through 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan, we have estabresource sharing and better efficiency, our machinlished a new structure that allows for the sustainery systems, which are involved in a wide range of able growth of each business. In the growing market businesses, will function as a base for domain earnfor material handling equipment and thermal sysings. Meanwhile, we will aim to build a continuously tems, we will invest proactively to expand sales and stable proﬁt structure in our machine tools business. improve proﬁtability. For turbochargers and engines, Finally, our domain will provide a common base to we will enhance proﬁtability with advanced producenhance technical capabilities and innovation to tion systems and through technology differentiation. properly execute each business’s strategies and In the metals machinery, commercial ships, and maximize value. *Chemical plants, transportation systems, and environmental systems engineering-related businesses*, we will promote Activities Focused on the 2018 Medium-Term OUR GOALS Business Plan and Beyond Energy efficiency Urban issues Industrial and logistics machinery Logistics and transportation systems, and robotics waste treatment Synergies among businesses Collaboration and alliances with within I&I domain customers and other companies Big data analysis, remote monitoring system SL-Lab development, etc. (Sophisticated Logistics Laboratory) Domains provide one-stop support for each business Create next-generation logistics with customers (Design conceptualization approach) Core technologies: technology sharing with cross-divisional projects/ technology sharing with system tools Technologies Project engineering: project engineering support/ project engineering capability development Digitalization: promotion team in Europe/ data analysis/ agile development/ design conceptualization 56 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Measures Aimed at Achieving Goals in the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan Breakdown of Sales Plan Proactively invest in growing markets (Billions of yen) Drive domain growth with expansion of business scale and earnings 2,000.0 1,898.9 Commercial ships Material Increase sales and earnings with multi-brand, global/local strategies for expanding markets. Strengthen solution/service Chemical plants handling Transportation systems businesses and differentiate through advanced technologies equipment that anticipate megatrends Environmental systems Expand sales networks globally and increase production Metals machinery Thermal MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization capacity to expand business scale. Increase thermal solutions business with low-environmental-impact refrigerants and by Machine tools systems boosting global sales of products for electric vehicles Machinery systems Enhance proﬁtability through advanced production systems and techAutomotive thermal systems nology differentiation Air-conditioning and refrigeration Enhance business with advanced production systems and an Turbochargers improved operating ratio. Strengthen development capabilities Engines to offer products for diversiﬁed power train lineups to meet more stringent environmental regulations Turbochargers Reinforce core competencies (segment for high output range Engines over 1 MW) and expand business scale in the distributed power systems market Material handling Generate base-load for domain earnings through shared resources equipment and better efficiency In mechatronics systems*, promote and expand new busiFY2017 FY2020 Machinery nesses by generating synergies through business consolidaNet sales Net sales systems tion. Develop ITS and paper converting machinery businesses (actual) (forecast) in the South Asian and other markets Build a continuously stable proﬁt structure Management Strategies Expand overseas sales of high-value-added gear grinding machines. Upgrade lineup of machines for die and mold proAs a Member of the Local Machine tools duction and aim for an early launch of new products, such as ﬁne laser processing machines Community Secure and raise earnings by reforming and improving the business Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Mahajak structure Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. (MACO), the Metals Promote business model reform by expanding maintenance and service business and offering life cycle services that focus base of our air conditioner business in machinery on customer value Thailand, has been donating facilities EngineeringIncrease proﬁtability by developing business before/after EPC related and advancing after-sales services. Expand business ﬁeld with to be used as schoolhouses or classAddressing Social Issues through Our Businesses businesses the accumulation of engineering management capabilities rooms to local elementary schools Commercial Shift to high-density outﬁtted ships and value-added ships, since 1998. Since its establishment, expand marine engineering business based on environmental ships solutions MACO has been doing its part to * Mechatronics Systems: machinery, steel structure plants, etc. improve economic development in Thailand through initiatives such as job creation, export expansion, and technology exchange. MACO also endeavors to be a good corporate Social infrastructure innovations citizen by directly contributing to the resolution of issues facing societies in Future mobility and logistics Thailand; employees listen to requests and demands from local residents and Financial and Non-Financial Data, Companywide synergies including MACO works to respond to them. defense and space Moving forward, the company will continue cooperating with surrounding works collaborative activities of industry, Corporate and Stock Information regions to raise the quality of people’s infrastructure, integrated defense & space lives. Dual-use technology, cyber security space, mobility MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 57 BUSINESS SEGMENT OVERVIEW AIRCRAFT, DEFENSE & SPACE In the Aircraft, Defense & Space, we deal in structural parts, such as fuselage panels and main wings, for commercial aircraft, which are increasing their market presence as a means of transportation. In addition, we are currently promoting the development of MRJ. These 70–90-seater regional jets are more environmentally friendly and comfortable. Furthermore, we contribute to safe and secure livelihoods through initiatives such as developing defense equipment and launching space vehicles with payloads such as observation satellites. Operating Environment and Net Sales by Core Business Addressing Social Issues The number of operating aircraft is expected to Commercial aviation systems double over the next 20 years as travel intensiﬁes FY 2017 due to globalization. Demand for the development Integrated defense & space systems ¥722.9 billion of more fuel-efficient aircraft has surfaced in response to emissions regulations regarding future environmental impact and ﬂuctuations in oil prices. Due to these conditions, the commercial aircraft business is expected to expand. Operating Performance On the other hand, as values diversify, world (Billions of yen) affairs are becoming increasingly complicated. In -15.1 -15.0 (-2.1%) (-2.1%) the defense and space ﬁelds, by the request of our Operating income -45.0 (Margin) (-6.4%) Proﬁt from main customer, the Japanese government, we are business activities 721.5 722.9 (Margin) doing our part to achieve and maintain societies in 650.0 700.0 650.0 700.0 which people can live safely and securely. Orders Net Orders Net Orders Net received sales received sales received sales FY2017 FY2018 FY2018 (forecast) (forecast) After application of IFRS 58 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Commercial Aviation Systems S Long-term customer relationships, a long history of expertise in manufacturing aircraft, and the creation of relationships with parts suppliers based on the foundation of a domestic aircraft industry Design and manufacturing technologies for large composite main wing boxes and other structural components Strengths Development of MRJ with high levels of efficiency, reliability, and superior operational economics Integrated Defense & Space Systems Leading-edge technologies fostered through the development of defense and space products • Ability to make proposals for integrated defense systems, and expertise and channels cultivated MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization Defense through international joint collaboration • Development capabilities in launch vehicles and launch vehicles engines and world-leading levels Space of reliability Commercial Aviation Systems W High degree of reliance on speciﬁc customers High sensitivity to foreign exchange ﬂuctuations, as business is concentrated on overseas customers Weaknesses Shortage of experience in commercial aircraft development Integrated Defense & Space Systems Defense • Limited experience in pursuing and leading overseas opportunities Space • Inadequate cost competitiveness in global markets Commercial Aviation Systems O Demand for approximately 34,000 aircraft over the next 20 years Demand for about 3,500 70–90-seater jet aircraft over the next 20 years Opportunities Management Strategies Integrated Defense & Space Systems • Cabinet approval of the Three Principles on Transfer of Defense Equipment and Technology Defense • Accelerating development and procurement of new products in line with the formulation of Japan’s Mid-Term Defense Program • Growing launch market in line with an expanding need for satellites, including the use of space in Space national security Commercial Aviation Systems T Globalization of aircraft production (business being promoted separately in developed countries and emerging countries) Industry reorganization due to integration and resulting intensiﬁcation of competition Threats Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Integrated Defense & Space Systems • Lower domestic budget for front-line combat equipment expenses due to increased overseas Defense procurement • Concern regarding price-cutting by new U.S. companies entering the market for overseas launch Space services The Value We Deliver In the commercial aircraft business, we are responworld-leading success rate of 97.4% (as of June 30, sible for manufacturing main wing boxes for the 2018). This success provides evidence of the high Boeing 787, which uses a composite material quality of the products and services that we offer. Financial and Non-Financial Data, instead of aluminum alloy. The composite material We also use the cutting-edge technologies we helps reduce airframe weight and improve fuel effihave cultivated through this ﬁeld in various other ciency. We are also applying technologies such as ﬁelds, applying them in product materials, strucCorporate and Stock Information cutting-edge ﬂuid analysis in our development of tures, and control. With these diverse technological MRJ airframes. applications, we are able to demonstrate our In the defense and space business, we are utilizstrengths, even in ﬁelds where competing compaing the most advanced technologies to offer products nies struggle. and services that contribute to the safety and secuWe will continue to engage in activities aimed at rity of society. For example, our H-IIA launch vehicle, preserving a society in which people can live more which handles the launch of payloads such as obsersafely and securely while making full use of these vation and communication satellites, boasts a sophisticated technology development capabilities. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 59 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan: Growth Strategies In the commercial aircraft business, we continue to high value-added ﬁelds, which include airframe proceed with business structure reforms and work accessories. to improve productivity through measures such as In the defense and space business, we are planintroducing automated equipment. The Company is ning to expand into new business ﬁelds, such as aiming to deliver its ﬁrst MRJ to customers by midcommand and control and unmanned aerial, ground, 2020. This product, which is currently under developand maritime systems, while continuing to conduct ment, is receiving high praise from the market and is stable business operations by offering world-class expected to become a large pillar for the future of products. At the same time, we will utilize the techthe Company. nologies we have cultivated over the years to expand Furthermore, we will strengthen the collaboraour overseas business and our existing ﬁelds such tive relationship between our MRJ and Tier 1 busias MRO*. In addition, we will promote expansion into nesses and aim to advance into new lines of advanced security consumer products. business, such as airplane operation support and *MRO: Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul Activities Focused on the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan and Beyond Commercial Aviation Systems Tier 1 business: strengthening of current businesses Collaboration between the Tier 1 business and MRJ business: MRJ90 development, TC (type certiﬁcate) the full-scale commercial aircraft business acquisition, ﬁrst delivery by mid-2020 Advance into differentiated competitive advantage areas (Airframe OEM) Promote automation (labor-saving to •Advanced materials (composites) full automation) •Advanced engineering /manufacturing processes Upskill and cross-train human resources (3D printer) •High value-added products (key components, etc.) Land, sea, and air Space Land, Sea, Air, Space, and Cyberspace Front line combat Launch vehicles Dual-use business equipment Peripheral ﬁeld business Integrated Defense & Space Systems 60 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Measures Aimed at Achieving Goals in the 2018 Medium-Term Business Plan Breakdown of Sales Plan Tier 1 (Billions of yen) • Accelerate labor savings by introducing automated equipment 722.9 720.0 Improve • Automate indirect work processes using AI/IoT productivity • Concentrate production capacities to achieve highly efficient parts manufacturing • Replace auxiliary/routine work with IT systems to reduce labor costs Reduce ﬁxed costs • Upgrade and diversify personnel skills, reallocate and MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization equalize deployment of resources Integrated defense & • Reduce working capital and generate cash ﬂow with space systems Control external advanced procurement processes* expenses • Internalize outsourced operations using optimal human resources MRJ (Secure a long-term, sustainable business) Strengthen ties with Expand proﬁtability through business synergy and Tier 1 businesses entry into high value-added markets Strengthen sales and Enhance human resources and consider partnercustomer support Commercial aviation ships with outside agencies structures systems Pursue full-scale Build a business foundation by establishing a development and early TC position in the largest RJ market early FY2017 FY2020 acquisition of MRJ70 Net sales Net sales *Introduce systems for acquisition of specialist skills, including information systems such as AI/IoT/RPA, (actual) (forecast) production processes, procurement operations, CAD/NC programs, etc. Integrated Defense & Space Systems Expand existing domestic ﬁelds and peripheral ﬁelds As a Member of the Local Management Strategies Existing • Steadily start up our next core businesses Community ﬁelds • Expand our business ﬁelds (command and control, M&S*, etc.) Peripheral • Expand MRO business in the maintenance and repair services ﬁeld MHI continually operates its special ﬁelds • Advance into new peripheral ﬁelds (unmanned platforms, big data utilization, etc.) science classroom, the Tanegashima Expand overseas business Space School, in Tanegashima, • Utilize channels shared with overseas manufacturers Adapt MHI key that were cultivated through existing partner businesses components for use in • Collaborate Kagoshima. This school supports the with other companies while lobbying the overseas equipment Japanese government dreams of children who will lead the • Participate in joint development projects with allied nations International joint next generation by offering tours of development projects • Start up and promote initiatives in collaboration with the Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Japanese government launch vehicle production facilities Establish dual-use development businesses • Utilize core technologies from the defense business and opportunities to view launches. In • Expand private demand, primarily in the commercial security ﬁeld this classroom, our engineers provide *M&S: Modeling and Simulation education regarding aerospace science and technologies and conduct mock launches using plastic bottle rockets that the children make. Through activities such as these, the Advance into new lines of business Tanegashima Space School raises •Future aircraft children’s curiosity and interest •Traffic control regarding craftsmanship and develFinancial and Non-Financial Data, ops human resources ready to spread OUR OUR their wings and soar into the future. GOALS GOALS Land, Sea, Air, Space, and Cyberspace Corporate and Stock Information Safe and secure total solutions MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 61 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS INPUT ACTIVITIES As of March 31, 2017 (Year-on-year change) Total assets Research and Development expenses Key topics in ﬁscal 2017 ¥ 5,481.9 billion ¥ 176.8 billion 10.0% UP Promoting measures to address struggling businesses • Accelerate measures in the MRJ and Tier 1 Net assets Capital investment businesses ¥ 2,104.1 billion ¥ 158.4 billion 22.5% DOWN • Move forward with post-merger integration (PMI) at major joint ventures • Implement structural reforms and meaInterest-bearing debt Energy input*1 sures at engineering businesses ¥ 925.5 billion 5,179 TJ 13.3% DOWN Strengthening the ﬁnancial foundations • Ensure thorough cash ﬂow management • Increase balance sheet efficiency and Number of employees Number of overseas employees asset management (such as by winding 82,728 people 27,954 people DOWN 2.8% down cross-shareholdings) Strengthening risk management Number of patents held Considering and preparing the transition to 22,248 a global management structure KPI: Number of whistleblowing cases Initiatives Addressing Material ESG Issues We have established the MHI Whistleblowing Hotline, which is available to all employees, including those of Group companies, and the MHI External Whistleblower Hotline. The An Optimal Governance Structure Based on Our Corporate Culture Compliance Committee secretariat promptly investigates and • An optimized organization to continually contribute to society through business responds appropriately to all reports made to these hotlines. Material • The assurance of fair operating practices and appropriate labor practices FY/cases Issue Objective: Number of whistleblowing 1 Ensure an organizational culture in which values are shared globally and universally Strategic KPIs: cases, by type Labor and the work environment 2015 39 2016 42 2017 49 • Instill globally consistent policies that conform with the international code of conduct Overall discipline and 24 28 17 (establish universality) breaches of manners • Enhance transparency (assure universality) Transaction-related laws 8 11 11 Consultations and opinions 11 3 0 • Enhance disclosure and stakeholder engagement Other 49 34 36 Total (number of corrections 131 118 113 and improvements) (85) (64) (59) The Use of Global Human Resources KPI: Number of female managers • The attraction and development of human resources with the ability to respond to In July 2014, MHI set a target to increase the number of the Material Company’s female managers (in positions of section manager globalization Issue and higher) threefold from the current level by 2020, and is • Diversity and equal opportunity, including the empowerment of female employees promoting the active participation of women in the workplace 2 Objective: Be an organization that embraces diversity (Ensure that barriers to diversity are removed) in conjunction with its pursuit of diversity management. FY/people Strategic KPIs: 2015 2016 2017 Improvement in diversity-related indicators 102 126 149 *People in positions of section manager or higher as of April 1 of each year. In principal, ﬁgures are for MHI and Mitsubishi Response to Mega Trends Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. • Innovation and quality control to meet global needs Material • Enhanced safety and security, including improved information disclosure and Please see the Company’s website for details on Issue transparency CSR initiatives related to the environment, soci3 Objective: Enact strategic measures and business operations that meet the needs of global society ety, and governance (ESG). Strategic KPIs: CSR site https://www.mhi.com/csr/ Improvement in stakeholder evaluations (SRI surveys, customer satisfaction surveys, etc.) 62 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP OUTPUT OUTCOME MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization As of March 31, 2018 (Compared with ﬁscal 2016) Orders received 9.4% Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent Total assets ¥ 3,875.7 billion DOWN ¥ 70.4 billion 19.6% DOWN ¥ 5,487.6 billion 0.1% UP Net sales Dividend payments (for FY2017) Net assets ¥ 4,110.8 5.0% billion UP ¥ 40.2 billion NO CHANGE ¥ 2,164.4 billion 2.9% UP Operating income EBITDA Interest-bearing debt ¥ 126.5 billion 16.0% DOWN ¥ 319.1 billion 6.1% DOWN ¥ 813.1 billion 12.1% DOWN Management Strategies Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions*2 Reduction in CO2 from using MHI’s products Number of employees (Compared with ﬁscal 1990 levels) 270 kilotons 14.8% DOWN 49,791 20.5% kilotons DOWN 80,652 people DOWN 2.5% Number of patents held EBITDA margin ROE 7.8 % 0.9 POINT DOWN 3.9 % 1.2 POINTS DOWN 24,487 10.1% UP Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Number of Employees/ Research and Development Expenses/ Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Emissions*2 Ratio of Overseas Employees As a Percentage of Net Sales (Kilotons) 34.5% 34.8% 34.7% 4.3% 548 Ratio of 33.6% 4.1% overseas 3.7% employees As a percentage 3.6% of net sales 406 81,845 83,932 82,728 80,652 176.8 150.6 160.7 317 Number of 145.5 employees Research and 270 development expenses (billions of yen) 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Net Sales/Overseas Sales Ratio Number of Patents Held*3 Industrial Accident Frequency Rate*4 Financial and Non-Financial Data, 53.4% 55.4% 54.2% 0.37% Overseas 53.5% sales ratio 24,487 22,248 0.28% 20,894 Corporate and Stock Information 18,765 3,992.1 4,046.8 3,914.0 4,110.8 China Net sales Three major 0.20% (billions of yen) European countries 0.15% U.S. Japan 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) *1 Data is for MHI on a non-consolidated basis (production plants and offices). *2 Data is for MHI on a non-consolidated basis. However, ﬁgures for ﬁscal 2014 include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. *3 Data is for MHI and major consolidated subsidiaries. The three major European countries are the United Kingdom, Germany, and France. *4 In principle, ﬁgures are for MHI on a non-consolidated basis and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 63 ELEVEN-YEAR FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL DATA Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its subsidiaries Years ended March 31 ROE 4.3% Proﬁt attributable to 61.3 owners of the parent 2.4% (Billions of yen) 1.8% 1.9% 1.1% 30.1 24.2 24.5 14.1 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 Years ended March 31 or as of March 31 Billions of yen 2006 Medium-Term Business Plan 2008 Medium-Term Business Plan 2010 Medium-Term Business Plan Orders received ¥ 3,715.2 ¥ 3,268.7 ¥ 2,476.2 ¥ 2,995.4 ¥ 3,188.8 Net sales 3,203.0 3,375.6 2,940.8 2,903.7 2,820.9 Operating income 136.0 105.8 65.6 101.2 111.9 Income before income taxes and minority interests 101.3 64.9 28.1 39.4 69.8 Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent 61.3 24.2 14.1 30.1 24.5 Research and development expenses ¥ 107.9 ¥ 101.3 ¥ 129.2 ¥ 123.2 ¥ 121.4 Capital investment 191.4 196.6 177.1 126.6 120.7 Depreciation 129.2 153.8 140.4 134.4 126.2 Total assets ¥ 4,517.1 ¥ 4,526.2 ¥ 4,262.8 ¥ 3,989.0 ¥ 3,963.9 Net assets 1,440.4 1,283.2 1,328.7 1,312.6 1,306.3 Interest-bearing debt 1,365.3 1,612.8 1,495.3 1,325.6 1,157.1 Cash ﬂows from operating activities ¥ 161.8 ¥ 79.5 ¥ 117.9 ¥ 337.8 ¥ 200.3 Cash ﬂows from investing activities (193.0) (156.5) (180.7) (137.2) (47.0) Free cash ﬂows (31.2) (77.0) (62.7) 200.5 153.3 Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities 71.2 262.0 (105.2) (169.7) (183.6) Per share information of common stock*2 Yen Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent–basic ¥ 182.76 ¥ 72.16 ¥ 42.20 ¥ 89.74 ¥ 73.14 Net assets 4,231.74 3,699.45 3,807.98 3,761.68 3,740.84 Cash dividends 60.00 60.00 40.00 40.00 60.00 Ratios Overseas sales ratio 48.7% 48.9% 50.3% 49.0% 41.9% Operating income margin 4.2% 3.1% 2.2% 3.5% 4.0% Return on equity*3 4.3% 1.8% 1.1% 2.4% 1.9% Return on assets*4 1.4% 0.5% 0.3% 0.7% 0.6% Current ratio 160.9% 158.7% 181.7% 167.9% 153.9% D/E ratio*5 95% 126% 113% 101% 89% Equity ratio*6 31.4% 27.4% 30.0% 31.6% 31.7% Dividend payout ratio*7 32.8% 83.2% 94.8% 44.6% 82.0% *1 U.S. dollar amounts in this report are translated from yen, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥106.24 = U.S. $1, the exchange Non-ﬁnancial indexes rate prevailing at March 31, 2018. *2 The Company conducted a 1-for-10 reverse stock split on common shares on October 1, 2017. The interim dividend for ﬁscal Number of employees 2017 and data for ﬁscal 2016 and earlier is calculated as if the reverse stock split had been conducted at the beginning of the respective ﬁscal years. Calculations of per-share data are based on these assumptions. Number of overseas employees *3 Return on equity = proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent / (net assets – share subscription rights – non-controlling interests) *4 Return on assets = proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent / total assets Number of female managers*8, 9 *5 D/E ratio = interest-bearing debt / net assets Industrial accident frequency rate*9 *6 Equity ratio = (net assets – share subscription rights – non-controlling interests) / total assets *7 Dividend payout ratio = dividends / proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent Energy input*11 (TJ) *8 People in positions of section manager or higher as of April 1 of each year *9 In principle, MHI and Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd on a non-consolidated basis. Greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions*13 (kilotons) *10 Includes MHI on a non-consolidated basis and 23 Group companies. Social contribution expenses (billions of yen) *11 Data is for MHI on a non-consolidated basis (production plants and offices). However, ﬁgures for ﬁscal 2014 include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. *12 Includes MHI on a non-consolidated basis and 152 Group companies. *13 Data is for MHI on a non-consolidated basis. However, ﬁgures for ﬁscal 2014 include the Nagasaki, Takasago, and Yokohama plants of Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. 64 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 11.0% 160.4 7.4% 110.4 MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization 97.3 6.5% 87.7 5.1% 70.4 63.8 3.9% 3.7% 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 Millions of 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan 2015 Medium-Term Business Plan U.S. dollars*1 ¥ 3,032.2 ¥ 3,420.0 ¥ 4,699.1 ¥ 4,485.5 ¥ 4,275.6 ¥ 3,875.7 $36,480 2,817.8 3,349.5 3,992.1 4,046.8 3,914.0 4,110.8 38,693 163.5 206.1 296.1 309.5 150.5 126.5 1,190 155.4 214.4 232.6 132.6 169.7 128.0 1,205 Management Strategies 97.3 160.4 110.4 63.8 87.7 70.4 663 ¥ 120.0 ¥ 138.5 ¥ 145.5 ¥ 150.6 ¥ 160.7 ¥ 176.8 $ 1,664 118.8 148.6 156.1 175.5 204.4 158.4 1,490 119.4 134.9 157.0 158.7 172.7 176.1 1,657 ¥ 3,935.1 ¥ 4,886.0 ¥ 5,520.3 ¥ 5,500.7 ¥ 5,481.9 ¥ 5,487.6 $51,652 1,430.2 1,774.2 2,120.0 1,999.7 2,104.1 2,164.4 20,372 1,031.2 957.4 975.5 1,052.1 925.5 813.1 7,653 ¥ 288.3 ¥ 296.2 ¥ 212.8 ¥ 270.0 ¥ 95.9 ¥ 345.1 $ 3,248 (76.7) (151.5) (174.1) (262.4) 8.7 (137.1) (1,291) 211.6 144.6 38.6 7.5 104.6 207.9 1,956 Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses (154.2) (136.6) (45.8) (23.1) (162.0) (152.1) (1,431) U.S. dollars ¥ 290.09 ¥ 478.13 ¥ 329.04 ¥ 190.17 ¥ 261.24 ¥ 209.82 $1.974 4,109.00 4,599.86 5,306.47 5,003.00 5,299.14 5,431.02 51.120 80.00 80.00 110.00 120.00 120.00 120.00 1.129 44.8% 49.3% 53.4% 55.4% 53.5% 54.2% 5.8% 6.2% 7.4% 7.6% 3.8% 3.1% 7.4% 11.0% 6.5% 3.7% 5.1% 3.9% 2.5% 3.6% 2.1% 1.2% 1.6% 1.3% 155.0% 139.2% 146.2% 135.7% 139.4% 141.0% Financial and Non-Financial Data, 72% 54% 46% 53% 44% 38.0% 35.0% 31.6% 32.3% 30.5% 32.5% 33.3% 27.6% 16.7% 33.4% 63.1% 45.9% 57.2% Corporate and Stock Information 68,213 80,583 81,845 83,932 82,728 80,652 14,129 19,909 27,489 28,941 28,751 27,954 82 74 85 102 126 149 Consolidated 0.11 0.23 0.15 0.20 0.37 0.28 0.31 *10 10,303 9,796 9,885 7,398 5,976 5,179 17,003 *12 533 538 548 406 317 270 883 *12 1.4 1.4 1.9 2.1 2.5 1.7 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 65 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars ASSETS 2018 2017 2018 Current assets: Cash and deposits ¥ 313,458 ¥ 248,040 $ 2,950,470 Trade receivables 1,232,742 1,180,143 11,603,369 Merchandise and ﬁnished products 173,152 178,884 1,629,819 Work in process 899,839 989,336 8,469,870 Raw materials and supplies 139,822 157,330 1,316,095 Deferred tax assets 108,954 114,274 1,025,545 Indemniﬁcation asset for the South African project 400,903 294,955 3,773,559 Other current assets 319,337 368,088 3,005,807 Allowance for doubtful accounts (8,998) (8,959) (84,695) Total current assets 3,579,212 3,522,095 33,689,871 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment, net: Buildings and structures 340,447 361,310 3,204,508 Machinery and transportation equipment 234,690 262,129 2,209,054 Tools, equipment and furniture 47,758 64,511 449,529 Land 179,936 179,674 1,693,674 Leased assets 5,224 5,004 49,171 Construction in progress 59,828 62,448 563,140 Total property, plant and equipment, net 867,884 935,078 8,169,088 Intangible assets: Goodwill 105,125 120,552 989,504 Others 107,655 128,896 1,013,318 Total intangible assets 212,781 249,448 2,002,833 Investments and advances: Investment securities 605,434 578,758 5,698,738 Long-term loans 18,623 17,778 175,291 Asset for retirement beneﬁt 73,426 60,556 691,133 Deferred tax assets 27,350 13,060 257,435 Others 109,548 113,407 1,031,137 Allowance for doubtful accounts (6,608) (8,204) (62,198) Total investments and advances 827,774 775,356 7,791,547 Total non-current assets 1,908,440 1,959,883 17,963,478 Total assets ¥5,487,652 ¥5,481,978 $51,653,350 66 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2018 2017 2018 Liabilities: Current liabilities: Trade payables ¥ 771,324 ¥ 736,502 $ 7,260,203 Electronically recorded obligations 106,968 99,560 1,006,852 Short-term borrowings 229,584 205,679 2,160,993 Current portion of long-term borrowings 68,956 97,729 649,058 Current portion of bonds 30,000 60,000 282,379 Income taxes payable 27,251 31,233 256,504 Provision for product warranties 13,936 14,899 131,174 Provision for loss on construction contracts 64,896 49,853 610,843 Provision for loss on passenger vessel — 18,463 — construction business Provision for business structure improvement 6,739 6,585 63,431 Provision for share-based payment arrangements 781 366 7,351 Management Strategies Advance payments received on contracts 899,642 777,654 8,468,015 Other current liabilities 318,138 428,734 2,994,521 Total current liabilities 2,538,219 2,527,262 23,891,368 Non-current liabilities: Bonds 205,000 215,000 1,929,593 Long-term borrowings 279,630 347,157 2,632,059 Deferred tax liabilities 77,590 85,689 730,327 Provision for stock beneﬁts 1,148 1,247 10,805 Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Provision for treatment of PCB waste 6,911 6,485 65,050 Liability for retirement beneﬁts 137,893 123,160 1,297,938 Other non-current liabilities 76,789 71,858 722,788 Total non-current liabilities 784,963 850,598 7,388,582 Total liabilities 3,323,183 3,377,860 31,279,960 Net assets: Stockholders’ equity: Common stock, without par value: Authorized shares: 600,000,000 Issued shares: 2018–337,364,781 and 2017–3,373,647,813 265,608 265,608 2,500,075 Capital surplus 213,898 203,658 2,013,347 Retained earnings 1,244,492 1,214,749 11,713,968 Financial and Non-Financial Data, Treasury stock (2018–1,370,499 shares and (4,081) (4,609) (38,413) 2017–15,513,870 shares) at cost Total stockholders’ equity 1,719,918 1,679,407 16,188,987 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss): Corporate and Stock Information Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 100,021 100,600 941,462 Deferred gains or losses on hedges (880) (1,882) (8,283) Translation adjustments (6,999) (2,287) (65,879) Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 12,732 3,683 119,841 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 104,874 100,113 987,142 Share subscription rights 2,129 2,536 20,039 Non-controlling interests 337,547 322,059 3,177,211 Total net assets 2,164,469 2,104,118 20,373,390 Total liabilities and net assets ¥5,487,652 ¥5,481,978 $51,653,350 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 67 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 Net sales ¥4,110,816 ¥3,914,018 $38,693,674 Cost of sales 3,379,874 3,180,898 31,813,573 Gross proﬁt 730,942 733,119 6,880,101 Selling, general and administrative expenses 604,412 582,576 5,689,118 Operating income 126,530 150,543 1,190,982 Non-operating income (expense): Interest income 4,155 3,799 39,109 Dividend income 12,211 11,637 114,937 Foreign exchange gain — 10,213 — Income from equity method investments 3,230 — 30,402 Gain on arbitration expenses awarded in the arbitration relating to nuclear equipment in the US — 6,558 — Other income 15,674 9,945 147,533 Interest expense (9,036) (11,461) (85,052) Foreign exchange loss (10,385) — (97,750) Loss from equity method investments — (22,845) — Loss on disposal of ﬁxed assets (7,022) (7,627) (66,095) Other expenses (20,896) (26,470) (196,686) Total non-operating income (expense) (12,067) (26,249) (113,582) Ordinary income 114,462 124,293 1,077,390 Extraordinary gain (loss): Gain on sales of investment securities 31,303 61,047 294,644 Gain on sales of ﬁxed assets — 53,861 — Business structure improvement expenses (14,548) (12,810) (136,935) Impairment loss (3,174) — (29,875) Loss on passenger vessel construction business provision — (34,323) — Compensation for damages decided in the arbitration relating to nuclear equipment in the US — (16,076) — Loss on revaluation of investment securities — (6,272) — Total extraordinary gain (loss) 13,579 45,424 127,814 Proﬁt before income taxes 128,042 169,718 1,205,214 Income taxes: Current 63,184 49,856 594,728 Deferred (31,315) 14,584 (294,757) Total income taxes 31,868 64,440 299,962 Proﬁt 96,173 105,278 905,242 Proﬁt attributable to non-controlling interests 25,689 17,557 241,801 Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 70,484 ¥ 87,720 $ 663,441 Yen U.S. dollars Per share information of common stock: 2018 2017 2018 Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent basic ¥209.82 ¥261.24 $1.975 Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent diluted 209.39 260.71 1.971 Cash dividends —* 12.00 — * The Company conducted a 1-for-10 reverse stock split on common shares on October 1, 2017. Taking this reverse stock split into account, dividends for ﬁscal 2017 amount to ¥120 per share. 68 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization 2018 2017 2018 Proﬁt ¥ 96,173 ¥105,278 $905,242 Other comprehensive income (loss): Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (648) 60,914 (6,099) Deferred gains or losses on hedges 2,488 3,676 23,418 Translation adjustments (1,790) (23,946) (16,848) Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 9,501 20,893 89,429 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of entities accounted for by the equity method (857) (6,165) (8,066) Total other comprehensive income (loss) 8,694 55,371 81,833 Comprehensive income (loss) ¥104,868 ¥160,649 $987,085 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to: Management Strategies Owners of the parent ¥ 75,244 ¥152,495 $708,245 Non-controlling interests 29,623 8,154 278,830 Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Financial and Non-Financial Data, Corporate and Stock Information MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 69 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Stockholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Valuation differDeferred Total Remeasurements accumulated Share NonCommon Capital Retained Treasury ence on availgains or Translation Total net stockholders’ of deﬁned beneﬁt other subscription controlling stock surplus earnings stock able-for-sale losses on adjustments assets equity plans comprehensive rights interests securities hedges income Balance as of March 31, 2016 ¥265,608 ¥203,951 ¥1,173,053 ¥(4,771) ¥1,637,842 ¥ 40,108 ¥ 3,044 ¥ 17,762 ¥(18,998) ¥ 41,917 ¥2,616 ¥317,360 ¥1,999,737 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies — (6,578) (6,578) (6,578) Restated Balance ¥265,608 ¥203,951 ¥1,173,053 ¥(4,771) ¥1,637,842 ¥ 40,108 ¥(3,533) ¥ 17,762 ¥(18,998) ¥ 35,338 ¥2,616 ¥317,360 ¥1,993,158 Cash dividends (40,291) (40,291) (40,291) Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent 87,720 87,720 87,720 Changes in scope of consolidation (333) (333) (333) Changes in scope of equity method (5,398) (5,398) (5,398) Changes in treasury stock of the parent arising from transactions with non-controlling shareholders (398) (398) (398) Purchase of treasury stock (81) (81) (81) Disposal of treasury stock 104 243 348 348 Net changes in items other than stockholders’ equity 60,491 1,651 (20,049) 22,682 64,774 (80) 4,699 69,394 Subtotal — (293) 41,696 161 41,564 60,491 1,651 (20,049) 22,682 64,774 (80) 4,699 110,959 Balance as of March 31, 2017 ¥265,608 ¥203,658 ¥1,214,749 ¥(4,609) ¥1,679,407 ¥100,600 ¥(1,882) ¥ (2,287) ¥ 3,683 ¥100,113 ¥2,536 ¥322,059 ¥2,104,118 Cash dividends (40,305) (40,305) (40,305) Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent 70,484 70,484 70,484 Changes in scope of consolidation (681) (681) (681) Changes in scope of equity method 246 246 246 Changes in treasury stock of the parent arising from transactions with non-controlling shareholders 10,077 0 10,077 10,077 Purchase of treasury stock (21) (21) (21) Disposal of treasury stock 162 549 711 711 Net changes in items other than stockholders’ equity (578) 1,002 (4,712) 9,048 4,760 (407) 15,487 19,840 Subtotal — 10,239 29,743 528 40,511 (578) 1,002 (4,712) 9,048 4,760 (407) 15,487 60,351 Balance as of March 31, 2018 ¥265,608 ¥213,898 ¥1,244,492 ¥(4,081) ¥1,719,918 ¥100,021 ¥ (880) ¥(6,999) ¥12,732 ¥104,874 ¥2,129 ¥337,547 ¥2,164,469 Thousands of U.S. dollars Stockholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Valuation differDeferred Total Remeasurements accumulated Share NonCommon Capital Retained Treasury ence on availgains or Translation Total net stockholders’ of deﬁned beneﬁt other subscription controlling stock surplus earnings stock able-for-sale losses on adjustments assets equity plans comprehensive rights interests securities hedges income Balance as of March 31, 2017 $2,500,075 $1,916,961 $11,434,007 $(43,382) $15,807,671 $946,912 $(17,714) $(21,526) $ 34,666 $942,328 $23,870 $3,031,428 $19,805,327 Cash dividends (379,376) (379,376) (379,376) Proﬁt attributable to owners of the parent 663,441 663,441 663,441 Changes in scope of consolidation (6,410) (6,410) (6,410) Changes in scope of equity method 2,315 2,315 2,315 Changes in treasury stock of the parent arising from transactions with non-controlling shareholders 94,851 0 94,851 94,851 Purchase of treasury stock (197) (197) (197) Disposal of treasury stock 1,524 5,167 6,692 6,692 Net changes in items other than stockholders’ equity (5,440) 9,431 (44,352) 85,165 44,804 (3,830) 145,773 186,746 Subtotal — 96,376 279,960 4,969 381,315 (5,440) 9,431 (44,352) 85,165 44,804 (3,830) 145,773 568,062 Balance as of March 31, 2018 $2,500,075 $2,013,347 $11,713,968 $(38,413) $16,188,987 $941,462 $ (8,283) $(65,879) $119,841 $987,142 $20,039 $3,177,211 $20,373,390 70 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the ﬁscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization 2018 2017 2018 Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Proﬁt before income taxes ¥128,042 ¥ 169,718 $1,205,214 Adjustments to reconcile proﬁt (loss) before income taxes to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 176,104 172,762 1,657,605 Impairment loss 3,174 — 29,875 Amortization of goodwill 16,484 16,568 155,158 Increase (decrease) in liability for retirement beneﬁts 6,612 (1,093) 62,236 Interest and dividend income (16,366) (15,437) (154,047) Interest expense 9,036 11,461 85,052 Foreign exchange loss (gain) (2,239) (8,337) (21,074) (Income) loss from equity method investments (3,230) 22,845 (30,402) (Gain) loss on sales of investment securities (31,303) (61,047) (294,644) Loss on revaluation of investment securities 372 6,272 3,501 (Gain) loss on sales of ﬁxed assets (1,693) (53,861) (15,935) Loss on disposal of ﬁxed assets 7,022 7,627 66,095 Gain on negative goodwill (45) — (423) Management Strategies Business structure improvement expenses 14,548 12,810 136,935 Loss on passenger vessel construction business provision 34,323 (Increase) decrease in receivables (42,093) (11,002) (396,206) (Increase) decrease in inventories and advances to suppliers 126,965 (121,023) 1,195,077 (Increase) decrease in other assets (110,734) (117,552) (1,042,300) Increase (decrease) in payables 41,733 (14,261) 392,818 Increase (decrease) in advance payments received on contracts 118,648 39,375 1,116,792 Increase (decrease) in other liabilities (54,039) 52,556 (508,650) Others (15,908) (3) (149,736) Subtotal 371,089 142,703 3,492,931 Interest and dividends received 21,470 20,270 202,089 Interest paid (8,456) (12,185) (79,593) Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Income taxes paid (38,994) (54,875) (367,036) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 345,109 95,913 3,248,390 Cash ﬂows from investing activities: Net (increase) decrease in time deposits (5,849) 2,521 (55,054) Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (165,168) (200,185) (1,554,668) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 8,231 97,013 77,475 Purchases of investment securities (104,514) (5,033) (983,753) Proceeds from sales and redemption of investment securities 112,122 17,376 1,055,365 Proceeds from sales of investments in subsidiaries that result in change in scope of consolidation 1,900 102,436 17,884 Payment for sales of investments in subsidiaries that result in change in scope of consolidation (928) (849) (8,734) Proceeds from transfer of business 1,400 — 13,177 Disbursement of long-term loans (1,993) (10,996) (18,759) Collection of long-term loans 15,898 13,868 149,642 Others 1,719 (7,440) 16,180 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (137,181) 8,712 (1,291,236) Financial and Non-Financial Data, Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings and commercial papers 25,963 (132,340) 244,380 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 6,449 60,206 60,702 Repayment of long-term borrowings (96,841) (62,804) (911,530) Corporate and Stock Information Proceeds from issuance of bonds 20,000 30,000 188,253 Payment for redemption of bonds (60,000) (20,000) (564,759) Proceeds from issuance of stock to non-controlling shareholders 519 445 4,885 Dividends paid to stockholders (40,206) (40,283) (378,445) Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (6,128) (2,682) (57,680) Others (1,868) 5,381 (17,582) Net cash provided by (used in) ﬁnancing activities (152,113) (162,078) (1,431,786) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,607 1,060 15,126 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 57,422 (56,392) 540,493 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 242,404 300,267 2,281,664 Increase in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in scope of consolidation 2 — 18 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in scope of consolidation (592) (1,470) (5,572) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ¥299,237 ¥ 242,404 $2,816,613 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 71 CORPORATE DATA As of March 31, 2018 Head Office: 16-5, Konan 2-chome, Stock Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka, and Sapporo Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8215, Stock Exchanges Japan Ticker Code: 7011 Phone: +81-3-6716-3111 Manager of the Register Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Established: January 11, 1950 of Shareholders: Corporation Paid-in Capital: ¥265.6 billion 4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Total Number of Issuable Shares: 600,000,000 Tokyo 100-8212, Japan Total Number of Shares Issued: 337,364,781 Number of Shareholders: 270,890 Independent Auditors: KPMG AZSA LLC Number of Employees: 80,652 (Consolidated) 1-2 Tsukudo-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 14,717 (Non-consolidated) 162-8551, Japan Number of shares owned Shareholder Major Shareholders by major shareholders Composition (%) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 16,478,900 4.88 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 11,603,300 3.43 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 8,002,274 2.37 The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. (Retirement Beneﬁt Trust Account for The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.) 6,526,300 1.93 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 6,404,400 1.89 State Street Bank West Client Treaty 505234 6,212,881 1.84 Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. 6,108,020 1.81 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 5,396,500 1.59 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 4,760,000 1.41 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 2) 4,686,000 1.38 Classiﬁed by Type of Shareholder Classiﬁed by Number of Holdings 100 shares and above Less than 10.44% 100 shares (207,706 persons） 0.08% Individuals and Financial (11,287 persons) others institutions 500 shares and above 28.96% 29.69% 10,000 shares 5.37% and above (30,150 persons） 73.46% 1,000 shares (982 persons) Securities and above companies 8.98% Foreign 5.23% (19,882 persons） institutions and individuals Other 5,000 shares and above 27.89% corporations 1.67% 8.23% (883 persons) Stock Price Range and Trading Volume (Tokyo Stock Exchange) MHI common stock price range TOPIX (Yen) TOPIX 8,000 2,000 6,000 1,500 4,000 1,000 2,000 500 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0 (Thousands of shares) 120,000 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Note: The Company conducted a 1-for-10 reverse stock split on common shares on October 1, 2017. Data on share price and trading volumes for periods prior to this date has been retroactively calculated as if the reverse stock split had taken place previously. 72 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP GLOBAL NETWORK MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization 7 6 5 16 9 10 1 2 8 17 14 11 18 4 19 13 20 21 12 22 3 15 Overseas Head Offices and Networks Management Strategies Overseas Offices Overseas Head Offices and Networks Overseas Offices North America Europe and CIS 1 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. 16 Turkey Liaison Office 2 MHI Shared Services Americas, Inc. Middle East Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses Latin America 17 Middle East Office 3 Mitsubishi Industrias Pesadas do Brasil Ltda. Asia and Oceania 4 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. 18 Taipei Office Europe and CIS 19 Hanoi Liaison Office 5 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries France S.A.S. 20 Ho Chi Minh City Liaison Office 6 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Europe, Ltd. 21 Kuala Lumpur Office 7 MHI Russia LLC 22 Jakarta Liaison Office Africa 8 MHI Technologies S.A.E Asia and Oceania Financial and Non-Financial Data, 9 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (China) Co., Ltd. Corporate and Stock Information 10 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 11 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Hong Kong) Ltd. 12 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd. 13 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. 14 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. 15 MHI Australia, Pty. Ltd. MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 73 HISTORY Establishment: Pre-WWII—Helping Japan along the Path to Becoming a Modern Nation The history of MHI begins with our 1884 start of a full-ﬂedged shipbuilding business in Nagasaki. After that point, we made rapid progress as we pursued the advances taking place in Europe and the United States. In addition to shipbuilding, we drove our growth by building automobiles, aircraft, turbines, and internal-combustion engines. Later, we also turned our world-leading technologies to the manufacture of products to meet military demand, such as battleships and ﬁghters. Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works (1884) Post-WWII: High-Growth Period—A Key Player in Turning Japan into a Nation of Abundance Post-war, in 1950, in line with the GHQ’s policy of dissolving large industrial groups (zaibatsu), MHI was divided into three independent and competing companies. In addition to providing such heavy equipment as tankers and gas turbines, we supported Japan’s reconstruction across a broad range of product ﬁelds, including motor scooters and air conditioners. The three companies integrated in 1964, and we played a role in Japan’s rapid economic growth through the development and production of such social infrastructure as power plants and bridges as well as Tower parking garage (1963) container carriers, monorail systems, and other transportation equipment. Slowing Japanese Economic Growth—Stagnating Growth as the Japanese Economy Slows The 1973 oil crisis marked the end of Japan’s rapid economic growth and had a major impact on MHI’s business, particularly in shipbuilding. After that point, we established an industrial machinery business and enjoyed steady expansion until Japan again entered a period of slow growth following the bursting of its economic bubble. During that period, we succeeded in launching rockets and expanded our business domains to include aerospace. Although we continued to hone our leading-edge technologies, annual net sales remained around the ¥3 Successful launch of the ﬁrst H-I launch vehicle (1986) trillion level for approximately 30 years. Toward an Era of Sustainability and Diversity—Pursuit of New Growth by Becoming a Global Company Although growth in Japan has leveled off, the economies of overseas emerging countries have been expanding rapidly, pushing up demand for infrastructure development. Also, amid a growing sense of crisis about climate change and the depletion of natural resources, environmental protection has become a consistent theme worldwide. For MHI, which has supplied diverse infrastructure over many years and pursued environmentally friendly technologies since the oil crisis, this situation A “J-Series” gas turbine achieved the world’s highest turbine inlet temperature 1,600°C, during has presented new opportunities for growth, and we are pursuing the path to veriﬁcation testing. (2011) becoming a global company. 74 MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP STATUS OF IR ACTIVITIES Brieﬁngs for Individual Investors MHI’s Vision and Steps toward Its Realization We hold brieﬁngs for individual investors in locations throughout Japan, centered on the major cities. In these meetings, we provide a corporate overview and explain our business strategies, shareholder returns, CSR initiatives, and other topics. We also conduct factory tours for individual investors on an ad hoc basis. Brieﬁngs for Analysts and Institutional Investors We conduct ﬁnancial results brieﬁngs each quarter, where the CFO explains performance details. At the ﬁscal 2017 ﬁnancial results brieﬁng in May 2018, the president also explained about the 2018 Business Plan, a three-year medium-term business plan beginning in ﬁscal 2018. In addition, we hold business strategy brieﬁngs, small meetings, and factory tours on an ad hoc basis. Meetings with Overseas Investors We visit overseas investors located in North America, Europe, and Asia, explaining our operating performance, management Management Strategies strategies, and other information. Several times each year, we also participate in conferences held in Japan and overseas. Status of Inclusion in ESG Indexes (As of August 2018) We have been chosen for inclusion in the FTSE Blossom Japan Index, an ESG index comprising companies that excel in their response to the environment, society, and governance. Addressing Social Issues through Our Businesses We have been selected for inclusion in the Asia Paciﬁc Index, an Asia Paciﬁc regional index for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), a global stock index for socially responsible investing (SRI). We have been selected for inclusion in the MSCI Japan Empowering Women (WIN) index. This ESG index is composed of those top-500 Japanese companies by market value that are included in various categories within the international industry classiﬁcation standards and excel at gender diversity. This year marks our ﬁfth publication of the MHI Report. Financial and Non-Financial Data, In this edition, we communicate our vision for contributing to people’s lives in order to remain a company whose ongoing existence is considered necessary by society. Based on consistent Corporate and Stock Information targets for realizing this vision, we attempt to portray how individual resources function organically within the Company. We hope that this report will serve as a tool for promoting an understanding of the Company among shareholders and investors, as well as a tool for dialogue. We look forward to hearing your frank opinions. August 2018, Investor Relations & Shareholder Relations Department MHI REPORT 2018 I MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP 75 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, LTD. K137-MHIR18E1-A-0, (3.5)18-11, F
