ESG Initiatives Nippon Chemi-Con incorporates ESG (environment, society, governance) into our corporate strategies to pursue sustainable growth. We outline activity goals and promote company-wide participation. E Promote business activities focused on global environment Sustainable S Promote human resource development and work/ life balance corporate G Ensure corporate governance, corporate ethics, growth and transparency of management ESG Activities (Major activities/goals for FY2018) Core issues / Materiality FY2018 major activities and goals Global warming prevention and energy conservation activities Appropriate management of chemical substances used by factories Management of chemical substances contained in the products (environmentally conscious products) E Effective use of resources and waste reduction, promotion of 3Rs Global environment conservation Continuous improvements based on environment management system (ISO14001) Biodiversity conservation activities Contributions to local society Compliance with environmental laws Development of energy-efficient products Overseas assignments via the global human resources development program (application based) HR/benefits Reflect results of employee awareness surveys in HR strategies Adopt welcome back program (rehiring program) Enhance work time management system by establishing worker health and safety system Reduce overtime to average 29 hours per worker per month Worker health and safety Increase paid leave usage rate and childcare leave usage rate to 70% and higher Adopt mandatory rest between shifts Continued implementation of healthy company activities S Conduct position-specific training (15 times/year) Human resource development Continue to offer Japan training program for overseas local workers Continue implementing measures to maintain 5-year turnover rate of 12% or less for young employees Proactive hiring of foreign students studying in Japan Increase rate of hiring for disabled workers to 2.5% or higher by 2020 Conduct cross-segment training for female employees Diversity Increase rate of female hiring to 30% or higher for technical and manufacturing positions and 40% or higher for sales and administrative positions Increase number of female managers by 50% by 2020 Provide support such as vaccines and clothing to developing nations Social welfare Support wheelchair purchases Increased participation in management by outside officers and creation of environment that promotes engagement Reflect results of internal controls efficacy evaluations on management Corporate governance Compliance with basic policy on corporate governance Constructive communication with shareholders (continue investor visits) G Hold IR conferences (twice) Respond to EU GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) Risk management Regular BCP validation, reviews (head office, factories) Reinforce information leak prevention (data center, thin client, internal audits, etc.) Systematic implementation of compliance education Compliance Continued participation in UN Global Compact (participating since 2012) Continue internal audits related to competition laws, export management, ethics, labor, and health and safety Website CSR/Environment http://www.chemi-con.co.jp/e/env/index.html Website Careers http://www.chemi-con.co.jp/comeback.html CSR Management Basic CSR Policy The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact In 2003, the Nippon Chemi-Con Group released the Nippon Chemi-Con Group Charter of Corporate Behavior as an 1 Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect internal and external declaration of our commitment to Rights the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and business activities that ensure our position as a corporation that contributes to society through fair and transparent Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. business activities. Based on the spirit of this Charter of Corporate Behavior, 2 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of the Nippon Chemi-Con Group Business Conduct Guidelines association and the effective recognition of outline the character that every executive and employee of the right to collective bargaining; the Nippon Chemi-Con Group must apply to our daily Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and corporate activities. As a company that provides products compulsory labour; and services capable of contributing to the lifestyles of Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and people around the world, we strive for harmony with Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in international society while maintaining our commitment to respect of employment and occupation. the local community and stakeholders. We are committed 3 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a to compliance with the laws and regulations of each country precautionary approach to environmental and practice honest business activities based on sound challenges; corporate ethics and a strong awareness of our position as Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater a corporate citizen. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion Positioning of CSR Activities of environmentally friendly technologies. Nippon Chemi-Con does not simply pursue profits. We Principle 10 Businesses should work against 4 A ntistrive to fulfill our social responsibilities as a corporation and corruption in all its forms, including Corruption contribute to the greater society. With this in mind, we extortion and bribery. position CSR activities as a core aspect of our business activities. 1 2 Human Labour CSR Promotion System Rights The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has established a CSR promotion system within the Nippon Chemi-Con Administration Department to work with each department and factory on specific activities. 3 4 We go beyond simple corporate activities. For example, in Antithe area of social contributions, we collaborate with labor Environment Corruption unions on activities such as purchasing wheelchairs through soda can pull tab collections, providing vaccinations to developing countries through PET bottle cap collection, and donating clothing to developing countries. SDGs In 2014, we launched healthy company initiatives that focus on the health management of employees and their families. We aim to contribute to the sustainable development goals We are promoting activities that involve employee families to (SDGs) outlined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable ensure that both employees and their families lead Development adopted at the September 2015 UN Summit. energetic, healthy lifestyles. Participation in UN Global Compact On January 26, 2012, the Nippon Chemi-Con Group announced our support for and participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The UNGC is comprised of 10 universal principles related to four areas: human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. The Nippon Chemi-Con Group is working to incorporate the 10 principles of the UNGC into our daily business activities in order to achieve a high level of corporate social responsibility and meeting the expectations of all our stakeholders. 28 CHEMI-CON REPORT 2018 Human Resources Strategy / Healthy Company Diversity Nippon Chemi-Con Education Policy Aiming to diversify management by promoting In our 8th medium-term management plan, we outline global HR development and utilization of females developing the human resources for 10 years ahead as one in the workplace of our core strategies. What is happening on the global stage? What is our position and what must we study? To Amid continuing globalization, overseas production achieve continuous innovation, we ensure that all our accounts for approximately 63% of production (in volume) employees understand the following education policy. at Nippon Chemi-Con and of our approximately 7,000 employees, about 64% are outside Japan. Regardless of Nippon Chemi-Con Group Education Policy age, gender, or nationality, we emphasize individuality Requirements of a Nippon Chemi-Con Group employee common to both domestic and international offices among our diverse human resources. We believe that the 1. Employees who can take on increasingly difficult new ideas created as a result of this diversity will contribute challenges to the creation of technology that benefits both the 2. Employees with high communication skills environment and people. 3. Employees who can independently think and act from a Also, Nippon Chemi-Con faces the reality that women only global perspective represent 2.0% of employees in management positions. To address this and the Women’s Workplace Utilization Promotion Act enacted in April 2016, we drafted a plan to About Nippon Chemi-Con Group Education and Training System (1) increase the number of women in management positions At Nippon Chemi-Con, we have established various by 50% by 2020 and, (2) increase the percentage of female education systems of tiered training for personnel hires to 30% and higher for technical and manufacturing development, including position-based training, distance positions, and 40% and higher for sales and administrative learning (Nippon Chemi-Con Business School), and OJT. positions. We will continue to promote various initiatives Tiered training is a system of curriculum that serves as the aimed at promoting the utilization of women in the foundation for long-term personnel development. Our main workplace. office sponsors fifteen tiered training sessions where we provided education on the skills required for each tier. In Composition of employees 2016, we established an additional system for employees who have been with the company for five years. We are Japan 35.7% Overseas 64.3% focused on providing training that is in line with the needs of society and the company. Since 2017 we also conduct OJT leader training at domestic affiliate companies. We aim to equip new hires with the ability to quickly engage in and Utilization of Foreign Students in Japan contribute to business operations. This training will also help Nippon Chemi-Con practices the hiring of foreign students develop the basic management skills of supervisors in studying in Japan. Amid continuing globalization, our belief charge of education and training. that the hiring of human resources who live in Japan and Additionally, since 2010 our domestic production division have an understanding of Japanese culture is vital. Since has conducted global leadership training for select young 2012, we have aggressively recruited foreign students in employees. This training covers themes that transcend Japan. As of April 2018, we have 21 such personnel on position and office and provide education that cannot be staff who are involved in a variety of roles in the company. gained through tier-based training. With the goal of increasing employee skill levels at our overseas affiliates, since 2006 we have selected employees from overseas offices to participate in training conducted in Japan. Since then, already over 130 overseas employees have participated. Among those who have completed the training are numerous employees who are already working as managers overseas. This fiscal year we also started overseas training as an educational program for global personnel. This program is application based and selects Promoting the Hiring of Persons with Disabilities domestic employees to partake in practical training at Nippon Chemi-Con proactively conducts the hiring of overseas affiliates. persons with disabilities. Not only does this include staff on Moving forward, we will continue striving to develop human site in our various factories and offices, but we also work to resources capable of thinking, deciding, and acting based allow telecommuting to ensure a comfortable working on a global perspective and who are able to lead a team environment for persons with disabilities. We are aiming for comprised of a diverse range of individuals towards goal persons with disabilities to represent at least 2.5% of hiring achievement. by 2020. The Nippon Chemi-Con Group will continue Furthermore, we have partnered with a distance learning working to expand our overall hiring and provide work provider to offer distance learning courses covering nearly opportunities for persons with disabilities. 200 subjects twice a year. This system enables employees to freely select courses to promote skill improvement. As an incentive, employees who complete courses with high scores are eligible for partial tuition subsidies from the company. Also, employees who complete coursework are allotted “career points,” which are a parameter in the evaluation of promotions and raises. Linking this education system to our HR system helps promote self-improvement. Healthy Company Slogan Individual Commitment to Health Activity details rate of smokers, metabolic syndrome prevention, and Based on the approach that the mental and physical health mental health to implement initiatives that help improve the of employees is a benchmark of company management, health awareness of each employee. we are collaborating with health insurance unions to Also, since 2017, we have participated in the Survey on enhance employee health management efforts. When Health and Productivity Management conducted by employees and their families are healthy, employees are Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. By further able to work with peace of mind, which leads to growth for quantifying the “health”, we advance an effective approach the company. In particular, we identify keywords such as toward ensuring health. Activities during FY2018 Reinforcing smoking rules, reducing smoking – Reaching national smoking average (17.9%) Society is paying greater attention to measures against smoking because tobacco impacts not only the smoker but also the health of non-smokers due to second-hand smoke. Tobacco increases the risk of lung cancer and ischemic heart disease, and can greatly impact future health. We promote various anti-tobacco measures from the desire to promote health maintenance. Metabolic syndrome prevention measures – Reducing BMI of 25 or higher to 20% or lower by fiscal year 2020 We believe that obesity (BMI of 25 or higher) leads to severe diabetes and other future health risks. As such, we promote obesity prevention and improvement among employees by providing instruction regarding lifestyle changes. As obesity is spreading among younger generations, from the time of hiring we conduct blood tests as part of health examinations in order to emphasize the importance of health from an early stage. Furthermore, we promote improved health awareness by using internal magazine to introduce improvement case studies. We also conduct behavior modification seminar at all sites once a year to provide an opportunity for our employees to think about health management and lifestyle diseases prevention. Mental health support – Continuation of stress check system We conduct the stress check system at all workplaces to expand opportunities for discovery with a focus on prevention. In doing so, we are working to prevent the rate of workers who suffer from mental illness or require a leave of absence. At the same time, we provide line care training for management personnel to provide opportunities for learning how to respond to consultations from subordinates. Achieving work-life balance We work to create a comfortable work environment that enables balance between work and childcare or family care in order to provide all employees with the opportunity to reach their full potential. We also have established an action plan based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextGeneration Children. Through this plan, we aim for paid leave utilization rates and child care leave utilization rates of 70% and higher, and to reduce average overtime to 29 hours or less per month, per employee. We are near achievement of these goals. We will continue enhancing systems that promote flexible and diverse working styles. 30 CHEMI-CON REPORT 2018 Corporate Governance / Compliance Corporate Governance independent outside director and the majority of members are independent outside directors. Basic Concept Our Audit & Supervisory Board comprises four members. The board audits decisions made by directors and operational Nippon Chemi-Con’s basic concept of corporate executions carried out by executive officers, the business and governance is to ensure the transparency and efficiency of financial positions of Nippon Chemi-Con and its subsidiaries in management for shareholders and all other stakeholders. Japan and overseas. In addition to legal functions such as General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors, the Audit & Business Supervision and Audit Function Supervisory Board, and Accounting Auditor, the company established the internal control systems, and continuously Nippon Chemi-Con uses an executive officer system to provided information on business conditions through separate the business monitoring and supervision function briefing session on financial results and timely disclosure to and the business execution function of company directors implement sound, efficient and transparent corporate in order to strengthen the business monitoring and management. supervision function of directors. The Audit & Supervisory Board monitors the state of Our Corporate Governance System governance and business management, and also monitors daily business activities, including the activities conducted Nippon Chemi-Con is a company with an Audit & Supervisory by directors. Specifically, Audit & Supervisory Board Board. The company has introduced an executive officer Members working under guidelines outlined in auditing system in the company since June 2014 in order to have a policies and audit plans created by the Audit & Supervisory distinct separation between inspection and supervision of Board attend board of directors meetings and conduct management and execution of operations. The company factory visits to investigate and validate the status of work concurrently reduced the number of directors but appointed implementation and business management, and conduct one outside director to strengthen the function of inspecting audits to determine the existence of circumstances that and supervising management. In June 2015, the number of violate laws or the Articles of Incorporation, or that could outside directors was increased to two to reinforce the harm the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. function. In addition to Audit & Supervisory Board Members fulfilling Additionally, to supplement the function of the Board of a role as a legal entity, we also have established the internal Directors, in November 2015 we established a Nomination audit department which reports directly to the company Advisory Committee and a Compensation Advisory Committee. president. The internal audit department works to For both the Nomination Advisory Committee and the strengthen monitoring functions for transactions and other Compensation Advisory Committee, the chairperson is an general business activities. The internal audit department Details of the Corporate Organs General Meeting of Shareholders Accounting Auditors Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Nomination Advisory Committee President Compensation Advisory Committee (Internal control and risk management) (Organs to execute business) Internal Audit Dept. Executive Committee Meeting Executive Officers Individual business departments, etc. Nippon Chemi-Con’s Board of Directors comprises six members. The Board of Directors with this small number has enabled to make swift Board of decisions and appointed two independent outside directors who are disinterested in the company to reinforce the function of inspecting and Directors supervising management. Executive Nippon Chemi-Con has introduced an executive officer system to make separation between the function of the Board of Directors’ decision Officer System making in management and of directors’ inspecting and supervising operations and the function of executive officers’ executing operations. Executive officers swiftly execute operations based on decisions in management by executing matters determined by the Board of Directors. Audit & Supervisory The Audit & Supervisory Board inspects the state of the corporate governance, the steering situations, and daily activities in management including Board those performed by directors. The Nomination Advisory Committee consult with other members about the content of a draft to be proposal to a General Meeting of Shareholders Nomination concerning selection and dismissal of directors and members of the Audit & Supervisory Board and the content of a draft to be proposed to the Advisory Committee Board of Directors concerning selection and dismissal of executive officers. Such consultations are conducted prior to determination of such proposals in light of the “Standards for Selection of Directors and Executive Officers” and the “Standards for Selection of Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board” set by the company, the conclusions of which are recommended to the Board of Directors. The Compensation Advisory Committee consult with other members about matters concerning compensation of directors and executive officers Compensation and expenses opinions and advice to the Board of Directors. Such consultations are conducted after the committee considers the business scale Advisory Committee and levels of compensation of employees of the company, and decent third party’s study conducted periodically on compensation of corporate management, etc. in addition to levels of compensation of other competitors, socio-economic conditions, etc. Executive Nippon Chemi-Con has established the Executive Committee Meeting for making swift decisions. The committee, which is the consultation organ on Committee Meeting operational execution policies, holds weekly meetings, in principle, in order to examine important subjects in management. conducts regular internal audits of management systems performance and investor long-term income and to the related to all aspects of business and provides detailed promotion of personnel growth and development. Our advice and recommendations aimed at improvement of basic policy is to achieve an appropriate and fair balance work processes and reinforcing compliance. that further increases director motivation toward maximizing corporate value. For the purpose of enhancing the independence and Selection of Outside Officers objectivity of functions related to determining directors’ Of the six directors of Nippon Chemi-Con, two are outside compensation, we establish a Compensation Advisory directors. Also, of our four Audit & Supervisory Board Committee to deliberate on matters related to directors’ Members, two are outside Audit & Supervisory Board compensation, after which a decision is made by the Board Members. of Directors. In addition to the parameters outlined in the Companies Furthermore, compensation for executive directors is Act, we established our own “Criteria for appointment of comprised of monthly compensation and performanceoutside officers that ensure independence from Nippon linked compensation, which is determined based on Chemi-Con” to ensure highly-independent audits and company performance for the given fiscal year and supervision by our outside officers. Outside officers are individual performance. As performance-linked selected based on these standards. compensation is not appropriate for non-executive All four outside officers are registered with the Tokyo Stock directors and outside directors, their compensation Exchange as independent officers. consists solely of monthly compensation. Compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is Officer Compensation monthly compensation only, which is determined as Compensation for Nippon Chemi-Con directors is designed individual fixed compensation based on deliberations by and managed as a system that is both linked to Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Total compensation Total compensation by type (million yen) Officer category Number of applicable officers (million yen) Base compensation Bonus Directors (excluding outside directors) 133 133 — 4 Audit & Supervisory Board Members 43 43 — 3 (excluding Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) Outside officers 36 36 — 4 Total 213 213 — 11 (For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) Compliance subsidiary to ensure and reinforce awareness of Nippon Chemi-Con Group Business Conduct Guidelines. These and Compliance Promotion System other compliance education and awareness activities are In addition to our Compliance Regulations, the Nippon conducted on a Group-wide level. Chemi-Con Group has established various internal One initiative related to ensuring compliance with competition regulations related to compliance and appoints a managing laws is to invite external lecturers (attorneys) to hold compliance officer (executive officer in charge of the competition law seminars. At the same time, we drafted the Nippon Chemi-Con Administration Department) as the Basic Policies Concerning Compliance with Competition chief officer in charge of compliance promotion and Laws and other internal regulations, manuals, etc., which are enforcement. This chief compliance officer oversees a applied to internal audits conducted by the legal affairs compliance committee, which works to draft compliance department every year. policy that is applied to the entire Group, draft action plans related to compliance, and conduct monitoring of Whistleblowing Help Desk implementation progress for these initiatives. Each The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has established department in Nippon Chemi-Con and Group company “Regulations Related to the Handling of Whistleblowing,” has assigned a compliance officer and compliance staff, through which we established a consultation desk and who work to promote and reinforce policy related to whistleblowing help desk for employees (Nippon Chemicompliance. Con in-house standing statutory member of the Audit & Supervisory Board and Administration Department Initiatives for enhancing education & training to ensure manager) as part of a system for ensuring the early compliance with laws including competition laws discovery and prevention of legal infractions and to protect As part of our CSR activities, Nippon Chemi-Con conducts whistleblowers. During compliance training, we explain the compliance training covering matters such as competition importance and effectiveness of whistleblowing to promote laws and insider trading regulations. Training is conducted at awareness about the whistleblowing system. every level, from new hires (including mid-career hires) to The legal affairs department (Nippon Chemi-Con management. We teach employees that compliance is a Administration Department) serves as the point of contact prerequisite in all corporate activities. We also provide for legal consultations related to daily operations and works education to each Nippon Chemi-Con department and to prevent compliance risks. Environmental Management Nippon Chemi-Con’s Environmental Policy (Summary) Environmental Activities ● Structures organization that operates at every level for The Nippon Chemi-Con Energy conserving the global environment group has the target of 1% conservation ● Sets environmental goals and targets, Improves and higher per unit of environmental performances, Continuous improvements improvement rate a year based on the Low-carbon society of EMS action Plan of Japanese 4 Industrial Associations from FY ● Considers biodiversity 2013, and we are promoting activities of the energy conservation working groups that are organized by the ● Observes all environmental laws, regulations, agreements, employees in charge of energy. and internal standards ● Promotes Energy conservation, Proper control of <Mid-term target> Chemical substances in the products, Effective use of In light of a “the Low-carbon society Action Plan” by the industrial associations: resources, Waste reduction Toward 2020 1 ● Promotes the development and marketing of products Improvement target in energy that have a less environmental loads consumption per unit Annual average : % and higher ● Educates and enlightens our entire workforce ● Prevents the environmental risks, and maintains <Long-term target> management systems that minimize the impacts from the In light of a common target set by the industrial associations: risks such as climate changes Toward 2030 ● Releases information to the public positively, and 1 Improvement target in energy promotes sufficient communication with the local consumption per unit Annual average : % and higher community and stakeholders Trends in volume of carbon dioxide emissions and Compliance to the Laws and Significant accidents occurrence status unit energy consumption (sites in Japan) (Comparison ratio to the base year %) In corresponding to the laws and regulations, depending 100 on regulation parameters, Nippon Chemi-Con Group sets 80 stricter independent standard value for management, and all legal standards are observed. 60 No significant accident occurred that impact the 40 The Voluntary Action Plan 2020 of the Industry environment. The Low-carbon 20 society Action Plan 0 1990 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2020 (FY) <Activities results> Total volume of carbon dioxide emissions and breakdown (t-CO2) Fiscal Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Purchased Electric Power 471,148 483,070 475,603 489,601 518,243 A-grade Heavy oil 21,593 23,921 23,446 27,127 29,378 Kerosene 1,551 1,489 1,507 1,581 1,799 City Gas 23,249 23,449 22,295 17,587 18,463 Gasoline 361 351 325 310 304 LPG 343 340 308 304 366 LNG 490 382 510 0 0 Gas oil 79 106 155 65 233 Industrial steam 2,532 2,557 2,465 2,430 2,561 Waste Materials – Oil, Plastics 0 0 0 0 0 Waste Materials – Paper, Wood 0 0 0 0 0 Total 521,346 535,665 526,614 539,005 571,347 Notes: 1. Energy-CO2 conversion factor used by the sites outside Japan is reappraised from 2014. 2. Amount of energy-origin CO2 emissions is calculated by using emission factor (adjusted emission factor) released from Federation of Electric Power Companies. Resource In the manufacturing Biodiversity In the Nippon Chemi-Con Group’s conservation activities of industries, the Initiatives activities to conserve biodiversity, we resources are essential will take actions for each of the three element. Efficient use of such resources will protect impacts on biodiversity. global environment. 1. [Impact from procurement of raw materials] In We encourage the “3R,” recycling, reusing, and reducing cooperation with our suppliers, we share views and activities in order to contribute to the preservation of the mutual understanding concerning biodiversity, and move continuously ahead with activities. environment. 2. [Impact on ecosystems caused by manufacturing] Our manufacturing processes use energy and resources, and Trends in volume of resources consumed by entire they emit CO2, waste water and other emissions. As this Nippon Chemi-Con Group is an area where our Group’s business activities directly ■ Metals ■ Plastics ■ Packaging material ■ Others have an impact, effective and continuous activities are (t) ongoing. 40,000 3. [Impact on biodiversity due to changes in environments surrounding our workplaces caused by our use of land] 30,000 Consideration to local environment and surrounding ecosystem by securing green space in our premises and 20,000 the social contribution activities. Biodiversity offers indispensable and vital bounties 10,000 (ecosystem services) to all of humanity. The activities that we are able to perform are steady and modest ones, we 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) think. Yet we believe that each workplace employing its ingenuity, and continuing with what small activities it can Trends in volume of water consumed by entire Nippon Chemi-Con Group accomplish, is a very significant thing. We will roll out such steady and continuous activities. ■ Water for industrial use ■ Underground water ■ Piped water (Kt) 15,000 N  ippon Chemi-Con Corp. Niigata Plant 12,000 Birdhouse placed in the premises to protect wild birds, and the “Visitor.” 9,000 6,000 3,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Chemi-Con Iwate Corp. A water quality analysis of the Waste The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has spring water “Suzu” which exists reduction addressed activities for resource nearby the site. recycling and reduction in landfill Analysis is conducted every year to monitor deterioration with age. disposal volumes by reducing the amount of industrial waste generated. We further promote 3R, effective utilization and recycling of resources to reduce wastes and improve the final disposal rate. Trends of final disposing rate (sites in Japan) C  hemi-Con Fukushima Corp. Kitakata Plant (%) Protection of Lilium rubellum 4 (red list) A flower bed is set in the premises for raise. 3 2 1 WEB ● For more information, please see the website below. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) http://www.chemi-con.co.jp/e/env/index.html Green Procurement and Green Purchase Management of chemical substances in the products Green procurement and Green Supplier Approval System Laws and regulations concerning chemical substances in In order to achieve products development that meet the products including revised EU RoHS, which will come diversified customer’s requirement, it is essential to in effect soon, are strengthened, and construction and construct cooperative relationship with suppliers and to practice of thorough management system has become share information in timely manner. essential. The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has constructed The Nippon Chemi-Con Group has established “Nippon management system for chemical substances in the Chemi-Con Group Green Procurement Guideline” from the products (CMS) based on JIS Z 7201 “Guidelines for the viewpoint of ensuring a strict level of management. To cope Management of Chemical substances in Products,” with with latest laws, regulations and requirements of “Keep Out, Do not Use, Do not Deliver, Do not Mix” as our automotive customers, we revised our Green Procurement key words, at all production sites. To ensure thorough Guidelines in April 2018 for more thorough management. management of “Keep Out” from development stage of the products, we have introduced environmental approval We held suppliers meeting when we revised our guidelines system to manage our purchasing materials and parts. to propel higher level of cooperation between Nippon By combining those two management systems and the Chemi-Con and our suppliers. Green Procurement Guidelines, we are able to manage We also conduct periodical and continuous audit and chemical substances in the products at various levels of evaluation on our suppliers to confirm their chemical corporate activities such as development, purchasing, substances management and environmental protection production and sales. Moreover, to ensure proper information distribution and to activities. satisfy customer’s requirements, from FY2017 we have been using chemSHERPA which was developed under guidance of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. Green Supplier Meeting Green purchase Each business site and plant of Nippon Chemi-Con Group carries out green purchase based on the Law on Promoting Green Purchasing and green procurement network standards. The guidelines encourage on procuring environmentally friendly goods and services. Contributions to Local Community The Nippon Chemi-Con Group values communication with local communities and actively promotes local contribution activities in a spirit of coexistence and coprosperity. Relationship with local community Certificate and Letter of appreciation in FY2017 Chemi-Con Iwate is participating in situ conservation ● Chemi-Con Nagaoka Corp. activities of “Minami-Medaka” (Oryzias latipes) which is one “Letter of appreciation – Nagaoka no-private-car-day of “Not apparent local fish.” With support from NPO and 2017” other people, we started protecting “Minami-Medaka” from Sponsorship: City of Nagaoka June, 2015. In October 2015, many fry were incubated. Chemi-Con Nagaoka received a “Letter of appreciation” Incubated fry have been presented to the local nursery from City of Nagaoka for participating City of Nagaoka schools, primary schools and junior high schools. We intend sponsored “no-private-car event in 2017” (Activity for to keep participating in activities, such as protecting reducing greenhouse effect gas). “Minami-Medaka” for future children. Cleaning volunteer work For the purpose of environment protection, Nippon ChemiCon Group continuously conducts cleanup of nearby areas by our employees. Seeking to leave the gifts of nature to future generations, many of our employees and their families participate in the cleanup activities including beach cleanups every year. Cleanup of nearby areas by Kitakata Plant, Chemi-Con Fukushima Corp. (October 2017) Beach cleanup by Takahagi Plant, Nippon Chemi-Con Corp. (July 2017)
