CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT JANUARY 1, 2018 – DECEMBER 31, 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 03 5–8 20 – 29 3 Message from Brent Saunders, Chairman and CEO 21 Managing Climate Change 4 Introduction 24 Waste Management and Recycling 6 Corporate Program and Reporting: Scope, Limitations and Processes 27 Water Management 7 Sustainability Structure and Reporting Relationships 28 Waste Water Discharge Indicators 8 Allergan and the “Precautionary Principle” 28 Air Emissions Indicators 28 Use of Mercurial Preservatives 29 Biodiversity 02 9–19 04 30–43 10 2015 – 2020 Allergan Strategic Performance Goals & Results 11 EHS Regulatory Compliance 31 Keeping Employees and Contractors Safe 12 Management Systems 34 Employee Engagement and Development 13 Risk Assessment Process 35 Bioethics 13 Corrective Action Process 35 Corporate Statement on Animal Testing 14 Allergan’s EHS Audit Program 36 Access to Medicines – Our Social Contract 14 Compliance and Code of Conduct 37 Cost Burden and Health Outcomes 16 Sustainable Supply Chains 38 Product Quality 17 Impacts, Materiality, Risks and Opportunities 40 Patient Resources 18 Stakeholder Engagement and Collaborations 40 Physician Resources 19 Innovation 41 Philanthropy and Citizenship A MESSAGE FROM BRENT SAUNDERS, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO Allergan plc is a global biopharmaceutical company focused HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR 2018 on delivering innovative therapies that create long-term shared PERFORMANCE INCLUDE: value for our patients, our customers, our communities • Abiding by our Social Contract with Patients, which and our shareholders. We are driven by deep engagement includes our commitment to making treatments accessible with our stakeholders—patients, providers, payers, and affordable, while maintaining high-standards of quality policymakers and the public—to understand their needs. and safety. • Maintaining our employee injury/illness rate within As we innovate, we are mindful of our impact on communities the top quartile of performance compared to our peers. — local, national, and global. Allergan is committed to We have reduced our injury rate by over 20% compared protecting the health, safety, and well–being of the people to 2015 baseline. who put their trust in our treatments and the communities in which we operate. We strive to ensure that our contribution • Increasing employee engagement in our safety programs to health parallels our obligation to ensure safe workplaces, as measured by our Good Observation rate, by more than strong communities and responsible business practices in 250% compared to 2015 baseline. everything we do: research and development, manufacturing • Reducing absolute greenhouse gas emission from our and distribution. Additionally, continue to work with manufacturing/R&D operations by over 25% compared our supply chain partners to improve their corporate to 2015 baseline. responsibility performance. • Reducing absolute energy consumption from our manufacturing/R&D operations by more than 7% In 2018, we sustained our focus on corporate responsibility compared to 2015 baseline. initiatives, and maintained our commitment to having a positive • Reducing total waste by more than 8% compared impact. In addition to adhering to the principles of our Social to 2015 baseline. Contract with Patients, we maintained some of the highest • Engaging with 100 key suppliers regarding corporate social responsibility standards in the industry. their Sustainability Performance. We continue to increase employee engagement and reduce • Employees contributing more than 9,000 hours our environmental footprint. We are making significant of their time for volunteer activities. progress toward reaching our 2020 sustainability goals. • Providing more than 10 million dollars in charitable contributions through The Allergan Foundation. We are on track to meet our key 2020 Sustainability commitments. In addition, we are to be recognized for our efforts, including receiving the ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and being named to the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good indices. Allergan has also made a commitment to follow the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We recognize that our focus on corporate responsibility will have an impact on our bottom line and our shareholder returns, and is also the right thing to do. More information about our commitment is provided throughout the Responsibility section of our website, our Proxy Statement and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Brent Saunders Chairman, President and CEO INTRODUCTION The positions and policies of Allergan plc and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Allergan”) on current corporate responsibility issues, including climate change, pharmaceuticals in the environment, water curtailment, biodiversity, bioethics, energy independence, governance and ethics, access to medicines, supply chain enhancements and community support, are presented in this report. Additional topics are covered in the Responsibility section of Allergan’s web site. 01 5–8 CORPORATE PROGRAM AND REPORTING: SCOPE, LIMITATIONS AND PROCESSES SCOPE PROCESSES – DATA CAPTURE Allergan’s Corporate Responsibility programs include business AND VERIFICATION and economic, social and environmental topics as defined Environmental, Health and Safety data included in this report by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and Allergan’s are captured and managed through various information internal assessment of various internal and external risks. management systems such as ALL-EHS, SAP, and SharePoint. These programs encompass all parts of Allergan’s operations, ALL-EHS is Allergan’s sustainability data management system including research and development (R&D), production, and is the source for all data charts included in this report. marketing, sales, customer support, regulatory management, regional and country-specific management, joint venture The data included in this report has been verified internally and third-party venture management, supplier management as part of our audit programs. ERM Certification & Verification and product stewardship through the entire supply chain. Services (ERM CVS) was commissioned by Allergan to verify Changes in the scope of what our programs covers occur when our 2018 consolidated global GHG inventory data as reported Allergan acquires new products, processes, or businesses, in Section C8.2 and CC8.3 of our CDP disclosure. The when products are discontinued or divested, and when facilities verification time period is January 1, 2018 December 31, or businesses are consolidated or divested, all of which have 2018 and covers emissions of C02, N20, CH4, SF6, PFCs, occurred many times in recent years. Programs, performance, and HFCs from direct, Scope 1 sources (fossil fuel combustion, and reporting are adjusted to account for these changes as refrigerants, processes, company-owned vehicles) and indirect, they occur. 2015 data included in this report has been adjusted Scope 2 sources (electricity) from Allergan’s operations. to include data from certain companies that were acquired by A verification statement from ERM CVS along with a list Allergan during that timeframe (legacy Allergan, Inc., Forest of facilities included in Allergan’s emissions profile Laboratories, Inc., Warner Chilcott plc, LifeCell, and Zeltiq). can be found in Appendix A of this report. All data in this report excludes data from operations that have been discontinued and/or divested, including the divestiture of our generics business to Teva Pharmaceuticals International Limited in 2016. Data from acquisitions that did not include REPORTING CYCLES facilities have been excluded as they do not have a significant Generally, reporting of environmental, health, and safety data impact on our performance and metrics. The quantitative data is conducted internally on a monthly basis, with annual presented in our report represents our Global Operations and summary reports generated for the calendar year. R&D organizations unless otherwise stated. Allergan operates on a calendar year basis. Allergan has included both third-party validated and certified REPORT CONTACT data and information in this report, as well as internal data Any questions respecting this report and the information which has not been third-party validated or certified. and data included herein can be directed to Allergan’s corporate communications team by emailing This report includes data and information respecting risks that corporate.communications@allergan.com. Allergan does not believe are significant risks to our business, based on internal and external risk assessments, but that are required or recommended for reporting and analysis by various third-parties such as RobecoSAM, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI), FTSE4Good, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), UN Global Compact, and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. A reference index to the GRI Standards is included in Appendix B. 01 6 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE AND RELATIONSHIPS STRUCTURE Allergan’s VP of EHS and Engineering reports to Allergan’s Executive Leadership Team through our EVP, Global AND REPORTING Operations. The VP of EHS (reporting directly to the VP of EHS and Engineering) is responsible, in concert with the Director of Sustainability and Product Stewardship, RELATIONSHIPS for coordinating, collecting and developing the Corporate Responsibility Report. The VP EHS also manages the strategic and daily coordination of EHS and Sustainability activities for Allergan. Each manufacturing and R&D facility has an EHS ALLERGAN EHS AND SUSTAINABILITY staff that manages environmental, health, and safety related STEERING COMMITTEE sustainability initiatives, as well as daily EHS activities. The sustainability initiatives and activities of Allergan’s Allergan has established an Environmental, Health, commercial facilities are managed by local Human and Safety (EHS) and Sustainability Steering Committee Resources and Finance representatives. chaired by our EVP, Global Operations, with representation from the Operations, R&D, Legal, Human Resources, Finance, Economic and Social Sustainability initiatives and activities Communications, and EHS groups. This Committee meets are managed by various groups within Allergan, depending to set policy, direction and goals and metrics, and to evaluate on the roles and responsibilities appropriate for such initiatives performance against the goals and metrics established. and activities. Meetings are generally held biannually. 01 7 ALLERGAN AND THE “PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE” In support of United Nations Global Compact Precautionary Principles, Allergan considers the impacts of its actions through a demanding risk assessment process. During development of new products, we follow a rigorous review process with multiple approval steps. During each of these steps we engage relevant stakeholders to ensure risks are identified and managed. 01 8 02 9–19 2015–2020 ALLERGAN STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE GOALS & RESULTS In our pursuit of continual improvement, we have established certain 20/20 goals to further reduce our sustainability impact compared to our 2015 baseline. These goals, and the progress that Allergan made on these goals in 2018, are as follows: OBJECTIVE 2020 GOAL ON TRACK 2018 RESULTS Reduce our employee injury INJURIES AND rate by 10% every year 2018 Injury/Illness Rate1 of 0.38. Reduced by 20% compared to 2015. ILLNESS from 2016 to 2020. Reduce energy and fuel ENERGY Absolute energy consumption (source energy) reduced by 7% compared consumption by 20% REDUCTION to 2015. Reduced energy intensity (GJ/sales) by 26% compared to 2015. compared to 2015. GHG Reduce greenhouse gas Reduced absolute Greenhouse gas emissions by 25 % compared to 2015. EMISSIONS emissions by 20% Greenhouse gas emission intensity (Metric Tonnes/Sales) reduced by 40% REDUCTION compared to 2015.2 compared to 2015. Reduced water consumption intensity (m3/sales) from operations located Reduce water consumption in in extreme water scarcity regions by 14% compared to 2015. Absolute water WATER operations located in extreme consumption from operations located in extreme water scarcity regions REDUCTION water scarcity risk regions increased by 7% compared to 2015. Total water consumption intensity by 20% compared to 2015. reduced by 17%. WASTE Reduce total waste generated Absolute total waste reduced by 8% compared to 2015. Reduced total REDUCTION by 20% compared to 2015. waste intensity (metric tonnes/sales) by 26% compared to 2015. ELIMINATE Eliminate waste to landfill from WASTE TO Landfill waste eliminated from 38% of manufacturing operations. manufacturing operations. LANDFILL 1. Level 1 As defined by ASTM E2920 – 14: Standard Guide for Recording Occupational Injuries and Illnesses 2. Aligned with the Science Based Targets approach as endorsed by CDP, WWF, WRI and the UN Global Compact 02 10 EHS REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Allergan has implemented various systems to ensure our operations comply with all applicable regulatory requirements. These systems include global standards, operational controls, and auditing. Allergan did not receive any fines/penalties for EHS regulatory compliance in 2018. We did receive 13 notices of violation from various regulatory agencies. All these violations were for issues that did not have an adverse impact on the environment or employee health and safety. 50% of the identified violations were related to management of wastewater discharge. Corrective and preventive actions have been implemented to address the identified issues. FIRE SAFETY AWARENESS IN WESTPORT Westport held a fire safety week to promote fire safety awareness in the workplace and in colleagues’ own homes. Several activities such as a coloring competition for employee’s children, were conducted and 170 employees were trained on the use of fire extinguishers. 02 11 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS As described in the Sustainability Structure section, Allergan’s Training and consulting are provided to operating locations Executive Leadership Team is formally engaged with EHS issues to ensure appropriate implementation of the requirements. through the Global EHS Steering Committee which is chaired Training on key environmental, health and safety topics is by our Executive VP, Global Operations and includes many provided on an annual basis. Allergan sites conduct gap functional leads (including Legal, HR, Quality, R&D, Finance, assessments based on ISO 14001 and 18001 and create action Supply Chain). The purpose is to establish and support the plans for improvement every other year. These standards and framework for achieving excellence in the environmental, self-assessments are implemented by sites and audited against health, and safety (EHS) programs. as part of our internal EHS audit program where sites typically are audited every three years. EHS performance is tracked Allergan has developed an internal EHS Management System through training records, audits, monthly EHS performance (EHSMS). Our system is designed to conform with ISO 14001/ reviews, and management system reviews. Allergan’s electronic OHSAS 18001. Our EHSMS includes an overall EHS policy management information system (ALL EHS) collects EHS and defines key requirements that must be in place across information in real time and provides notifications, metrics the organization to reduce our impact. Allergan’s global graphs, tables and reports. This system can be accessed EHS standards and associated guidelines set minimum by an iPhone app or computer using single sign-on, which standards across the organization, promote continuous allows all employees and full-time contract employees easy improvement as well as provide guidance on implementation. access to input information or obtain feedback. These requirements address management issues such as responsibility, goals and objectives, performance monitoring, To address emergencies, we have established an organization training, corrective/preventive action (CAPA) tracking, wide standard on emergency response that is implemented auditing, communication, compliance, risk assessment, and tested at each location. Elements of the standard includes engagement with stakeholders and management review. written program, identification of emergency scenarios, They also address various technical areas such as incident emergency response teams, evacuation plans, and completion management, emergency response, process safety, physical of annual emergency drills. hazards, occupational health, environmental management, and transportation. EHS PROGRAM STRUCTURE POLICY KEY STANDARDS GUIDELINES SITE SOPS REQUIREMENTS Written program Written program Written programs at Overall mission A list of EHS describing WHAT describing HOW site level describing statement programs necessary elements are to comply with HOW to comply signed by Senior at each site necessary to the standard with the standard Leadership comply with each requirements requirements key requirement 02 12 RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS Proactively identifying potential workplace EHS risks is a critical Below are highlights of actions to address our top EHS risks: part of ensuring that Allergan provides a safe and healthful workplace for our employees and reduces its environmental • Process Safety: Mitigation of identified gaps risks. Our risk assessment process includes identification • Fleet Safety: Development of Global Standard and of high-level risks using a risk map, as well as identifying work development of global driver screening and training programs area and task specific risks. • Fork Lift: Completion of traffic surveys to reduce employee/ Powered Industrial Truck interaction, engineering controls Our risk assessment process, facilitated by a web-based tool, for all critical risks, i.e. , dock locks is completed by our EHS team in consultation with engineering, • Electricity: Development of Global Standard management, and applicable employees. The risk assessment and a guideline with compilation of best practices process begins with an identification of all tasks associated • Fall from Height: Mitigation of identified gaps with a work activity, process, or the operation of equipment. • Overexposure: Identification and implementation After task identification, the EHS risks for each task are of containment technologies and plans in development identified and evaluated based on frequency, likelihood for reducing reliance on respirators as the primary barrier of occurrence, and severity. Corrective actions are identified to exposure and implemented to reduce the medium and high risks. GLOBAL EHS TOP RISKS 50 Catastrophic 5 1 1 Process Safety 20 2 Fleet Safety SEVERITY/IMPACT High 6 4 3 2 CRITICAL 3 Forklift 10 4 Electricity Medium 7 MAJOR 5 Travel 5 6 Fall from Height 7 Overexposure Low MINOR 0 Very Unlikely Unlikely Likely Most Likely PROBABILITY/LIKELIHOOD CORRECTIVE ACTION PROCESS Allergan has established a robust process for identifying and and other potential EHS non-conformances. This process correcting hazards, facilitated by a corrective/preventive action has allowed for the development of more effective preventive module within our EHSMS. The use of this module has allowed and corrective actions and has reduced the likelihood for higher accountability for completion of corrective actions for reoccurrence of non-conformances. identified from audits, inspections, near-miss events 2015 2016 2017 2018 NUMBER OF RISK ASSESSMENTS 246 92 83 78 CORRECTIVE ACTIONS/PREVENTATIVE ACTIONS 1,600 2,600 4,978 12,825 (audits, incidents, risk assessments) 1. 2015–2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 02 13 ALLERGAN’S EHS AUDIT PROGRAM Allergan has a comprehensive program in place for conducting to closure. The audit process promotes vertical standardization EHS audits of our internal operations and key supply chain from the corporate office to the worldwide network of plants partners. The objective of the audit program is to identify as well as horizontal standardization among various EHS risks and potential compliance gaps and to identify best departments within the business. practices to address these risks and gaps across our various locations and industry. An annual audit schedule is developed Through the EHS audit program, Allergan has been able to identify the sites that will be included in the audit program to minimize the EHS risks at our facilities and lower the risk during the year. Allergan manufacturing and R&D locations are of regulatory action resulting from non-compliance audited at minimum once every 3 years. Corrective/Preventive and community complaints against Allergan. action plans are developed for identified risks and tracked COMPLIANCE AND CODE OF CONDUCT Allergan has a comprehensive, global compliance program, implemented and managed by our Global Compliance Department, under the oversight and guidance of our Global Chief Compliance Officer, who has direct reporting to the Allergan Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors and who meets independently with the Allergan CEO and Chairman of the Board. The Global Compliance Department collaborates with all Allergan colleagues to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to ensure colleagues act in accordance with our company values and and Executive Leadership Team, and are cascaded through the our Code of Conduct (the Code). organization by business leadership and management teams. Allergan’s Code of Conduct is an important resource that The Allergan global compliance program has enabled us to both represents who we are as a company and defines our earn the trust of our stakeholders – our patients, physicians, commitment to maintaining high ethical standards across regulators, our communities as well as those with whom we all of our business activities. Our Code of Conduct is a critical do business. Our global compliance program embraces the component of our compliance program and educates and core tenants of leading industry guidance (i.e., OIG and DOJ informs our colleagues, empowering them to make smart guidance, industry codes (i.e., the PhRMA and Advamed Codes, decisions every day. etc.) as well as the commonly recognized elements of an effective compliance program. Allergan maintains a culture that encourages integrity and a commitment to compliance with applicable laws and our standards and policies. A core component of the Allergan culture and our Code of Conduct is “always doing what is right,” the values of which are established and promulgated by Allergan’s CEO and Chairman, Board of Directors 02 14 COMPLIANCE AND CODE OF CONDUCT (Continued) Key components of Allergan’s global compliance 5 Data Analytics Allergan employs a risk-based compliance program include: data analytics function for its U.S. business and across several targeted International countries designed to aggregate and 1 Standards & Guidelines – Consisting of the Allergan Code correlate disparate sources of structured and unstructured of Conduct, a series of corporate standards, supported data for analysis to allow for the proactive identification by a network of business unit guidelines (blueprint) and and management of potential compliance issues. international and country-level policies and procedures. 6 Investigations and Corrective Action Allergan maintains a 2 Training – Demonstrating a risk-based, global training program formal investigation and corrective action program supported designed to deliver innovative, leading edge and technologyby a case management system. The company hotline, known enabled training through a combination of case and experience as the Integrity Action Line, allows all colleagues globally based online and live training. to submit issues or concerns. The hotline process provides various mechanisms for submitting concerns and reports 3 Audit & Monitoring – Allergan maintains a dynamic, risk based may be made anonymously, where allowed by local law. monitoring program across all its business units, informed by Colleagues are encouraged to use these resources without any the results of a comprehensive global risk assessment program, fear of retaliation. Reports are triaged to appropriate support the results of internal investigations and hotline reports as well functions for follow-up to ensure appropriate mitigation, or as our progressive data analytics program. corrective and disciplinary action is taken, as required. 4 Risk Assessments – We conduct an annual comprehensive, 7 Transparency Reporting – Allergan complies with all federal, global compliance risk assessment that evaluates risk across state, international and local country spend transparency and multiple levels – including product risk, program/activity risk financial disclosure laws, regulations and industry Codes and and geographic risk – and that is subsequently informed by a maintains a system to track and report this spend as required. variety of data points, including our data analytics, anecdotal information, monitoring results, compliance audits and 8 Third Party Due Diligence Allergan maintains a third-party investigation insights. The Allergan annual risk assessment due diligence process to identify and mitigate potential risks in is conducted annually for the U.S. Commercial, International conjunction with higher-risk third-party business relationships. and R&D/Medical businesses. All Allergan employees are required to comply with Allergan’s The Code outlines the core components of the Allergan compliance Code of Conduct (the Code). All Allergan employees participate program. Corporate-wide online training is provided for the Code in training on the Code to ensure understanding and compliance and other promotional areas and our sales representatives receive with the requirements of the Code. This training includes detailed sales training. For each of these core areas, Allergan instruction on ethical decision making and upholding laws maintains detailed policies, procedures and training: and regulations. In addition, Allergan maintains a compliance program that conducts regular audits of the requirements under • Written standards and the Code of Conduct the Code, investigates potential violations of the Code and takes • Training on, and communication of, our standards disciplinary action when necessary. • Risk assessments, monitoring and reviews • Anonymous reporting and communication by our colleagues Allergan also has a comprehensive compliance program in place through the Allergan Integrity Action Line to ensure ethical sales and marketing and promotional practices. • Investigations of reports of non-compliance, followed Allergan adheres to the principles defined within the Office by appropriate corrective and disciplinary action of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance and has • Due diligence and screening of colleagues and business posted a Code of Conduct and Compliance Program declaration partners, as allowed by law on the Allergan.com web-site. Allergan adheres to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act and other global and local regulations. 02 15 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINS SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PROJECTS SUPPLIER AGREEMENTS We understand that our sustainability impact includes not only Allergan has supply agreements, quality agreements and/or Allergan’s operations, but also the activities of our suppliers and purchase order terms and conditions with all of our suppliers, other business partners. We have prioritized the impact of our all of which include requirements that the supplier complies key direct suppliers by engaging them and requesting that they with all laws and regulations applicable to the supply of the provide data concerning their sustainability programs and their service or material. sustainability metrics and performance for 2018. Nearly 100 direct suppliers, making up more than 80% of our expenditure EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE on direct material purchases, participated in this process in 2018. We intend to partner with the suppliers that have the As referenced in the Compliance and Code of Conduct section most impact on our footprint to identify significant reduction above, employees are trained and are required to comply with opportunities. Allergan’s Code of Conduct. We also continue to actively participate in the Pharmaceutical CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), a consortium of pharmaceutical IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT OF 2010 companies who share a vision of better social, environmental, The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and economic outcomes in the communities where we buy. is intended to provide the public with information from The audit protocols of the PSCI include social components manufacturers regarding the activities that these manufacturers like human slavery and trafficking, child labor, ethics, engage in to monitor their supply chains to prevent human compensation, benefits and other human rights, governance trafficking and slavery. The disclosure of this information allows including ethics and human rights abuse management and businesses and consumers to make more informed decisions environmental management and performance. The PSCI audits regarding the products they choose to purchase and the will enhance our supplier review process and benefit companies with whom they choose to conduct business. our suppliers, our organization, and our stakeholders. Allergan is committed to conducting business only with SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS suppliers who adhere to the highest ethical standards and AND QUALIFICATION comply with laws and regulations applicable to their business. Prior to engaging a supplier, Allergan evaluates the supplier Allergan has undertaken actions to ensure that the services through risk-based assessments. Such assessments may and materials provided to Allergan meet this commitment. include questionnaires and audits of the supplier’s facilities. Allergan expects all potential suppliers to comply with all UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT federal, state, and local rules and regulations and to work Under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, two of Allergan’s to the highest ethical and quality standards. subsidiaries, Allergan Holding Limited and Allergan Limited, publish a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (pdf) for SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE REVIEWS each financial year, describing what steps have been taken Allergan is committed to continuous improvement in our supply to address the risk of slavery or human trafficking occurring in chain. We and our suppliers monitor business performance our own operations or our supply chains. This statement can be through periodic evaluation and review of defined performance accessed at Allergan’s web site. targets and objectives. SUPPLIER AUDITS Allergan regularly audits key suppliers to confirm compliance with supplier performance and quality standards. Audits are performed by Allergan or third parties contracted by Allergan. 02 16 IMPACTS, MATERIALITY, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES In 2018, we completed a comprehensive assessment to identify groups prioritized the topics based on importance to Allergan material corporate responsibility topics impacting Allergan. and our stakeholders. The topics are listed below according The assessment process was facilitated by Ernst & Young to their significance to Allergan and our stakeholders. We LLP. Thirty-six corporate responsibility topics were identified consider all the topics to be important elements of our corporate based on our review of industry practices, SASB, GRI, PSCI responsibility program. Within this report and on our website frameworks, and peer research. Leaders from key functional we describe how we are managing these issues. ALLERGAN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Brand management, Promotion, and Ethical Marketing Bribery and Corruption Animal Welfare Clinical Trial Management (ethics) Climate Change (Greenhouse Gases) Continuity of Supply Health Outcome Contribution Drug Safety SIGNIFICANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Hazardous Air Emissions Employee Health and Safety Land and Water Contamination Innovation Pharmaceuticals in Environment Intellectual Property Supply Chain Responsibility Labor Issues Waste Product Quality Pricing and Access to Medicines Drug Abuse (Opiods Abuse) Bioethics Energy Consumption Diversity Lobbying and Political Contributions Compensation and Social Benefits Philanthropy Competitive Practices Product end of life management Counterfeit Drugs and Product Security Product Packaging Governance Risk and Crisis Management Privacy and Data Protection Water Use Talent Acquisition and Retention Wellness and work/life balance SIGNIFICANCE TO BUSINESS SUCCESS Product And Patient Governance/Economic Social Environment 02 17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COLLABORATIONS Allergan’s view of who our stakeholders are is very broad We also collaborate with our business customers, which and encompasses patients, doctors, employees, shareholders, has allowed these customers to understand where Allergan upstream and downstream supply chain partners, is on the sustainability spectrum. regulators, governments, communities and non-governmental organizations. Our collaborations with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) include collaborations with the United Way, Carbon We have numerous worldwide sustainability collaborations Disclosure Project, Newsweek Green Business Rankings, with our stakeholders, including Allergan subsidiary’s RobecoSAM-DJSI investor index, and FTSE4Good investor commitment to the UN Global Compact principals. Allergan index. These collaborations have allowed Allergan to share has shared our global best practices in water, energy and GHG and receive best practices and benchmark our programs management with our stakeholders. Regulatory collaborations against other best-in-class sustainable companies. with our stakeholders are extensive, and notably include a collaboration with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Community collaborations include direct community support ENERGY STAR®, where we have shared best practices from our projects in Brazil, Costa Rica and Ireland, and contributions operations and supported the ENERGY STAR® philosophy. to The Allergan Foundation. 02 18 INNOVATION Allergan’s world-class research and development (R&D) Our R&D approach defines the Company’s position as a magnet program embodies our efforts to bring the best innovations for game-changing ideas and innovation. A large percentage of to life. Scientists and researchers work closely with medical our pipeline is sourced by partnering with biotech companies, specialists to transform novel compounds and devices into new academia and other pharmaceutical companies globally. therapeutics that help improve life. Our R&D programs today Through this model, we drive R&D productivity by delivering are focused on central nervous system, eye care, innovative therapies that create long-term shared value for medical aesthetics and gastroenterology. Allergan, for customers and for patients. All programs enter our best-in-class product development and commercialization Currently, in Central Nervous System we are advancing organization to build a sustainable portfolio that addresses programs to treat critical conditions such as migraine and major unmet needs and aligns with our key therapeutic areas. depressive disorder (MDD). In Medical Aesthetics, Allergan is focused on researching and developing new medicines, tissue based products and devices. The company’s efforts in Eye Care are focused on advancing innovation in the treatment of glaucoma and retinal conditions. Allergan’s development programs in Gastroenterology are focused on advancing new treatments in ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, NASH and diabetic gastroparesis. 02 19 03 20–29 MANAGING CLIMATE CHANGE Allergan has had a long history of addressing climate Additionally, our Irvine, CA campus had four office change through development and implementation of buildings receive ENERGY STAR® certification energy conservation programs to reduce fuel and electricity for top quartile energy performance. consumption. Allergan has also been involved in many initiatives to strengthen these programs, including by The 2018 overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for Allergan participating in USEPA’s Climate Wise, EPA’s ENERGY STAR® manufacturing and R&D operations are presented in the program, EPA’s Green Light Program, the Carbon Disclosure following graph. Scope 1 GHG emissions refer to the direct Project, California’s Climate Action Registry program, and GHG emissions resulting primarily from combustion processes. the Climate Registry Program. Our R&D and manufacturing Scope 2 GHG emissions refer to GHG emissions resulting facilities also have site targets regarding energy consumption primarily from the consumption of purchased electricity. reductions and efficiency improvements. We have also focused In 2018, Allergan reduced absolute GHG emissions by 25% on increasing the use of carbon free and renewable energy. from R&D and manufacturing operations compared to baseline In 2018, we purchased 77, 291 mwh of renewable electricity. year 2015. GHG emissions intensity (normalized to sales) Seven of our operations are now sourcing their electricity decreased by 40% in 2018 compared to 2015. from 100% renewable sources and 43% of the total electricity used at our manufacturing/R&D sites is sourced from This reduction in GHG emissions is a result of our continued renewable sources. energy conservation projects, as well as the implementation of low carbon energy contracts. Our leadership in energy conservation has been repeatedly recognized by the EPA’s ENERGY STAR® program. In 2018, we were again recognized an ENERGY STAR® Partner of Year – Sustained Excellence for the fifth year. In 2018, our Waco, TX, and Cincinnati, OH facilities were certified as ENERGY STAR® Plants. Certification as an ENERGY STAR® Plant recognizes facilities ranking in the top 25 percent of pharmaceutical plant energy performance nationwide. CLIMATE CHANGE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS1 100,000 8.00 SCOPE 1 R&D GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS (MT CO2E) 90,000 Manufacturing 7.00 Greenhouse Gas 80,000 Emissions (MTCO2E) 6.00 Direct from Fuel 70,000 35,395 Combustion 5.00 60,000 33,895 SCOPE 2 R&D 4.00 Manufacturing 50,000 35,727 35,848 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) 40,000 3.00 Indirect from Electrical Consumption 30,000 2.00 57,240 47,404 37,550 33,588 TOTAL Greenhouse 20,000 1.00 Gas Emissions per sales (MTCO2E/$ million) 10,000 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 1. 2015–2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 03 21 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Allergan has set an aggressive goal to reduce total energy Allergan has also adopted an Energy Treasure Hunt process consumption (both direct and indirect) by 20% by 2020, as a best practice methodology in our energy program. using 2015 as the baseline year. We achieved a 26% reduction An Energy Treasure Hunt is a twoto three-day event that in source-based energy intensity (GJ/sales) in 2018 compared engages employees in identifying low-cost energy savings to 2015. Our absolute source-based energy consumption opportunities from behavioral, operational, and maintenance was reduced by 7% compared to 2015. actions. We have completed five Energy Treasure Hunts, bringing together site personnel with pharma industry peers, Allergan continues to shape and rebuild our energy technology and equipment suppliers and GENIUS team leads management program to match our bold culture. from other Allergan plants. Through these Energy Treasure Our energy program includes features like: Hunts, we identified nearly 400 energy and water reduction projects, with an estimated annual reduction of over 20,000 • An energy management governance structure, including Metrics Tonnes of CO2 and $5.9 million dollars in savings. a Global Energy Network for Improvement in Usage and Supply (GENIUS) Team and a Global Site Energy Management Allergan also actively participates in and supports Steering Committee the ENERGY STAR® Focus on Energy Efficiency in • Implementation of several organizational key performance Pharmaceutical Manufacturing and Industrial Partnership indicators and communication tools that leverage the global program and various ENERGY STAR® sponsored initiatives. energy goal of a 20 percent reduction by 2020 (compared We use these platforms to share lessons learned with peers. to 2015 baseline) to keep our facilities and operations management focused on our energy usage performance Allergan qualified four buildings as an ENERGY STAR® Certified • Increased communications and awareness about energy Building in 2018. The Waco TX plant also received ENERGY within Allergan STAR certification in 2018; this is the ninth time that Waco • Implementation of a Utility Bill Management system has been ENERGY STAR certified. to streamline bill payment and data management • Benchmarking of Allergan’s manufacturing, R&D, office, and distribution center facilities • Implementation of high impact, easy to replicate reduction projects like LED lighting upgrades and chilled water optimization CLIMATE CHANGE TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION1 3,500,000 3,122,594 300 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) 3,065,893 2,998,408 3,000,000 250 Total Energy 2,500,000 Consumption (GJ) 200 Source Based 2,000,000 150 Total Energy per Sales 1,500,000 (GJ/Million Sales) 100 Source Based 1,000,000 50 500,000 2015 2016 2017 1. 2015–2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 03 22 ENERGY MANAGEMENT (Continued) Allergan’s Westport Facility National Finalist in Sustainable Energy Westport recently received an award as national finalist in the SEAI (Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland) Awards in the Large Business Energy Project category. This is excellent recognition for the energy reduction efforts and projects at the site. Costa Rica Energy Treasure Hunt Identifies Significant Energy, CO2 and Water Reduction Opportunities About 40 people participated from around the network, as well as outside energy experts. The group identified potential savings of almost 30% of the site’s current energy and water usage. The event generated the following results: • 37 quantified prospects out of a total of 43 identified opportunities • Identified energy waste reduction of 11,400 MMBtu which is estimated to save 384 MT of CO2 • Estimated cost savings of $468,000 per year • Capital investment requirements of about $508,000; generating an overall payback of 1.1 years Costa Rica Energy Treasure Hunt Team 03 23 WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING HAZARDOUS WASTE TRENDS Allergan achieved a 43% reduction in hazardous waste generation in 2018 (compared to 2015). Several of Allergan’s locations have established green teams to identify and implement waste reduction opportunities. HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED1 1,400 0.10 0.09 1,200 0.08 HAZARDOUS WASTE (MT) 1,000 0.07 Hazardous Waste 0.06 (Incineration/Autoclave) (tonnes) 800 0.05 0.04 Hazardous Waste per Sales 600 (tonnes/million sales) 0.03 400 0.02 0.01 200 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 1. 2015–2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 03 24 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE TRENDS In 2018, Allergan increased the amount of non-hazardous waste and recycling. Several locations have eliminated waste going sent to landfill, compared to 2015. This has primarily been due to landfill and we are on track to divert all landfill waste from to increased production. Non-hazardous Waste generation our manufacturing sites in 2020. In 2018, Allergan recycled intensity (tonnes/million sales) has decreased by 1% compared 4,506 metric tonnes of waste, representing 66% of total to 2015. We have reduced the impact of increased production waste generated. by improving production yields, minimizing packaging, Total waste generated was reduced by 8% compared to 2015, and waste intensity (tonnes/million sales) was reduced by 26%. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED TOTAL WASTE GENERATED 1,600 0.10 7,800 0.70 1,400 7,600 0.60 0.10 1,200 7,400 0.50 SOLID WASTE (MT) SOLID WASTE (MT) 1,000 0.09 7,200 0.40 800 7,000 0.30 600 0.09 6,800 0.20 400 0.08 200 6,600 0.10 0 0.08 6,400 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Non-hazardous Waste Non-hazardous Waste per Sales Total Waste Generated Total Waste Intensity (tonnes/million units) (metric tonnes/million sales) (tonnes) (tonnes/million sales) Shark Tank Encouraging Waste Reduction Ideas. Allergan Costa Rica organized an employee engagement and awareness program to identify waste reduction ideas. The program was modeled after the program “Shark Tank”. One idea generated from the program, and implemented, was to replace disposable booties with launder-able ones. This is estimated to save about $50,000, 5000 kg of waste or about 1% of the sites annual waste. 03 25 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE TRENDS (Continued) Allergan Pleasanton CA Reducing Costs and Saving the Environment at the Same Time Allergan’s Pleasanton CA Cool Sculpting Operations and R&D groups spearheaded a project to reduce the size and cost of its applicator gasket packaging that they ship to customers. This re-design is estimated to save over $800,000 per year in reduced shipping and packaging material costs, eliminate 360,000 Tyvek pouches from going to landfills as well as reduce the waste associated with the shipping box itself due to the dramatic size reduction. Allergan Guarulhos Celebrates Earth Day Guarulhos celebrated their Earth day on June 5th with two sustainability related challenges for the employees. The first was for teams to create a character using only recycled materials that will be chosen as the mascot for waste minimization efforts. The second challenge for the teams was to provide waste reduction suggestions. The winning team for the best mascot is pictured. Allergan Houston Receives Greenovation Award for Recycling Allergan’s Houston facility won the Greenovation Award from Kimberly-Clark Professional for diverting 2.42 tons of waste from landfills in 2017. The garment/glove waste was diverted because it was reclaimed by the manufacturer to be reused by other industries. 03 26 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is an important resource for Allergan’s operations, Water consumption intensity from operations in extreme water especially because many of our ophthalmic products are scarcity risk regions has reduced by 14% compared to 2015, primarily composed of water. We have 3 operations while absolute water use at these sites has increased by 7%. in severe drought (water risk) locations. We have identified several reduction opportunities which once implemented, will drive us toward our 20% water Allergan has reduced water consumption through production reduction goal. efficiency improvements and reduced reliance on water-related utilities to control production conditions at operating locations. Allergan is also working on reducing the impact of its Through energy efficiency improvements, reheat and other manufacturing of pharmaceutical products on the environment. heating requirements have been reduced, which has reduced We have controls in place to prevent discharge of active the volumes of water required in steam, hot water and other pharmaceutical ingredients from our operations. Further, ancillary systems used in production. Cooling tower cycles we are members of PSCI. PSCI delivered a number of webinars of efficiency have been increased through improved water and other resources to our supply chain partners to address treatment technology, reducing the amount of cooling tower management of pharmaceutical ingredients in the wastewater. blow down. We have upgraded boilers to more efficient In recent years, the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance systems, reducing the amount of blow down and reducing has prompted coordinated and concerted efforts to develop the losses associated with the distribution system more sustainable antimicrobial development, management from valves and steam traps. and use. Allergan has been an active participant in this process. We are a signatory on the Declaration by the Pharmaceutical, We achieved a 17% reduction in water withdrawal intensity Biotechnology and Diagnostics Industries on Combating (metric tonnes/sales) in 2018 compared to 2015 from all Antimicrobial Resistance, and are 1 of 13 pharmaceutical our manufacturing/R&D operations. Our absolute water companies adopting the Roadmap for Progress withdrawal during this same time frame increased on Combating AMR. by 4% primarily due to increases in production. Allergan’s Liverpool Facility Gives Back by Cleaning Local Beaches WATER CONSUMPTION1 1,200,000 90 80 1,000,000 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) 70 800,000 60 50 600,000 40 400,000 30 20 200,000 Part of Allergan Liverpool’s team with the collected waste 10 on the beach. 0 0 Teams from all of Allergan’s Liverpool facility departments 2015 2016 2017 2018 supported the Marine Conservation Society initiative to recover and catalogue waste from their local beaches. Water (M3) Water per Sales Data was collected on waste types and abundance and fed (M3 million sales) back to the Marine Conservation Society to aid on-going pollution research. Allergan removed over 50 sacks of waste with a total weight of 210 kgs. 1. 2015–2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 03 27 WASTE WATER DISCHARGE INDICATORS Allergan regularly monitors wastewater discharge BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND from our operating locations to ensure compliance with Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), a measure of oxygen regulatory requirements. We have implemented various best demand through biochemical processes in wastewater, management practices to prevent wastewater contamination, has been reduced over the past few years due to wastewater including secondary containment, employee training, equalization and neutralization facilities at applicable and operational controls. manufacturing facilities. The improvement in materials use efficiency has also helped to reduce the BOD levels. CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND Allergan’s facilities that monitor this measure are currently Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), a measure of oxygen well below permitted discharge levels. demanding chemicals in wastewater, has been reduced over past few years due to wastewater equalization, neutralization TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS and aeration facilities at applicable manufacturing facilities. Total Suspended Solids (TSS) in wastewater discharges from The improvement in materials use efficiency has also helped Allergan facilities have been reduced over the past few years. to reduce the COD levels. Allergan’s facilities that monitor this The improvement in efficiency of material use has helped to measure are currently well below permitted discharge levels. reduce the TSS levels. Allergan’s facilities that monitor this parameter are currently well below permitted discharge levels. AIR EMISSIONS USE OF MERCURIAL INDICATORS PRESERVATIVES Allergan regularly monitors relevant permitted air emissions Allergan has reduced the use of mercurial preservatives from our operating locations to ensure compliance with (thimerosal, phenylmercuric acetate and phenylmercuric regulatory requirements. Our emissions are well within nitrate) in our products. Product reformulations, introduction applicable allowable limits established by local operating of new products not formulated with these preservatives, permits and regulations. and product attrition have accounted for this decline. We are continuing our efforts to reduce our use VOLATILE ORGANIC CARBON EMISSIONS of these preservatives. Our Volatile Organic Carbon emissions are well within applicable allowable limits established by local operating permits and regulations. NITROGEN OXIDE (NOX) EMISSIONS Allergan has negligible nitrogen oxide emissions from our facilities. These emissions are associated with fuel combustion regarding boiler operations primarily and are unregulated at most of the locations due to the low levels of these emissions. SULFUR OXIDE (SOX) EMISSIONS Allergan has negligible sulfur oxide emissions from our facilities. These emissions are primarily associated with fuel combustion for our steam boiler operations and are unregulated at most of the locations due to the low levels of these emissions. 03 28 BIODIVERSITY Allergan has facilities and offices located in major cities Allergan has had extensive involvement in onsite activities to and in rural locations. Allergan has established a position to preserve green space and encourage community preservation preserve biodiversity on an ongoing basis at our operations. of open green space, like our Lake Waco Wetlands Habitat Allergan endeavors to ensure that risks associated with land Preservation project in Waco, Texas; participation in a Newport use, operations, and impacts to biodiversity are identified Back Bay Conservancy project in Irvine, California; and and mitigated; compliance with international, national and local a rainforest preservation and local biodiversity preservation regulations and guidelines regarding biodiversity protection project in Westport, Ireland. and preservation. Open space and green areas are included in land use planning at our operations. Allergan agrees with the principles included in the UN Convention on Biodiversity and strives to meet these principles. Allergan also continues to evaluate our existing practices against current state-of-the-art practices. 03 29 04 30–43 KEEPING EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS SAFE In 2018, Allergan continued its top quartile safety performance, We have implemented several programs to proactively identify as measured by the number of injuries/illness requiring workplace hazards and reduce employee incidents. These treatment beyond first aid (TRIR) and had no serious injuries prevention programs include: or fatalities. In 2018, we achieved a TRIR rate of 0.44 incidents per 100 employees, a reduction of 34% (compared to 2015). • Increasing awareness around Critical Safety Risks, focusing on We also reduced the rate of level 1 incidents by 21% (compared 8 risks that can result in a serious incident or fatality: Process to 2015). We define level 1 incidents as injuries and illness that Safety, Confined Space Entry, Fall Protection, Electrical Safety, result in death, are life threatening, life altering, or so serious Hazardous Energy, Machine Guarding, Powered Industrial that they require immediate medical intervention for recovery Trucks and Hazardous Atmosphere (ASTM E2920 – 14: Standard Guide for Recording Occupational • Implementation of Human and Organizational Performance Injuries and Illnesses). We continue to focus our safety efforts concepts and training towards increasing employee and management engagement. • Encouraging employees to identify EHS risks and notify One process for facilitating this engagement is our good management for consideration through our Good observations program. We define good observations as safety Observations program observations that are communicated, documented, corrected • Conducting weekly Leadership Inspections by management and help prevent incidents from occurring. • Issuing EHS Alerts to share information In 2018, we increased the Good Observation rate (number on significant incidents of good observations per 100 employees) by 288% in our • Forming learning teams to develop a deeper understanding manufacturing/R&D locations (compared to 2015). Many of of systemic failures associated with serious incidents these good observations resulted in actions to reduce risk or and near miss events make improvements to processes. In 2018, we addressed more • Conducting detailed environmental, health and safety risk than 9,000 of these actions. Further, site leader inspections assessment of existing work-areas, as well as changes increased by about 60 % (compared to 2015). in processes or equipment We continue to focus our safety efforts towards increasing • Conducting Risk Maps for all manufacturing and R&D employee and management engagement. facilities to identify, communicate and prioritize risk reduction measures for the top risks identified LEADERSHIP AND ENGAGEMENT AT ALLERGAN1 Good Observations per 100 Employees TRIR Injury Rates 260 254 240 220 0.70 0.64 0.60 200 0.49 180 170 0.50 0.45 0.46 0.44 160 0.40 140 0.35 120 0.30 100 80 66 81 0.25 0.20 60 0.15 40 0.10 20 0.05 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Leadership Inspections per Year ASTM Injury Rates 1,600 1,076 1,500 1,400 0.50 1,300 0.45 0.45 1,200 1,158 0.40 0.38 1,100 1,099 0.35 0.35 1,000 900 0.30 0.25 0.26 800 0.20 700 711 0.15 600 0.10 500 0.05 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 1.2015, 2016 excludes Allergan plc operations discontinued in 2016 as a part of TEVA divestiture. 04 31 SURPASSING 1000 GOOD OBSERVATIONS Allergan’s Waco facility celebrated surpassing 1000 Good Observations for the year with an ice cream party. They have more than doubled last year’s submissions already. Congratulations and thanks to all the employees submitting them which reduced risk and improved performance. WESTPORT CELEBRATES SAFETY WEEK EHS week took place in Westport during October and was packed with events from pre-winter car safety checks and onsite cancer awareness services, to talks by the Road Traffic Bureau on Safe Driving. One of the most anticipated events from the week was the Health and Wellbeing talk by nationally renowned health activist Professor Niall Moyna. His talks entitled “Exercise is Medicine” reinforced the huge long-term health benefits of living an active life, and many employees commented that he was the best speaker they had ever heard from any discipline. CRITICAL SAFETY RULES PROCESS SAFETY HAZARDOUS ENERGY When processing flammable solvents and/or (LOCK OUT TAG OUT combustible dusts do so only in appropriately Bring all forms of hazardous energy (electrical, rated areas with appropriately rated equipment. mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, thermal, Use required controls to prevent ignition such chemical, pressure) to a Zero Energy State so it no as conductive containers and bonding and/or longer presents a hazard and secure them with grounding straps to mitigate the potential for AUTHORIZED Locks and Tags before performing an ignition source. If a safety critical limit or activities such as maintenance or cleaning activities. alarm is reached do not proceed without consulting supervision or the procedure for an appropriate response. MACHINE GUARDING & INTERLOCKS Employees shall not tamper with, remove, bypass, or CONFINED SPACE ENTRY disable machine guarding or safety interlocks while operating equipment under normal conditions. Confined Spaces must be identified, written confined space entry procedures established, trained on and followed prior to entry. POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS (PITS) AND SUSPENDED LOADS FALL PROTECTION Employees are only allowed to operate PITs for which they are certified. Do not work on or under suspended Employees must use fall protection when exposed loads. Ensure measures are in place to prevent trailers to a fall hazard of six feet (2 meters) or more. from moving during trailer loading/unloading. ELECTRICAL SAFETY HAZARDOUS ATMOSPHERES Only appropriately trained and authorized personnel Identify all areas/operations with the potential are permitted to work on electrical equipment. Work for a hazardous atmosphere (potential for a SIF). on energized electrical equipment is prohibited Ensure mechanisms are in place to warn employees without appropriate PPE and training. if/when the hazardous atmosphere exists. Do not enter/immediately evacuate an area where the atmosphere is dangerous to life and health (i.e., Asphyxiant gases–Nitrogen, Toxic gases–Carbon, Cyanide etc.). 04 32 KEEPING EMPLOYEES HEALTHY Allergan’s global wellbeing programs support and encourage To help our colleagues stress less, live more, and be Bold for employees to participate in multifaceted approaches to overall Your Life, we offer Resources for Living, our Employee and health. These include programs and resources that support Family Support Program to all colleagues globally at no cost physical, financial, social and emotional wellbeing with to them. Services include a 24-hour confidential hotline, the goal of helping provide a healthy work and life balance. eight face-to-face sessions for family members, and help These programs are supported or funded by Allergan. with a variety of personal and life challenges such as alcohol, drugs, anxiety, depression, parenting, child and elder care. Allergan gives each colleague the opportunity to be Bold for MyStrength, often called the ‘Health Club for your Mind’ Their Life. We’re very proud that the comprehensive benefits is offered to provide step-by-step eLearning modules for we offer – are among the very best in Corporate America. depression and anxiety, interactive tools, tailored action plans, They’re an important part of what it means to work at Allergan and daily inspiration personalized to each user. and embody some of the best traits of our company and our colleagues by being valuable, accessible and flexible. Allergan’s benefits go beyond the traditional health and insurance Allergan Guarulhos Celebrates Health Week plans to support our colleagues’ overall wellbeing. We’ve had and Opens an Onsite Fitness Center an overwhelmingly positive response from our colleagues who have taken advantage of the other programs we offer Allergan Guarulhos scheduled a number of activities to promote which collectively support our colleague’s physical, financial, employee health and wellness. Health week events included daily emotional and social wellbeing. In fact, over 75% recent survey communications which provided health information and tips. Also, an ergonomist discussed ergonomics in each department respondents report the health and wellbeing programs make one day, and held yoga classes on another day. The site also them feel better about working at Allergan. opened a fitness center. These efforts align with Allergan’s Bold culture to improve employee’s health and wellbeing. More Through Bold for Your Life, our global wellbeing initiative, information about Guarulhos’ quality of life program can using Virgin Pulse as the platform, colleagues around the world be found at www.boldforabetterlife.com.br. are able to take a free health assessment and receive a free fitness tracking device. On Virgin Pulse, colleagues can identify and track healthy habits, read daily motivational cards, take Communication from Ergonomics Day part in personal and global team challenges and build social networks. In the U.S. colleagues can earn “PulseCash” rewards for their active participation. Currently, over 8,800 colleagues are enrolled on Virgin Pulse and more than 2,500 colleagues participated in our most recent Global Team Challenge. To make wellbeing a priority ‘on the go’, colleagues can also take advantage of the Virgin Pulse app, allowing them to join Yoga 101 and Mindfulness 101 as well as new digital coaching programs called Journeys. GUARULHOS FITNESS CENTER 04 33 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT FOCUSING ON INCLUSION BUILDING CAREERS The strength of our organization rests upon over 17,000 Allergan colleagues own their career with their manager as diverse, talented and engaged global colleagues. We are their partner. To support our colleagues, we have built My committed to an inclusive workplace that fosters a diverse Allergan Career, a framework of tools, resources and action mix of talent – where colleagues of all backgrounds can be to help our colleagues understand the skills they need, actively successful. Each colleague at Allergan is unique, can make develop their expertise and have thoughtful conversations a difference and has a voice that matters. We are proud that to deliver results and plan their career journey. Our goal is more than half of our organization includes women and we to empower colleagues to explore different opportunities are focused on their development and growth to continue with curiosity, passion and a desire to challenge themselves. strengthening our leadership pipeline. Our continued focus We have been successful in inspiring our colleagues through on bringing in the best diverse mix of talent will drive how we career stories published internally and on LinkedIn as well as attract new Allergan colleagues. sample career paths. Colleagues are responsible to build the professional profile and development plan so they are ready Each colleague’s voice influences how Allergan operates. We to reach their career aspirations. captured our colleagues’ voices through a global all-colleague survey in order to better measure, understand and strengthen Career development has a close tie to performance our culture and engagement initiatives. Our scores aligned management. Performance management is not a process but with industry benchmarks when measuring the engagement instead how we work together throughout the year to meet our of our colleagues in terms of how happy they are to work here goals and grow in our career. There are four components that and recommending Allergan as a great place to work. Other all colleagues globally are responsible for, including setting areas of strengths included Safety, Ethics, Managers and Team goals, having regular check-ins throughout the year and Collaboration. As a result of the survey, Allergan executed then reflecting and being rewarded for strong performance several programs that will continue to drive engagement at the end of the year. We are also committed to providing throughout the organization, such as My Allergan Career competitive rewards for our colleagues’ strong performance. and a colleague recognition program. Our compensation programs are market-driven, reward our colleagues for superior performance and align with shareholder BUILDING LEADERS value creation. The comprehensive benefits we offer are an important part of what it means to work at Allergan and embody Our agile, lean and efficient structure encourages responsibility some of the best traits of our company and our colleagues by and accountability that enables each one of us to make being valuable, accessible and flexible. Allergan’s benefits go an individual and collective difference. Our impact is noticed beyond the traditional health and insurance plans to support and recognized through simple online tools that allows for our colleagues’ overall wellbeing. in the moment recognition. All colleagues at Allergan are leaders and depending on where they are/aspire to be Talent planning builds upon our people processes by enabling in their career journey, the leadership skills needed will vary. leaders to assess and openly discuss performance and potential To support their continuous growth and development, we of talent, determine successors for key positions and create align our learning curriculum to support the development of and implement developmental actions. the Leadership Skills. We take a holistic approach to learning, which includes online and in-person training, development experiences and on the job learning. 04 34 BIOETHICS Allergan is committed to strong bioethical practices. Work with biological agents, organisms, and toxins. The same standards biological agents, organisms, and toxins is done in the safest apply at all Allergan facilities. Allergan continues to evaluate manner possible. Allergan is committed to minimizing the risks existing practices against current and state of the art practices. associated with work involving biological agents, organisms, and toxins and these risks are managed to the highest practical Allergan meets Center for Disease Control (CDC) requirements level. Allergan adheres to strict compliance with international and is licensed by the CDC to manage select agents and toxins. and national regulations and guidelines regarding design and Allergan follows the Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical operation of these types of facilities. Allergan also ensures Laboratories requirements for all aspects of the work conducted consistency between our various groups and sites using in these areas. CORPORATE STATEMENT ON ANIMAL TESTING The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other worldwide health regulatory agencies currently require all pharmaceutical manufacturers to protect patients and consumers by establishing product quality, safety and effectiveness through approved and validated testing methods, which may include animal testing. When animal work is necessary it is designed to ensure the highest standards of animal welfare and undergoes ethical review, approval and oversight from an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Allergan shares the pharmaceutical industry’s goal of reducing or eliminating animal testing wherever possible and is committed to the “3Rs” principles of refinement, reduction and eventual replacement of laboratory animals in product testing. In this regard, Allergan has developed and gained regulatory approvals of a cell-based potency assay to replace an animal-based assay for use in the ongoing manufacturing of BOTOX®. 04 35 ACCESS TO MEDICINES – OUR SOCIAL CONTRACT Allergan is committed to innovation, access and responsible on the latter’s willingness to pay more rebates. In order to pricing ideals. This commitment is translated into four ensure that patients and physicians have access to a full array principals that are a part of our Social Contract with Patients. of medical options, we believe that these intermediaries should have open access to formularies whenever possible. Principle 1: Invest & Innovate Principle 2: Access & Pricing We commit to these responsible pricing ideals for our branded Principle 3: Quality & Safety therapeutics. Principle 4: Education • We will price our products in a way that is commensurate with, or lower than, the value they create by mitigating or avoiding 1. INVEST & INNOVATE the need for other treatment modalities or providing better Our social contract begins where there is a patient with an quality of life to those patients without other treatment options. unmet need. As we identify needs in our areas of expertise, • We will enhance access to patients we are committed to risking billions of dollars to develop life• We will work with policy makers and payers to facilitate better enhancing innovations. We will do so in the U.S. and around access to our medicines. the world. And, we use our Open Science model to access • We will not engage in price gouging actions or predatory pricing. promising inventions that exist outside of Allergan. That • We will limit price increases. Where we increase price on our means rewarding the scientists, start-up companies, academic branded therapeutic medicines, we will take price increases no institutions, investors and partners for the work they have put more than once per year and, when we do, they will be limited into the original invention, which becomes part of the cost of to single-digit percentage increases. Our expectation is that the developing life enhancing innovations. overall cost of our drugs, net of rebates and discounts, will not That investment doesn’t stop when a drug is first approved increase by more than low-to-mid single digits percentages per by a regulator. For many treatments, we invest more money year, slightly above the current annual rate of inflation. in R&D after regulatory approval than we do before the first • We will not engage in the practice of taking major price increases regulatory approval. For example, while our product Vraylar without corresponding cost increases as our products near was recently approved to treat bipolar depression, we continue patent expiration. While we have participated in this industry to make major investments to study Vraylar for other mental practice in the past, we will stop this practice going forward. health conditions where it may help people, including major Where new regulatory requirements impose added costs, we will depressive disorder. There is no guarantee that any of those seek to reflect those costs in our pricing. studies will yield new approved treatment options for patients. • We commit to providing an aggregate view of the net impact of That is the risk we take when we invest hundreds of millions of price on our business at least annually. dollars to develop medicines. But for us, it is still a risk worth taking. As important, it is our responsibility as part of the social 3. QUALITY & SAFETY contract with people who are hoping for a better, healthier life. We commit to intensely monitoring the safety of our medicines, before they are approved by regulators and afterward. We 2. ACCESS & PRICING commit to promptly reporting and acting on new safety data We commit to making these branded therapeutic treatments so that patients can trust our medicines. We also commit to accessible and affordable to patients while also ensuring that maintaining high standards of quality for each of our products. we can continue to meet our ‘invest and innovate’ obligations And, we commit to maintaining a continuous supply of our outlined in Principle 1. medicines by investing to expand manufacturing capacity of our products, either directly or through Providing our treatments to patients is not a straightforward our manufacturing partners. exercise. We have to go through many decision makers and intermediaries to make sure that our products are available to 4. EDUCATION the patients who need them. That means government payers, We are committed to appropriately educating physicians about regulators, private insurers, and pharmacy benefit managers our medicines so that they can be used in the right patients for to name a few. We commit to working with decision makers the right conditions. This is an ongoing effort and one that we take and intermediaries to make our products accessible to all pride in doing well because outcomes matter to everyone; patients people who need them. This often includes giving discounts and their advocates, physicians, payers and policy makers. and paying rebates. The current pricing environment is highly competitive with large payers making decisions that may limit patient access to our medicines in favor of a competitor based 04 36 COST BURDEN AND HEALTH OUTCOMES Allergan conducts research to understand the impact of our Allergan uses this research in our interactions with regulatory products on patient care in our disease areas of focus. The agencies such as the FDA and Ministries of Health, as well Global Evidence and Value Development (GEV) organization as payers, reimbursement decision makers, and health leads the effort to deﬁne the value of our products through care practitioners worldwide. Internationally, this research the understanding of humanistic and economic outcomes. is valuable for Health Technology Assessments conducted This organization consists of a number of dedicated research by agencies such as National Institute for Health and Care teams, including Global Health Economics and Outcomes Excellence, Scottish Medicines Consortium, Pharmaceutical Research (GHEOR), Patient Centered Outcomes Research Beneﬁts Advisory Committee, and Canadian Agency for (PCOR), and Real World Evidence and Modeling (RWE&M). Drugs and Technologies in Health to ensure they receive The GHEOR teams conduct primary research globally to accurate information on the value of Allergan products based understand and document the impact of a disease or product on their requirements and unique country needs. In the on patients, caregivers, the healthcare system, or society to U.S., this research is incorporated into Academy of Managed understand the economic implications of a treatment or disease Care Pharmacy Dossiers available to payers in the form of an in terms of processes and costs. The PCOR group is dedicated unsolicited request for use in formulary decision making as to speciﬁcally understanding humanistic outcomes and to well as peer reviewed publications that articulate the value our ensure Allergan is capturing outcomes important to patients products provide. More recently, this information has also been in our clinical and economic research. PCOR works actively used in the United States to help inform the Institute of Clinical with the FDA to provide input on guidance documents and to and Economic Review (ICER) evaluation of drug products. In ensure that Allergan is helping shape the policy framework as it addition, this research helps inform, support, and ultimately related to documenting patient outcomes. The RWE&M group evaluate the effectiveness of Value Based Contracts (VBC). take advantage of secondary data sources, such as electronic As the U.S. healthcare system increasingly moves away from medical records, insurance claims information, national and volume and towards value, having a strong GEV group local patients or disease registries to further document disease to engage with ICER and inform and evaluate VBCs with processes, treatment patterns, product costs and outcomes payers and providers will increasingly become a differentiator to further document and understand the value of Allergan’s within the industry. products. The RWE&M group allows Allergan to further elucidate the effectiveness of approved products as well as Allergan is also keenly interested in helping shape value cost-offsets and system efficiencies of a drug which may not assessment (Value Frameworks) as well as innovative appear in clinical trials. payment policies and reform. Allergan is a Board Member and active participant in this regard with ICER (Advisory The GEV organization works cross-functionally and globally Board Membership), National Pharmaceutical Council with colleagues across Allergan’s key therapeutic areas to (Board Member), U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Global Initiative generate the evidence needed to communicate, defend, on Health and the Economy (Board Member), Duke-Margolis and continually enhance the value of Allergan products, Value Based Payment Consortium (Board Member). throughout the product lifecycle. This involves projects related to central nervous system, eye care, medical aesthetics, and The majority of evidence generation at Allergan occurs gastroenterology. The deﬁned strategies are evaluated several in the areas of Clinical Development (which includes GEV) times a year to ensure that the necessary data is generated and Medical. Allergan’s investment in these areas ensures and if additional research is warranted to support the clinical, that there is an understanding of the value of our products humanistic and economic beneﬁts of Allergan products. Part and their appropriate use. Clinical trials and post treatment of this review is conducted with a group of global experts from follow on studies are included at the following website: various countries where Allergan makes its products available www.clinicaltrials.gov. These are being continually to ensure that our efforts take into account country speciﬁc updated with the latest information. needs and treatment paradigms. 04 37 PRODUCT QUALITY ENSURING THE QUALITY OF OUR PRODUCTS: OUR FOCUS ON QUALITY THROUGHOUT A THE SAFETY COMPLEMENT PRODUCT’S LIFE CYCLE: MEDICAL DEVICES The quality of a particular drug, biologic, or medical device is For our medical devices, including dermal fillers, breast integral to the safety of the patient who uses it, and to that end, aesthetics and non-surgical fat freezing technology, there we manufacture our products to the highest global regulatory are several additional QA measures that are put in place to standards. We use state-of-the-art technologies to ensure our accommodate for the differences in manufacturing medical products are of the highest quality and therefore suitable for devices versus drugs or biologics and are specific to the safe medical use, and have a global network in place to maintain regulatory requirements of each country where medical devices this standard around the world. But our focus on quality are made available to patients. Specifically, our approach is ongoing, it is never static. Instead, we make continuous utilizes what we call a “proof of process” compliance system improvements to our manufacturing and production processes that verifies specifications and validates each device as and exceed all regulatory guidance that governs the medical proscribed by regulatory authorities around the world. Allergan products in the United States and elsewhere in the world. also tests its medical devices as part of a comprehensive risk/ On the whole, what drives our quality assurance (QA) benefit analysis. Like drugs and biologics, our devices also are program is a reflection of our safety-first culture – all measures subjected to a series of rigorous quality testing – including undertaken by our QA program aim to result in a safe and physical and mechanical evaluations where appropriate. beneficial experience for the patient. Device performance is monitored over the life cycle of the product and in some cases tracked on an individual OUR FOCUS ON QUALITY THROUGHOUT patient basis. A PRODUCT’S LIFE CYCLE: If improvements can be made to our devices, both the QA DRUGS AND BIOLOGICS and design teams work together to make certain that the The Allergan QA program focuses on the complete life cycle quality and safety of the device will not be compromised. of our products, meaning that quality is evaluated from the The work between the design and QA teams is a testament product’s initial use in clinical trials through to its use in to an ingrained way of thinking we have at Allergan that never physicians’ practices. The QA measures undertaken for our loses site of the bigger picture – your safety. drugs and biologics complement the processes we use to ensure the quality of our medical devices. For our pharmaceutical products and biologics, the QA program begins with our product ingredients, includes the manufacturing and sterilization stage, and continues through use of the product by patient. Our particular methods of sterilization include both aseptic manufacturing, and terminal sterilization incorporating state of the art controls and the industry’s highest standards. Aseptic manufacturing requires precise attention at every step of the process to prevent even the slightest contamination of a product. Due to the precise nature of aseptic manufacturing, the process is governed by many different guidelines around the world, and although the standards in each country are different, we generally adhere to the most stringent ones. Once our products are assembled post sterilization, they are subjected to a significant series of quality testing for each “batch” of product to assure and validate the quality of each batch. Our products are also subjected to a comprehensive stability program that tests the product throughout its shelflife, over several years. Additionally, a specific risk analysis is developed for every product in advance of its entry into the market to ensure a patient’s experience with the treatment will be reliable, effective and most importantly, safe throughout the product’s life cycle. 04 38 PRODUCT QUALITY (Continued) QUALITY OUT ON THE MARKET Once a product leaves the manufacturing plant, QA measures remain equally vigilant. The performance and quality of our products are continuously monitored once they are made available to patients and involve routine dialogue with physicians who use the products and the pharmacists who dispense them. However, counterfeit drugs manufactured and sold around the world pose great challenges to federal agencies such as the FDA and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) under the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Unfortunately, the unscrupulous and illegal attempt by some individuals or companies to market products that are not clinically tested for safety or efficacy, lack regulatory approval (and therefore unsuitable for medical use) at the expense of patients’ safety for purely financial gains is something that affects every pharmaceutical and medical device company. We are not immune to this risk. To that end, Allergan is working in full collaboration with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat counterfeiting so when patients ask for our products, they can be assured they are receiving authentic Allergan treatments that have been properly tested and deemed safe for use. Additionally, there have been high-profile cases of arrests made of doctors who were providing their patients unlicensed and unapproved botulinum toxin and misrepresenting it as BOTOX® (onabotulinumtoxinA) and BOTOX® Cosmetic (onabotulinumtoxinA). The marketing and use of unlicensed and unapproved botulinum toxin is both dangerous and unlawful and we will continue to work closely with the appropriate authorities to prevent this practice from occurring in the future. To further help counter this risk to patients, we stress only visiting reputable and licensed physicians and have also developed a checklist on how to verify authentic BOTOX® and BOTOX® Cosmetic. DRUG IMPORTATION AND RE-IMPORTATION The issues of drug importation and drug re-importation also pose a danger to the quality of pharmaceutical products. In the United States, drug importation is a major public policy issue. Price controls in countries like Canada keep prices of prescription medicines below U.S. market prices. We believe legalizing prescription drug importation is a highly dangerous way to help people better afford their medicines and it is our position that laws prohibiting the importation of prescription drugs into the United States are necessary to protect the health and safety of American consumers. 04 39 PATIENT RESOURCES PHYSICIAN RESOURCES At Allergan, we believe the best of medicine is realized when Since Allergan’s inception, bringing the best of medicine to patients have the information they need to make well-informed the forefront of patient care has always entailed a commitment decisions regarding their treatment options. Information can to interaction and involvement: Listening to doctors and be found throughout our Web site about our products and the addressing patients’ needs. We work diligently to make sure conditions they treat, along with helpful links to additional we are providing the tools and channels to keep the patient education and support resources. conversation as dynamic and direct as possible. The Allergan Patient Assistance Program provides certain Underlying our commitment is a drive to help medical products to patients in the United States who are unable specialists improve patient outcomes. We pursue this goal to afford the cost of their medication and who meet other through ongoing training about our products, hand-on eligibility requirements. The website below provides Patient workshops by experts to stimulate scientific exchange and Assistance program information for our various products. sharing of best practices, and support for medical education and ongoing studies. www.allergan.com/responsibility/patient-resources/patientassistance-programs The Allergan Medical Institute education programs, for example, offer a forum for peer-to-peer discussion and a comprehensive curriculum in-person and via the Web for physicians to learn more about our portfolio. The Allergan Medical Institute programs also facilitate the Allergan Physician Certification Program, which grants surgeons access to the NATRELLE™ Collection of breast implants upon completion. 04 40 PHILANTHROPY AND CITIZENSHIP The Allergan Foundation (www.allerganfoundation.org), A sample of the programs and organizations that were funded a private foundation that is separate from Allergan plc and its are as follows: subsidiaries, but to which Allergan plc is the sole contributor, supports charitable organizations and programs having a Bold • Women for Women Reconstructive Surgery (WFW-RS) impact on communities where Allergan employees live and (www.womenforwomen-ipras.org) – is an international work. The Allergan Foundation receives hundreds of grant humanitarian organization established in 2008 to provide applications each year, and thoughtful consideration is given reconstructive surgery to injured women and girls in the to each request. All charitable grants are made with the United developing world. Burns cause a majority of the injuries Nation Sustainable Development Goals in mind. treated. The organization is funded exclusively by donations and all doctors volunteer their time. WFW-RS teams are Priority 1 of The Allergan Foundation is to support national comprised of plastic surgeons and anesthesiologists from and international health and human service programs. As part countries around the world. These teams are generally all of Foundation ‘s commitment to good health and well-being, female physicians because in the areas of the world where the Foundation supports selected initiatives, known as “Focus they work, female patients are more likely to seek care when Grants,” that improve patient diagnosis, treatment, care, they and their families know that they will only be seen by and quality of life, or to otherwise promote access to quality other women. An important additional benefit of this is the health care through donations and grants, as well as through strong sense of kinship and solidarity that develops amongst collaborations with health organizations to promote well-being the team and patients. Capacity building is a key mandate of and help address unmet medical needs. These efforts are the program and so education of local physicians and nurses focused worldwide and not strictly based on Allergan internal figures prominently. In order to provide appropriate follow-up operational areas. of patients and to build relationships with local physicians, WFW-RS makes long-term commitments to the communities Priority 2 of The Allergan Foundation is to support quality with whom they work; WFW-RS teams thus return annually to education through post-graduate fellowship programs with the same hospital for a minimum of 3–5 years. (www.youtube. renowned academic medical centers and through collaborative com/watch?v=K_cXp3t1syo). grants to universities and health-related organizations that • Blinded Veterans Association (www.bva.org) – Operation Peer provide for physician and patient education. These efforts are Support. BVA’s programs and services are free to any blinded focused nationally and not strictly based on Allergan internal or visually impaired veteran in need, regardless of how or operational areas. when they lost their vision. Operation Peer Support (OPS) began in 2006 in response to the needs of a growing group Priority 3 of The Allergan Foundation is to support the recently blinded veterans returning from overseas. For many well-being of the local communities where Allergan of these veterans, they were the first blind person they’d ever manufactures and conducts research and commercial business. met. OPS was built around the concept that peer support from Contributions in these local and regional areas prioritize veterans who had already lost their vision in previous conflicts programs to combat poverty, hunger, inequality, and inequities and had already navigated the various VA services could be in all forms. Additionally, social justice and environmental the best guides and mentors to their fellow veterans during programs are supported by The Foundation in the communities the adjustment process. Each OPS session coincides with where Allergan employees work and live. BVA’s annual Convention in August, so that OPS participants have access to a diverse group of fellow veterans, with their At Allergan, the focus on cutting-edge science, sound business breadth and depth of experiences, to draw from. practices and a global perspective contribute to the Company’s goal – to make a Bold impact on the health and well-being of people around the world. At the Allergan Foundation, we mirror this perspective by continually reassessing and reevaluating the material issues impacting our society. In 2018, because of the ongoing commitment of Allergan and its employees around the world, The Allergan Foundation supported 330 organizations with more than $8.18 million in funding. 04 41 • Eva’s Village (www.evasvillage.org) is a comprehensive GRANT LIMITATIONS anti-poverty organization whose mission is to provide care Grants are not made to support or fund: and support for people who are struggling with poverty, hunger, homelessness, and addiction. To that end, Eva’s • Organizations that are not 501(c)(3) publicly Village provides a recovery-oriented community of supportive supported charities services which include food, shelter, addiction and mental • Individual or family requests for scholarships, fellowship health treatment, child care, job training, medical and dental assistance, or other types of support care, and housing. Eva’s Village Health Clinic is one of only • Religious-based activities for the purpose of furthering a handful of free clinics in the state of New Jersey. Started religious doctrine in 1994, the Clinic provides more than 5,000 patient visits • Fraternal, labor, or political organizations. annually to the hundreds of residents in their shelters and • Organizations that discriminate on the basis of race, recovery programs, as well as some of the 300–400 people religion, creed, gender, or national origin they feed each day in their kitchen. All patients represent • Matching gifts the truly medically needy and underserved. • University administrative, management, or indirect fees. No one is ever turned away. • Golf tournaments, athletic events, league or team sponsorships, school-affiliated orchestra, band, In addition to financial support, The Allergan Foundation choir, student trips, or tours recognizes and highlights the work of its grant recipients • Private schools K-12 on several social media platforms. By promoting a charity’s • Fundraising activities or advertising sponsorships important work, we can help further their mission beyond what our charitable dollars can do. • Activities that propagandize, influence legislation and/or elections; promote voter registration; political The Allergan International Foundation (AIF) continued the candidates, political campaigns or engaged in political global extension of The Allergan Foundation’s philanthropic activities; litigation efforts to providing a lasting and positive impact on • Institutions limiting their services to persons of a single communities around the world. AIF distributed approximately religious sect or denomination $800,000 in support of a broad range of initiatives that bring aid • Promotional exhibits, surveys, or consumer interest groups. and relief to underserved communities. Sharing the Allergan • Endowments, capital, or building campaigns Foundation’s considerable philanthropic concern • Contingencies, deficits, or debt reduction with the global community, one-third of the AIF funding • Charities or funds solely directed by a single physician benefits programs in Ireland while more than $500,000 or medical practice group supported programs around the world. Grants generally are not approved for: The AIF is focused on health and human service programs, • Organizations that collect funds for redistribution which promote access and improvements to quality health to other nonprofit groups care, diagnosis, treatment, research, and disease awareness. • Regular, ongoing operating support Additionally, civic programs that improve quality of life and • Agencies, projects or programs primarily financed educational initiatives are considered for funding. by government sources Organizations that AIF is proud to have supported include: Southside Partnership (Ireland) to provide training for people with Autism Spectrum Disorder; Optometry Giving Sight’s “School Eye Health Program” (Pakistan) to improve the access to eye health services for 25,000 children and schools’ staff in district Shaheed Benazirabad, Sindh, Pakistan; I-Care South Africa, a leading organization that works with street children in South Africa. AIF continually looks to expand its philanthropic efforts into each country where Allergan plc has an office and employees to support worthy causes in those areas. For both The Allergan Foundation and Allergan International Foundation, grants are awarded to charitable organizations with high-quality programs and services, well-defined goals, a commitment to maximizing available resources, and a reputation for meeting objectives and reporting measured results. The objectives and programs of any requesting organization must be clearly defined and the program objectives must be achievable. 04 42 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTRIBUTIONS The financial status of the requesting organization and At the end of 2018, Allergan plc contributed $10 million its sources of income must also meet applicable legal to The Allergan Foundation, bring assets to more than $38 requirements, including proof of tax-exempt status under million, and allowing the Foundation to continue supporting section 501(c)(3), as a public charity described in sections a broad base of important work. The Allergan Foundation’s 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, and total annual asset management and administrative costs are status as a nonprofit organization under applicable state law. approximately 6% of their annual giving or less than 2% of the In assessing potential grant recipients, The Allergan Foundation Foundation’s corpus. Focused intently on a spirit to improve considers the extent of the public benefit provided by the lives and elevate communities and on behalf of the Board of requesting organization. An effective governing board, efficient Directors, we are grateful for this opportunity, and we are proud management, and strong community support are also among to stand with the organizations and individuals making the criteria considered. a difference in the world. The Allergan Foundation evaluates the impact to the The Allergan Foundation is led by Brent Saunders, Chairman, community and the intended recipients of the donation Chief Executive Officer and President, Allergan plc, and or grant and its intended purpose. Grants are competitively Chairman of the Board of The Allergan Foundation. Joining compared, even if the minimum grant requirements are met, him on the Board are: Alex Kelly, EVP, Chief Communications in order to determine which requests are going to have the Officer, Allergan plc, and President of the Board of The Allergan greatest impact. Outcomes are measured periodically against Foundation; Ed Davis, SVP & Chief Audit Executive, Allergan the request proposals to determine how successfully plc, and Chief Financial Officer of The Allergan Foundation; the intended purpose is achieved. Kira Schwartz, SVP, M & A, Licensing and Alliance Management, Allergan plc, and General Counsel and Secretary of The Allergan’s reputation is measured qualitatively through periodic Allergan Foundation; Jonathon Kellerman, EVP & Global Chief and random surveys with local community efforts in order to Compliance Officer, Allergan plc; Karen Ling, EVP & Chief gauge the effectiveness of participation and improving the Human Resources Officer, Allergan plc; Lei Meng, VP, Marketing selection process. The Allergan Foundation reserves the right, Analytics and BD&L Commercial Assessments, Allergan plc; in its sole discretion, to reject any request even when the and Susan Stone, Executive Director, Alliance Advocacy, requesting organization meets The Allergan Foundation’s Allergan plc. Additionally, serving on The Allergan Foundation grant guidelines. Board of Directors since 2011 is Mr. Gavin S. Herbert, Founder of Allergan, Inc. A pioneer and visionary in the field of health care, Mr. Herbert brings with him an unparalleled wealth “WE CARE” GRANTS of knowledge and insight, and provides strong support The Allergan Foundation strives to encourage and acknowledge for our work in philanthropic decision-making. The Allergan employee engagement and volunteerism through its “We Care” Foundation is grateful for his active involvement grant program. Extending its reach in the local community, and appreciates Mr. Herbert’s continued service The Allergan Foundation evaluates requests for funding to to the broader community. organizations in which employees of Allergan, plc take a strong interest through their personal donations of time. Additionally, groups of employees participating in a day of giving back, may request a grant for the benefiting organization. Financial grants to such organizations range from $500 to $1,500. 04 43 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY TABLE 1,2,3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 Serious Occupational Injury and Illness Incident Frequency Rate 0.48 0.26 0.35 0.38 (Incidents / 1,000,000)3 Occupational Injury and Illness Incident Frequency Rate (Incidents / 200,000 hours) 0.67 0.47 0.49 0.44 Lost Time Case Rate (Incidents / 200,000 hours) 0.30 0.14 0.15 0.12 Employee Engagement (Good Observations / 200,000 hours) 66 81 170 256 WASTE MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 Hazardous Waste (Incinerated/Autoclaved) (tonnes) 1,172 975 749 664 Hazardous Waste (Incinerated/Autoclaved) Per Sales (tonnes/million sales) 0.09 0.07 0.05 0.04 Non-Hazardous Waste Landfill (tonnes) 1,116 1,438 1,352 1,392 Non-Hazardous Waste Landfill per Sales (tonnes/million sales) 0.09 0.10 0.08 0.09 Non-Hazardous Waste (Incinerated/Autoclaved) (tonnes) 385 228 230 288 Non-Hazardous Waste (Incinerated/Autoclaved) Per Sales (tonnes/million sales) 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.02 Recycling (tonnes) 4,811 4,905 4,470 4,506 Total Waste (tonnes) 7,484 7,546 6,801 6,850 Total Waste per sales (tonnes/million sales) 0.59 0.52 0.43 0.43 ENERGY MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 Electrical Energy (GJ) – Source based 2,379,828 2,337,766 2,231,118 2,130,342 Electrical Energy per Sales (GJ/million sales) 188 160 140 135 Fuel Consumption (GJ) – Source based 742,766 728,127 767,290 761,775 Fuel per Sales (GJ/million sales) 59 50 48 48 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) – Source based 3,122,594 3,065,893 2,998,408 2,892,117 Total Energy per Sales (GJ/million sales) 246 210 188 183 Electrical Energy (GJ) – Site Consumption 757,907 744,512 710,547 678,453 Electrical Energy per Sales (GJ/million sales) 60 51 45 43 Fuel Consumption (GJ) – Site Consumption 701,937 688,776 726,135 720,560 Fuel per Sales (GJ/million sales) 55 47 46 45 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) – Site Consumption 1,459,844 1,433,288 1,436,682 1,399,013 WATER MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 Water (M3) 1,035,827 1,101,407 1,117,705 1,080,372 Water per Sales (M3 million sales) 82 76 70 68 COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 Notices of Violation 1 2 5 13 EHS Compliance Penalties/Fines ($) 0 0 500 0 Remediation Settlements ($) 0 0 0 0 Significant spills 0 0 0 0 1. Data only for Manufacturing and R&D operations unless otherwise noted 2. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 3. As defined by ASTM E2920 – 14: Standard Guide for Recording Occupational Injuries and Illnesses. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR CARBON MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) – Direct from Fuel Combustion 35,395 33,895 35,727 35,848 (R&D / Manufacturing) Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) – Indirect from Electrical 57,240 47,404 37,550 33,588 Consumption (R&D / Manufacturing) – Market Based Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) – Total (R&D / Manufacturing) 92,635 81,299 73,277 69,436 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Sales (MTCO2E/$million) 7.30 5.58 4.60 4.40 (R&D / Manufacturing) Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) – emission from all activities 85,597 85,656 88,190 80,529 (verified by ERM CVS) Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) – emission from all activities 68,655 54,493 46,800 43,336 (verified by ERM CVS) – Market Based Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (MTCO2E) – emission from all activities 154,252 140,149 134,990 123,865 (verified by ERM CVS) – Market Based Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions – Supply Chain (tonnes) 250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 Total renewable energy purchased (MWH) 48,164 62,409 68,363 77,291 Renewable Energy (% of Electricity from Renewable Sources R&D/Manufacturing) 20 33 38 43 RISK ASSESSMENT/CORRECTIVE ACTION MANAGEMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of EHS Risk Assessments 246 92 83 78 Number of EHS Related Corrective/Preventative Actions 1,600 2,600 4,978 12,825 DIVERSITY 2015 2016 2017 2018 Board Diversity (Women %) 17 25 25 18 Gender Diversity (% Female) 52 52 52 52 SALES ($000S) 12,688,100 14,570,000 15,940,700 15,787,400 HEAD COUNT 16,325 16,500 17,800 17,000 1. Data only for Manufacturing and R&D operations unless otherwise noted 2. 2015-2016 data excludes global generics business operations divested in 2016. 3. As defined by ASTM E2920 – 14: Standard Guide for Recording Occupational Injuries and Illnesses. Independent Assurance Statement to Allergan plc ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc. (ERM CVS) was engaged by Allergan plc (Allergan) to provide assurance in relation to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data for the calendar year 2018. Engagement Summary Whether the consolidated corporate data for calendar year 2018 for the following indicators are, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the reporting criteria: o Total absolute Scope 1 Direct GHG emissions from on-site fossil fuel combustion; emissions from Scope: on-site and fleet vehicles; and emissions from refrigerant gases in stationary HVAC equipment and air conditioning systems in fleet vehicles (metric tonnes CO2e) o Total absolute Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions (location-based and market-based) from purchased electricity and steam (metric tonnes CO2e) Allergan’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Management Plan, based on the World Resources Institute and the World Reporting Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) GHG Protocol; and Criteria: International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-1, Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals Assurance International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3:2006: Specification with guidance for the validation Standard: and verification of greenhouse gas assertions Assurance level: Reasonable assurance Allergan is responsible for preparing the GHG emissions data. Respective responsibilities: ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. Our opinion The limitations of our engagement In ERM CVS’s opinion the following GHG emissions for the calendar year 2018 are fairly presented, in all material respects, The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent in accordance with the reporting criteria: uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is Scope 1 Emissions: 80,529 tonnes CO2-e important to understand our assurance conclusions in this Scope 2 Emissions (location-based): 72,899 tonnes CO2-e context. Scope 2 Emissions (market-based): 43,336 tonnes CO2-e The findings presented here are not intended to be used as advice or as the basis for any decisions, including, without Our assurance activities limitation, financial or investment decisions. We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a Based on the work outlined above, we have provided Allergan basis for our assurance conclusions. management with a separate, confidential report detailing our A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the assessment of Allergan’s GHG emissions data for the calendar following activities: year 2018.  Interviews with relevant Allergan staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including data collection and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the GHG emissions data;  A visit to Allergan’s Manufacturing/R&D facility in Irvine, California, to review evidence for the activity data underlying the GHG emissions; Jennifer Iansen-Rogers, Partner  An analytical review of the consolidated year end activity 13 May 2019 data submitted by all sites underlying the GHG emissions; ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.  A review of the calculations of the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from the underlying activity data www.ermcvs.com undertaken by Allergan, including a review of the Email: post@ermcvs.com conversion factors and emission factors used. Declaration of Independence: ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group and an accredited Certification Body. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Allergan in any respect. APPENDIX A – ALLERGAN FACILITIES INCLUDED IN THE GHG INVENTORY NO. FACILITY NAME/EMISSION SOURCE FACILITY TYPE LOCATION 1 Irvine Manufacturing/R&D Irvine, CA 2 Waco Manufacturing/R&D Waco, TX 3 San Jose Manufacturing/R&D San Jose, CA 4 Brazil Manufacturing/R&D Guarulhos, SP Brazil 5 Costa Rica Manufacturing/R&D La Aurora de Heredia, Costa Rica 6 Pringy Manufacturing/R&D Pringy, France 7 Westport Manufacturing/R&D Westport, Ireland 8 Fall River Manufacturing/R&D Fall River, MA 9 Cincinnati Manufacturing/R&D Cincinnati, OH 10 Clonshaugh Manufacturing/R&D Dublin, Ireland 11 Liege Manufacturing/R&D Liege, Belgium 12 Houston Manufacturing/R&D Houston, TX 13 Liverpool Manufacturing/R&D Liverpool, UK 14 Weiterstadt Manufacturing/R&D Weiterstadt, Germany 15 North Brunswick Manufacturing/R&D North Brunswick, NJ 16 Pleasanton Manufacturing/R&D Pleasanton, CA 17 Sunrise Manufacturing/R&D Sunrise, FL 18 Branchburg Manufacturing/R&D Branchburg, NJ 19 Bridgewater Manufacturing/R&D Bridgewater, NJ 20 Dublin Manufacturing/R&D Dublin, CA 21 Livermore Manufacturing/R&D Livermore, CA 22 Galway Manufacturing/R&D Galway, Ireland 24 San Francisco Gateway Office San Francisco, CA 25 Sunrise Office Sunrise, FL 26 Rockaway Office Rockaway, NJ 27 Jersey City Office Jersey City, NJ 29 Madison Office Madison, NJ 30 Morristown Office Morristown, NJ 32 New York Office New York, NY 33 Austin Office Austin, TX 34 Reston Office Reston, VA 35 Canada Office Markham, ON 36 Mexico Office Mexico City, Mexico 37 Argentina Office Buenos Aires, Argentina 38 Chile Office Santiago, Chile 39 Columbia Office Santafe de Bogotá, Columbia 40 Brazil Office Sao Paulo, Brazil 41 Brazil Office Berrini, Sao Paulo, Brazil 42 Australia Office Gordon, Austrailia 43 China Office Beijing, China NO. FACILITY NAME/EMISSION SOURCE FACILITY TYPE LOCATION 44 China Office Shanghai, China 45 China Office Chengdu, China 46 China Office Guangzhou, China 47 Hong Kong Office Taikoo Shing, Island East, Hong Kong 48 India Office Bangalore (Kasturba), India 49 India Office Chennai, India 50 India Office Kollut, India 51 India Office Hydrabad, India 52 India Office Lucknow, India 53 India Office Mumbai, India 54 India Office New Delhi, India 55 Indonesia Office Jakarta, Indonesia 56 Japan Office Tokyo, Japan 57 Korea Office Seoul, Korea 58 Philippines Office Pasig City, Philippines 59 Malaysia Office Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 60 Singapore Office Singapore 61 Tawain Office Taipei, Taiwan APPENDIX B – GRI STANDARD REFERENCE TABLE GRI PAGE GRI STANDARD TITLE DISCLOSURE TITLE ALLERGAN REFERENCE DISCLOSURE # # GRI 102-1 General Disclosures Name of the organization Corporate Responsibility Report 1 GRI 102-2 General Disclosures Activities, brands, products, and services Form 10-K 10 GRI 102-3 General Disclosures Location of headquarters Form 10-K 4 GRI 102-4 General Disclosures Location of operations Form 10-K 14, 46 GRI 102-5 General Disclosures Ownership and legal form 2019 Proxy Statement 96 GRI 102-6 General Disclosures Markets Served Form 10-K 10 GRI 102-7 General Disclosures Scale of the Organization Form 10-K 11, 22 GRI 102-8 General Disclosures Information on employees and other workers Form 10-K 22 GRI 102-9 General Disclosures Supply chain Form 10-K 14 Significant changes to the organization and its GRI 102-10 General Disclosures Form 10-K 4 supply chain GRI 102-11 General Disclosures Precautionary Principle or Approach Corporate Responsibility Report 8 GRI 102-12 General Disclosures External initiatives Corporate Responsibility Report 18 GRI 102-13 General Disclosures Membership of associations 2019 Proxy Statement 41 Corporate Responsibility Report, GRI 102-14 General Disclosures Statement from senior decision-maker 3 2019 Proxy Statement GRI 102-15 General Disclosures Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Form 10-K 22 Values, principles, standards, and norms of GRI 102-16 General Disclosures Allergan Website behavior GRI 102-17 General Disclosures Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Allergan Website 27 GRI 102-18 General Disclosures Governance structure Allergan Website Executive-level responsibility for economic, GRI 102-20 General Disclosures Corporate Responsibility Report 7 environmental, and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, GRI 102-21 General Disclosures Corporate Responsibility Report 18 environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest governance body and GRI 102-22 General Disclosures Allergan Website its committees GRI 102-23 General Disclosures Chair of the highest governance body Allergan Website Nominating and selecting the highest GRI 102-24 General Disclosures Allergan Website, 2019 Proxy Statement 21 governance body Role of highest governance body in setting GRI 102-26 General Disclosures 2019 Proxy Statement 34 purpose, values, and strategy GRI 102-27 General Disclosures Collective knowledge of highest governance body 2019 Proxy Statement 34 Evaluating the highest governance body's GRI 102-28 General Disclosures 2019 Proxy Statement 40 performance GRI PAGE GRI STANDARD TITLE DISCLOSURE TITLE ALLERGAN REFERENCE DISCLOSURE # # Identifying and managing economic, GRI 102-29 General Disclosures Corporate Responsibility Report 17 environmental, and social impacts GRI 102-30 General Disclosures Effectiveness of risk management processes 2019 Proxy Statement 35 GRI 102-31 General Disclosures Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Responsibility Report 17 GRI 102-32 General Disclosures Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Corporate Responsibility Report 7 GRI 102-35 General Disclosures Remuneration policies 2019 Proxy Statement 54 GRI 102-36 General Disclosures Process for determining remuneration 2019 Proxy Statement 54 GRI 102-38 General Disclosures Annual total compensation ratio 2019 Proxy Statement 54 GRI 102-39 General Disclosures Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 2019 Proxy Statement 73 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI 102-40 General Disclosures List of stakeholder groups Allergan Website 18 Patient Resources & Physician Resources GRI 102-42 General Disclosures Identifying and selecting stakeholders Corporate Responsibility Report 18 GRI 102-43 General Disclosures Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate Responsibility Report 18 GRI 102-44 General Disclosures Key topics and concerns raised Corporate Responsibility Report 18 GRI 102-45 General Disclosures Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Form 10-K 57 GRI 102-46 General Disclosures Defining report content and topic boundaries Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-47 General Disclosures List of material topics Corporate Responsibility Report 17 GRI 102-48 General Disclosures Restatements of information Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-49 General Disclosures Changes in reporting Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-50 General Disclosures Reporting period Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-51 General Disclosures Date of most recent report Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-52 General Disclosures Reporting cycle Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-53 General Disclosures Contact point for questions regarding the report Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-54 General Disclosures Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Corporate Responsibility Report 6 GRI 102-55 General Disclosures GRI content index Corporate Responsibility Report 51 GRI 102-56 General Disclosures External assurance Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Management GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Approach Management GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility Report 9–43 Approach GRI PAGE GRI STANDARD TITLE DISCLOSURE TITLE ALLERGAN REFERENCE DISCLOSURE # # Management GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility Report 9–43 Approach GRI 201-1 Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed Form 10-K 51 Financial implications and other risks and GRI 201-2 Economic Performance Form 10-K 22 opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and other GRI 201-3 Economic Performance Form 10-K 141 retirement plans Communication and training about anti-corruption GRI 205-2 Anti-corruption Allergan Website Code of Conduct policies and procedres GRI 302-1 Energy Energy consumption within the organization Corporate Responsibility Report 22 GRI 302-3 Energy Energy intensity Corporate Responsibility Report 22 GRI 302-4 Energy Reduction of energy consumption Corporate Responsibility Report 22 GRI 303-1 Water Water withdrawal by source Corporate Responsibility Report 27 GRI 305-1 Emissions Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 21 GRI 305-2 Emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 21 GRI 305-3 Emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 46 GRI 305-4 Emissions GHG emissions intensity Corporate Responsibility Report 21 GRI 305-5 Emissions Reduction of GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other GRI 305-7 Emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 28 significant air emissions GRI 306-3 Effluents and Waste Significant spills Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Environmental Non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 307-1 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Compliance regulations Supplier Environmental New suppliers that were screened using GRI 308-1 Corporate Responsibility Report Assessment environmental criteria Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Occupational Health GRI 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Corporate Responsibility Report 33 and Safety of work-related fatalities Programs for upgrading employee skills and GRI 404-2 Training and Education Corporate Responsibility Report 34 transition assistance programs GRI 415-1 Public Policy Political contributions Allergan Website Political Contributions Requirements for product and service GRI 417-1 Marketing and Labeling Allergan Website information labeling CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
