COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From:26-4-2017 To:26-4-2020 1. STATEMENT OF SUPPORT To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Glocera reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Niraj K Gupta Managing Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights • We ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. • We protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. • We take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products. • 100% attendance incentive policy to keep each employee motivated. • Provision of counselling services from professional counsellor. • Medical claim policy and Accidental policy in place for each employee as well as worker who doesn’t fall under ESI criteria whereas only Accidental policy in place for employees / workers who fall under ESI criteria. • No discrimination on any basis within company. Ethics Committee, Anti Harassment committee and policies are in place to ensure swift actions incase of any unforeseen circumstances. • Equal wages are provided for equal work irrespective of gender, religion, caste or creed. Labour • We ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. • We comply with minimum wage standards. • We ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. • Each worker is provided with fully equipped safety gear on manufacturing facility’s premises. • Accidental policy in place for employees / workers who fall under ESI criteria. • Double wages are paid in case of overtime voluntarily offered. • Hygienic meals and beverages are provided by company at highly subsidised rates. • Accommodations are provided by company at highly subsidised rates. • Accidental policy for each worker covering USD 14,277 per head. • Pick and Drop facility for each employee ensuring their comfort and safety. • Attendance incentives are offered on monthly basis. • Weekly team exercises as well as supervisor and workers talk sessions to prevent work related stress. Environment • We avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and Environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) • We ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. • We minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances when applicable. • Rain Harvesting system is in place at our manufacturing facility. • We use Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) as fuel for contribution towards saving environment. • Aggressive plantation has been taken up by us voluntarily to save environment. Anti-Corruption • We assess the risk of corruption when doing business. • We mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners. • We ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment. • Tie up with hotel chains on corporate level to ensure GST compliance invoices. • Compulsion for all vendors to be registered with government and needs to be GST compliant. • All transactions take place digitally or via cheques. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES : • We have employed humans irrespective of their gender, caste and creed within age group ranging from 18 till 58. • Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism : Occupational Diseases : 0% Injuries : 0.02% Absenteeism (excluding leaves) : 3% • Percentage of recycled materials : 87% • Percentage of absenteeism reduced aggressively. • Cost saving and environment friendly measures have helped business and society. • Anti-Corruption practices has ensured positive work environment. • Incentives have motivated workers and built their trust towards company. • Positive brand image as people with high EQ levels have appreciated company’s measures. • Accidental policy, work policy, medical claim policy and subsidised accommodation as well as food has ensured favourable work environment and we have set up example for others. • CNG as fuel has ensured higher efficiency, reduced cost and improved quality along with contribution towards environment. • Transportation services have helped build trust among employees regarding safety especially between women.
