ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINGERPRINTS IN BRIEF THE LEADING GLOBAL BIOMETRIC COMPANY Fingerprint Cards AB, or Fingerprints, is a leading glocustomer base mainly comprises companies that bal biometric company with Swedish roots. Our solumanufacture smartphones. As the usage of biometric VISION tions are integrated into millions of devices and applisolutions expands, Fingerprints is endeavoring to broaA secure and seamless universe, where you cations and are used billions of times every day. We den its offering, adding more biometric modalities, and are the key to everything. deliver secure and convenient identification and bringing solutions into new market segments like authentication and create value by facilitating the smart cards, vehicles and the Internet of Things (IoT). everyday lives of our global user base. Fingerprints is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm (ticker Fingerprints develops biometric systems consisting FING B). Most of its workforce is located in Sweden, but MISSION of sensors, algorithms, software and packaging techthe company also has offices in Denmark, China, To provide safe and convenient identification nologies. Our success is built on product development Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States. and authentication with a human touch. with leading edge-specialist competence that spawns world-leading products in terms of security, userfriendliness and performance. Most of our current product offering consists of fingerprint sensors, and our This Annual Report is an English translation of the Swedish original. In the event of any discrepancies, the Swedish version shall govern. CONTENTS The year in brief 2 Auditors’s opinion regarding the Statement of financial position, Group 53 Assurance by the Board 78 Message from the CEO 4 Statutory Sustainability report 30 Statement of changes in equity, Group 54 Audit report 79 Market and trends 8 The share 31 Statement of cash flows, Group 55 Ten-year summary 82 Strategy 10 Message from the Chairman 35 Parent Company income statement 56 GRI index and detailed sustainability Development, products and solutions 11 Corporate Governance Report 36 Parent Company balance sheet 57 information 84 Value chain 14 Board of Directors 44 Statement of changes in equity, Shareholder information 88 Human resources and sustainability 18 Group Management 46 Parent Company 58 Glossary 88 Risks and risk management 28 Statutory Administration Report 48 Cash flow statement, Parent Company 59 Statement of comprehensive income 52 Notes to the financial statements 60 FINGERPRINT IN BRIEF Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Fingerprints Cards AB was incorporated in 1997, but the patent that prefaced our history, later dubbed the Löfberg Patent, had been granted 15 years before this. The patent was granted to Swedish film director and passionate inventor Bo Löfberg. Accordingly, we have been in business for 20 years. In this period, a huge amount has happened in the world of technology. But one thing that hasn’t changed is our conviction that people should be able to avoid the hassle of PINs and passwords. Product development and innovation are our lifeblood, and patent protection is an essential part of our business. With our competence and curiosity, we want to keep Löfberg’s legacy alive every day across our whole business, from Silicon Valley to Shanghai. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 FINGERPRINT IN BRIEF 1 2018 SEK -772 M 0% IN BRIEF OPERATING RESULT GROSS MARGIN (SEK 155 M) (33 %) SEK 1,535 M SEK 275 M -2.01 SEK CASH FLOW FROM EARNINGS PER SHARE REVENUES (SEK 2,966 M) OPERATING ACTIVITIES (0.38 SEK) (SEK 377 M) 10 BILLION Fingerprints’ technology is used 7 Fingerprints sells 7 sensors 16 Fingerprints’ technology used in all publicly over 10 billion times a day every second throughout the year announced market tests of contactless biometric payment cards in 2018 REVENUES, OPERATING PROFIT FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY AND GROSS MARGIN SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 SEK M % Revenues, SEK M 1,535.1 2,966.0 6,638.3 2,900.5 233.6 7,000 60 Gross profit, SEK M 2.4 988.9 3,165.3 1,255.3 71.6 6,000 45 30 Gross margin, % 0 33 48 43 31 5,000 15 Operating result, SEK M –771.6 154.6 2,578.5 910.3 –145.2 4,000 0 Operating margin, % –50 5 39 31 –62 3,000 –15 EBITDA, SEK M –505.2 234.0 2,627.1 953.7 –83.6 2,000 –30 Profit before tax, SEK M –796.7 141.8 2,613.5 910.0 –143.6 1,000 –45 Net result for the year, SEK M –630,7 120.3 2,034.7 798.3 –144.0 0 –60 Earnings per share, SEK –2.01 0.38 6.40 2.53 –0.49 -1 000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Equity/asset ratio, % 77 66 64 60 71 Revenues, SEK M Operating profit, SEK M Gross margin, % Number of coworkers 263 558 438 254 175 2 2018 IN BRIEF Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Fingerprints’ technology is used over 10 billion times a day FIRST QUARTER SECOND QUARTER THIRD QUARTER FOURTH QUARTER 17 mobile devices with the company’s touch 16 mobile devices with the company’s touch 12 mobile devices with the company’s touch 18 mobile devices with the company’s touch sensors launched by seven OEM customers sensors launched by seven OEM customers sensors launched by six OEM customers sensors launched by six OEM customers • In January 2018, the 300th mobile phone • FPC1511, the fourth-generation finger• First volume order received for FPC1511, • Strategic cooperation agreement on biowas launched with Fingerprint’s touchprint sensor, was launched the fourth-generation capacitive fingermetric doorlocks signed with China Synosensors • Initial order from two global card manuprint sensor data and Jianfeng.Fingerprints partici• Fingerprints and Gentex entered a facturers for Fingerprints’ T-Shape • Fingerprint sensor adapted for the autopate in market tests of biometric cards in 10-year exclusive collaboration agreemodule for biometric smart cards motive sector launched Middle East, Italy, the Philippines and ment for the development of biometric • Cost reduction program implemented. • Fingerprints supports Zwipe to launch France. systems for the automotive industry dual-interface biometric payment cards • Agreement to deliver T-Shape to • Fingerprints participated in two market with banks and loyalty programs in China. FEITIAN’s contactless biometric cards. tests for biometric smart cards. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 2018 IN BRIEF 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ORGANIZATIONAL ADAPTATION AND DIVERSIFICATION Fingerprints’ strategy is focused on defending and building on our strong position in the smartphone segment, while broadening our business into new areas. For Fingerprints, 2018 was a year marked reduced our overall cost base by approxiof Delta ID. As a result of this, Fingerprints This also means that biometric solutions by adjusting and adapting the operations to mately two-thirds compared with the highest is now debt-free. for smartphones are once again a growing rapidly changing conditions. Our revenues 2017 level. That obviously entailed a substanmarket. declined to SEK 1,535 M, mainly due to a drop tial workforce reduction, but the adjustment BIOMETRICS – AN INDUSTRY OF THE The interest in adopting biometric soluin the ASP for our products of over 30 percent was necessary to safeguard our competitiveFUTURE tions is large and growing, even outside the compared with 2017. ness. At year-end, the number of employees Today, around four years after biometrics mobile segment, in areas where strong and The start of the year was particularly weak, was 220, compared with 415 at the end of had its commercial breakthrough in user-friendly authentication is important. The due to a negative trend in the Chinese smart2017. During the same period, we reduced mobile phones, about 65 percent of all automotive industry is a good example, where phone market and a continued shift toward the number of consultants from 143 to 43. smartphones sold in the world have some biometrics in particular touchless solusmaller and cheaper fingerprint sensors. Layoffs of this magnitude are never simple form of biometric sensor. Biometric solutions, e.g. iris recognition can help to deliver The revenue trend stabilized somewhat startor painless, and I would like to say that I am tions for smartphones will also remain an personalized features that improve security ing in the second quarter, and we reported impressed by the manner in which everyone attractive and growing market. At the same and convenience. Biometrics in lock and sequential growth during the second and third here at Fingerprints has handled this difficult time, the mobile industry is fast-paced access control systems is another interesting quarters when the domestic Chinese smartsituation. The cost-adjustment program we and dynamic with rapidly changing trends field and we expect to see rapid growth in this phone market showed a slight recovery and implemented during the year was delivered and intense competition. While capacitive segment. our sales benefited from an improved product professionally, and according to a challengfingerprint sensors have dominated the But the area in which I see the greatest and customer mix. ing schedule. I would like to thank those smartphone segment to date, they are potential in the coming years is biometric Fingerprints is still the leading provider employees who left us during the year, as well now increasingly challenged by alternative smart cards. Much seems to indicate that the in the smartphone segment. In 2018, our as those who have remained with us for the technologies. major card brands’ certifications of contactshare of the market for capacitive fingerprint next stage of Fingerprints’ development. In-display solutions that integrate fingerless biometric cards may be completed sensors for smartphones (excluding Apple) Fingerprints’ financial position is solid, with print sensors into a smartphone’s display in the near future. This is an important was about one-third of the approximately 700 cash assets that amounted to SEK 540 M at were launched in 2018. The volumes are milestone and a prerequisite for card issuers million smartphones equipped with capacitive the end of the year. Net cash assets grew still relatively small but in 2019, I expect being able to start planning and budgeting for fingerprint sensors delivered during the year. from SEK 455 M to SEK 540 M in 2018. In the that in-display technology will account for a broader commercial launch. The introducIn response to the revenue decline, we fourth quarter, we repaid the remaining pora significant share of the total value of the tion of biometric cards will then take place carried out measures during the year that tion of the acquisition loan for the purchase fingerprint sensor market for smartphones. gradually with major regional differences. 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Biometric solutions for smartphones are once again a growing market. The penetration rate will probably rise at the business into areas outside the mobile a slower pace than in the mobile industry, industry. where fingerprint sensors had a major impact within the space of a couple of years. However, DEFEND AND CAPITALIZE ON in the longer term, the potential market is FINGERPRINTS’ LEADING POSITION IN huge, with over four billion smart cards proTHE MOBILE SEGMENT duced every year. I am optimistic about the mobile segment and Fingerprints’ ability to maintain the leading STRONG STARTING POINT FOR position through continued product innovaFINGERPRINTS tion. Our strategy in the smartphone segment Fingerprints’ objective is to be a leading global comprises three focus areas. player in our selected segments and applicaFirstly, to defend our market share and tion areas. We want to be recognized as an margins in capacitive fingerprint sensors by innovative, high-tech and entrepreneurial ensuring production-cost competitiveness. company, and a provider of high-level security In 2018, we launched FPC1511 – a sensor solutions. Our starting point is strong, with with lower production costs than the previous a market-leading position in the mobile seggeneration of sensors, but continued high ment where Fingerprints is recognized for its biometric performance. FPC1511 received a high quality, functionality and security. We are positive response from several major OEM also well-positioned to capture a significant customers and, in 2019, this product will share of new, emerging global markets for play a leading role in our product portfolio of biometric solutions – especially biometric capacitive sensors. smart cards. Our strategy for the coming Our second focus area in Mobile is to years is based on defending and building capture a major share of the growing market on our strong position in the smartphone for in-display sensors. In February 2019 we segment while diversifying and broadening Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 5 We intend to capture a significant share of the growing market for in-display sensors. launched FPC1610, our first optical in-display cards, which is the main application area sensor. for biometrics in relation to cards. As previSUSTAINABLE BUSINESS It is also important that we conduct our The third part of our Mobile strategy is ously announced, we signed a partnership DEVELOPMENT business in accordance with high ethical focused on further developing and making agreement with Gemalto in February 2019 Fingerprints’ operations contribute standards. As a member of the UN Global our iris recognition technology even more and secured the world’s first volume order to sustainable development and have Compact, Fingerprints stands wholeheartuser-friendly, with the aim of providing a of fingerprint sensors for dual-interface a positive impact on society, not least edly behind its ten principles with respect more secure and cost-efficient alternative to payment cards. This testifies to the strength because our product portfolio adds value to human rights, labor, the environment advanced facial recognition. of our offering. Fingerprints is wellfor customers, users and society at large, and anti-corruption. Our sustainability tarpositioned to capture a significant share of with secure identification and authenticagets are aligned with the UN Sustainable EXPANSION INTO NEW BIOMETRIC this emerging market. In 2019, activities will Development Goals (SDGs). Read more on tion in an increasingly vulnerable digital MARKETS be expanded further with a considerable pages 18–27. environment. Our solutions therefore help Diversifying the business into areas outside number of tests. Business volumes in 2019 to reduce the risk of fraud. the smartphone segment is a key strategic will be modest. However, we expect to see a priority. Our goal for 2018 was to generate wider commercial launch starting in 2020. 10 percent of our sales outside capacitive During the year, we also strengthened our sensors for smartphones, which we also offering to the automotive industry, where achieved. A major share of these revenues we already have an exclusive partnership derives from sales of sensors for biometric agreement with Gentex for the development integrate this fingerprint sensor with vehicles Fingerprints will continue to make selective door locks and laptops. The goal is to continue of biometric systems for authenticating drivare expected to commence this year. investments in new technologies to secure growing our revenues from these areas. ers using iris recognition technology. We have We are still only at the beginning of the long-term growth. At the same time, we are focused on secualso launched a fingerprint sensor for the development of biometrics. The increasing ring a leading position as a provider of biometautomotive sector now, where biometric soludegree of digitalisation in society has led to Gothenburg, April 2019 ric solutions for smart cards. The market tions can help to deliver personalized features greater security awareness, which means tests carried out around the world to date that increase both comfort and safety. that solutions for safer and more comfortable Christian Fredrikson confirm that Fingerprints’ solutions can The first product development projects to authentication and identification are being President and CEO be found in all tests of contactless biometric sought in an increasing number of areas. 6 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Fingerprints’ sensors are used in all publicly announced market trials of contactless payment cards to date. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 7 MARKET AND TRENDS BIOMETRICS CREATE VALUE IN MORE AND MORE SEGMENTS The market for biometric solutions in the smartphone segment is becoming increasingly fragmented, with multiple competing technologies. At the same time, we are approaching the first commercial launches of biometric smart cards, the starting signal for the next biometrics mass market. WEAK MOBILE MARKET AND turers is perceived to be lower than previsors is currently significantly higher than for INCREASED SMART CARD GREATER DIVERSITY OF BIOMETRIC ously, meaning that people are retaining capacitive sensors, in-display will probably ACTIVITY – NEXT MASS MARKET SOLUTIONS FOR SMARTPHONES their old phones a little longer. represent a considerable portion of the total FOR BIOMETRICS In 2018, the market for fingerprint sensors The total market in 2018* for capacitive value of the market for fingerprint sensors In 2018, players throughout the value chain was impacted by a weak trend in the global fingerprint sensors for smartphones, in for smartphones in 2019. for smart cards increased their activity level smartphone market. Deliveries of smartterms of volume, was essentially unchanged After Apple launched a smartphone with and their investments in the further develphones worldwide declined by approxicompared with 2017 and amounted to 700 advanced facial recognition in 2017, the opment of biometric cards. Biometric mately 5 percent compared with 2017, with million devices. Fingerprints’ market share interest in touchless solutions also incharge cards are the area in which Fingera particular slowdown in demand in China at the OEM level was about one third. The creased. We saw a number of launches by prints foresees the largest potential in the and the US. Several external sector analysts average price of capacitive sensors for Chinese manufacturers in 2018, primarily next few years, although the growth curve anticipate the weak market trend to consmartphones declined by more than 30 perusing so-called 2D facial recognition, but is not expected to be as steep as when biotinue in 2019, with approximately zero cent compared with 2017, meaning that the aside from Apple, the technology has not yet metrics had its breakthrough in smartgrowth. value of this market declined by the same achieved a definitive breakthrough as an phones. However, the potential market is One of the key factors behind the weak amount. adequate alternative to fingerprint recognihuge, with about four billion smart cards mobile market is that consumers are To date, capacitive fingerprint sensors tion. produced every year. replacing their devices less frequently than have dominated the market for biometric Biometric solutions for smartphones will Payments is an area that is associated before. This is particularly apparent in solutions in the smartphone segment. Howremain an attractive market. However, we with comprehensive regulations, control China, where the replacement frequency ever, during 2018, alternative technologies see that the market for capacitive fingermechanisms and global standards, and has traditionally been higher than in Europe began to gain ground, not least in-display print sensors in this segment is continuing large-scale launches of new technologies and the US. In recent times, we have seen sensors that integrate fingerprint sensors to decline in value, while alternative soludemand carefully considered and gradual China approach the levels that exist in other in the displays of smartphones. The market tions are advancing in the market. It is clear implementation to ensure a secure and fricmajor world markets, partly because the for in-display is still immature and is develthat the market for biometric solutions in tion-free experience for the consumer. For operators in China have made strong reducoping very rapidly. We are going to see a the smartphone segment is becoming example, the initial registration of the custions in their subsidies for mobile phones. number of product variations adapted to increasingly fragmented, with multiple tomer’s fingerprint (enrollment) is a highly Another factor may be that the degree of different display types and other conditions. competing technologies. important area that must be resolved in a innovation among mobile phone manufacSince the average price of in-display sencost-effective and user-friendly manner. * Excluding Apple 8 MARKET AND TRENDS Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 In this area, there are a number of card brands’ certifications will be comapproaches with their unique advantages pleted in the first half of 2019. and disadvantages, and it is not always obvious which method will prove the best. AUTOMOTIVE AND EMBEDDED Accordingly, market tests are a key feature SYSTEM SOLUTIONS of trying out different solutions under real The interest in biometric solutions is large conditions, collecting feedback from conand growing, even outside the mobile segsumers and fine-tuning parts of the system ment and smart cards. Potential applicaahead of a broader roll-out. tions include vehicles, locks, entry systems, 16 market tests for contactless biometric manufacturing technology and medical smart cards commenced in various parts of devices, as well as everyday home usage. the world during the year. Fingerprints’ bioThe growing number of devices that are metric module was used in all of these connected to the internet accentuates the tests. The number of market tests is set to need for secure and user-friendly systems increase significantly in 2019, since a numto verify personal identities, such as entry ber of card brands, including Visa, Mastersystems in airports, hospitals and workcard, JCB and China Union Pay, are on the places. Overall, this means systems need verge of establishing specifications and to be user-friendly, cost-efficient, and standards for biometric debit cards. The obviously, secure. This is driving the need next step in this process is a certification of for biometric solutions. Another area of considerable potential is access, personal settings such as driving established standards. The certifications Development has progressed furthest in the automotive industry, where biometric positions, infotainment or mileage reportare a key requirement for card issuers Asia, where biometric door locks are an solutions can contribute to the provision of ing, leasing, linking to insurance, etc. being able to budget and plan for initial area that displayed strong growth during customized functionality, thus enhancing launches. Business volumes in 2019 will 2018. There are indications that the interest convenience and security. Biometric vehicle be small, but a broader commercial launch in these types of biometric solutions is also solutions can be applied in different ways, could occur starting in 2020, given that the increasing in other parts of the world. and associated with different functionality – Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 MARKET AND TRENDS 9 STRATEGY DIVERSIFICATION IN FOCUS Fingerprints will generate profitable growth by assuming a leading position in selected segments, and being recognized as a provider of very high-level security solutions in the mobile industry and the FinTech sector. Fingerprints’ strategy is based on defending industry. Fingerprints sees great potential Mobile Smart cards Automotive & and building on our strong position in the in utilizing the company’s economies of Defend and capitalize on Secure a position as Embedded smartphone segment while diversifying the scale and experience of mass production of business into prioritized areas outside the sensors in its expansion into new customer Fingerprints’ strong position the leading provider of Grow in prioritized segments mobile industry. segments. Biometric smart cards represent biometric solutions in a fragmented market Fingerprints was one of the pioneers the application that Fingerprints regards as • Defend our market share • Collaborate with players • Maintain our leading posiwhen biometrics had its global breakhaving the greatest potential in the coming and margins in capacitive throughout the smart card tion in selected areas of through in mobile telephony about four years, since the potential market is very fingerprint sensors by ecosystem to promote the application. years ago. We have maintained a leading large, with about four billion smart cards ensuring production-cost creation and acceleration • Initial focus on biometric position in the industry ever since. While produced each year. Fingerprints deems competitiveness. of a new world market for solutions for entry systems biometric solutions for smartphones will that the major card brands’ certifications of • Capture a major share of the biometrics. and vehicles. remain an attractive and growing market contactless biometric cards are imminent. growing market for in-dis• Secure an undisputed • Capture a significant share moving forward, the mobile sector is charThis would mark the starting signal for a play sensors. global leadership position of the market for iris recogacterized by a high level of competition and new mass market for biometric solutions. • Further develop our iris within contactless biometnition in Aadhaar devices in rapidly shifting trends. Capacitive sensors, Fingerprints has a very strong starting point recognition technology to ric cards, the next mass India. offer a more secure and market for biometrics. which have dominated so far, have experifrom which to be able to secure global leadenced sharp price falls and are now facing ership in this area. cost-efficient alternative to advanced facial recognition. increasing competition from alternative Biometrics are expanding in an array of technologies. In Mobile, which accounted other areas, where secure and user-friendly for approximately 90 percent of sales in authentication is critical. However, the bioFingerprints’ strengths 2018, the most important strategic priority metrics market, apart from smartphones • Strong, market-leading brand is to expand the product portfolio to defend and smart cards, is fragmented and Finger• Independent Swedish provider, recognized for high quality, functionality and security and capitalize on the company’s strong prints has chosen to assign priority to entry • Full-coverage system expertise position. systems and vehicles, where the near-term • Strong patent portfolio Biometric solutions are being adopted in potential is deemed to be greatest. • Established, well-functioning sales channels and strong customer relations more and more areas outside the mobile • Extensive experience of high-volume production 10 STRATEGY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS CONTINUOUS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT A PREREQUISITE Fingerprints operates in an industry characterized by rapid technological progress. Continuous product development is crucial for maintaining and strengthening competitiveness. At the end of 2018, the R&D organization BIOMETRIC SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT represented 40 percent of Fingerprints’ IN FOUR DIMENSIONS IN-DISPLAY – A PRIORITIZED R&D AREA IN 2019 coworkers. Fingerprints’ development of biometric In-display solutions, which integrate a fingerprint sensor into the display of a smartProduct development is based on sevsensors is integrated across four dimenphone, will account for a major share of the total value of the market for fingerprint eral technologies to create user-friendly sions: developing algorithms, software sensors for smartphones in 2019. Fingerprints’ objective is to capture a significant solutions. These include touch, that is, the development, hardware development of share of the this rapidly expanding market. The project is proceeding as planned, and touching of a sensor, and touchless, in biometric sensors and packaging. The Fingerprints’ first optical in-display sensor, FPC1610, was launched in February 2019. which no physical contact with the device development work is based on fingerprints is required. and the iris of the eye. 1. 2. 3. 4. Algorithms—reading the unique Software development for Hardware development Packaging—physical integration biometric pattern enhanced end-user experience Hardware development primarily involves Packaging focuses on integrating the senAlgorithms are the software optimizing Software development focuses on Fingerfingerprint sensors and focuses on funcsor in other materials, as well as complete image quality and executing image processprints’ biometric systems solutions in tionality and design solutions in the creation system solutions with processes for pluging, that is the information in the image of, smartphones, for example. This process of the sensor. and-play functionality. Complete system for example, of a fingerprint or an iris. Our manages sensor communication with the For capacitive fingerprint sensors, this solutions of this type are primarily develin-house algorithm competence enables mobile platform for verification in a secure translates to chip area and thickness, power oped for applications in solutions other than partnerships with customers, and thus platform combined with user-friendly consumption and the capability to detect smartphones and smart cards. addresses their requirements for biometric functionality. images through different types of material. development. Fingerprints also develops technology for optic and ultrasound-based fingerprint recognition. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS 11 DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS EFFECTIVE SOLUTIONS FOR DIFFERENT APPLICATIONS Fingerprints offers a strong product portfolio of biometric system solutions that help create easier and more secure everyday lives for users. Fingerprints’ solutions are suitable for a form solutions for the various smartphone SMARTCARDS ing wheel, vehicle dashboard or integrated broad range of product segments. Apart segments. The sensors can be placed on Fingerprints has developed T-Shape™, a into a rear-view mirror. In January 2018, from smartphones, currently the largest the front, back or side of the unit with a capacitive sensor module optimized for Fingerprints entered into an exclusive partapplication segment for the company’s color and material-adapted coating. integration in smart cards conforming to nership agreement with Gentex, a leading products, Fingerprints’ solutions are also the relevant in sector standard and ISO automotive industry technology vendor, to applicable to product segments like smart In-Display requirements, and which is ready for effijointly develop biometric systems capable cards, door locks, vehicles and the IoT. In-display solutions integrate the fingercient mass production. It functions for conof authenticating drivers using iris recogniFingerprints’ biometric systems solutions print sensor in the display of a smartphone, tact and contactless cards. T-Shape™ is the tion. are protected by extensive patents. We providing enhanced flexibility in where to market’s most power efficient module, with Once verified, the car can start and the always endeavor to obtain a balanced and place the sensor. In 2019, Fingerprints very good contactless charging characterispassenger compartment is adapted autogrowing patent portfolio extending from intends to take a position in the market for tics, which is a fundamental requirement matically, including mirrors, steering wheel algorithms, through biometric image proin-display sensors using the company’s for functional biometric contactless cards. settings, seat positions and satnav systems. cessing to sensors and hardware packaging optical sensor technology. Fingerprints’ sensors were used in all pubtechnology. licly announced market tests of contactless Touchless biometric cards during 2018. SMARTPHONES In the mobile segment, fingerprint sensors Fewer and more efficient capacitive are starting to be supplemented by alternaAUTOMOTIVE & EMBEDDED sensors for broad applications tive biometric modalities, such as face and Fingerprints also offers solutions for the IoT Historically, most of Fingerprints’ revenues iris recognition. Interest in these touchless and the automotive industry. Example applihave been generated from solutions for fintechnologies grew in 2018. A key focus area cations include door locks, entry systems, gerprint verification for the mobile sector. for Fingerprints is to further develop and home electronics and smart watches. In 2018, the product portfolio in the smartmake our iris recognition technology even Solutions for vehicles comprise complete phone segment was concentrated to fewer more user-friendly, with the aim of providing modules for fingerprint recognition, as well capacitive sensors that combine lower procustomers with a more secure and costas ActiveIRIS, Fingerprints’ technology for duction costs with high-quality perforefficient alternative to advanced facial iris recognition. These can be placed in sevmance to meet the demand for more unirecognition. eral locations, including a door, key, steer12 DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS 13 VALUE CHAIN BUSINESS RELATIONS SPANNING SEVERAL LEVELS Our business is based on the sale of complex biometric systems that integrate high value-added hardware and software. We create business relationships with multiple partners through our supply chain. MOBILE est semiconductor manufacturers, SMIC of marily select customers that can fill their mally, software development is included in Most of Fingerprints’ revenues are generChina, which is listed on the NYSE and Hong capacity. the agreement. ated from shipments of capacitive fingerKong Stock Exchange, and TCMC of Taiwan, Thanks to high volumes and good planprint sensors to mobile phone manufacturwhich is listed on the NYSE and Taiwan ning, Fingerprints has secured very positive Module suppliers ers in China. This business is part of the Stock Exchange. Sensors are constructed in relationships with semiconductor manufacThe production of smartphones is consemiconductor industry and features a wafers, layers of silicon in standard format. turers, thus enhancing potential to manuducted through the assembly of modules value chain with a large number of particiProduct development and more efficient facture a broader-based product mix with sourced from a range of subcontractors. pants and long lead times. Fingerprints has algorithms are enabling Fingerprints to varying volumes. To ensure delivery reliabilIn the mobile industry, they are largely progood visibility over forthcoming launches of gradually reduce sensor footprints, which ity at higher volumes and more hardware duced by module suppliers, with each OEM smartphones that use our sensors. Howmeans lower unit cost because significantly versions, Fingerprints utilizes dual sourcing having selected module supply partners. ever, the company has limited visibility over more sensors can fit on each wafer. This is for every chip series, i.e. two different proModule suppliers account for the assembly the sales volumes these smartphone modan important component of addressing price ducers. Apart from procurement from and packaging of various components into els will generate, which is what ultimately downturns for sensors, a consequence of semiconductor manufacturers, value is also modules that are ready for assembly in a drives revenues. The inventory levels of the the sector very rapidly evolving into a mature added through channels including OSAT smartphone. various participants in the value chain are mass market with high competitive pres(Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly & Fingerprints has established close affected by fluctuating demand. This invensure. Test) suppliers, which encapsulate chips for partnerships with about ten module suptory dynamic can have a material impact on Fingerprints’ delivery reliability is subsequent assembly. pliers. Module suppliers can be viewed as Fingerprints’ sales volumes and earnings in ensured as a result of high volumes and partners and customers, because they set individual quarters. effective forward planning, since the manuDistributors standards, while also serving as a collabfacture of silicon wafers has similarities to Distributors are an established part of the orative partner in Fingerprints’ product Semiconductor manufacturers the processing industry, where once a proelectronics industry, and the party that customization process. Fingerprints manufactures its hardware duction line is started, it is continuous and Fingerprints delivers its hardware to. using external contractors. The company’s assumes the lowest volume to maximize the Fingerprints’ revenues arise from hardOEM largest procurement item in volume terms utilization of production capacity, and thus ware in the form of silicon wafers (sensors Smartphone manufacturers (OEMs and are our silicon chips, the core of the sensor, attain the lowest possible unit cost. Accordin their original format) or packaged senODMs, the latter: original design manufacmainly sourced from two of the world’s largingly, semiconductor manufacturers prisors being shipped to the distributor. Norturers, who manufacture products sold 14 VALUE CHAIN Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 MOBILE A VALUE CHAIN WITH MULTIPLE PARTICIPANTS AND LONG LEAD TIMES FINGERPRINT CARDS AB Delivery of sensors (via Hardware design Software adaptation, semiconductor manufacturers) and customization integration and maintenance SEMICONDUCTOR MODULE OEM/ODM DISTRIBUTORS RESELLERS MANUFACTURERS SUPPLIERS smartphone to whom Fingerprints Selling smartphones to USERS Produces sensors on silicon package sensors into manufacturers consumers delivers sensors wafers modules APPROXIMATELY 4–6 MONTHS’ LEAD-TIME Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 VALUE CHAIN 15 SMART CARDS ECOSYSTEM FINGERPRINTS COLLABORATES WITH SEVERAL LEADING PLAYERS* CARD ISSUER AirPlus, MACU, Bank of Cyprus, Intesa Sanpaolo, Société Générale, ten banks in the Middle East SECURE ELEMENTS NXP CARD MANUFACTURER IDEMIA, Gemalto, Kona I, Jinco, FEITIAN CARD HOLDER FINGERPRINT SENSOR AND SOFTWARE PLATFORM FPC 1300 series T-shape™, FPC-BEP SUBCONTRACTORS TO CARD PAYMENT SCHEME MANUFACTURERS VISA, Mastercard, JCB Zwipe, Linxen, CardLab * Published partnerships 16 VALUE CHAIN Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 under other parties’ brands) make decisions bers. The dominant card manufacturers are on, and specify constituent components in, based in Europe. their technical specifications. For selected suppliers, these decisions mean a design Subcontractors win. Customization of hardware and softSubcontractors in various segments deliver ware then commences, and a large batch of products and solutions to card manufactursensors is then shipped for production and ers such as chips, and in Fingerprints’ case, functional testing. Assuming these tests are fingerprint sensor modules. successful, mass production commences. Smartphone producers maintain a high Manufacturers and issuers tempo in the development and launch of Charge/credit cards are issued by banks new models. The commercial lifespan of a who have contracts with the card brands. smartphone model is some 12–18 months, The leading brands who dominate this with the main volumes shipped in the first market are VISA, MasterCard and China 12 months. UnionPay. SMARTCARDS Standardization and certification The value chain in the smartcards market Payments and cards are a sector character(all cards with chips, mainly charge cards) ized by regulation and a high degree of standiffers from the smartphone value chain in dardization. Certification and standardizaThe major card brands are preparing certifiAUTOMOTIVE many respects. But there are also fundation of charge/credit cards with fingerprint cations of contactless biometric cards, Marketing and sales to the automotive mental similarities, because both sectors sensors occur under the auspices of the which are a prerequisite for the market for industry occur through module suppliers feature mass production by a limited cluster EMVCo certification body. The international biometric cards to gain momentum. and subcontractors. Fingerprints has colof global manufacturers that are part of association Eurosmart is another important laboration with companies including Gentex, complex value chains with multiple memplayer, which develops smart security stana US provider of driver assist systems for dards. vehicles. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 VALUE CHAIN 17 PEOPLE AND SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION DRIVES THE BIOMETRIC FUTURE Fingerprints’ biometric solutions contribute to sustainable development. With passion for innovation and a focus on end-user experience, our coworkers create solutions for secure identification and authentication. HIGH LEVEL OF COMPETENCE IN A sales. The level of education is high, with a A VALUE-BASED WORKPLACE these behaviors and communicate with FLAT ORGANIZATION large proportion of graduate engineers. Fingerprints’ culture is characterized by coworkers and managers. Fingerprints is an entrepreneurial company Approximately 25 percent of the coworkers entrepreneurship and innovation, motivated The company’s incentive program for its that is aware that diversity and experience in the R&D organization have PhDs in techand solution-oriented coworkers and an managers is connected to the company’s form a competitive advantage in undernology. open and non-hierarchical climate. Our financial performance and a number of indistanding our customers. In the organizaOur customers’ needs are met because corporate culture is also defined by our core vidual goals. tional adjustment made in 2018, major many of our coworkers have rigorous sector values – SMART, BRAVE, OPEN, UNITED – focus was placed on retaining our delivery experience from such areas as telecom, which we work with constantly to ensure THE COWORKER EXPERIENCE A capacity and motivation. banking, payments and charge cards. their implementation and that they permeKEY PARAMETER ate our daily operations. We are convinced In 2018, for the third consecutive year, an PROFESSIONALS CLOSE TO CUSTOMDIVERSITY that this not only improves customer relaemployee-satisfaction survey was conERS WITH A HIGH LEVEL OF TECHFingerprints’ success is also attributable tionships and results in more effective deciducted by an external party. The survey was NOLOGY EXPERTISE to linguistic and cultural closeness to our sion-making, but also results in greater job conducted in two steps, with the first meaTo succeed in a fast-moving, high-technolcustomers, which is why we give our cosatisfaction, commitment and motivation. surement focused on coworker commitogy market, the capacity for innovative techworkers generous opportunities for interment and the second measurement focused nology development is a basic requirement. national exchange between our operations. … ALSO IN MANAGEMENT on the psychosocial work environment and Fingerprints’ coworkers share a genuine We regard the fact that our coworkers hail The core values also represent a key paramanagement. The employee-satisfaction interest in technology and are driven by confrom all parts of the world as one of our meter in management. During the year, a survey, apart from being an important meatinuing to move the creation of our future greatest strengths. In the Swedish organimanagement forum was created, in which sure of the coworkers’ perception of their biometric society in a positive direction. The zation, we now have coworkers of ten differour CEO, HR and Fingerprints’ managers workplace, is a key tool in identifying areas company’s innovative force is very strong, ent nationalities, who all contribute differwork on such issues as commitment, motiof improvement, which in turn leads to despite the personnel reductions made durent perspectives and enrich our corporate vation and trust. A number of management plans for action. ing the year. We have, for example, access culture. behaviors were identified in 2018 (in addiDespite large personnel reductions, to specialist competence in biometrics, tion to the behaviors already identified that the company has succeeded in maintaining electronics, materials technology, coding, apply to all coworkers) which we connect a high level of commitment among its production technology, marketing and with each core value. We are working with employees. The result for the Fingerprints 18 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Smart Brave With our competent coworkers, we deliver We are encouraged to take initiatives and smart and user-friendly products and solubravely take on challenges. Our people tions with innovative technology. We make a difference every day by assuming encourage smart working by promoting a challenges and having the courage to take good work-life balance. initiatives. We demonstrate integrity in our decisions and stand up for our values. OUR CORE VALUES Open United We communicate with each other and our We work together towards common goals. customers openly and with compassion and We build trust to create long-lasting relaintegrity. We are open to new ideas, markets tionships. We care for each other and treat and products and continuously refine our each other with respect. We help each ways of working. We build trust by commuother and share our knowledge for continunicating openly and transparently with ous development. We have fun together. stakeholders. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY 19 Internal company communication has been extended to include strategy roadshows and management days. Engagement Index 2018 was somewhat Malmö is our European commercial center higher than the 2017 result and higher than for Smartcards, Automotive & Embedded. the comparative index (benchmark). We have also centralized our planning and delivery function in Malmö. The operation 2018 – A CHALLENGING YEAR OF for customized development and support in ORGANIZATIONAL ADJUSTMENT China was expanded, which has already Fingerprints undertook a comprehensive generated results in the form of increased organizational adjustment during 2018 to customer satisfaction. At the same time, adapt its costs to rapidly changed market one level of management was eliminated, conditions. The challenges were not only thereby contributing to greater flexibility considerable on an individual level, but also and shorter paths of decision-making. for the company, particularly in terms of Meanwhile, supplementary recruitment is retaining competence and motivated cocontinuing to ensure the right competence workers. While many coworkers left us durfor continued development. ing the year, organizational changes were Internal company communication was implemented with the aim of remaining at extended to include a monthly letter from the absolute cutting edge of biometric the CEO, strategy roadshows and manageauthentication and identification. The numment days in Asia and Europe. In addition, ber of coworkers declined from 558 – 415 we had focus groups and CEO breakfasts to employees and 143 consultants – and at the listen to feedback from our coworkers and end of 2018 numbered 263 coworkers, comto stimulate discussion and collaboration. prising 220 employees and 43 consultants. A number of measures have been initiSUSTAINABILITY AT FINGERPRINTS ated during the adjustment. The research Fingerprints is working on strengthening and development organization is concenand drawing attention to the benefits our trated in Gothenburg and Copenhagen. products create from a sustainability per20 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 263 220 EMPLOYEES 43 CONSULTANTS COWORKERS IN 2018 (OF A TOTAL OF 263) (OF A TOTAL OF 263) 41 years The Executive Management Group 171 MEN comprises seven persons, of whom 49 WOMEN all are men, with four in the 30-50 age range and the remainder over AVERAGE AGE (EMPLOYED) 50 years of age. EMPLOYEES BY AGE, GENDER AND REGION Geographical division, women Geographical division, men Age division, women Age division, men employees, women in Europe, 57% employees, men in Europe, 57% employees, women aged under 30, 16% employees, men aged under 30, 7% employees, women in Asia, 41% employees, men in Asia, 38% employees, women aged 30–50, 74% employees, men aged 30–50, 79% employees, women in the Americas, 2% employees, men in the Americas, 5% employees, women aged over 50, 10% employees, men aged over 50, 14% Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY 21 spective and on reducing the negative tainable Development Goals is our offering The sustainability framework comprises To integrate sustainability into our internal impact Fingerprints has through its operaof biometric solutions for smart cards, four areas, which cover our entire business processes, we have gained inspiration from tions, products and supply chain. which enable secure payments. This supand are also set out in our Code of Conduct: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our Fingerprints has been a member of the ports Goal 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong • Trusted, Transparent Business Conduct management system is also certified in UN Global Compact since 2016 and wholeInstitutions) by reducing the risk of fraud • Environmental Protection and Efficient accordance with ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. heartedly supports the work to develop the and enabling more secure authentication use of Resources A working method has been produced to UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles and and payments. We believe that companies • Respecting and Rewarding People manage our overall policies and our Code the UN’s Global Sustainable Development working collectively on sustainability chal• Smarter and Safer Solutions of Conduct, with the aim of managing all Goals. Fingerprints’ role in developing lenges is the best way to achieve long-term Fingerprints has defined a number of core policy areas equally. Fingerprints’ work on Aadhaar is a good example of how the results. To this end, Fingerprints has been a sustainability targets that are connected with responsible sourcing is a very important company’s products can contribute to susmember of Eurosmart since 2017, which is the four focus areas (see pages 26 – 27). The policy area. All direct suppliers must sign tainable development. Aadhaar is operated a sector organization for businesses that continuous implementation of the targets our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. on behalf of the Indian Government with work in smart security, such as digital idenrepresents the core of the company’s susthe aim of creating official identities and tities, data security, cyber security, Internet tainability work and is part of Fingerprints thus ensuring access to local and national of Things (IoT), payment solutions and intercompany-wide balanced scorecard, with social insurance systems in a simple and face controls. sustainability goals being part of the assesssecure manner for citizens. ActiveIRIS ®, which is part of this project, is FingerHANDS-ON SUSTAINABILITY ment criteria, which helps sustainability aspects secure equal status with the comSustainability work in prints’ first Aadhaar-certified product. Aadhaar is an example of an application FRAMEWORK Sustainability work in Fingerprints is carpany’s other objectives. The targets have been broken down by feature and business Fingerprints is carried segment supporting UN Global Sustainried out close to the business within the area to determine how they can contribute out close to operations, company’s sustainability framework, which able Development Goal 1 (No Poverty), by delivering a technology that supports comprises a vision, core values and all of to sustainability goals. These enhance both commitment and participation. The visibility within the company’s people’s rights to an official identity. Another example of how Fingerprints’ the company’s policies, including its Code of Conduct and sustainability targets. and integrity of sustainability goals also facilitate Fingerprints’ managers following sustainability frameoperations contribute to the UN Global Susup on work where relevant. work. 22 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Solutions that contribute to sustainable development Fingerprints’ biometric solutions contribute to sustainable development. Our offering enables secure identification and authentication in a formerly high-risk environment. RESOURCES PERFORMANCE RES INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL EAR FINANCIAL CH 263 coworkers, 109 in R&D AN Customers, sales SEK 1,535 M E MOBILE D D Patent portfolio AG Suppliers, manufacturing NT US costs SEK 1,533 M PRO ME FINANCIAL CAPITAL OP Employees, salaries SEK 381 M DU CT EL EV Cash and cash equivalents SEK 540 M Public sector, income tax SEK +166 M Development costs SEK 244 M BUSINESS CONCEPT Shareholders, dividends Selling costs SEK 189 M and buy-backs SEK 0 M Fingerprints develops HANNELS PROCUREM and sells biometric ON C SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL SOCIAL UTI EN solutions to companies T AN B I SMART FOR END-USERS R Customers globally that develop prodST CAR DP Greater integrity and security DI Coworkers ucts and services interfacMBEDDED DS ND E R 63 models launched with Fingerprints’ ND Shareholders ing with people. EA OD Partners solutions. IV OT UC Suppliers OM Users AU FOR WIDER SOCIETY T Regulators More security for people and property, DE ON Communities LI TI prevention of fraud and identity theft. VERY D NGOs A TING AN SALES RKE FOR COWORKERS Academia MA Jobs are also created with Fingerprints’ subcontractors. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY 23 STAKEHOLDER AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS SOCIAL ASPECTS In 2017, Fingerprints did its first work on Fingerprints has defined the following The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and • Attract and retain competence and talent a structured stakeholder and materiality groups as stakeholders and identified dedistipulations of the Swedish Annual • Secure access to the right competence analysis. The materiality analysis is the cated activities for each stakeholder group. Accounts Act on non-financial information and attract, develop and retain talented foundation for the sustainability goals for • End users (ÅRL Ch. 6 Sect. 10) have been combined individuals 2018–2020 presented on page 26-27. These • Module suppliers and distributors as the starting point of the methodology • Diversity goals also linked to the UN Global Sustain• Coworkers for producing Fingerprints’ materiality • Occupational health & safety able Development Goals. • Private investors analysis, which is integrated into the com• Conflict minerals All business lines and features were • Financial analysts pany’s overall risk management process. • Accessing citizens’ rights and social involved and the stakeholder analysis was • Suppliers insurance systems through official identiapproved by management. • Business partners within ecosystems Fingerprints considers the following as ties • Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) the most material sustainability seg• Biometric integrity • The media ments. • Competitors • Users ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS • Political decision-makers • CO2 emissions • Environmental impact of providers • Recycling • Utilization of materials ECONOMIC ASPECTS • Corruption • Reduced risk of fraud • Product quality • Entry barriers for biometrics. 24 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Fingerprints’ coworkers share a genuine interest in technology and are driven by taking the creation of our future biometric society in a positive direction. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY 25 SUSTAINABILITY GOAL DESCRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 WITH COMMENTS DESCRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2020 GOAL 2020 TRUSTED AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESS CONDUCT Acceptance and compliance A. Code of Conduct to be confirmed by A.All coworkers sign the Code of Conduct when signing their employment A. Written confirmation of Code of Conduct A. Annually by 100% of all coworkers. with the Code of Conduct all coworkers. contract and complete training in the Code of Conduct in conjunction with by all coworkers. (Corporate Responsibility) on-boarding. B. In addition to the introductory trainB1. 50% of the coworkers completed the Code of Conduct E-Learning B. Percantage of coworkers that have taken B. 100% of all coworkers. ing for new employees, refresher training 2017. Code of Conduct E-Learning, contains in-depth information on the Code of Conduct E-Learning. is to be conducted for all employees every anti-corruption, insider information samt sexual harassment, including other year. #MeToo. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES Reduce CO2 emissions A. Continuously reduce directly generated A. Scope 2: 17 ton aggregate reduction or minus 33% in CO2 equivalents A. Reduce CO2 emissions pursuant to scope A. 20% reduction achieved. carbon emissions ¹. achieved. This reduction was achieved by actively selecting providers with 2 with 2017 as base year (including all B. Achieve CDP (Carbon Disclosure Prorenewable energy, and by reduced office space. offices). ject) level C. • Greenhouse gas emissions – Unit: ton CO2-eq 2018: 34; 2017: 51 • Energy – Unit: MWh 2018: 1427; 2017: 1 659 B. Work continuously to reduce CO2 emisB. Specific activities defined and 70 % of B. Did not achieve CDP level C. sions from scope 3 by identifying practiactivities fully implemented with measurcal activities at the supplier level, business able effetc. travel and product usage. Utilization of resources in A: At least 95% of sensors produced are to 97.7 % utilization on average during 2018. Fingerprints continuously Work continuously on improving the utiliza97,5% of silicon wafers are utilized production be usable². measures how much of the silicon wafer for fingerprint sensors is utilized. tion of materials. Goal achieved Goal proceeding as planned/partly achieved Goal not achieved Explanatory notes 1) CO2 emissions in Scope 2 cover the offices in Sweden and Denmark. The GHG Pro4) Benchmark data produced by Netsurvey. tocol Corporate Accounting & Reporting Standard, market-based approach was 5) Equal opportunities information is for all employees. used to measure Scope 2. 6) Information on sickness absence is for Sweden only. 2) Utilization of materials in production is for wafers. 3) Employees are defined as all individuals with a direct and valid employment contract with Fingerprints. Coworkers are defined as all employees and consultants with consulting assignments occupying at least 50% of their total working-hours. 26 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 SUSTAINABILITY GOAL DESRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2018 ACHIEVED IN 2018 WITH COMMENTS DESCRIPTION OF GOAL FOR 2020 GOAL 2020 RESPECTING AND REWARDING PEOPLE Advance positioning as an A. Maintain or improve achievements on The engagament index score for 2018 was 78, which is an improvement Identify and implement activities that create Coworker evaluation of motivation and attractive employer the outcome of 80 (2016 base year) in the from 2017. Net Promotor Score was -51, which is worse compared to 2017. motivation and commitment of coworkers commitment to return to 2016 levels coworker satisfation Netsurvey of ComThe sharp decline in the workforce in 2018 has affected the outcome. and improve leadership. – Engagemang index 80 mitment index. The Commitment Index3, 4 Fingerprints continuously work on issues regarding engement, leader– Net Promotor Score 43 shows total employee satisfaction. ship and coworkmanship to increase the feeling of acting as ambassador B. Retain or improve the Net Promotor for the company. Score 43 (2016 base year). The Net Promotor score illustrates willingness to recommend your workplace to friends and acquaintances. Equal opportunities Reach 25% women of all emplyees at all 22% of the company’s coworkers are women. 21% of managers are Modification of goals; define and impleReach 25% women of all employees at all levels of the company in 2020 5. women. Collaboration with Women’s Executive Search to actively attract ment plans that support a diversified worklevels in 2020. more women. All applications are treated equally and decisions taken on force with equal opportunities regardless the basis of how well a candidate satisfies predefined criteria and if all of gender. other things are equal, the female candidate is favored above the male. Health and safety A No serious work-related accidents. A No serious accidents occurred. Identify and implement activities to improve A. No serious work-related accidents. work environment. B No more than 1% of coworkers affected B 1 % of coworkers have been affected by long-term sickness leave. B No more than 1% of coworkers affected by work-related long-term sickness by work-related long-term sickness absence 6. absence. C Perceived stress levels at a maintained C. Index 11 in perceived stress levels which is a decrease from 2017. C Perceived stress levels at a maintained or improved level compared to benchmark, or improved level compared to benchmark with 2016 baseline index of 15 in perceived with 2016 as baseline index 15 in perceived stress levels. stress level. SMARTER AND SAFER SOLUTIONS Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction survey executed in The Customer satisfaction survey was conducted in May. Drive active improvement work in key corpoThe CSI should be above benchmark 2018, as well as development of methodCSI (customer satisfaction index) increased to 4,10 (3,92). rate functions with the objective of increas(benchmark is 4.12) for corresponding ologies for gathering customer and endThe NPS also increased compared with 2017. ing the CSI. peer companies and the sector. user needs. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 COWORKERS AND SUSTAINABILITY 27 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Like all business activities, Fingerprints’ operations are associated the company’s success. To anticipate risks and minimize their effects, with risk. Risks include Fingerprints’ dealing with situations erroneFingerprints has processes in place to continuously identify and manously and events or decisions outside the company’s control that could age risks that can affect its operations. As part of this process, the result in disruptions to operations, damage or losses with a material company evaluates the probability and consequences of operational impact on the company. Fingerprints’ risk management is critical to risks, market risks, financial risks, as well as legal and other risks. Name of Risk How Fingerprints is impacted Risk control and risk management OPERATIONAL RISKS Delivery capacity of contracted suppliers Financial damage as a result of delivery disruption. Maintaining a diversified supplier base of hardware and input materials. Reduced technological leadership Loss of competence. Continuous product development and understanding of customer demands, increased R&D collaboration with customers. Leaks and infringements regarding business Financial consequences and loss of reputation Implement IT Policy through training and integration in management system. secrets in connection with leaks of development information. Develop procedures for platforms, systems and cloud when managing high risk data. Internal scalability Growing pains when the company’s infrastructure and work methods Investments made in Management system, processes development is ongoing. Investment in HR system, are not involved to the same extent as the financial development. implementation is ongoing. MARKET RISKS Geopolitical instability Loss of business opportunities for local/regional political reasons. Differentiate Fingerprints biometric solutions vis-à-vis low cost products with low biometric integrity. Supplier costs Reduced margins due to increase in supplier costs. Ensure market-aligned pricing by using several suppliers. Continuous reviews of suppliers' pricing and market analysis. Economic fluctuations Reduced demand that impacts the company’s profits, inventories and Reduce cyclicality through diversifying to new markets and continuously analyze the whole value chain to the valuation of intangible assets. foresee demand fluctuations. Broaden the product portfolio and customer base. Currency risk Negative financial impacts from currency fluctuations. Fingerprints has elected not to hedge its net exposure in USD, since hedging may itself be viewed as currency speculation. Loss of customers and price pressure due to Sales revenues and market shares decline due to price pressure and Aim to be a full solution provider. Increased focus on customer satisfaction, service, quality and quick increased competition customer requirements for a number of suppliers. response time. Maintain direct customer contacts. Cultivate new customers in new markets. Develop strategic partnerships. FINANCE RISKS Credit risk The counterparty does not fulfil his/her payment obligations. Compliance with credit policy and established process for credit assessment and setting limits. Use of credit insurance. Financing Financing of capital requirements is made more difficult or more Communicate proactively with the capital market and create conditions for implementing the necessary expensive. capital acquisition measures if required. LEGAL RISKS Competitor IP Patents held by others impede the applications of Fingerprints’ Patent strategy and active patent monitoring. Close cooperation between patent manager and development technology. department. Value of Patent IP Loss of revenue and earnings due to patent infringements. Maintain well-protected patents and work actively to leverage proprietary IP. Products defects and product liability Financial consequences and impact on customer satisfaction. Ensure the right product design and that all of Fingerprints’ hardware products are tested prior to delivery. Work actively on resolving faults and product returns within the quality organization. 28 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Name of Risk How Fingerprints is impacted Risk control and risk management OTHER RISKS Corruption Financial consequences and loss of reputation. Further implement Fingerprints’ Code of Conduct in Management system. All coworkers shall complete Code of Conduct E-learning where anti-corruption is included. Assess anti-corruption policy and update where needed. Conduct more in-depth training activities for target audience. Take steps to develop internal audit practices. Conflict minerals Impact of rumors and financial consequences. Annual inspection of our suppliers. Assess suppliers through Responsible Minerals Initiative CMRT. Limitations on planned business development Entrance barriers, laws and regulatory barriers for new segments. Structured stakeholder analysis to understand stakeholder requirements and expectations. Work with existing partners to reduce industry barriers for biometrics in general as well as for Fingerprints. Actively seek new partnerships to reduce entrance barriers. Biometrics and integrity Impact on demand if public confidence in biometric solutions diminishes. Application of TEE (Trusted Execution Environment) to ensure that data be accessed through operating systems and apps. Communicate transparently about the secure usage of our solutions and be transparent about risks and Fingerprints risk mitigating activities. Project to ensure GDPR compliance completed in May 2018. Discrimination and limited diversity Negative effect of limited diversity, negative impact on attractiveness as Gender diversity in total has significantly affected the still uneven balance in seniority. employer. Identify and support female and non-Swedish talents with progress plans. Talent attraction and retention Negative impact on competitiveness in terms of attracting talent and Actively work on hiring and transferring skills to new market segments. Implement new performance manretaining talent. agement process with personal objectives and defined career paths. Work actively on coworker motivation and leadership and formulate targets to measure progress. Environmental Impact Negative environmental impact from Fingerprints production, suppliers, Work actively on environmental goals within CO2 emissions and on the environmental performance own operations and products usage. Loss of customers, brands and of suppliers. markets. Reduced risk of fraud FPCs biometric solutions can reduce risk of fraud when used to facilitate Actively working with developing procedures to measure fraud reduction from smartcards with biometric financial payments. solutions. Access to citizen and residential rights FPC Delta ID is Aadhaar certified and can contribute to access to citizen Work on issuing Aadhaar-certified products to the market. rights in that project. FPC’s biometric solutions provide a safer option for identification that can be used broadly for access to citizen or residential rights such as social security. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 29 AUDITOR’S OPINION REGARDING THE Translation from the Swedish original STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF FINGERPRINT CARDS AB, CORP. ID NO. 556154-2381 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the sustainability report for the year 2018 on the pages 18-29 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the examination Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Göteborg 16th April 2019 Moore Stephens KLN AB Ulf Lindesson Authorized Public Accountant 30 AUDITOR’S OPINION REGARDING THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 THE SHARE Fingerprint’ class B shares have been listed mation on ownership see pages 32-33 of OPTIONS PROGRAMS of outstanding shares in the Company. The on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2000. Initially, this Annual Report. Fingerprints had no outstanding options acquisitions shall take place on Nasdaq Fingerprints was listed on the Stockholm programs at the end of the year. Stockholm and only at a price per share ”Nya Marknaden” list in1998. SHARE PRICE TREND within the share price interval registered at The ISIN code is SE0008374250 (IndusDuring 2018, the closing price of FingerDIVIDEND POLICY that time, which means the difference trial Goods & Services sector). The comprints’ class B share fell by 36 percent to The Board of Directors’ top priority is to enbetween the highest buying price and the pany is traded under the ticker FING B. SEK 10.13 kronor (15.81). During the same sure that Fingerprints maintains a financial lowest selling price. Payment for the shares Fingerprint Cards is a CSD company, which period, the OMX Industrial Goods index fell position that is strong enough to support shall be made in cash. means the company’s share register is by 16 percent. In 2018, Fingerprints’ class B both organic growth and selective acquisiIt is also proposed that the Board of maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. share set a high of SEK 17.29 and a low of tions. Fingerprints also wishes to maintain Directors be authorized to resolve, on one or As of 31 December 2018, the share SEK 6.06. At year-end 2018, Fingerprints’ a strong balance sheet. several occasions up until the next AGM, to capital of Fingerprint Cards AB amounted to market capitalization was approximately Transfers of capital to shareholders transfer the Company’s Class B shares, SEK 12,975,667, divided between 6,000,000 SEK 3,118 M (4,964). should be adapted to Fingerprints’ earndeviating from the shareholders’ preferenclass A shares and 307,967,675 class B ings trend and cash flow, while at the same tial rights. Transfers of Class B shares can shares, each with a quotient value of FINGERPRINTS’ SHARE TURNOVER time considering the company’s growth take place on Nasdaq Stockholm. The purSEK 0.04. Class A shares carry ten votes In 2018, 1,760 (2,856) million class B shares potential and financial position. pose of the authorizations is to promote and class B shares carry one vote, the total were traded. An average of 7.0 (11.4) class B efficient capital usage in the Company and number of votes amounts to 367,967,675. shares were traded per day. DIVIDEND to create flexibility in the Company’s ability All shares carry equal participation in The Board of Directors’ proposes that no to seize attractive business opportunities by capital, but different voting rights, and are SHAREHOLDERS dividend be paid for the financial year 2018. wholly or partly financing acquisitions of freely transferable. One class A share lot At the end of 2018, there were 65,544 companies or business operations through corresponds to 16.3 percent of the votes and (70,056) shareholders, which is a 6 percent SHARE REPURCHASES the transfer of own shares. The Board’s 1.9 percent of the capital of Fingerprints. decrease compared to the same time of the The Board of Directors proposes that the complete proposals for resolution will be At year-end, the ten largest shareholdprevious year. Institutional shareholders 2019 AGM authorize the Board to repurpresented in the convening notice to the ers had total holdings corresponding to held 10.6 (17.4) percent of the share capichase, on one or several occasions up until AGM. 32.1 percent of the votes. Foreign sharetal, Swedish individuals 53.7 (47.9) perthe next AGM, as many Class B shares in holders had holdings corresponding to 30.8 cent, other shareholders 22.7 (15.6) percent the Company as may be purchased without INFORMATION DISCLOSURE percent of the share capital. For more inforand anonymous shareholders held 12.9 the Company’s holding at any time exceedFingerprints is not presenting a forecast for (19.1) percent. ing ten per cent (10 %) of the total number 2019. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 THE SHARE 31 Proportion of Shareholders, ten largest Allocation No of known known shareat 31 December 2018 Class A shares Class B shares Capital Votes of holdings No of shares Capital Votes shareholders holders Johan Carlström incl companies 6,000,000 14,000,000 6.4% 20.1% 1–1,000 12,710,330 4.0% 3.5% 48,150 73.5% Avanza Pension 17,955,133 5.7% 4.9% 1,001–5,000 28,346,433 9.0% 7.7% 11,458 17.5% Nordnet Pension Insurance 5,705,218 1.8% 1.6% 5,001–10,000 20,360,594 6.5% 5.5% 2,680 4.1% Ålandsbanken Funds 5,419,815 1.7% 1.5% 10,000–20,000 23,744,269 7.6% 6.5% 1,617 2.5% Danica Pension 3,448,441 1.1% 0.9% 20,001– 188,245,484 59.9% 65.8% 1,639 2.5% Svenska Handelsbanken for PB 3,021,500 1.0% 0.8% Anonymous ownership 40,560,565 12.9% 11.0% Swedbank Insurance 2,406,906 0.8% 0.7% Total 313,967,675 100.0% 100.0% 65,544 100.0% DNB Asset Management SA 2,218,035 0.7% 0.6% Dimensional Fund Advisors 2,076,979 0.7% 0.6% Erik Svenonius 1,783,000 0.6% 0.5% Shareholder type No of shares Capital Votes Other 0 249,932,648 79.6% 67.9% Swedish private individuals 168,671,027 53.7% 45.8% Total 6,000,000 307,967,675 100.0% 100.0% Other 71,289,218 22.7% 34.0% Foreign institutional shareholders 18,238,665 5.8% 4.9% Swedish institutional shareholders 15,208,200 4.8% 4.1% Share class Participating Anonymous ownership 40,560,565 12.9% 11.0% 2018–12–31 Votes No of shares No of votes interest, % Voting share, % Total 313,967,675 100.0% 100.0% Class A 10 6,000,000 60,000,000 1.9% 16.3% Class B 1 307,967,675 307,967,675 98.1% 83.7% Total 313,967,675 367,967,675 100% 100% FINANCIAL ANALYSTS In 2018, Fingerprints was covered by the following financial analysts: • Handelsbanken Markets, Daniel Djurberg (Light Coverage) • Nordea, Jörgen Wetterberg • Redeye, Viktor Westman Källa: Modular Finance • UBS, François-Xavier Bouvignies 32 THE SHARE Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Share capital development Increase Total SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2018 Quotient Change in Total no of in share share Year Event value, SEK no of shares shares capital capital SEK Thousand 1997 Split 500:1 0.2 249,500 250,000 0 50,000 20 50,000 1997 Bonus issue 0.2 250,000 500,000 50,000 100,000 18 45,000 1997 New issue 0.2 2,000,000 2,500,000 400,000 500,000 16 40,000 1997 New issue, exercice of warrants 0.2 370,000 2,870,000 74,000 574,000 14 35,000 1998 New issue 0.2 2,000,000 4,870,000 400,000 974,000 12 30,000 2000 New issue 0.2 540,000 5,410,000 108,000 1,082,000 10 25,000 2000 New issue 0.2 938,258 6,348,258 187,651 1,269,651 8 20,000 2005 New issue 0,2 3,000,000 9,348,258 600,000 1,869,651 6 15,000 2006 New issue 0,2 2,804,475 12,152,733 560,895 2,430,546 4 10,000 2 5,000 2009 New issue 0,2 7,682,060 19,834,793 1,536,412 3,966,958 0 0 2009 New issue 0,2 19,834,793 39,669,586 3,966,959 7,933,916 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 New issue 0,2 3,940,000 43,609,586 788,000 8,721,917 Total share turnovers, 000s Class B Fingerprint share OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services 2012 New issue 0,2 4,198,549 47,808,135 839,710 9,561,927 2013 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,2 95,485 47,903,620 19,097 9,581,024 2013 New issue 0,2 1,400,000 49,303,620 280,000 9,861,024 2013 New issue 0,2 1,600,000 50,903,620 320,000 10,180,724 2013 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,2 335,407 51,239,027 67,081 10,247,805 SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2014–2018 2013 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,2 263,500 51,502,527 52,700 10,300,505 SEK Thousand 2013 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,2 158,608 51,661,135 31,722 10,332,227 180 120,000 2013 New issue 0,2 2,500,000 54,161,135 500,000 10,832,227 2014 New issue 0,2 2,500,000 56,661,135 500,000 11,332,227 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 40000 45000 50000 150 100,000 2014 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,2 1,760,000 58,421,135 352,000 11,684,227 120 80,000 2015 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,2 4,818,000 63,239,135 963,600 12,647,827 2016 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,2 1,300,000 64,539,135 260,000 12,907,827 90 60,000 2016 Proforma reverse split 1:5* 0,04 0 322,695,675 0 12,907,827 60 40,000 2016 Repurchase of treasury shares 0,04 –10,424,000 312,271,675 0 12,907,827 2016 New issue, exercice of warrants 0,04 826,000 313,097,675 33,040 12,940,867 30 20,000 2016 New issue exercice of warrants registered 3 January, 2017 0,04 870,000 313,967,675 34,800 12,975,667 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2017 Cancelling of treasury shares 0,04 0 313,967,675 -416,960 12,558,707 2017 Bonus issue 0,04 0 313 967 675 416 960 12 975 667 Total share turnovers, 000s Class B Fingerprint share OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 THE SHARE 33 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN FOCUS ON STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND ORGANIZATION Dear shareholder, The other members of the Board share my simultaneously positioning itself for future regulatory compliance and risk manageFingerprints is a special company with a enthusiasm about Fingerprints and its growth in new verticals. ment structures during the year to make unique culture and, ever since its inception, potential, and we are 100 percent dediConsiderable cost and organizational sure that they continue to be adequate. it has shown a rock-solid belief in the marcated, together with the Executive Manageadaptations were implemented during the Biometric solutions will play an everket potential and in its ability to play a leadment Group, to make sure that Fingerprints year, in parallel with focused investments in greater role in society as new application ing role in the development of new markets continues to play a leading role and speartechnological and product development. areas emerge. We are still at the infancy of for biometrics. In good times and bad, this head development in the industry. 2018 The Board of Directors spent a lot of time this development. Biometrics has definite has shaped the operations throughout the was a very intensive year for the Board of with the Executive Management Group in potential to create social and consumer journey, from being a pure development Directors. Strategy, resource allocation and 2018 to ensure that the necessary organizavalue in the form of increased security and company to being a market company to the organizational issues dominated the tional resources are in place to be able to user-friendlier products and solutions in a present mass market business where agenda, with frequent interaction between implement the strategy; meaning to assess variety of areas. Payments are possibly the Fingerprints operates today. If we take a the Board and the Executive Management where the assets will generate the greatest most obvious example and this is where we look ahead, there are several challenges Group. return, how much that has to be reallocated will see the next mass market develop for but my belief in Fingerprints’ ability to creMajor changes are under way in the comand how the changes are to be implemented. Fingerprints’ products and solutions. ate long-term value is as strong as ever. pany’s existing markets, at the same time Particular focus was on the R&D organizaTogether with the other Members of the I have been involved in the developement of as new markets are about to emerge. The tion. This was also reflected in changes in Board, I appreciate the great commitment this company for the past ten years, as CEO, Executive Management Group and the the Executive Management Group, where shown by management and employees and Member of the Board and, since May 2018, Board have jointly adopted the strategic the responsibility for product development we look forward to continued work to give as Chairman of the Board. Fingerprints has direction for Fingerprints and have made projects was separated from the company’s the company the best possible prerequisites been a large and important part of my life over-riding decisions on how the company’s more long-term technological development. for generating value for our customers, since I joined the company as CEO in May resources will be used. An in-depth strategy Compared with 2017, the Management partners and shareholders. 2009 and, throughout this time, I have felt a review was completed in the autumn, when Group was reduced from ten to seven memvery strong personal commitment to the the discussions focused on how Fingerbers. company, including during the period when prints will defend and build upon its leadIn view of the organizational changes, the Johan Carlström I was not an active part of the organization. ing position in the mobile industry while Board also considered it important to review Chairman of the Board the company’s governance, sustainability, Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) (Fingerprints) is a Swedish public limited company with its registered office in Gothenburg in the County of Västra Götaland, and is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The corporate governance of Fingerprints Fingerprint Cards’ auditors have read this Class A shares each carry ten votes and class ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING is based on legislation and other regulareport and a statement from the auditor has B shares each carry one vote. Class A and B The Annual General Meeting (AGM) approves tions: the Swedish Companies Act, the been appended to it. shares carry the same participating interest in the Income Statement and Balance Sheet Articles of Association, Nasdaq Stockholm’s the company and equal entitlements to divifor the previous financial year for the Parent Rulebook for Issuers, the Swedish Code of SEGREGATION OF DUTIES dends. At year-end, the ten largest shareholdCompany and the group. The AGM also Corporate Governance (www.corporateThe shareholders exercise their influence at ers held 32.1 percent of the vote. For more resolves on dividend and discharging the governanceboard.se), (the “Code”), other the Annual General Meeting, which is the information on ownership, see pages 31-33 of Directors and CEO from liability, elects the applicable laws and ordinances, and intercompany’s chief decision-making body. this Annual Report. Board of Directors and the Chairman of nal regulations. Responsibility for the company’s organizaFingerprints endeavors to create longtion and administration of the company’s term value for shareholders and other stakeaffairs rests with the Board of Directors SHAREHOLDERS holders. This involves ensuring an effective and the CEO in accordance with applicable organizational structure, systems for internal laws and regulations, and the Board of Proposals control and risk management, as well as Directors’ internal control instruments. NOMINATION COMMITTEE AGM transparent internal and external reporting. Election Election Information This Corporate Governance Report SHAREHOLDERS has been prepared in accordance with the Fingerprints is a securities depositoryAUDITOR BOARD, REMUNERATION AND AUDIT COMMITTEES Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code registered company, and the company’s share Information Examines the annual accounts and Objectives and the Board of Directors’ and Chief of Corporate Governance. Its primary purpose register is maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. Reporting and control Executive Officer’s administration of strategies is to review corporate governance within At year-end 2018, the company had 65,544 the company. Reports to the Board of CEO AND MANAGEMENT Directors and shareholders. Fingerprints. For this purpose, the Report (70,056) known shareholders, which was a Information will only be used to a lesser extent to report decrease of six percent compared with the INTERNAL CONTROL INSTRUMENTS EXTERNAL CONTROL INSTRUMENTS information that ensues from applicable same date in the previous year. Business concept and objectives, Articles of Swedish Companies Act, Swedish Annual regulation. The registered share capital was SEK Association, Board of Directors’ Rules of Accounts Act, other applicable laws, Rulebook Procedure, Instructions for the CEO, strategies, for Issuers and the Swedish Code of Corporate 12,975,667, divided between 6,000,000 class policies, Insider Policy, Code of Conduct and Governance. A shares and 307,967,675 class B shares. core values. 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 the Board, and approves their fees, elects are to be issued at the earliest six, and at the AGM, to guarantee that the matter can be THE AGM PASSED RESOLUTIONS ON: the auditor, and resolves on audit fees, and the latest four, weeks prior to the Meeting. included in the invitation to the AGM. • Adopting the accounts for 2017 fiscal year. also deals with other statutory matters. Notifications of other EGMs are to be issued Most resolutions at shareholders’ meeting • Approving the appropriation of profits Resolutions are taken on the Nomination at the earliest six, and the latest three, weeks are passed by a simple majority. In certain with the earnings carried forward. Committee and guidelines for remunerating prior to the Meeting. cases, the Swedish Companies Act stipulates • Discharging the Board of Directors and senior executives, and other proposals from All shareholders recorded in the share that resolutions must be supported by a CEO from liability for 2017 fiscal year. the Board of Directors and shareholders. register on the record date, and who have qualified majority, for example resolutions • That the number of Directors must be Invitations to shareholders’ meetings notified attendance on time, are entitled to on amending the Articles of Association, seven. shall be made through an announcement participate in shareholders’ meetings, and which require shareholders with at least two• Election of Directors, Chairman of the in the Swedish Official Gazette and on the vote in accordance with the shares registered. thirds of both the votes cast and the votes Board and auditor. company’s website. Notification that the Shareholders can attend via a proxy that has represented at the Meeting to support the • Approval of Directors’ fees and fees to invitation has been issued is announced in as been issued with power of attorney. resolution. Resolutions regarding incentive auditors. Swedish daily newspaper Svenska Dagbladet. However, the shares must still be registered programs require an even greater majority, • Nomination Committee instructions. Notice of AGMs are issued at the earliest with information regarding the proxy, and prewith in certain cases, qualified majorities • Remuneration guidelines for senior exesix and the latest four weeks prior to the sentation of the power of attorney. In order to of up to 90 percent of the shares and votes cutives. Meeting. Meeting invitations are to contain exercise voting rights at shareholders’ meetrepresented at the Meeting. • Authorization of the Board of Directors to information on the procedure for the notificaings, shareholders with nominee-registered repurchase and transfer treasury shares. tion of attendance and the closing date for holdings must temporarily re-register their AGM 2018 notification, entitlement to participate in and shares in their own name, pursuant to the The AGM for the 2017 fiscal year was held in Additionally, the AGM resolved to authorize the vote at the Meeting, a numbered agenda with stipulations of the invitation to the Meeting. Gothenburg on 29 May 2018. The invitation to Board of Directors to, up until the next AGM, business for consideration, information on Shareholders who wish to have a matter the AGM was published on 26 April 2018. 250 on one or more occasions, waiving shareholdappropriation of profits and an outline of other considered at the AGM shall provide a writshareholders representing 24.90 percent of ers’ preferential rights, take decisions regardproposals. ten proposal to investrel@fingerprints.com the votes and 11.98 percent of the number of ing new issues of Class B shares, warrants Invitations to an Extraordinary General or to Bolagssekretaren, Fingerprint Cards shares attended the Meeting. and/or convertibles that carry entitlement to Meeting (EGM), where an amendment to the AB, Birger Jarlsgatan 14 (5 tr.), SE-114 34 Class B shares reflecting at most ten percent Articles of Association is to be considered, Stockholm, no later than seven weeks before of the total number of outstanding shares in Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 37 the Company as of the day before the notice Nomination Committee. The Chairman of If a member leaves the Nomination Commitmust be published as soon as they have of the AGM 2018. the Board is to convene the Nomination tee before its work is complete, the Nomioccurred. More information on the AGM 2018 is Committee’s first meeting. The member nation Committee will request that the The Nomination Committee shall give proavailable at Fingerprint Cards’ website: that represents the largest shareholder in shareholder that has appointed this memposals on the following issues to be presented www.fingerprints.com. terms of votes, but who is not Chairman of ber appoint a new representative within a to the AGM 2019 for resolution: proposal for the Board, will be appointed Chairman of the reasonable time. If this shareholder does the Chairman of the Meeting, proposal on the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2019 Nomination Committee, unless the memnot appoint a new representative, the entiBoard of Directors, proposal on the Chairman The AGM will be held at 3 p.m. CEST on bers agree otherwise. However, this person tlement to appoint a new representative of of the Board, proposal on the auditor, proposal Wednesday, 22 May 2019 at Scandic Crown, cannot be the Chairman of the Board. The the Nomination Committee defers to the on Directors’ fees, proposal on audit fees and Polhemsplatsen 3 in Gothenburg. For more term of office for the appointed Nomination next largest shareholder in terms of votes proposal for guidelines for appointing the information on the AGM 2019, see page 88 Committee extends until a new Nomination that is not already represented on the NomNomination Committee. and the’ website, www.fingerprints.com, Committee has been appointed. The compoination Committee. Any changes to the Fingerprints’ Nomination Committee had where the necessary documentation for the sition of the Nomination Committee must be composition of the Nomination Committee the following members for the AGM 2019: Meeting is available. published no later than six months prior to the AGM. NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee must be Board of Directors’ work The AGM 2018 resolved that the company is established based on the largest shareDecember to have a Nomination Committee consisting holders recorded in the share register, or Budget of four (4) members. During the year, the otherwise known as of the final banking day February Year-end Report Chairman of the Board is to convene the three of August. If one or more of the shareholdOctober/November Q4 Dec Jan Q1 (3) largest shareholders of the company in ers that have appointed members of the Interim Report 3 Nov Feb March terms of votes to each appoint a representaNomination Committee are no longer one Strategy and target fullfilment tive, plus the Chairman of the Board to also of the three larger shareholders in terms of September/October Oct Mar be a member. If one of the three largest votes, its representative must put its seat at Strategy day April/May shareholders declines entitlement to the disposal of the Nomination Committee, Sep Apr AGM and Board meeting appoint a representative of the Nomination whereupon the or those shareholder(s) following election July Interim Report 1 Committee, the next shareholder in terms of that have become one of the three largest Interim Report 2 Aug May size will be offered the opportunity to appoint shareholders in terms of votes will be entitled Q3 Jul Jun Q2 a member. If considered appropriate, the to appoint a new representative. However, Nomination Committee can also decide to marginal changes in numbers of votes can be appoint a representative of a group of major disregarded, unless in special circumstances. shareholders that can be co-opted to the At all meetings—CEO's status report, investment decisions 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 responses were compiled and reviewed by ing the Audit Committee’s recommendaits shareholders. The Board must regularly • Johan Carlström (Chairman of the Board), the Chairman of the Board, and discussed tions on the election of an auditor. evaluate Fingerprints’ financial situation and member of the Nomination Committee within the Board of Directors. Subsequently, ensure that Fingerprints is organized so that • Dimitrij Titov (appointed by Velociraptor in order to make an accurate assessment BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND CEO its accounting, management of funds and the LTD), chairman of the Nomination Comon matters regarding the composition of the Pursuant to the Articles of Association, company’s other accounting circumstances mittee Board of Directors, the Nomination ComFingerprints’ Board of Directors is to consist are controlled satisfactorily. The Board • Rikard Andersson (appointed by SEB mittee read and and reviewed the Board of four to ten Directors with a maximum appoints the CEO and decides on issues Investment Management AB), member of evaluation and the work of the Board of of five deputies elected by the AGM for the regarding strategic direction of operations the Nomination Committee Directors, as well as the Chairman of the period until the end of the following AGM. and the company’s overall organization. Board’s report on the company’s operaThe Board of Directors and the Chairman of Each year, the Board adopts written The Chairman of the Board tasked Fingerprint tions, objectives and strategies, jointly with the Board are appointed at each AGM for the Rules of Procedure that formalize the work Cards AB’s Legal Counsel with contacting the the Chairman of the Board. The Nomination period until the following AGM, and accordof the Board and its internal segregation of other major shareholders in terms of votes, Committee also analyzed the competence ingly, their term of office is one year. duties, decision-making within the Board, but they declined to participate. The majority and experience of the Directors, and their Apart from the AGM, changes to the Board the Board’s meeting schedule and the duties of the Nomination Committee, including the gender division, and compared them with of Directors can be executed through an EGM of the Chairman. In addition, the Board has chairman, are members of the Company’s identified needs. The Nomination Commitresolution or by a Director choosing to resign issued documents including written instrucBoard of Directors, which means that the tee’s opinion is that the Directors possess his or her appointment in advance. tions regarding the segregation of duties Company is deviating from the Swedish Code considerable breadth and extensive expeThe AGM 2018 resolved to re-elect Urban between the Board and the CEO. of Corporate Governance. rience of activities including business Fagerstedt, Alexander Kotsinas, Tomas The Board also approves policies and Shareholders may submit proposals to the operations, technology, the financial marMikaelsson and Dimitrij Titov as Directors, instructions for operating activities. Operating Nomination Committee. Proposals are to be kets, telecom and IT, and of the semiconand to elect Johan Carlström, Ted Elvhage activities are managed by the CEO. The CEO sent by email to: investrel@fingerprints.com ductor industry. The Board of Directors curand Juan Vallejo. Johan Carlström was regularly provides the Board with information rently consists of seven men. The Nominaelected as Chairman of the Board. In the on events that are significant to the company’s WORK OF THE NOMINATION tion Committee strives to achieve an even Nomination Committee’s opinion, seven progress, results, financial position, liquidity COMMITTEE FOR THE AGM 2019 gender balance on the Board of Directors. Directors are independent of the company or other information of such significance For the AGM 2019, the Nomination CommitThe Nomination Committee applies point and management. Six Directors are indepenthat the Board should be informed of. The tee held five meetings, maintained regular 4.1 of the Code as its Diversity Policy, and dent of major shareholders. Accordingly, the Directors are presented on pages 44-45 . intervening contact on various Nomination continuously strives to satisfy the Code’s Board of Directors satisfies the independence Committee matters and held meetings with standards for diversity, breadth and gender requirements stipulated by the Code. WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS candidates for Directorships. A Board evalbalance on the Board of Directors. The The Board of Directors is responsible for IN 2018 uation was conducted through the Directors Nomination Committee also had several Fingerprints’ organization and administraPursuant to the current Articles of responding to a number of questions. The contacts with the Audit Committee regardtion, in the interests of both the company and Association, the Board of Directors must meet Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 39 on at least four scheduled occasions and one to its employees is competitive. The CEO’s Titov. During the fiscal year 2018, the Audit INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK statutory meeting per year. Additional meetremuneration is approved by the Board. Committee met on five occasions. MANAGEMENT ings can be held as required. In 2018, there Remuneration of other senior executives The Swedish Annual Accounts Act stipulates were 17 Board meetings. is decided by the CEO after consulting AUDITOR that the Board of Directors shall submit Scheduled agenda items at Board meetwith the Remuneration Committee. The The Articles of Association stipulate that a review of the material elements of the ings during the year are Group Management’s Remuneration Committee consists of Board Fingerprints must have one or two auditors company’s systems for internal control and reporting of business conditions, operations, members Johan Carlström (Chairman), Ted with or without deputies, or one or two regrisk management over financial reporting organizational resources, results of operaElvhage and Juan Vallejo. During the fiscal istered public accounting firms. The AGM yearly. tions, financial position and liquidity. During year 2018, the Remuneration Committee met 2018 elected Moore Stephens KLN AB as The Board of Directors is responsible the autumn, and before Christmas, Board on three occasions. auditor until the AGM 2019. Moore Stephens for the company’s internal controls, whose meetings consider the budgets and business KLN AB appointed Ulf Lindesson as Audioverall purpose is to ensure protection of plan for the following year. AUDIT COMMITTEE tor in Charge. The duty of the auditor is to the company’s assets, and thus its owners’ Board meetings are held quarterly to reach The Audit Committee’s duty is to support the examine the company’s annual accounts investments. decisions on publications of interim, half-year Board on ensuring high quaity and efficiency and accounting records, and the Board of The Board of Directors has adopted and annual financial statements. Meetings to within internal controls, financial reporting Directors’ and Chief Executive officer’s attestation instructions, a finance policy and decide on invitations, annual accounts, corand external audits. This includes reviewing administration on behalf of the shareholdother policy documents comprising instrucporate governance documentation and other interim reports and annual financial stateers. The auditor also conducts a summary tions and procedures for operations that must matters for business are held prior to AGMs. ments prior to publication, and considering review of one quarterly financial statement be monitored regularly and reported. The Senior executives of Fingerprints participate all critical accounting issues and judgments and issues opinions regarding the Board of attestation instructions include instructions in Board meetings as required. regarding assessments of risk. The Audit Directors’ reporting in connection with such regarding company signatories as well as Committee meets the external auditor at events as new share issues and decisions roles and authorizations regarding decisionREMUNERATION COMMITTEE least once per year and reviews and monitors on warrant programs. Each year, the Board making and the approval of agreements, The Remuneration Committee evaluates and the auditors’ impartiality and independence, of Directors meets the auditor for a report investments, expenses and other expenditure. consults on matters regarding remuneration and identifies particularly whether the audion whether the company’s organizational The Finance Policy sets mandates for investand employment terms, and makes proposals tor is supporting the company on other resources are structured so that bookments, management of liquidity, currency and guidelines for remuneration of the CEO services than auditing, and also provides keeping, the management of funds and hedging and credit issuance on sales. Sales and senior executives for approval by the support on proposals for AGM resolution and other circumstances can be controlled satare subject to credit insurance as far as posAGM. The Remuneration Committee must election of auditors. isfactorily. The auditor has continuous consible, when this is viable and where credit ensure that remuneration is commensurate In 2018, the Audit Committee’s members tact with the Audit Committee and particiinsurance is granted only if there are good with prevailing market conditions for corwere the Directors Alexander Kotsinas pates in at least one of the Audit Commitgrounds to expect the borrower to fulfill its responding executives in other companies, (Chairman), Johan Carlström and Dimitrij tee’s meetings during the financial year. commitments. and accordingly, that the company’s offering The auditor attended the 2018 AGM on May 29. 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CONTROL ENVIRONMENT management consider material to internal managed through ongoing project monitoring the Chairman and SEK 35,000 to the other The fundamental control environment for controls of financial reporting. with reporting of subprojects. Efforts made members. financial reporting consists of guidelines Control activities designed to prevent, and expenditures incurred are related to Directors receiving a salary from Fingerand policy documents, including the Board discover and rectify misstatement and deviaplans and budgets, and expected remaining prints are not eligible for Directors’ fees. of Directors’ Rules of Procedure and insttions are evaluated. The segregation of duties project expenditure until project completion Directors that join the Board in the year ructions for the CEO, and the segregation and organization constitutes the structure for are also reported. receive fees in relation to the remaining of duties and authorization regarding the controls. Follow-ups are conducted within Operational control is supplemented by period until the following AGM. organization of operations. Primarily, it is each area of responsibility, and across all monitoring of the quality and performance of the CEO’s responsibility to establish in daily operations. Approvals and the segregation of suppliers, customers and internal processes. REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR operations the control environment instrucauthorization constitute the structure of conMonitoring of liquidity and cash flow is conSENIOR EXECUTIVES ted by the Board of Directors. The CEO retrol activities, as do clear rules for decisions ducted on an ongoing basis with updates of The AGM 2018 approved the proposal that ports regularly to the Board according to regarding investments, sales, procurement forecasts and the resulting liquidity planning. a Remuneration Committee internal to the established procedures. The auditor also and contracts. Control activities also proceed The continuous analysis of financial reports Board of Directors will consult on guidelines submits reports from audits conducted. from the business concept, strategies and at various levels is central for ensuring that regarding salary and other employment objectives, and mission-critical activities. A financial reporting does not contain material terms for the CEO and other senior execuRISK ASSESSMENT high level of IT security is a prerequisite for misstatement. Control activities and the tives, and submit proposals to the Board of Risk assessment is an ongoing process good internal controls over financial reportdivision of various functions are embedded Directors for decision on such matters. The encompassing the identification and maning. Fingerprints’ IT strategy emphasizes throughout the financial reporting process. Board of Directors takes decisions on salary agement of risks that can impact operations security and functionality, with security being and other benefits for the CEO. The CEO takes and financial reporting. The primary risk more important because without security, REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR THE decisions on salary and other benefits to other within the auspices of financial reporting functionality is compromised. BOARD OF DIRECTORS senior executives pursuant to the Board of consists of material misstatement in External financial reporting with the ensuThe AGM 2018 resolved on a total fixed Directors’ guidelines. Other senior executives accounting. Risk management is a part of ing controls is conducted on a quarterly basis, Directors’ fee of SEK 2,245,000, of which are defined as individuals that together with operational processes and various methodand internal financial reporting on a monthly SEK 625,000 to the Chairman of the Board the CEO are members of Group Management. ologies are applied to ensure that risks are basis. Financial controls are based on busiand SEK 270,000 per Director to the other Fundamental remuneration levels must be managed pursuant to regulation, instrucness plans that are broken down to yearly Directors. market aligned. Remuneration consists of tions and procedures with the aim of makbudgets. Budgets are reviewed throughout Fees for committee work of SEK 370,000 fixed basic salary, variable salary computed in ing accurate disclosures. the year and constitute forecasts and supwould be payable, to be allocated as follows: accordance with established objectives set in porting data for monitoring against results Audit Committee: SEK 115,000 to the Chairadvance, other benefits, pensions and finanCONTROL ACTIVITIES achieved. Reporting involves analyses and man and SEK 60,000 to the other members. cial instruments in the form of performanceControl activities are designed to mancomments on progress in relation to estabRemuneration Committee: SEK 65,000 to related shares. The division between basic age the risks that the Board and company lished objectives. Development projects are salary and variable compensation must be Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 41 Board of Directors function, attendance and remuneration Independent of Major Attendance at Directors’ fee Committee fee Name Function Elected Stepped down Committee Company shareholders meetings 2018 2018/19 (SEK 000) 2018/19 (SEK 000) Remuneration CommitJohan Carlström Chairman of the Board May 29, 2018 – tee, Audit Committee: Yes No 8/8 625 125 Chairman of the Board May 4, 2016 May 29, 2018, Jan Wäreby Board Member Jun 3, 2015 May 29, 2018 Yes Yes 9/9 – – Urban Fagerstedt Board Member Jun 4, 2009 – Yes Yes 16/17 270 – Carl-Johan von Plomgren Board Member Jun 3, 2015 May 29, 2018 Yes Yes 8/9 – – Tomas Mikaelson Board Member May 4, 2016 – Yes Yes 17/17 270 – Åsa Hedin Board Member May 4, 2016 May 29, 2018 Yes Yes 9/9 – – Alexander Kotsinas Board Member Apr 20, 2017 – Audit Committee Yes Yes 17/17 270 115 Ann-Sofie Nordh Board Member Apr 20, 2017 May 29, 2018 Yes Yes 9/9 – – Dimitrij Titov Board Member Apr 20, 2017 – Audit Committee Yes Yes 15/17 270 60 Remuneration Ted Elvhage Board Member May 29, 2018 – Committee Yes Yes 8/8 270 35 Remuneration Juan Vallejo Board Member May 29, 2018 – Committee Yes Yes 8/8 270 35 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 in proportion to the executive’s duties and ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION porate Communication Policy is in place for At least one interim or half-year report, and authorization. For the Chief Executive Officer The Articles of Association stipulate the communication with internal and external all annual financial reports with the associand other senior executives, variable remucompany’s operations, the number of Direcparties, containing guidelines for the comated financial statements, are audited. The neration is capped at 100% of basic annual tors and auditors, procedure for convening pany’s corporate communication. The purCEO provides monthly reports to the Board salary, apart from any sign-on bonus. Pension shareholders’ meetings, matters for conpose is to ensure compliance with the comof Directors, involving all parts of operaterms are to be defined contribution pension sideration at the AGM and where meetings munication obligation in an accurate and tional functions. Management meets fresolutions. The notice period from the comare held, as well as share classes, preferencomprehensive manner. quently and monitors business developpany’s side must not exceed six months. tial rights and pre-emption rights regarding ment, financial performance and position, During the notice period of a maximum of the company’s class A shares. The compaMONITORING and significant events. The Board of Direcsix months, full salary and employment ny’s Articles of Association are available at Compliance with the Rules of Procedure, tors meets the auditor during the year to benefits are payable. Upon termination by the Fingerprints’ website: www.fingerprints.com instructions, policies and procedures are review the audit of internal controls and company, severance pay may be payable up to monitored by the Board of Directors and other assignments. Forecasting and budan amount corresponding to a maximum of INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Group Management. Board meetings congeting work is conducted continuously with twelve months’ salary. Decisions on share and Fingerprints’ policies and guidelines are sider the current business conditions and a rolling, forward-looking forecast based on share price-related incentive programs are especially important for accurate accountthe company’s financial position. The Board updated information on sales, procurement, taken by the AGM. The Board shall be entitled ing, reporting and corporate communicaof Directors reviews financial statements, operating expenses and product developto depart from these guidelines if there are tion. Information shall increase knowledge and decides on publication of financial ment and technology development. special reasons for this in an individual case. of Fingerprints, increase confidence in reports. The Board of Directors appraises Fingerprints, its management and employits own work, and the CEO’s work, yearly. Board of Directors ees, and promote business activities. A CorGothenburg, 11 April 2019 AUDITOR’S STATEMENT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Translation from the Swedish original To the general meeting of the shareholders in Fingerprint Cards AB (publ.), corporate identity Opinion number 556154-23811 A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the Engagement and responsibility second paragraph the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated It is the board of directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 2018 on pages 36-43 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Göteborg 16 April 2019 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The audiMoore Stephens KLN AB tor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted Ulf Lindesson in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards Authorized public accountant in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 43 BOARD OF DIRECTORS JOHAN CARLSTRÖM TED ELVHAGE URBAN FAGERSTEDT Chairman of the Board since 2018. Board member since 2018. Board member since 2009. Board member since 2018. Born in 1968. Born in 1953. Born in 1963. Employment and other Board assignmets: PriEducation: MSc Electronics Engineering, Lund Employment and other Board assignmets: vate investments in own companies. Co-owner Institute of Engineering. Private investments in own companies. Owner and Chairman of the Board of Keiretsu Forum Velociraptor Ltd. Nordics AB. Owner and Member of the Board of Other positions and Board assignmets: Owner Stockholms Affärsänglar Management AB, E14 and Chairman of the Board of Fagerstedt DynamEducation: Business Administration at Uppsala Invest AB, Gradientech AB and Wonder Technolics Radio AB, Fagerstedt Finance AB and FagerUniversity and Stockholm University. ogy Solutions AB. stedt Dynamics UK Ltd. Board member of Cuptronic AB and Crowdsoft AB. Professional background: CEO of Fingerprint Education: BSc Biochemistry & Minor Business Cards AB, 2009–2015. Member of the Board of and Administration, Millersville University of Professional background: Vice President and Fingerprint Cards AB, 2013-2014. Salesperson, Pennsylvania General Manager of Design unit Radio Networks business developer and entrepreneur during 20 in Ericsson AB, Vice president R&D, Huawei years in the Telecom & IT-business. Professional background: Sales and manageTechnologies Sweden AB. ment positions in manufacturing, IT, software Holdings in Fingerprints: 6,000,000 Class A and consulting, e.g. former Sales Manager in Holdings in Fingerprints: 57,000* shares via Velociraptor Ltd. and 14,000,000 Class subsidiary of Indutrade, and later also Sales B shares*. Manager in Sweden at HP Software, as well as Independent in relation to major shareholders, advisor and investor in innovative growth compathe company and executive management. Independent of the company and management, nies via his own company.. but not independent of major shareholders. Holdings in Fingerprints: 872,270* Independent in relation to major shareholders, * Per December 31, 2018. the company and executive management. 44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 ALEXANDER KOTSINAS TOMAS MIKAELSSON DIMITRIJ TITOV JUAN VALLEJO Board member since 2017. Board member since 2016. Board member since 2017. Board member since 2018. Born in 1967. Born in 1956. Born in 1962. Born in 1957 Education: M.Sc. (Eng. in engineering physics), Education: Degree in Business Administration Employment and other positions: Lawyer and Employment and other Board assignments: the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm. from IHM Business School in Stockholm. Partner, Advokatfirman Titov & Partners. Chairman of the Board of ITS Energy Group AB MBA, Stockholm School of Economics. Chairman of the Board of the Italian Chamber of and Helenius Ingenjörsbyrå AB. Member of the Other positions and Board assignments: Board Commerce in Sweden, Italienska HandelskamBoard of Coromatic Group AB, Qmatic Group AB, Other positions and Board assignmets: Finance member and CEO of Zetiq AB and Board member marens Service AB, Din Studio Sverige AB and Mercuri International Group AB and Elajo Invest Director at Lowell Sverige AB. Director of Delta of Sourcingprovider Sweden AB. Phantome de Genolier AB. Member of the Board Aktiebolag (publ). Projects AB. of Vrtcl Gaming Group Sweden AB and Järnlodet Professional background: Expertise in marketFörvaltning AB. Education: Master of Science ( MSc) in EngineerProfessional background: Partner Nexttobe AB ing and sales. Longstanding experience and ing, Royal Institute of Technology 2011-2017, Vice President and CFO of Q-Med AB extensive knowledge of the telecom and mobile Education: Master of Laws (LL.M.), Stockholm (2008–2011), CFO of Life Europe AB (2007), CFO of communications industry, where he has held University. Stockholm University. Professional background: mobile operator Tre (Hi3G Access AB) (2003– senior executive positions in such companies as 2011-2014: CEO, Imtech Nordic 2006), Vice President of Investor AB (publ) (2000– Omnipoint (T-Mobile) and Affinity Internet. Also Professional background: 31 years of experience 2006-2010: CEO, Niscayah Group 2003), and various positions at Ericsson (1994– extensive marketing and sales experience from as a business lawyer. Lawyer and Partner at 1992-2006: Securitas Group Management 2000). Europe. Advokatfirman Fylgia 1995-2018, with main focus on M&A, corporate law and international agreeHoldings in Fingerprints: 100,000* Holdings in Fingerprints: 3,500* Holdings in Fingerprints: 23,000* ments in the industry. Current chairman of the Nomination Committee of Fingerprint Cards AB Independent in relation to major shareholders, Independent in relation to major shareholders, Independent in relation to major shareholders, (publ) chairman of the Nomination Committee of the company and executive management. the company and executive management. the company and executive management. Mr Green & Co AB (publ). Holdings in Fingerprints: 14,300* * Per December 31, 2018. Independent in relation to major shareholders, the company and executive management. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 45 GROUP MANAGEMENT CHRISTIAN FREDRIKSON PER SUNDQVIST CHARLES BURGEAT CEO since 2016. CFO since 2018. Senior VP Corporate Strategy and Portfolio ManBorn in 1964 Born in 1966. agement since 2019. Born in 1973. Education: Master’s Degree in engineering, Turku Education: Bachelor of Science in Business ManUniversity. agement, University of Umeå Education: Master of Science (MSc) in Engineering, University of Paris, Ecole Nationale SupériPrevious assignments: CEO F-Secure 2012-2016, Previous assignments: CFO Driconeq 2014-2018, eure des Télécommunications. Christian has also had a long career within Nokia Interim CFO Solera Beverage Group 2012, Interim Networks and Nokia Siemens Networks (1994CFO Cybercom 2011, CFO HL Display 2008-2011, Previous assignments: Vice President Sales 2012), where he held several leading positions, CFO Aura Light International AB 2002-2008, CFO Mobile Fingerprints; Vice President Sales Busiincluding Head of Asia Region (2008-2010) and Q-Med AB 2001-2002, CFO/CIO Stoneridge AB ness Unit Modems, Ericsson; Sales Director, STGlobal Head of Sales, Mobile Infrastructure (20102000-2001, Finance Director GE Healthcare 1997Ericsson, Sales Manager, STMicroelectronics. 2012) at Nokia Siemens Networks. 2000, Controller Volvo AB 1994-1997 Shareholding in Fingerprints: 0* Other assignments: Christian Fredrikson is a Shareholding in Fingerprints: 0* Board member of Stena AB and Remedy Entertainment Ltd. He is a member of the foundation for Åbo Akademi. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 466,750* *Per December 31, 2018. 46 GROUP MANAGEMENT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 PONTUS JÄGEMALM TED HANSSON FREDRIK RAMBERG THOMAS REX CTO since 2019. Previously Senior VP Research & Senior VP Business Line Mobile since 2017 Senior VP Research & Development since 2019. Senior VP Business Line Smartcards, Automotive Development 2009-2018. Born in 1976. Born in 1983. & Embedded since 2018. Born in 1971. Born in 1963. Education: MSc Electronics Engineering, BleEducation: M.Sc. Engineering Physics, Chalmers Education: Master’s degree in and PhD in Engikinge Institute of Engineering. University of Technology, Gothenburg. Education: Master of Electronics Engineering, neering Physics, Chalmers University of TechnolLund Institute of Engineering. ogy, Gothenburg. Previous assignments: Country Manager FingerPrevious assignments: Senior Manager Cusprints, China 2013-2016, Marketing Director/ tomer Engineering System & HW development, Previous assignments: Previous assignments: Extensive international China Country Manager Nanoradio AB 2010Manager ASIC System integration and verification Senior VP for Business Line Smartcards (2017experience, including Technical Lead and Head of 2013, Customer Enginering Director ST-Ericsson 2016-2018, ASIC Analog Design engineer 20142018) and Sales Manager at Fingerprints (NovemSystem Design at Displaytech Inc, USA Korea 2007-2010, Software Manager Ericsson 2016. Other various assignments: Electrical engiber 2011 – October 2016). Sales Manager Asia, Mobile Platforms Taiwan 2006-2007, Software neer laser SAAB 2012-2013, Product engineer Ericsson Mobile Platforms, Sales Manager NanoShareholding in Fingerprints: 800,125* Consultant Ericsson Mobile Platforms China 2010-2012, Electrical engineering consultant radio. 2003-2006. Ericsson Mobile Platforms 2008-2009. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 1,000,000* Shareholding in Fingerprints: 20,000* Shareholding in Fingerprints: 5000* * Per December 31, 2018. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 GROUP MANAGEMENT 47 STATUTORY ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board of Directors and the Chief ExecuFingerprint Cards AB (Publ) (corporate ID the end of 2017. During the same period, sensors. However, starting in the second tive Officer (CEO) of Fingerprint Cards AB No. 556154-2381) is the Parent Company the number of consultants was reduced quarter, the revenue trend stabilized. hereby present the Annual Accounts for the of a Group including ten subsidiaries. All from 143 to 43. Gross profit for the year was SEK 2 M 2018 fiscal year. staff in Sweden are employees of the Parent 63 smartphone models featuring (989) and the gross margin declined to Company. These companies’ operations Fingerprints’ fingerprint-recognition 0 percent (33). The lower gross profit was FINGERPRINTS’ OPERATIONS consist of marketing and customer support. technology were launched in 2018, which due to price reductions and an altered proFingerprint Cards AB (publ) is a leading The registered office of the Parent included products from the world’s largest duct mix. Inventory write-downs of SEK 303 high-technology company that develops, Company is in the Municipality of and most recognized smartphone brands. M and restructuring costs of SEK 73 M also manufactures and markets biometric techGothenburg in the County of Västra Fingerprints continued to invest in had a negative impact of 24 percentage nology, which by analyzing and matching Götaland, Sweden. The company’s shares developing new products. Its product point on the gross margin. people’s unique biometric characteristics, are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2000. portfolio gained more breadth and depth in The operating result for the year was verifies personal identities. This enables terms of application segments, technical a loss of SEK 772 M (profit 155). Currency secure and convenient processing for the SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE performance and functionality; during the effects are recognized in the operating user, obviating the need for passwords or YEAR year, the company launched the FPC1511, result under the Other external income and PINs. Fingerprints’ technology delivers Revenues for 2018 were SEK 1,535 M (2,966), the fourth generation of fingerprint sensors, expenses item. world-leading performance, benefits and a decrease of 48 percent on 2017. This with lower production costs in relation to Fingerprints initiated two cost-saving includes unique image quality, extreme reflects a rapid change in market condiearlier generations of sensors but with programs in 2018. Operating expenses were robustness, low power consumption and tions for capacitive fingerprint sensors for continued high biometric performance. This reduced by two-thirds from the peak level complete biometric systems. With these smartphones, a market that represents the sensor represents an extremely important in 2017. The number of employees declined benefits, and in combination with low majority of Fingerprints’ business, which part of the company’s product portfolio in from 415 at year-end 2017 to 220 at yearmanufacturing costs, the technology can has quickly evolved into a mature mass 2019 and onward. end 2018. The number of consultants was be implemented in volume products includmarket with high competitive pressure and reduced from 143 to 43. ing smartphones, tablets and smart cards, falling prices. The average sales price of the EARNINGS TREND The result before tax for the year was such as charge cards, which are subject company’s products decreased by more than The Group’s revenues for 2018 decreased a loss of SEK 797 M (profit 142), while a to extreme standards in these respects. 30 percent in 2018. The shift toward smalby 48 percent to SEK 1,535 M (2,966). The positive income tax item of SEK 166 M was Fingerprints’ technology is already tried ler and cheaper sensors had a significant net result for 2018 was a loss of SEK 631 M reported (expense 22) deriving from deferand tested across a number of application impact on revenues. (profit: 120). Revenues were impacted by a red tax. Overall, the Group’s full-year result segments. In response to the revenue decline, the year-on-year decline of more than 30 perdeclined to a loss of SEK 631 M (profit 120). company carried out measures during the cent in the average sales price of our proThe Group reported a loss per share for GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY year that reduced the overall cost base by ducts. The start of the year was particularly 2018 of SEK 2.01 (earnings 0.38). The annual accounts cover the fiscal year about two-thirds compared with the highest weak, due to a negative trend in the Chinese January 1-December 31, 2018. 2017 level. At year-end, the number of smartphone market and a continued shift employees was 220, compared with 415 at toward smaller and cheaper fingerprint 48 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 FINANCIAL POSITION acquisitions 79 M (836) and property, plant SEK 396 M (negative 212). Net cash assets ORGANIZATION AND COWORKERS The net loss for the year reduced shareand equipment for SEK 3 M (32). increased to SEK 540 M at year-end 2018, In 2018, the total number of coworkers, incluholders’ equity to SEK 1,776 M (2,331). The Total plan depreciation and amortization compared with SEK 455 M at year-end 2017. ding employees and consultants, declined to equity/asset ratio rose to 77 percent (66) increased to SEK -118 M (-80) in 2018. Of 263 at year-end, from 558 at the beginning of because shareholders’ equity declined less this total, plan amortization of intangible FINANCE POLICY the year. than total assets. assets accounted for SEK -100 M (-66) and Fingerprints’ Finance Policy regulates and There were 220 (415) employees as of Non-current assets declined slightly to plan depreciation of property, plant and clarifies responsibilities, and states guideliDecember 31, 2018, comprising 171 (311) men SEK 1,161 M (1,235). The non-current asset equipment for SEK -18 M (-14). nes in specific areas within financing, credit and 49 (104) women. Accordingly, including share of total assets increased significantly. Accordingly, the carrying amounts of insurance, investment and currency manaemployees and consultants, Fingerprints had Inventories decreased to SEK 348 M (646) intangible assets in 2018 declined to SEK gement with the aim of supporting operaa total of 263 (558) coworkers at December and outstanding accounts receivable to 1,103 M (1,188) and property, plant and tions, managing financial risks and control31, 2018. SEK 233 M (438). equipment to SEK 30 M (47). ling their impact on financial position, Accounts payable at year-end amounted results of operations and cash flow. The RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT to SEK 256 M (268) and other current liaCASH FLOW most important net currency flow is in USD, OPERATIONS bilities to SEK 236 M (541), of which the The operating loss had a negative impact on whereupon a significant portion of FingerThrough continuous initiatives to enhance short-term portion of loans was SEK 0 M cash flow of SEK 797 M (positive 142). Cash prints’ finance activities were in formulating biometric technology, Fingerprints has (243). During the fourth quarter of 2018, flow from changes in working capital coma strategy for selling USD and purchasing attained leadership in fingerprint-recogniFingerprints repaid the remaining part of ponents was affected by a reduction of SEK SEK. The increased net surplus from the tion technology. the loan for the acquisition of Delta ID, which 243 M (1,080) in capital tied-up in operating sale, which is denominated in USD, and At the end of 2018, the research and was finalized in June 2017. After this transreceivables and a decrease in inventories by increased operating expenses that are predevelopment organization accounted for action, Fingerprints has no interest-bearing SEK 4 M (increase: 27). Cash flow contribudominantly in SEK, generates a continuous more than 40 percent of the workforce. liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents in cash ted by operating activities decreased to SEK need to convert USD to SEK. Materials proTogether with engineers in Business and bank balances amounted to SEK 540 M 275 M (377). curement, manufacture and sales are basiLines and Customer Engineering in Asia, (920) at year-end. Cash flow from investing activities was a cally denominated in USD only. Almost all Fingerprints’ overall engineering expertise negative SEK 163 M (negative: 1,071). liquidity is deposited with banks in Sweden. accounted for more than 70 percent of all INVESTMENTS, DEPRECIATION, Cash flow from financing activities was Fluctuations in other exchange rates have of the coworkers. AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT a negative SEK 508 M (positive 482), which an insignificant impact on earnings. CurExpenditure for technology developLOSSES pertained to the repayment of the acquisirency hedging with derivatives and hedging ment is partly recognized as a cost in the Total net investments in 2018 declined to tion loan for Delta ID. After this payment, instruments is not permitted pursuant to Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive SEK 163 M (1,071). Of this total, investments Fingerprints has no interest-bearing the Finance Policy. See note 25 for more Income (Parent Company Income in capitalized development and intangible liabilities. information on financial risks. Statement) under the development costs assets accounted for SEK 81 M (203), The total net change in cash and cash heading, and partly through capitalization equivalents for full-year 2018 was a negative in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 49 Position (Parent Company Balance Sheet), Sustainability Report, has been prepared future growth, it will take some time before REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF and capitalized development expenditure, pursuant to GRI Standards, Core option, and we achieve significant business volumes DIRECTORS under intangible assets. Capitalization is satisfies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act’s outside our core business in smartphones. The AGM 2018 resolved on total fixed done after an assessment of factors such requirements for sustainability reporting. Directors’ fees of SEK 2,245,000, of which as each project’s commercial, financial and The Report is presented on pages 18-27. SEASONAL VARIATIONS SEK 625,000 to the Chairman of the Board technical potential, its future value for the The scope of the Sustainability Report is As penetration of fingerprint sensors in the and SEK 270,000 per Member to the other Group, disposal over rights to the product/ stated in the GRI index on pages 84-87. smartphone segment has increased, the Members of the Board. Fees for work on solution, the potential for completing company’s market is increasingly tracing committees will be payable in an amount of development, and the presence of a market OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE the same patterns and seasonality as the SEK 370,000, to be distributed as follows: for the product. The rate of amortization is The number of shareholders declined to rest of the mobile phone sector, albeit Audit Committee: SEK 115,000 to the determined on the basis of the technical 65,544 at year-end 2018 from 70,057 at the with a time lag. There is a tendency for the Chairman and SEK 60,000 to the other and commercial lifespan of the product beginning of the year. At year-end 2018, fourth quarter to generate a very high share members. Remuneration Committee: or solution related to the extant market. Velociraptor Ltd. held all 6,000,000 class A of yearly mobile phone volumes, and the SEK 65,000 to the Chairman and SEK 35,000 Accordingly, the amortization term varies shares. second quarter is usually the weakest. to the other members. between products and projects. For component vendors to mobile phone In 2018, the Group’s expenditure for EXPECTATIONS REGARDING FUTURE manufacturers such as Fingerprints, technology development and patents decliPERFORMANCE volumes in the third quarter tend to be the ned to SEK 324 M (595), of which SEK 80 M Fingerprints is not issuing a forecast for 2019. year’s highest, with volumes some 10 per(204) was capitalized in the Consolidated As previously communicated, the comcent higher than in the fourth quarter. Statement of Financial Position and the pany expects conditions in the global mobile remaining SEK 244 M (391) was expenmarket to remain challenging, which will Shares and capital, % Votes at year-end, % sed in the Consolidated Statement of have an impact on Fingerprints’ sales perShareholder 2018 2017 2018 2017 Comprehensive Income. formance in the first quarter of 2019. The Velociraptor LTD 1.8 1.8 16.3 16.3 first quarter is also generally a seasonally SUSTAINABILITY REPORT weak period. Number of shares No. of votes In accordance with chapter 6 §11 of the The company is realigning its resources Share class 2018 2017 2018 2017 Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Fingerprints to ensure sufficient focus on new growth A 6,000,000 6,000,000 60,000,000 60,000,000 has decided to prepare a statutory Sustainsegments, and that its organization is adapB 307,967,675 307,967,675 307,967,675 307,967,675 ability Report as a separate document from ted to successfully compete on an expanTotal 313,967,675 313,967,675 367,967,675 367,967,675 the annual accounts. ding global biometrics market. While we Fingerprints’ Sustainability Report, see significant potential for our sensors in Shareholdings of at least one-tenth of the voting rights for all shares at December 31, 2018 which constitutes Fingerprints’ statutory new application segments, which will create Velociraptor LTD 16.3% 50 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL executives may not exceed one-hundred smartcard industry, which strengthens PROPOSAL FOR APPROPRIATION OF FOR REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR percent (100 %) of their fixed annual salary. Fingerprints’ view that the global market for THE COMPANY’S PROFITS. SENIOR EXECUTIVES Pension terms and conditions are to be based biometric payment cards is about to materiThe following funds are at the disposal of The Board of Directors proposes that the on defined-contribution pension schemes. alize. the AGM. 2019 AGM adopts the following guiding The period of notice from the Company is not principles for remuneration of senior exeto exceed six (6) months. During the period DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK OF THE Share premium reserve 79,059,431 cutives: of notice of no longer than six (6) months, full BOARD OF DIRECTORS DURING THE Accumulated profit or loss 1,538,954,166 The Remuneration Committee, which is salary and employment benefits are payable. YEAR Net profit for the year 1,571,666 appointed from among Board members, is If employment is terminated by the Company, Scheduled agenda items in Board meetings Total 1,619,585,263 to prepare guidelines in respect of pay and severance pay is payable in an amount during the year are the Executive Manageother employment terms for the President corresponding to not more than twelve (12) ment Group’s reporting of business condiThe Board of Directors proposes that net and senior executives and present the monthly salaries. Decisions regarding share tions, operations, organizational resources, profit for the year and unrestricted reserves, Board with proposals in respect of these and share-price-based incentive programs results of operations, financial position and as well as the accumulated profit or loss, issues. The Board decides on pay and are to be made by the AGM. In certain cases, liquidity. The Board meetings in the fall and are appropriated as follows: other remuneration of the President. The the Board of Directors is to be entitled to disbefore Christmas consider the budget and Carried forward: SEK 1,619,585,263. President is to determine the salary and apply the guidelines if special circumstances business plan for the coming year. Regarding the company’s results of opeother remuneration payable to other senior prevail. The Board met on 17 occasions in 2018. rations and financial position otherwise, the executives in accordance with the Board’s A more detailed description of corporate reader is referred to the following financial guiding principles. The term “other senior EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE governance in 2018, including regulastatements with the associated notes. executives” refers to the individuals who, On February 21, 2019, Fingerprint Cards tions, general meetings, the Nomination in addition to the President, constitute announced that the company’s technology Committee, the composition and work of the Executive Management Group. The has been selected by Gemalto, that will the Board and internal governance procesbasic remuneration levels are to be offer biometric EMV®* payment cards to its ses and internal control, is presented in the market-based. Remuneration comprises bank customers, using Fingerprints’ separate Corporate Governance Report. a fixed basic salary, variable remuneration T-Shape sensor. Gemalto will also license calculated according to predetermined Fingerprints’ Biometric Software Platform 2019 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING targets, other benefits, and pension. The for payments. This initial order comprises a (AGM) distribution between fixed salary and varifew hundred thousand sensors to be deliveThe AGM will be held at 3 p.m. on able remuneration is to be proportionate red during 2019 and 2020 and is not, in Wednesday, May 22, 2019 at Scandic Crown, to the executive’s responsibilities and itself, financially significant in relation to Polhemsplatsen 3 in Gothenburg. authorities. The variable remuneration Fingerprints’ total revenues. However, this payable to the President and other senior is the first volume order in the biometric Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 51 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP SEK M Note 2018 2017 REVENUE, OPERATING RESULT AND GROSS MARGIN Revenues 2, 3 1,535.1 2,966.0 SEKM % Cost of goods sold 5, 10 -1,532.7 –1,977.1 7,000 70 Gross profit 2.4 988.9 6,000 60 Selling costs -189.2 –236.9 Administrative expenses 9 -201.8 –145.6 5,000 50 Development costs 11 -243.6 –391.3 4,000 40 Other operating income 6 11.8 28.2 3,000 30 Other operating expenses 7 -151.2 –88.7 2,000 20 Operating profit/loss 3, 8, 10, 26, 27 -771.6 154.6 Financial income 12 0.1 0.5 1,000 10 Financial expenses 12 -25.2 –13.3 0 0 Profit/loss before tax -796.7 141.8 -1,000 -10 Tax 14 166.0 –21.5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Net profit/loss for the year -630.7 120.3 Revenue, SEKM Operating profit, SEKM Gross margin, % Earnings per share 15 before dilution (SEK) -2.01 0.38 after dilution (SEK) -2.01 0.38 Net profit/loss for the year -630.7 120.3 Translation differences for the year on translation of foreign operations 75.4 -15.2 Other comprehensive income 75.4 -15.2 Comprehensive income for the year -555.3 105.1 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company -555.3 105.1 -555.3 105.1 52 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION GROUP SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 WORKING CAPITAL Assets SEKM % Intangible assets 16 1,102.7 1,188.3 3,000 120 Property, plant and equipment 17 30.2 46.6 Financial assets 14 27.8 – 2,500 100 Total non-current assets 1,160.7 1,234.9 2,000 80 Current assets Inventories 18 347.5 646.1 1,500 60 Accounts receivable 19,25 232.7 437.5 Other receivables 19.8 284.0 1,000 40 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 20 18.0 29.1 500 20 Cash and cash equivalents 19, 21 540.5 920.2 Total current assets 1,158.5 2,316.9 0 0 Total assets 2,319.2 3,551.8 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Shareholders’ equityl 15 Working capital, SEKM % of revenues Share capital 12.9 12.9 Other paid-up capital 854.4 854.4 Translation reserve 60.5 -14.9 Retained earnings including net prift for the year 847.7 1,478.4 Total Shareholders’ equityl 1,775.5 2,330.8 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 14 51.9 189.8 Long-term loans lån 22 – 221.9 Total non-current liabilities 51.9 411.7 Current liabilities Short-term portion of long-term loans 22 – 243.4 Accounts payable 22 256.2 268.0 Current tax liability 14 1.3 1.5 COther current liabilities 23 27.1 106.5 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 207.2 189.9 Total current liabilities 491.8 809.3 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 2,319.2 3,551.8 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS 53 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY GROUP Retained earnings Other Translation incl. profit Total Shareholders’ SEK M Share capital paid-up capital reserve for the year capital Retained earnings incl. profit for the year Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan 2017 12.9 854.8 0.3 1,358.1 2,226.1 Net profit for the year 120.3 120.3 Other comprehensive income for the year -15.2 -15.2 Cancellation of shares -0.4 0.0 -0.4 Bonus issue 0.4 -0.4 0.0 Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec 2017 12.9 854.4 -14.9 1,478.4 2,330.8 Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan 2018 12.9 854.4 -14.9 1,478.4 2,330.8 Net profit/loss for the year -630.7 -630.7 Other comprehensive income for the year 75.4 75.4 Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec 2018 12.9 854.4 60.5 847.7 1,775.5 54 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS GROUP SEK M Note 2018 2017 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND CASH FLOW Operating activities 29 SEKM SEKM Profit/loss before tax -796.7 141.8 1,400 1,200 Adjustment for non-cash items 595.0 136.1 Income tax paid 232.0 -345.4 1,200 1,000 Cash flow from operating activities before changes 1,000 800 in working capital 30.3 -67.5 800 600 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in inventories -4.1 26.7 600 400 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables 243.0 1,080.4 400 200 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) av rörelseskulder 5.4 -662.7 Cash flow from operating activities 3 274.6 376.9 200 0 Investing activities 0 -200 Purchase and internal development of intangible assets 16 -81.3 -203.5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4 -79.3 -835.8 cash and cash equivalents, SEKM cash flow from operating activities,SEKM Sales of property, plant and equipment 17 1.6 – Purchase of property, plant and equipment 17 -3.6 -31.7 Cash flow from investing activities 3 -162.6 -1,071.0 Financing activities Borrowings 22 – 508.1 Repayment of loans 22 -507.7 -26.0 Exercise of warrants – -0.4 Repurchase of treasury shares – – Cash flow from financing activities 3 -507.7 481.7 Cash flow for the year -395.7 -212.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 920.2 0.0 Effect of translation difference on cash and cash equivalents 16.0 -29.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 29 540.5 920.2 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS 55 INCOME STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY SEK M Note 2018 2017 Revenues 2,3 1,527.4 2,955.5 Cost of goods sold 5, 10 -1,496.6 -1,957.6 Gross profit 30.8 997.9 Selling costs -188.0 -231.8 Administrative expenses 9 -214.1 -162.8 Development costs 11 -243.0 -382.3 Other operating income 6 10.5 – Other operating expenses 7 -151.2 -70.7 Operating profit 3,8,10,26,27 -755.0 150.3 Profit from financial items 12 68.9 13.2 Interest expenses, etc 12 -25.1 -13.1 Profit after financial items -711.2 150.4 Appropriations 13 716.0 -74.0 Profit before tax 4.8 76.4 Income tax 14 -3.2 -18.4 Net profit for the year 1.6 58.0 56 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 BALANCE SHEET PARENT COMPANY SEK M Note 31 Dec, 2018 31 Dec, 2017 SEK M Note 31 Dec, 2018 31 Dec, 2017 Assets Shareholders’ equity 15 Non-current assets Restricted equity 15 Intangible assets 16 96.9 230.1 Share capital 13.0 12.9 Property, plant and equipment 17 23.4 39.2 Statutory reserve 41.4 41.5 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 28 417.3 338.0 Fund for development expenditure 84.1 209.1 Non-current receivables from group companies 27 538.3 493.9 Non-restricted equity Other non-current receivables – 0.1 Share premium reserve 79.1 79.2 Deferred tax assets 14 29.9 32.8 Accumulated profit or loss 1,538.9 1,355.9 Total non-current assets 1,105.8 1,134.1 Profit for the year 1.6 58.0 Current assets Total shareholders’ equity 1,758.1 1,756.6 Inventories 18 347.5 646.1 Untaxed reserves 13 8.0 724.0 Receivables from group companies 27 23.4 1.1 Accounts receivable 19,25 232.3 437.3 Long-term loans 22 – 221.9 Tax receivables 14 9.7 246.8 Total non-current liabilities – 221.9 Other receivables 8.1 33.0 Accrued expenses and deferred income 20 13.7 25.8 Current liabilities Cash and bank balances 19, 21 496.2 878.9 Short-term portion of long-term loans 22 – 243.4 Total current assets 1,130.9 2,269.0 Accounts payable 22 254.7 266.9 Total assets 2,236.7 3,403.1 Liabilities to group companies 27 16.4 8.9 Current tax liabilities 14 – – Other current liabilities 23 4.0 5.6 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 195,5 175,8 Total current liabilities 470,6 700,6 Total equity and liabilities 2,236.7 3,403.1 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS 57 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Statutory Fund for developShare premium Accumulated Net profit Total share­ SEK M Share capital reserve ment expenditure reserve profit or loss for the year holders’ euity Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan 2017 12.9 41.5 46.7 79.6 0.0 1,518.3 1,699.0 Net profit for the year 58.0 58.0 Fund for work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized 192.9 -192.9 – Amortization of work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized -30.5 30.5 – Appropriation of profit 1,518.3 -1,518.3 0.0 Cancellation of shares -0.4 -0.4 Bonus issue 0.4 -0.4 0.0 Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec 2017 12.9 41.5 209.1 79.2 1,355.9 58.0 1,756.6 Opening shareholders’ equity, 1 Jan 2018 12.9 41.5 209.1 79.2 1,355-9 58,0 1,756.6 Net profit for the year 1.6 1.6 Fund for work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized 82.3 -82.3 – Amortization of work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized -207.3 207.3 – Appropriation of profit 58.0 -58.0 – Cancellation of shares – Adjustment previous year 0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 Closing shareholders’ equity, 31 Dec 2018 13.0 41,4 84.1 79.1 1,538.9 1.6 1,758.1 58 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 CASH FLOW STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY SEK M Note 2018 2017 Operating activities 29 Profit before tax 4.8 76.4 Adjustment for non-cash items -219.9 161.9 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital -215.1 238.3 Income tax paid 236.8 -345.4 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in inventories -4.2 26.6 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables 248.4 1,075.0 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 2.9 -628.9 Cash flow from operating activities 268.8 365.6 Investing activities Purchase and internal development of intangible assets 16 -81.3 -203.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 17 -0.8 -25.0 Acquisitions of subsidiaries -79.3 -332.9 Sales of av property, plant and equipment 17 1.6 – Cash flow from investing activities -159.8 -561.4 Financing activities Borrowings 22 – 508.1 Repayment of loans 22 -507.7 -26.0 Loans to subsidiaries – -519.7 Exercise of warrants – -0.4 Cash flow from financing activities -507.7 -38.0 Cash flow for the year -398.7 -233.8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 878.9 1,142.3 Effect of translation differences on cash and cash equivalents 16.0 -29.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 29 496.2 878.9 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS 59 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL REPORTS All subsidiaries are wholly owned through direct or indirect ownerrating liabilities are recognized in operating profit and exchange NOTE 1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES ship, and accordingly, are considered to lie under the group’s control. rate differences on financial receivables and financial All amounts in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless otherliabilities are recognized in net financial income/expense. wise stated. Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group receivables and liabilities, income or expenses and Critical estimates and judgements Basis of presentation unrealized gains or losses arising from intra-group transactions With its Audit Committee, management has discussed the proThe consolidated accounts comprise Fingerprint Cards AB (Publ) between Group companies are eliminated in their entirety when gress, selection and disclosure of the group’s critical accounting (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group). The con­ the consolidated accounts are prepared. policies and estimates, as well as the application of these principsolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with Inter­ les and estimates. national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS) issued by the OmTranslation to Swedish kronor on consolidation of companies Pursuant to IAS 1, the company should disclose the assumptions International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as endorsed by in with different functional currencies and other important sources of uncertainty in estimates, which if the EU. The Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation Subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in each entity’s actual outcomes differ, can have a material impact on the financial RFR 1 (Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups) has also functional currency. Each Group company’s functional currency statements. In cases where this occurs, estimates and judgements been applied. is determined on the basis of the primary economic environment have been moved to the relevant note. A summary of the segments The Parent Company applies recommendation RFR2 (Accounting where the company conducts operations. The parent company’s management considers to contain material estimates and judgefor Legal Entities) issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, functional currency is Swedish kronor, which is also the presentaments follow: whereby the Parent Company applies the same accounting policies tion currency of the parent company and group. This means that the • Deferred tax (note 14) as the Group; i.e. IFRS to the extent possible under Swedish law. financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor. All amounts • Capitalization of development costs (note 16) The annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved are in millions of Swedish kronor unless otherwise stated. • Impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for publication by the Board and the President on 11 April 2019. The When preparing the Group’s account closes, revenues and (note 16) Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Statement expenses in the Income Statement are translated at average rates • Inventory valuation (note 18) of Financial Position and the Parent Company Income Statement of exchange for each year. Balance Sheet items are translated to and Balance Sheet will be adopted by the Annual General Meeting Swedish kronor at closing day rates. Translation differences that New accounting policies (AGM) on 22 May 2019. are a result of this translation are recognized via other comprehenNew accounting policies for 2018 The accounting policies are stated in the introduction of each sive income in the translation reserve in shareholders’ equity. Such No new accounting policies applied from 1 January 2018 have a note. The focus is on reviewing the accounting decisions the Group translation differences are recognized in profit or loss on the sale of material effect on the financial statements. has made within the auspices of the applicable IFRS principle and the foreign operation. avoiding repeating body text, unless considered of particular New accounting policies, 2018 or later importance to understanding note content. Those accounting poliReceivables and liabilities in foreign currency A number of new and revised IFRS have been issued but not yet cies without a specific note are stated in note 1. Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional come into effect. Those IFRS are regarded as more material currency at the rate of exchange ruling on the transaction date. because they may influence the consolidated financial statements Consolidation principles Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated are reviewed below. Accordingly, these IFRS have been analyzed in Subsidiaries to the functional currency at closing day rates. Non-monetary terms of whether their effects are material or not. Fingerprints has The consolidated accounts comprise Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) assets and liabilities recognized at their respective historical cost not decided to adopt any of them prospectively. (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group). Subsidiaries are translated at rates of exchange ruling on the transaction date. are companies that are under the controlling influence of the Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value are IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Parent Company. A controlling influence is secured when the translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling IFRS 9 has three components: classification and measurement, Parent Company has control over the investment, is exposed or on the date of fair value measurement. impairment and hedge accounting, and replaces IAS 39 Financial entitled to a variable return from its holding in the company and Exchange rate differences are recognized in net profit for the Instruments: recognition and measurement. This new accounting . can exercise control over the investment to influence the return. year. Exchange rate differences on operating receivables and opestandard has a limited impact on the accounting of financial instru60 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 its annual accounts as far as possible within the auspices of the Cash Flows respectively. The Parent Company Balance Sheet has NOTE 1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONT. Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish Pension Obligations been presented according to the format stipulated in the Swedish Vesting Act and with respect to the relationship between accounting Annual Accounts Act, while the Statement of Comprehensive ments in the Group. No effect has been demonstrated on classificaand taxation. The recommendation stipulates the exemptions from, Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the Cash Flow Station and measurement, but a reclassification has been made of and supplements to, IFRS that are to be applied. tement are based on IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, Financial Assets from ”Loan receivables and accounts receivable” and IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. to ”Financial assets at amortized cost”. Regarding write-downs, Differences between the group’s and parent company’s accounting policies the effect on expected credit losses are none from the write-down The main differences between the Group’s and Parent Company’s model. The transition is made with forward looking application. accounting policies are stated below. The accounting policies stated below for the Parent Company have been applied consistently to all NOTE 2 REVENUES IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. Accounting policy IFRS 15 replaces IAS 11, IAS 18, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15, IFRIC 18 and At present (on the implementation of IFRS 15), Fingerprint Cards’ SIC 31. In Fingerprints’ case, the adoption of IFRS 15 has primarily New accounting policies fundamental business model consists of the sale of wafers to distaffected disclosures to be made in financial statements. Those amendments applying for the financial year beginning ributors. This fundamental business generates the total net sales Previously, revenue was reported in connection to that risks and 1 January 2018 did not have any material effect on the financial staof the company. On this basis, the revenue-generating operation is benefits were transferred to the purchaser, which is determined by tements. straightforward; distributors order wafers, Fingerprint Cards receithe terms of delivery. According to IFRS 15, the revenue shall be ves the order and delivers the goods. Sensors consists of hardware, reported when the purchaser gains control over the product. The Subsidiaries with software included as an integrated component. The transacsales from Fingerprints entails that the revenue is reported at a Shares and participations in subsidiaries are reported at cost in the tion price is calculated to the recognized revenue adjusted for distime, as before, that is determined by the terms of delivery. ThereParent Company after deducting for impairment. On business comcounts that are reported to the most likely amount. The revenue is fore, there is no change in the point of time of the revenue reporting. binations, the Parent Company includes expenditure relating to the reported when the purchaser gains control over the product and is For the above reason, there is no difference in revenue recogniacquisition in costs pursuant to RFR 2. determined by the terms of delivery. The average payment period is tion for the relationship between IAS 18 and IFRS 15. The starting 30 days net. point on the sale of these goods is the same at an overall level. Leased assets In the Parent Company, all lease arrangements are recognized as IFRS 16 Leases operating leases. FINGERPRINT CARDS AB In January 2016, the IASB published a new lease standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the associated interpretations IFRIC 4, Intangible assets generated by the company SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires that assets and liabilities When development costs for intangible assets generated by the Delivery of sensors (via semiHardware design and conductor manufacturers) customer adaptation Software adaptation, integration and maintenance attributable to all leases, with some exceptions, are to be recognicompany are capitalized, the corresponding amount is transferred zed in the balance sheet. Fingerprints will start to apply IFRS 16 from retained earnings to the fund for development expenditure in Leases as of January 1, 2019, and, accordingly, will not apply the restricted equity. This reserve is dissolved against retained earSEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURER DISTRIBUTOR MODULE SUPPLIER OEM RESELLER USER standard retroactively. Fingerprints’ assessment is that the transinings as the development expenditure is amortized. If the useful life tion to IFRS 16 will not have any material impact on the Group’s of an intangible asset generated by the company cannot be measuearnings. In its role as lessee, Fingerprints conducted a detailed red reliably, this period is set at five years. review and analysis of the Group’s leases, which mainly pertain to Revenues Group Parent Company the premises where the Group’s operations are conducted. The Untaxed reserves The Parent Company recognizes the difference between depreciaSEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 lease liability at January 1, 2019, amounted to approximately SEK 43 M and usufruct assets amounted to approximately SEK 47 M. tion and amortization according to plan and depreciation and amorSale of goods 1,535.1 2,966.0 1,527.4 2,955.5 None of the other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that have not yet tization conducted for tax purposes as accumulated excess depretaken effect is expected to have any material impact on the Group. ciation and amortization, which is included in untaxed reserves. Parent Company accounting policies Classification and presentation formats The Parent Company’s annual accounts have been prepared in Earnings for the Group are recognized in the Statement of Compreaccordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and hensive Income, and for the Parent Company, in the Income Statethe Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 ment. In addition, the Parent Company uses the terms Balance Accounting for Legal Entities. According to RFR 2, the Parent ComSheet and “Cash Flow Statement” for the statements the Group pany should apply all IFRSs and statements endorsed by the EU in refers to as the Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 61 logy in other sectors to drive future growth. The goodwill item also NOTE 3 OPERATING SEGMENTS Revenue from Non-current consists of Delta ID’s network for creating new customer relationsGeographical regions external customers assets* hips, and also of existing know-how.. Accounting policy SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Each operating segment is defined as a business activity that can Sweden 2.8 1.5 120.4 270.3 Group give rise to revenue or expenses and its operating profit is regularly Asia 1,499.9 2,942.0 3.7 3.6 SEK M 2018 2017 monitored by the group’s chief operating decision maker, and for EMEA 5.0 2.8 2.8 3.3 Intangible assets – 245.0 which independent financial information is available. In Fingerprints’ case, the chief operating decision maker is defined as Group South and North America 27.4 19.7 1,006.0 957.7 Total non-current assets – 245.0 Management, which decides how resources are to be allocated betTotalt 1,535.1 2,966.0 1,132.9 1,234.9 Current assets – 5.5 ween the different sagments, and which also regularly evaluates Total current assets – 5.5 *Non-current assets excluding financial instruments earnings. Deferred tax liability – –85.8 Because Group Management monitors the results of operations Revenue from external customers has been assigned to geographiTotal deferred tax liability – –85.8 and decides on the allocation of resources based on the products cal regions according to where the customer is domiciled. Total fair value acquired assets manufactured and sold by the Group, these comprise the Group’s and liabilities taken over, net – 164.7 operating segments. Accordingly, the Group’s internal reporting is structured to enable Group Management to review performance Consolidated goodwill – 784.3 and results. The Group’s segments have been identified based on NOTE 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Total purchase consideration – 949.0 the internal reporting structure. Fingerprints reports one operating Additional cash and cash equivalents segment, which is Fingerprint sensors, primarily for mobile phones. Accounting policy in acquired group company – 15.7 The acquisition method has been applied, which means that an Adjusted for deductible purchase Comprehensive Fingerprints acquisition of a subsidiary is treated as a transaction through which consideration* – –29.5 income segments sensors Total the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and takes over Adjustment working capital – 3.2 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is Opening balance remaining portion to pay 102.6 – Revenues from external custodetermined by conducting an acquisition analysis in conjunction mers 1,535.1 2,966.0 1,535.1 2,966.0 Translation difference -2.6 – with the acquisition. The analysis deter-mines the cost of the partiRemaining portion of purchase consideration Operating profit -771.6 154.6 -771.6 154.6 cipations or operations and the fair value of the acquired identifipayable as of 31 December 2018 and Profit before tax -796.7 141.8 -796.7 141.8 able assets and the assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities on 31 December 2017** -20.7 –102.6 the acquisition date. The cost of the subsidiaries’ shares and operaCash flow from acquisitions of Assets/liabilities and Fingerprints tions comprises the total of the fair value of the paid assets or liabigroup companies/operations 79.3 835.8 cash flow by segment sensors Total lities arising or taken over on the acquisition date. For business * In accordance with the acquisition agreement, the purchase price has been reduced by SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 combinations where the cost exceeds the fair value of the acquired SEK 29,5 M. Assets 2,319.2 3,551.8 2,319.2 3,551.8 assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities taken over that are ** The liability restated at the closing day rate. recognized separately, the difference is recognized as goodwill. Liabilities -491.8 -1,031.2 -491.8 -1,031.2 Subsidiaries are consolidated effective the acquisition date until the Cash flow from operating activities 274.6 376.9 274.6 376.9 date when the controlling influence ceases. NOTE 5 COST OF GOODS SOLD Cash flow from investing activities -162.6 -1,071.0 -162.6 -1,071.0 During 2018, no acquisitions were made. Cash flow from financing activities -507.7 481.7 -507.7 481.7 On 7 June 2017, Fingerprint Cards acquired all the shares of Constituent items in Delta ID Inc. through its subsidiary India Acquisition Holding Inc. In cost of goods sold Group Parent Company 2017, Fingerprints had a cash outflow of SEK 836 M for the acquisiSEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 tion of Delta ID Inc. This acquisition means fingerprints is extending Materials -1,410.5 –1,875.7 -1,410.5 –1,875.7 its technology portfolio into biometric security solutions based on Amortization of capitalized the human eye. development -59.1 –39.9 -58.5 –39.9 From the acquisition date 7 June 2017 onwards, Delta ID contriAmortization of other intangible buted SEK 10 M of revenues, and reduced operating profit by SEK 15 assets -36.3 –19.5 – – M. If the acquisition had been executed at the beginning of the year, Procurement and production its contribution to revenues would have been SEK 16 M. overheads -26.8 –42.0 -27.6 –42.0 The goodwill item consists of Delta ID’s ability to regenerate Cost of goods sold -1,532.7 –1,977.1 -1,496.6 –1,957.6 existing technology to remain competitive, and to apply the techno62 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 a realistic possibility of withdrawing, by a formal detailed plan to compensation is a maximum of 100 percent of basic annual salary, NOTE 6 OTHER OPERATING INCOME terminate employment before the normal point in time. apart from sign-on bonus. Pension terms should be defined contribution pension solutions. Group Parent Company Short-term remuneration The notice period from the company’s side should not exceed six SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Short-term remuneration to employees is computed without dismonths. During the notice period of a maximum of six months, full Exchange rate gains on operating counting and is recognized as an expense when the related services salary and employment benefits are due. Upon termination by the receivables and liabilities 10.2 – 10.3 – are received. A provision is recognized for the expected cost of the company, severance pay may be payable up to an amount correGains on sale of property, plant profit-sharing and bonus payments when the Group becomes subsponding to a maximum of 12 months’ salary. The notice period for and equipment 0.2 – 0.2 – ject to a legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as the Chief Executive Officer is six months on termination by the Restatement of additional a result of the services rendered by employees and the obligation employee or the company. Decisions on share and share pricepurchase consideration – 28.2 – – can be measured reliably. related incentive programs are taken by the AGM. The Board shall Leased offices 1.4 – – – be entitled to depart from these guidelines if there are special 11.8 28.2 10.5 – Remuneration guidelines for senior executives reasons for this in an individual case. The AGM 2018 approved the proposal that the Remuneration Committee internal to the Board of Directors should consult on guideliGroup Parent Company NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES nes regarding salary and other employment terms for the Chief Expenses for employee benefits 2018 2017 2018 2017 Executive Officer and other senior executives, and submit proposals Salaries and benefits, etc. 286.4 304.6 146.8 177.3 Group Parent Company to the Board of Directors for decision on such matters. The Board of Pension cost, defined contribution SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Directors takes decisions on salary and other benefits for the Chief plans 37.6 38.1 27.7 29.5 Exchange rate losses on operating Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer takes decisions on Other social security contributions 57.2 63.8 50.2 58.9 receivables and liabilities – -70.7 – -70.7 salary and other benefits to other senior executives pursuant to the 381.2 406.5 224.7 265.7 Write-down of capitalized Board of Directors’ guidelines. Other senior executives mean individevelopment -148.6 – -148.6 – duals that are members of Group Management together with the Transaction expenses acquisitions – -18.0 – – Chief Executive Officer. Fundamental compensation levels should Group Parent Company Other expenses -2.6 – -2.6 – be on market terms. Compensation should consist of fixed basic 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 salary, variable salary computed in accordance with established Gender balance Share of Share of Share of Share of -151.2 -88.7 -151.2 -70.7 in management women women women women objectives set in advance, and other benefits, pensions and financial instruments in the form of performance-related shares. Board of The division between basic salary and variable compensation Directors 0% 25% 0% 25% NOTE 8 EMPLOYEES, PERSONEAL COST AND should be in proportion to the executive’s duties and authorization. Other senior REMUNERATION OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES For the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives, variable executives 0% 0% 0% 0% Accounting policy Pension benefits to employees Average number of employees The Group has defined-contribution pension plans. Defined-contriGroup Parent Company bution pension plans are classified as plans whereby the company’s 2018 2017 2018 2017 obligation is limited to the contributions it has undertaken to pay. Group Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total In such cases, the amount of the employee’s pension depends on the contribution the company pays to the plan, or to an insurance Sweden 127 52 179 181 76 257 127 52 179 181 76 257 company and the return on capital generated by the contributions. Denmark 34 3 37 37 4 41 – – – – – – Consequently, the employee bears the actuarial risk and investJapan 3 0 3 – – – – – – – – – ment risk. The company’s obligation regarding contributions to China 46 19 65 40 15 55 – – – – – – defined-contribution plans is recognized as an expense in profit or Korea 8 0 8 9 – 9 – – – – – – loss in line with contributions being vested by the employee rendering services for the company over a period of time. Taiwan 9 1 10 11 1 12 – – – – – – US 11 1 12 13 1 14 – – – – – – Severance pay Total group 238 76 314 291 97 388 127 52 179 181 76 257 An expense for severance pay when employees leave the company is recognized only if the company is demonstrably obligated, without There were 220 (415) employees as of 31 December 2018, of which 171 (311) men and 49 (104) women. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 63 Salaries and other benefits allocated between senior executives and other employees, and social security contributions Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Senior Other Senior Other Senior Other Senior Other SEK M executives employees Total executives employees Total executives employees Total executives employees Total Salaries and other benefits 21.7 264.7 286.4 26.8 277.8 304.6 19.5 127.3 146.8 24.9 152.4 177.3 Of which Chief Executive Officer 6.8 – 6.8 14.1 – 14.1 6.8 – 6.8 14.1 – 14.1 Of which Sweden 19.5 127.2 146.7 24.9 152.3 177.2 19.5 127.3 146.8 24.9 152.4 177.3 Of which foreign countries 2.2 137.5 139.7 1.9 125.5 127.4 – – – – – – Total salaries and benefits 21.7 264.7 286.4 26.8 277.8 304.6 19.5 127.3 146.8 24.9 152.4 177.3 Of which bonus 3.0 10.6 13.6 8.6 2.8 11.4 2.7 2.7 5.4 8.4 2.8 11.2 Social security contributions total 10.8 84.0 94.8 13.2 88.7 101.9 10.0 67.9 77.9 12.5 75.9 88.4 Of which pension costs Chief Executive Officer 2.1 – 2.1 1.8 – 1.8 2.1 – 2.1 1.8 – 1.8 Of which pension costs, either 2.6 32.9 35.5 3.1 33.2 36.3 2.4 23.2 25.6 3.0 24.7 27.7 2018 2017 Salaries and other benefits to senior executives Basic salary, Bonus, variable Basic salary, Bonus, variable Group and Parent Company Directors’ fee compensation Pension Total Directors’ fee compensation Pension Total Styrelsens ordförande Johan Carlström, from June 2018 0.4 – – 0.4 0.0 – – 0.0 Jan Wäreby, until May 2018 0.4 – – 0.4 1.0 – – 1.0 Directors Alexander Kotsinas, from April 2017 0.5 – – 0.5 0.3 – – 0.3 Carl Johan von Plomgren, until May 2017 0.2 – – 0.2 0.5 – – 0.5 Katarina Bonde, until April 2017 0.0 – – 0.0 0.3 – – 0.3 Lars Söderfjell, until April 2017 0.0 – – 0.0 0.2 – – 0.2 Michael Hallén, until November 2017 0.0 – – 0.0 0.5 – – 0.5 Peter Carlsson, until April 2017 0.0 – – 0.0 0.2 – – 0.2 Juan Vallejo, from June 2018 0.2 – – 0.2 0.0 – – 0.0 Tomas Mikaelsson 0.3 – – 0.3 0.4 – – 0.4 Åsa Hedin, until May 2018 0.2 – – 0.2 0.5 – – 0.5 Ann-Sofie Nordh, from April 2017 to May 2018 0.2 – – 0.2 0.3 – – 0.3 Dimitrij Titov, from April 2017 0.4 – – 0.4 0.2 – – 0.2 Ted Elvhage from June 2018 0.2 – – 0.2 0.0 – – 0.0 Urban Fagerstedt 0.3 – – 0.3 0.5 – – 0.5 Chief Executive Officer: Christian Fredrikson 5.6 1.2 2.1 8.9 6.6 7.5 1.8 15.9 Other senior executives (7/8 people)* 13.1 1.8 2.6 17.5 14.0 1.1 3.1 18.2 Total from Group and Parent Company 22.0 3.0 4.7 29.7 25.5 8.6 4.9 39.0 * One member of Group Management serves on a consulting basis during 2017-05 –2018-05 64 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTE 9 FEES AND REIMBURSEMENT NOTE 12 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/EXPENSE NOTE 14 TAXES OF AUDITORS Group Parent Company Accounting policy Group Parent Company SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 The group’s tax for the period consists of current tax and deferred SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Dividend from group companies – – 1.4 – tax. Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Audit fee Moore Stephens -2.0 – -2.0 – Exchange rate gains financial periods are measured at the amount expected to be paid to or by receivables and liabilities – – 43.8 – the tax authorities based on the tax rates and the tax legislation that Audit fee KPMG -0.3 -1.5 -0.3 -1.5 Interest income attributable to is enacted or substantively enacted on the reporting date. Current Audit fee, other -0.1 -0.1 – – tax is tax pertaining to taxable profit for the period. Deferred tax is group companies – – 23.7 12.7 Other services -0.3 -0.4 -0.3 -0.4 Other interest income 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.5 recognized on all temporary differences that arise between the taxTotal fees -2.7 -2.0 -2.6 -1.9 able value and carrying amount of assets and liabilities, and on Financial income 0.1 0.5 68.9 13.2 deductible loss carry-forwards. Exchange rate losses financial Current and deferred tax is recognized in profit or loss with the receivables and liabilities -10.3 -2.2 -10.3 -2.2 exception of transactions recognized in other comprehensive NOTE 10 OPERATING EXPENSES BY COST CLASS Other interest expenses -10.4 -9.5 -10.2 -9.5 income and shareholders’ equity. Tax attributable to items recogniGroup Parent Company Other interest expenses -4.5 -1.6 -4.6 -1.4 zed in other comprehensive income is also recognized in other comSEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial expenses -25.2 -13.3 -25.1 -13.1 prehensive income and tax accruing on transactions recognized in shareholders’ equity is recognized in shareholders’ equity. Deferred Cost of materials -1,410.5 -1,875.7 -1,410.5 -1,875.7 tax assets are recognized in the Balance Sheet to the extent it is Personnel costs -381.2 -406.5 -224.7 -265.7 likely that they can be utilized to offset future taxable surpluses. NOTE 13 APPROPRIATIONS Depreciation, amortization and When calculating the Group’s deferred tax assets and tax liability, impairment -266.4 -79.4 -226.4 -57.0 Parent Company the tax rate applicable in the country concerned is applied. Other operating expenses -248.6 -449.8 -420.8 -606.8 SEK M 2018 2017 Operating expenses -2,306.7 -2,811.4 -2,282.4 -2,805.2 Appropriations Estimates and judgements Management especially considers the likelihood of whether deferChange in depreciation and amortization above plan 0.0 -8.0 red tax assets can be offset against services in future taxation. Change in tax allocation reserve 716.0 -66.0 NOTE 11 DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE Deductible deficits are not recognized because they relate to a subAppropriations 716.0 -74.0 sidiary with limited operations, and accordingly, there is uncertainty The Group’s expenses for technology development and patents Untaxed reseres as to whether the deficit can be offset against future surpluses. amounted to SEK 323.9 M (594.8) of which SEK 80.3 M (203.5) or Accumulated depreciation and amortization above plan 8.0 8.0 Group Parent Company 25% (33%) has been capitalized in the Consolidated Statement of Accumulated allocation reserve 0.0 716.0 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial Position and the remaining SEK 243.6 M (391.3) has been expensed. The corresponding expenses for technology developUntaxed reseres 8.0 724.0 Current tax expense -4.9 -49.4 -0.3 -44.6 ment and patents for the Parent Company amounted to SEK 323.3 Deferred tax expense 170.9 27.9 -2.9 26.2 M (585.8), of which SEK 80.3 M (203.5) or 25% (33%) has been capiTotal reported tax expense 166.0 -21.5 -3.2 -18.4 talized in the Parent Company’s Balance Sheet, and the remaining SEK 243.0 M (382.3) has been expensed in the Parent Company’s Income Statement. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 65 Reconciliation of effective tax Group Parent Company NOTE 15 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND NUMBER SEK M 2018 % 2017 % 2018 % 2017 % OF SHARES Profit before tax -796.7 141.8 4.8 76.4 Accounting policy Theoretical tax at applicable tax rate for parent company 175.3 -22.0 -31.2 -22.0 -1.1 -22.0 -16.8 -22.0 Earnings per share before dilution are measured as consolidated Non-deductible expenses -2.2 0.3 -9.9 7.0 -2.1 -43.8 -1.7 2.2 net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent Non-taxable revenues 0.3 0.0 7.5 -5.3 0.3 6.4 0.1 -0.1 Company divided by the average number of outstanding shares per Differences in tax rates for foreign subsidiaries -5.5 0.7 0.2 -0.1 – – – – financial year. Restatement of deferred tax 0.0 0.0 12.1 -8.6 – – – – When measuring earnings per share after dilution, earnings and the average number of shares outstanding are adjusted for potenRax attributable to previous year -1.9 0.2 -0.3 0.2 -0.3 -6.2 – – tial dilution effects that arise during reporting periods from warReported effective tax 166.0 -20.8 -21.5 -15.2 -3.2 -66.7 -18.4 -24.1 rants issued to employees. Before dilution After dilution SEK 2018 2017 2018 2017 Unreported deferred tax assets Changes in deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are stated below: Earnings per share -2.01 0.38 -2.01 0.38 Deductible loss carry-forwards for which deferred tax assets have not been recognized in the Statement of Financial Position: Group and Parent Company Net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders Group Parent Company Deferred tax assets, SEK M Current assets Total of the parent company before dilution 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. As of 1 January 2017 6.7 6.7 SEK M 2018 2017 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Reported in Income Statement 26.1 26.1 Net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of Deductible deficits 12.4 12.5 – – As of 31 December 2017 32.8 32.8 the parent company -630.7 120.3 Reported in Income Statement -5.0 -5.0 Weighted number of outstanding ordinary shares before and As of 31 December 2018 27.8 27.8 after dilution Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are divided as follows: Number of shares 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets Group Parent Company Group Class A shares at beginning of the year 6,000,000 6,000,000 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Deferred tax liabilities, SEK M Other* Total Total number of class A shares 6,000,000 6,000,000 Deferred tax assets to be settClass B shares at beginning of the year 307,967,675 307,967,675 As of 1 January 2017 143.0 143.0 led after more than 12 months 27.8 – 29.9 32.8 Reported in Income Statement 79.6 79.6 Total number of class B shares 307,967,675 307,967,675 Total deferred tax assets 27.8 – 29.9 32.8 As of 31 December 2017 222.6 222.6 Total number of outstanding shares 313,967,675 313,967,675 Reported in Income Statement -170.7 -170.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in Deferred tax liabilities Group Parent Company the year before dilution 313,967,675 313,967,675 As of 31 December 2018 51.9 51.9 SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in Deferred tax liabilities to be the year after dilution 313,967,675 313,967,675 settled after more than 12 months 51.9 189.8 – – Quotient value, SEK per share 0.04 0.04 Total deferred tax liabilities 51.9 189.8 – – As of 31 December 2018, registered share capital amounted to 313,967,675 common shares (313,967,675). Holders of common shares are entitled to receive dividends, and entitles the holder to vote at the hareholders’ meetings, with one vote per share. On AGM 2017 a long-term incentive program (”LTIP 2017”) assuming the satisfaction of certain terms. See more informaton at www.fingerprints.com. 66 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTE 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Accounting policy If it is not possible to associate materially independent cash flows period justified by the expectation that it will take many years before Intangible assets are recognized at original cost after deducting for with an individual asset, and the asset’s fair value less selling operations enter a mature developmental phase. After the end of accumulated amortization and potential impairment. expenses cannot be used, for impairment testing, the assets are the forecast period, a growth rate of 2% has been adopted. grouped at the lowest level from which it is possible to identify sigThe discount rate has been estimated based on the operation’s Research and development nificant independent cash flows, known as a cash-generating unit. estimated weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC Development expenditure, aimed at achieving new or improved proAn impairment loss is recognized when an asset’s carrying amount before tax has been estimated at 13.6%. ducts or processes, is recognized as an asset in the Statement of exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized If the discount rates were to increae by 1 percentage point, the Financial Position, if the product or process is technically and comas an expense in profit or loss. recoverable amount would decrease by 11%. If the adopted growth mercially viable, and the company has sufficient resources to comafter the end of the forecast period were to reduce by 1 percentage plete the development process and subsequently use or sell the Estimated useful lives are: point, the recoverable amount would reduce by 7%. This would indiintangible asset. The carrying amount includes directly attributable Products 1.5–4.0 years cate imparment. expenses, such as materials and services used and consumed in Platforms 1.5–10.0 years connection with processing and registering legal rights. Other Customer relations 10 years development expenditure is recognized in profit or loss as an Patents 4–5 years expense when it arises. Research expenses aimed at obtaining new scientific or techniUseful lives are reviewed yearly. cal knowledge are recognized as an expense when they arise. Since all research originates from products and market demand, no Estimates and judgements research arises. Capitalized development expenditure Significant estimates by management are necessary to determine Patents whether expenses during the development phase should be capitaAcquired patents are capitalized as intangible assets. lized as intangible assets, and which useful life these assets should have. These estimates focus on determining how long earnings Goodwill potential exists for the products, and in turn, these estimates are Goodwill is recognized as an intangible asset with indefinite useful based on the progress of markets, competitors and technology. life. Over and above indication, non-amortizable assets such as goodwill are subject to annual impairment tests by measuring the Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets asset’s recoverable amount. If the estimated recoverable amount is To identify whether there is impairment of a non-current asset with less than the carrying amount, the asset is impaired to its recoveradefinite useful life at the reporting date, management judges each ble amount. asset’s commercial potential. No indication has been identified for patents, and accordingly, no impairment test has been conducted Amortization and impairment for patents. The remaining portion of other intangible assets have Amortization is recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis been tested jointly with goodwill below. over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, unless such For impairment tests, the recoverable amount of the cash-geneuseful lives are indefinite. Useful lives are determined on the basis rating unit Delta ID Inc. has been measured based on its value in of expected commercial potential, earnings and the patent’s use. Value in use is measured as the present value of expected remaining term of validity and technical significance. Useful lives future cash flows in accordance with management’s forecast. are reviewed at least yearly. Intangible assets with definite useful The critical assumptions in this forecast are sales and operating lives are amortized from the date when they are available for use. margins, as well as the discount rate. Sales have been estimated in Amortizable assets are tested for impairment, if at the reporting the short term based on estimated customer needs, from thirddate, there is an indication that a non-current asset is impaired. party research and global market progress for iris recognition for Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or that are not the medium term, and based on assumptions of a normalized ready for use are tested for impairment every year and as soon as growth rate for the long term. Initially, the operating margin has there is an indication of impairment. The recoverable amount of been estimated on the basis of current margins, and then based on goodwill is measured through a value in use measurement accorsector experience. ding to the discounted cash flow method. A nine-year cash flow forecast has been applied, the term of the Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 67 NOTE 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS, CONT. Impairment, goodwill 2018 Recoverable amount SEK M 1,036.5 Carrying amount SEK M (of which goodwill SEK 811M) 954.1 Interest rate, % (WACC), before tax 13.6 Interest rate, % (WACC), after tax 10.4 Group Parent Company Capitalized development Patents & other acquired Capitalized development Patents & other acquired Goodwill expenditure intangible assets Intangible assets expenditure intangible assets Intangible assets SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Accumulated cost Opening balance 744.6 – 393.2 198.3 271.0 28.0 1,408.8 226.3 387.3 192.5 38.8 28.0 426.1 220.5 Internally developed assets – – 77.1 194.9 – – 77.1 194.9 77.3 194.8 – – 77.3 194.8 Purchases – 784.3 – – 1.2 255.8 1.2 1,040.1 – – 1.2 10.8 1.2 10.8 Translation difference 66.8 -39.7 – – 20.8 -12.8 87.6 -52.5 – – – – – – Closing balance 811.4 744.6 470.3 393.2 293.0 271.0 1,574.7 1,408.8 464.6 387.3 40.0 38.8 504.6 426.1 Accumulated amortization Opening balance – – -161.6 -120.9 -39.9 -15.0 -201.5 -135.9 -156.5 -116.6 -20.5 -15.1 -177.0 -131.7 Amortization for the year – – -59.1 -40.7 -40.8 -24.9 -99.9 -65.6 -58.5 -39.9 -4.5 -5.4 -63.0 -45.3 Translation difference – – -2.9 – -2.9 – – – – – – – Closing balance – – -220.7 -161.6 -83.6 -39.9 -304.3 -201.5 -215.0 -156.5 -25.0 -20.5 -240.0 -177.0 Accumulated impairment Opening balance – – -19.1 -19.0 – – -19.1 -19.0 -19.0 -19.0 – – -19.0 -19.0 Impairment for the year – – -148.6 – – -148.6 – -148.7 – – – -148.7 – Closing balance – – -167.7 -19.0 – – -167.7 -19.0 -167.7 -19.0 – – -167.7 -19.0 Carrying amount At beginning of year – – 212.5 58.4 231.1 13.0 1,188.2 71.4 211.8 56.9 18.3 12.9 230.1 69.8 At end of year 811.4 744.6 81.9 212.6 209.4 231.1 1,102.7 1,188.3 81.9 211.8 15.0 18.3 96.9 230.1 Amortization is included in the following lines in the Statement of Comprehensive income 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cost of goods sold – – -59.1 -39.9 -36.3 -19.5 -95.4 -59.4 -58.5 -39.9 – – -58.5 -39.9 Development costs – – – -0.8 -4.5 -5.4 -4.5 -6.2 – – -4.5 -5.4 -4.5 -5.4 68 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTE 17 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Accounting policy Group Parent Company Property, plant and equipment are recognized in the Group at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. Cost includes the purchase price and any expenses that are directly attributable to Machinery and equipment Machinery and equipment the asset to put it in place and in the condition to be utilized for the purpose for which it was acquired. Accumulated cost, SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 1 Dec 2017 Assets leased through finance leases are recognized as non-current assets in the Statement of Opening balance 79.2 48.0 67.0 42.1 Financial Position and recognized initially at the lower of the item’s fair value and the present value of Purchases 0.0 0.5 0.0 – minimum lease payments on entering the arrangement. Sales/retirements -9.7 -0.2 -8.4 -0.1 Depreciation and impairment Purchases 3.6 30.9 0.8 25 Depreciation is on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Leased assets are Closing balance 73.1 79.2 59.4 67.0 depreciated over their estimated useful life, or if it is shorter, the contracted lease term. Depreciation Accumulated cost is recognized in each function the assets belong to. Impairment testing of depreciable assets is conducted if there is an indication of impairment of the Opening balance -32.6 -18.8 -27.8 -16.2 non-current asset at the reporting date. If there is an indication of impairment, the asset’s recoverable Purchases – -0.3 – – amount is measured. The recoverable amount is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and its value Reversed depreciation on sale and retirements 7.6 0.2 6.5 0.1 in use, which is based on management’s estimate of future cash flows. If it is not possible to associate Depreciation for the year -17.9 -13.7 -14.7 -11.7 significant independent cash flows with an individual asset, and the asset’s fair value less selling Closing balance -42.9 -32.6 -36.0 -27.8 expenses cannot be used, the assets are grouped for impairment testing at the lowest level from which it is possible to identify signifi-cant independent cash flows, known as a cash-generating unit. An Carrying amonuts impairment loss is recognized when an asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. An At beginning of year 46.6 29.2 39.2 25.9 impairment loss is recognized as an expense in profit or loss. At end of year 30.2 46.6 23.4 39.2 Estimated useful lives: Machinery and other technical plant 5 years Group Parent Company Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 3–5 years Depreciation is included in the following lines in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 2018 2017 2018 2017 Estimates and judgements Cost of goods sold -2.8 -1.3 -2.8 -1.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment Administrative expenses -12.2 -10.0 -10.8 -9.2 Estimated future cash flows, which are based on internal business plans and forecasts, are used to determine value in use. Even if management considers an estimated future cash flows are reasonable, Selling expenses -0.1 -0.2 -0.1 -0.1 other assumptions regarding cash flows can have a material impact on measurements. No indication Development expenses -2.8 -2.2 -1.0 -1.1 that property, plant and equipment is impaired has been identified, and accordingly, no impairment tests Total -17.9 -13.7 -14.7 -11.7 have been conducted. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 69 NOTE 18 INVENTORIES NOTE 19 FINANCIAL ASSETS Accounting policy Accounting policy Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The cost of inventories is measuA financial asset is recognized in the Statement of Financial Position when the group becomes party to red by applying the firts-in, firts-out method (FIFO) and includes expenses arising in conjunction with the terms of the instrument’s agreement. A receivable is recognized when the company has delivered the purchase of inventory items and transportation to their current location and condition. Net realiand there is a contracted obligation for the counterparty to pay, even if no invoice has been sent. zavle value is defined as sales price less expenses for completion and selling expenses. Accounts receivable are recognized in the Statement of Financial Position when an invoice has been sent and the company has an unconditional right of payment. Estimates and judgements The Financial assets are in the category of amortized cost. Loan receivables and accounts receivable Individual judgements regarding potential to sell products are necessary to determine net sales value. are non-derivative financial assets that have determined or determinable payments and that are not An impairment loss has been recorded due to net realizable value. listed on an active marketplace. These assets are measured at amortized cost. Amortized cost is determined on the basis of the effective interest calculated at acquisition. Cash and cash equivalents and Group Parent Company accounts receivable are recognized at the amount expected to be received, i.e. after impairment of SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 expected bad debt. Raw material inventory 262.8 460.1 262.8 460.1 Conversion to SEK is at the closing rate on the reporting date. Book value less impairment is Products in process 31.5 59.5 31.5 59.5 an approximate fair value of accounts receivable. Impairment losses (mainly the reserve for bad debt) are taken if management considers that there Finished goods 53.2 126.5 53.2 126.5 is sufficient objective evidence indicating that an asset’s carrying amount will not be recoverable. Total 347.5 646.1 347.5 646.1 Impaired accounts receivable are recognized at the present value of expected future cash flows. However, receivables with short maturities are not discounted. Impairment of saleable financial assets Impairment of inventories amounts to SEK 302,8 M (173,7) as of 31 December 2018. is recognized in net profit for the year in net financial income/expense. Exchange rate fluctuations on operating receivables and liabilities are recognized in operating profit, while exchange rate fluctuations on financial receivables and liabilities are recognized in net financial income/expense. Financial assets are derecognized from the Balance Sheet when the contracted rights to cash flows cease, or are transferred, and when essentially, the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the financial assets have been transferred. 70 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTE 19 FINANCIAL ASSETS, CONT. Fair value and book value of financial assets by balance sheet item and category Group Parent Company 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 SEK M Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value FINANCIAL ASSETS Current financial assets Financial assets at amortized cost Accounts receivable 232.7 232.7 – – 232.3 232.3 – – Cash and cash equivalents 540.5 540.5 – – 496.2 496.2 – – Loan receivables and accounts receivable Accounts receivable – – 437.5 437.5 – – 437,3 437,3 Cash and cash equivalents – – 920.2 920.2 – – 878,9 878,9 Financial assets, total 773.2 773.2 1,357.7 1,357.7 728.5 728.5 1,316.2 1,316.2 By category Financial assets at amortized cost 773.2 773.2 – – 728.5 728.5 – – Loan receivables and accounts receivable – – 1,357.7 1,357.7 – – 1 316,2 1 316,2 Financial assets, total 773.2 773.2 1,357.7 1,357.7 728.5 728.5 1,316.2 1,316.2 Group Parent Company SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Total accounts receivable 232.7 441.5 232.3 438.8 Reserve for doubtful debt 0.0 -4.0 0.0 -1.5 Carrying amount 232.7 437.5 232.3 437.3 The expense for bad debt and doubtful debt for the Group amounted to SEK 0 M (2). NOTE 20 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME NOTE 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Parent Company Accounting policy SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash funds and immediately available balances with banks and Premises 3.4 7.5 2.8 6.1 corresponding institutions, as well as short-term liquid investments that are exposed to only insignifiInsurance expenses 3.5 5.4 1.1 5.1 cant risk of value fluctuation. Group Parent Company License costs 3.4 8.4 3.3 8.3 SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Other operating expenses 7.7 7.8 6.5 6.3 Cash and bank balances 540.5 920.2 496.2 878.9 18.0 29.1 13.7 25.8 Total recognized in the Statement of Financial Position/ Balance sheet 540.5 920.2 496.2 878.9 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 71 NOTE 22 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Accounting policy ders are reported quarterly, with the company measured in terms of interest coverage ratio, as well as A financial liability is recognized in the Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party net debt/equity ratio in relation to EBITDA. to the terms of the instrument’s contract. Liabilities are recognized when the counterparty has delivered Exchange rate fluctuations on operating receivables and liabilities are recognized in operating profit and there is a contractual obligation for the company to make a payment without an invoice having yet while exchange rate fluctuations on financial receivables and liabilities are recognized in net financial been received. Accounts payable are recognized when the invoice has arrived. income/expense. As of 31 december 2018, there were no liabilities measured at fair value. Loans and other financial liaA financial liability is derecognized from the Statement of Financial Position when the contractual bilities, such as accounts payable, are measured at amortized cost. obligations are fulfilled or otherwise extinguished. Borrowings are measured at amortized cost by applying the effective interest method. Covenants to lenFair value and book value of financial liabilities by balance sheet item and category Group Parent Company 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 MSEK M Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Non-current financial liabilities Long-term loans, maturing 2019 (USD 27 M) – – 221.9 221.9 – – 221.9 221.9 Current financial liabilities Short-term portion of long-term loans – – 243.4 243.4 – – 243.4 243.4 Remaining portion of purchase consideration for acquisition of subsidiary 20.7 20.7 95.0 95.0 – – – – Accounts payabale 256.2 256.2 268.0 268.0 254.7 254.7 266.9 266.9 Financial liabilities total 276.9 276.9 828.3 828.3 254.7 254.7 732.2 732.2 By category Financial liabilities at amortized cost 276.9 276.9 828.3 828.3 254.7 254.7 732.2 732.2 Financial liabilities total 276.9 276.9 828.3 828.3 254.7 254.7 732.2 732.2 Liabilities attributable to financing activities Group Parent Company Changes in Changes in exchange rate exchange rate differences not differences not SEK M CB 2017 Cash flows affecting cash flow CB 2018 CB 2017 Cash flows affecting cash flow CB 2018 Long-term loans 221.9 -221.9 0.0 0.0 221.9 -221.9 0.0 0.0 Short-term portion of long-term loans 243.4 -243.4 0.0 0.0 243.4 -243.4 0.0 0.0 465.3 -465.3 0.0 0.0 465.3 -465.3 0.0 0.0 72 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTE 23 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES NOTE 25 FINANCIAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Group Parent Company Group and Parent Company SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. Employee withholding tax 5.3 6.7 3.5 5.6 Financial risks mean fluctuations in the company’s earnings and cash flow due to variations in Remaining portion of purchase consideration for exchange rates, interest rates and risks relating to refinancing and credit issuance. The Group’s acquisition of subsidiary 20.7 95.0 – – financial policy for managing financial risks has been prepared by the Board and comprises a frameOther 1.1 4.8 0.5 – work of guidelines and rules in the form of risk mandates and limits for financing activities. Financial transactions and risks are managed by the Parent Company’s Finance function. The objectives are to: Total 27.1 106.5 4.0 5.6 • Manage and control financial risks • Minimize the negative earnings impact of market changes in currencies and interest rates. • Plan and ensure adequate liquidity for operating activities. NOTE 24 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME • Optimize the use of capital and cash flows. Group Parent Company Financing risk SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Financing risk is the risk of access to financing capital, and the price of financing capital varying, with Salaries 28.0 31.9 16.7 19.9 the risk of unfavorable terms. Social Security contributions 12.7 17.5 12.6 17.5 Material and production expenses 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.7 Liquidity risk Directors’ fees and company expenses 0.1 1.7 0.1 1.7 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group encounters problems meeting its obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Group has rolling liquidity planning, which is updated monthly. The Group’s Commissions 139.6 123.0 139.6 123.0 forecasts cover a minimum of six months of rolling liquidity planning over the medium term. Liquidity Audit 0.7 1.1 0.7 1.1 planning is used to manage liquidity risk and the cost of financing the Group. Restructuring expenses 22.9 0.0 22.9 0.0 The aim is that the Group should be able to meet its financial commitments and have the necessary Other overheads 1.4 13.0 1.1 10.9 contingency well in advance. It should be possible to offset upturns and downturns without incurring Total 207.2 189.9 195.5 175.8 significant unforeseen costs. Available liquidity in the Group at year end amounted to SEK 540.5 M (920.2). In accordance with the Finance Policy, there should always be sufficient cash and cash equivalents and confirmed credit lines to cover short-term liquidity requirements. The company’s financial liabilities consist of supplier credits, totaling SEK 256.2 M (268.0 ) at yearend, with a short maturity of within one to two months. A loan of SEK 508.1 M (USD 60 M) was arranged in tandem with the acquisition of Delta, which is fully amortized during 2018. The remaining portion of the purchase consideration for the acquisition of Delta ID Inc. amounts to SEK 20.7 M. Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will vary due to changes in market prices. IFRS divides market risks into three types; currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk. The market risks that primarily impact the Group are currency risk and commodity price risk, while the interest rate risk has less of an impact since the company has no deposits. The Group’s aim is to manage and control market risks within specific parameters and simultaneously optimize the results of risk-taking within specific parameters. These parameters are established with the aim of ensuring that market risks have only a marginal impact on the Group’s earnings and financial position in the short term (6–12 months). However, protracted changes in exchange rates and interest rates will impact consolidated earnings in the longer term. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 73 NOTE 25 FINANCIAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT, CONT. Raw materials price risk Sensitivity analysis The raw materials cost of products may be affected by price variations, mainly silicon. Silicon is the A 10% appreciation of the Swedish krona against other currencies as of 31 December 2018, would imply largest constituent part of products. Historically, the price of silicon has not fluctuated significantly, shareholders’ equity and net profit for the period changing by SEK 147 M (71). The sensitivity analysis is and supply is good. If the supply of silicon on the global market were to reduce, there would be a risk based on all other factors remaining unchanged. of price increases. Accordingly, the company’s purchasing from external suppliers could increase in per unit prices. There is no guarantee that in turn, Fingerprints is able to pass on increased costs to Credit risk its customers. The inability to pass on increased costs to the company’s customers may have negative The company has a credit insurance for all receivables and therefore don’t do any reservations for bad consequences for the company’s operations, results of operations and financial position. debts. Currency risk Age analysis, accounts receivable Group Parent Company The risk that the fair value and cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate when the value of 2018 2017 2018 2017 foreign currencies changes. The Group is exposed to various types of currency risk. The main exposure Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying is derived from the Group’s sales and purchases in foreign currencies. These currency risks comprise SEK M amount amount amount amount the risk of fluctuations in the value of financial instruments, accounts receivables and accounts payable Non-overdue accounts receivable 201,1 405,7 200,7 405,7 and the currency risk inherent in expected and contractual payment flows. Such risks constitute transOverdue accounts receivable, 0-30 days 28,0 31,0 28,0 31,0 action exposure. Overdue accounts receivable, 30-90 days 2,2 1,2 2,2 0,2 According to the Finance Policy, exchange risks should not be hedged. USD-denominated net surOverdue accounts receivable >90 days 1,4 3,6 1,4 1,9 pluses are exchanged to SEK on a continuous basis. Net profit for the year includes exchange rate diffeReserve for doubtful debt 0,0 -4,0 0,0 -1,5 rences of SEK 10.2 M (-70.7) in operating profit and SEK -10.3 M (-2.2) in net financial income/expense. Total 232,7 437,5 232,3 437,3 Transaction exposure The Group’s transaction exposure for sales and materials is allocated to the following currencies on the reporting date: SEK M Net flows 2018 USD-exposure expressed in SEK och total 1,190.6 2017 USD-exposure expressed in SEK och total 715.9 Transaction exposure has not been hedged. Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 % of total % of total % of total % of total Number of number of Number of number of Number of number of Number of number of Sales per year customers customers % of value customers customers % of value customers customers % of value customers customers % of value ‹ SEK 1 M 80 78% 0.5% 81 81% 0.3% 75 79% 0.4% 77 82% 0.3% SEK 1 – 10 M 10 10% 1.4% 9 9% 0.9% 8 8% 1.1% 7 7% 0.6% › SEK 10 M 12 12% 98.1% 10 10% 98.8% 12 13% 98.5% 10 11% 99.1% Total 102 100% 100% 100 100% 100% 86 100% 100% 94 100% 100% 74 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTE 26 LEASES NOTE 27 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Accounting policy Group Parent Company Lease arrangements are classified either as finance or operating leases. Finance leases occur when Purchases of goods and services, SEK M 2018 2017 2018 2017 the economic risks and rewards associated with ownership essentially transfer to the lessee. If this is Purchases of group-wide services from subsidiaries – – -211.4 -202.1 not the case, the arrangement is an operating lease. Total – – -211.4 -202.1 Assets leased through operating leases are not recognized as an asset in the Statement of Financial Position. Nor do operating leases give rise to a liability. Expenses relating to operating leases are recogGroup Parent Company nized in profit for the year on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rewards received on entering an Receivables and liabilities at the end of the period, SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 arrangement are recognized in net profit for the year as the decrease in lease payments on a straightline basis over the term of the lease. Variable charges are expensed in the periods they arise. Long-term loans to subsidiaries – – 538.3 493.9 Asset leased through finance leases are recognized as non-current assets in the Statement of Receivables from subsidiaries – – 23.4 1.1 Financial Position and initially measured at the lower of the least item’s fair value and the present value Liabilities to subsidiaries – – -16.4 -8.9 of minimum lease payments on entering the arrangement. The obligation to make future lease payments is recognized as non-current and current liabilities. Leased assets are depreciated over each Transactions with related parties are price on an arm’s length basis. asset’s useful life, while the lease payments are recognized as interest and amortization of liabilities. Transactions with key individuals in management positions are limited to individual, clearly delineaInterest expenses are allocated over the lease term, so that each accounting period is charged with ted, small-scale consulting assignments, which require specific competence. an amount that corresponds to a fixed interest rate for the liability reported during the relevant period. Variable charges are expensed in the periods they arise. The reported asset is recognized in accordance with the rules applying to corresponding assets, such as those for depreciation. The Group’s material lease arrangements are operating leases. NOTE 28 SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS IN SUBSIDIARIES Operating leases Group Parent Company Parent Company Lease agreements where the company is the lessee, SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Shares in subsidiaries Irrevocable lease payments amount to: SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Within one year 26.4 33.4 18.8 25.4 Accumulated cost Between one year and five years 42.6 55.6 38.8 43.5 Opening balance 366.8 33.9 Total 69.0 89.0 57.6 68.9 Other investments 79.3 332.9 Closing book value 446.1 366.8 Operating leases consist of lease contracts the premises. The largest contracts terminate in Accumulated impairment 2019–2022, with extension options. These agreements are subject to ongoing indexation against the CPI or equivalent. Opening balance -28.8 -28.8 Impairment for the year – – Group Parent Company Closing balance -28.8 -28.8 Lease payments made for operating leases in the year, SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 2017-12-31 Carrying amounts Minimum lease payments 35.0 27.8 26.0 20.6 At beginning of year 338.0 5.1 Total lease expenses 35.0 27.8 26.0 20.6 At end of year 417.3 338.0 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 75 • Fingerprint Inc. in the US: NOTE 28 SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS IN SUBSIDIARIES, CONT. This company was incorporated in 2014. Operations consist of marketing and technical customer support on the US market. All staff in the US are employees of the American company. Subsidiary ShareParticipaParticipa• Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd. in Taiwan: The Parent Company’s holdings in reg office, holders Net ting interest ting interest This company was incorporated in 2016. Operations consist of marketing and customer support on subsidiaries country equity profit 2018 2017 the Taiwanese market. All staff in Taiwan are employees of the Taiwanese company. Anacatum Design AB Sweden 5.5 0.1 100% 100% • Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB: Fingerprint Card Korea Co.,Ltd. Korea 4.8 1.4 100% 100% This company has been a subsidiary since 1998. This company conducts limited operations and has no Fingerprint Cards ApS Denmark 17.6 4.5 100% 100% employees. Fingerprint Cards (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 8.6 2.6 100% 100% • India Acquisition Holding Inc: Incorporated to serve as a holding company for Delta ID Inc. Fingerprint Cards Inc US 6.6 2.0 100% 100% • Fingerprint Cards Japan K.K: Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd Taiwan 1.3 1.0 100% 100% This company was incorporated at the end of 2017, has limited operations and had no employees in Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB Sweden 2.2 – 100% 100% the year. From 2018 onwards, operations consist of marketing and customer support on the Japanese India Aquisition Holding Inc US 373.7 – 100% 100% market, and staff in Japan are employees of the Japanese company. . Delta ID Inc* US 371.4 -56.2 100% 100% Fingerprint Cards Japan K.K. Japan 1.5 0.3 100% 100% * Indirect holding through subsidiary NOTE 29 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Specification of Parent Company’s direct holdings of participations in subsidiaries Accounting policy The Cash Flow Statement has been prepared in accordance with the indirect method. Foreign group Partici­ companies’ cash flows are translated at average rates of exchange. Acquisitions of subsidiaries are pations, Proportion, included in cash flow from investing activities, seen note 4 for more information on the influence of the Subsidiary / Corporate identity number number % 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 acquisition on cash flow. Anacatum Design AB, 556779-5371 24,466,668 100 1.0 1.0 Group Parent Company Fingerprint Card Korea Co.,Ltd. 20,000 100 0.7 0.7 SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Fingerprint Cards ApS 800 100 0.1 0.1 The following components are included in cash and Fingerprint Cards (Shanghai) Co., Ltd – 100 2.4 2.4 cash equivalents: Fingerprint Cards Inc 100 100 0.1 0.1 Cash and bank balances 540.5 920.2 496.2 878.9 Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd – 100 0.1 0.1 Total in Statement of Financial Position 540.5 920.2 496.2 878.9 Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB, 556239-5938 1,000 100 0.7 0.7 Total in Statement of Cash fFows 540.5 920.2 496.2 878.9 India Aquisition Holding Inc 1,000 100 331.8 331.8 Fingerprint Cards Japan K.K. 100 100 1.1 1.1 Adjustments for non-cash items Carrying amount, 31 December 338.0 338.0 Group Parent Company • Anacatum Design AB in Sweden: SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 2018-12-31 31 Dec 2017 All the shares of this entity were acquired in 2014. This company conducts limited operations and has Interest not received – – -12.2 -5.7 no employees. Depreciation and amortization 266.4 79.4 226.4 57.0 • Fingerprint Cards Korea Ltd: Impairment in inventories 302.8 – 302.8 – This company was incorporated in 2015. Operations consist of marketing and technical customer supChanges in tax allocation reserve – – -716.0 66.0 port on the Korean market. All staff in Korea are employees of the Korean company. • Fingerprint Cards Aps in Denmark: Depreciation and amortization above plan – – 0.0 8.0 This company was incorporated in 2013. Operations consist of technology development on assignCurrency revaluation 25.8 56.7 -20.9 36.6 ment from the Swedish operation. All staff in Denmark are employees of Fingerprint Cards Aps. Total 595.0 136.1 -219.9 161.9 • Fingerprint Cards (Shanghai) Co., Ltd in China: This company was incorporated in 2016. Operations consist of marketing and customer support on the Chinese market. All staff in China are employees of the Chinese company. 76 NOTES Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTE 30 INFORMATION ON PARENT COMPANY Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) (the Parent Company), corporate ID no. 556154-2381, is a limited liability company, with its registered office in Gothenburg, Västra Götaland, Sweden. The Parent Company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The address of the head office is Box 2412, SE-403 16 Gothenburg, Sweden and the visiting address is Kungsgatan 20, Gothenburg, Sweden. The consolidated accounts for 2018 comprise the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, jointly designated “the Group” NOTE 31 POST BALANCE SHEET DATE EVENTS On February 21, 2019, Fingerprint Cards announced that the company’s technology has been selected by Gemalto, that will offer biometric EMV®* payment cards to its bank customers, using Fingerprints’ T-Shape sensor. Gemalto will also license Fingerprints’ Biometric Software Platform for payments. This initial order comprises a few hundred thousand sensors to be delivered during 2019 and 2020 and is not, in itself, financially significant in relation to Fingerprints’ total revenues. However, this is the first volume order in the biometric smartcard industry, which strengthens Fingerprints’ view that the global market for biometric payment cards is about to materialize. NOTE 32 ASSETS PLEDGED Parent Company. SEK M 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Assets pledged for operating credit; bank balances 0 15 NOTE 33 PROPOSED APPROPRIATIONS OF PROFITS Proposal for appropriation of the company’s profits. The following funds are at the disposal of the AGM. Share premium reserve 79,059,431 Accumulated profit or loss 1,538,954,166 Net profit for the year 1,571,666 Total 1,619,585,263 The Board of Directors proposes that net profit for the year, non-­ restricted reserves, as well as accumulated profit or loss are appropriated as follows: Carried forward: 1,619,585,263 Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 NOTES 77 ASSURANCE BY THE BOARD The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer hereby give their dards. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts give a true panies included in the Group. As stated above, the annual accounts assurance that the annual accounts have been prepared in accorand fair view of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial and consolidated accounts were approved for issuance by the dance with generally accepted accounting policies in Sweden and position and resukts of operations. The Administration Reports of Board of Directors on 11 April 2019. The Consolidated Statement of that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance the Parent Company and the Group give a true and fair view of the Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Statement of Financial with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulaprogress of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s operations, Position and the Parent Company Income Statement and Parent tion (EC) no. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the financial position and results of operations, and state the signifiCompany Balance Sheet will be subject to adoption by the Annual Council of July, on the application of international accounting stancant risks and uncertainties faced by Parent Company and the comGeneral Meeting 22 Maj 2019. Gothenburg 11 April 2019 Johan Carlström Ted Elvhage Urban Fagerstedt Alexander Kotsinas Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Board member Tomas Mikaelsson Dimitrij Titov Juan Vallejo Christian Fredrikson Board member Board member Board member Chief Executive Officer Our Audit Report was presented on 16 April 2019 Moore Stephens KLN AB Ulf Lindesson Authorized Public Accountant 78 ASSURANCE BY THE BOARD Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 AUDIT REPORT Translation from the Swedish original To the general meeting of the shareholders of Fingerprint Cards AB ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our when goods is delivered and the terms related to the delivery, partly (publ.), corp. id 556154-2381 ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This through random samples and partly based on historical precision. includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets and valuation of mother Opinions Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where company’s shares in subsidiaries We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within See note 1, 4, 11, 16 and 28 in the annual account and consolidated Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) for the year 2018. The annual accounts and the EU. accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 48-78 in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and this document. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Description of key audit matter In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accorThe carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets such as dance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material Key Audit Matters acquired technology, patents and customer relationships as well as respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 DecemKey audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profescapitalised development costs per 31 December 2018 amounts to ber 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the SEK 1.1 billion at group level, which represents 48% of the group’s ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. total assets. A considerable share of the intangible assets is attriaccounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in butable to the acquisition of Delta ID Inc in 2017. The carrying value Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated of capitalised development costs on the parent company balance the group as of 31 December 2018 and their financial performance and accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on sheet is SEK 0.1 billion. The impact of last year’s acquisition of cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International these matters. Delta ID Inc is seen indirectly in the carrying value of the shares in Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the subsidiaries, which is SEK 0.4 billion. Goodwill should be subject to Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent Revenue recognition an annual impairment test. Other intangible assets should be with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. See note 2 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for tested whenever an indication of impairment is identified. The valuWe therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders detailed information and description of the matter. ation of intangible assets is complex and involves significant levels dopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company of judgments regarding future developments. The expected resiand the statement of comprehensive income and statement of finanDescription of key audit matter dual value of assets is determined with reference to forecasted discial position for the group. The group and the mother company’s revenue for 2018 amounts to counted cash flows based on estimated discount rates, revenues Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated SEK 1,5 billion and comes from contracts with customers regarding and long-term growth rates, which are inherently subjective and accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that delivery of goods. The invoices is recognised at the time when a may be influenced by management. Similar calculation is perforhas been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accorcustomer take control of a promised asset and the company fulfil a med whenever there is an indication that the parent company’s dance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. performance obligation. shares in a subsidiary may be impaired. When recognising revenue the uncertainty of future payments, Other matter appendant costs, risks for returning goods and rebates is taken into Response in the audit The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts for the year account. We have obtained the documentation regarding the Delta ID Inc 2017 were audited by another auditor who issued an auditor’s Agreements related to delivery of goods and the judgemental acquisition and analysed the allocation of the purchase price into report dated 24 April 2018 with unmodified opinions in the Report part and estimates included in the revenue recognition, resulting in the identifiable assets and goodwill. We have also evaluated the on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. risk that revenue could be overor underestimated. judgments made regarding the contingent consideration in connection with the acquisition. We have analysed the group’s goodwill Basis for Opinions Response in the audit impairment test in order to determine whether it has been carried We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have read the terms of the contracts with customers to evaluate out in accordance with the prescribed IFRS methodology. Furtheron Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Swethe revenue recognition. more, we have assessed management’s cash flow forecasts and den. Our responsibilities under those standards are further descriWe have tested internal controls to make sure the revenue is the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions, such as the bed in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of recognised in the right period. long-term growth rate and discount rates. As part of this analysis, the parent company and the group in accordance with professional We have also evaluated time of revenue recognition based on we have considered how the numbers would be impacted as the Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 AUDIT REPORT 79 Translation from the Swedish original contingent consideration did not become payable. We have also Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Auditor’s responsibility reviewed valuation specialist’s work to assist us in the impairment This document also contains other information than the annual Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether test analysis. In our assessment of whether there are indications of accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–47 and the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free asset impairment, we have also considered management’s sensiti82-88. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responfrom material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to vity analyses and the potential impact of reasonable changes in sible for this other information. issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assumptions. With regards to the valuation of other intangible Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that assets and shares in subsidiaries, we have obtained and evaluated does not cover this other information and we do not express any form an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted management’s documentation and forecasts to ensure that there of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstaare no impairment indications. We have selected samples of capitaIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolitement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error lised costs for testing and vouched them to supporting documents. dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identiand are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they Moreover, we have verified that the disclosures in the annual fied above and consider whether the information is materially inconcould reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions report in all material respects are in accordance with the requiresistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consoliments of the applicable accounting standards. procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtaidated accounts. ned in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professiInventory valuation appears to be materially misstated. onal judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout See note 1 and 18 in the annual account and consolidated accounts If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, the audit. We also: for detailed information and description of the matter. conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other infor• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the mation, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud Description of key audit matter in this regard. or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those The carrying value of the group’s and the parent company’s invenrisks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate tory per 31 December 2018 amounts to SEK 0.3 billion, which repreResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a sents approximately 15% of the group’s total assets. The inventory The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one balance consists of raw materials, work in progress and finished for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intengoods. The market for these products is constantly evolving and accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with tional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal highly competitive. New products are continuously being marketed. the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated control. The assessment of whether the inventory may be sold for more accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relethan the initial cost is complex and involves significant levels of of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for vant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appjudgment regarding whether the products may be sold as composuch internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the ropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expresnents in current or future constellations. There is a risk that the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are sing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal evaluation of the need for inventory write-off may be overor undefree from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. control. restimated. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures Response in the audit the assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. We have read and analysed management’s assessment regarding as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the need to provide for inventory obsolescence. We have challenged going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The the Managing Director’s, use of the going concern basis of management’s assessment and their assumptions regarding going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated future sales of the products currently in stock. Additionally, we have Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence evaluated the accuracy of historical sales forecasts. We have consithe company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to dered whether the process of identifying a need for an inventory to do so. events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the obsolescence provision seems appropriate and we have tested the The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. operating effectiveness of relevant controls. Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required oversee the company’s financial reporting process. to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 80 AUDIT REPORT Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Translation from the Swedish original in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such distory administration report and that the members of the Board of • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which closures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for can give rise to liability to the company, or accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based the financial year. • any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. report. However, future events or conditions may cause a comBasis for Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations pany and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditof the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the discloare further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally manner that achieves fair presentation. fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requireaccepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the ments. or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the financial information of the entities or business activities within We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in the group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. accordance with the Companies Act. are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditthe group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director ing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for approprimaintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examithe planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of ations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, nation of the administration and the proposed appropriations of significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the deficiencies in internal control that we identified. considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and liquidity and position in general. and relationships that are material for the operations and where other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indeThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organideviations and violations would have particular importance for the pendence, and where applicable, related safeguards. zation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This inclucompany’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we des among other things continuous assessment of the company’s support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most organization is designed so that the accounting, management of As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are thereassets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether fore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guideliMoore Stephens KLN AB, Lilla Bommen 4A, 411 04 Göteborg, nes and instructions and among other matters take measures that was appointed auditor of Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) by the general Report on other legal and regulatory requirements are necessary to fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance with meeting of the shareholders on the 29th may 2018 and has been the Opinions law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. company’s auditor since 29th may 2018. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Auditor’s responsibility Göteborg 16th April 2019 Directors and the Managing Director of Fingerprint Cards AB (publ.) Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and theMoore Stephens KLN AB for the year 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s reby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit eviprofit or loss. dence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in Ulf Lindesson profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statuany material respect: Authorized Public Accountant Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 AUDIT REPORT 81 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY Income Statement 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Definitions Revenues, SEK M 1,535.1 2,966.0 6,638.3 2,900.5 233.6 95.4 10.3 68.6 60.9 38.5 Most of these key figures are Alternative Performance Measures according to ESMA's definition. How these key figures are used is Gross profit, SEK M 2.4 988.9 3,165.3 1,255.3 71.6 39.2 –5.7 –37.0 20.4 6.0 described below, as is how they are calculated. The alternative perGross margin, % 0 33 48 43 31 41 –55 –46 33 16 formance measures are used to provide a more comprehensive Operating profit, SEK M -771.6 154.6 2578.5 910.3 –145.2 –34.0 –38.7 2.7 1.6 –24.7 description of how operational activities are developing, such as Operating margin, % -50 5 39 31 –62 –36 –375 5 2.6 –64 gross margin, gross profit, operating margin, EBITDA and revenue Profit for the year, SEK M -630.7 120.3 2,034.7 798.3 –144.0 –32.9 –38.1 3.4 2.0 –24.6 increase, while other alternative performance measures focus on the owner perspective, such as return on equity, and cases where Profit margin, % -41 4 31 28 –62 –35 –375 5 3.3 –64 certain balance sheet items or cash flow items are placed in ralaDepreciation and amortization, SEK M -117.8 –79.4 –48.6 –43.4 –32.1 –12.6 –10.8 –4.9 –6.4 –4.1 tion to the number of shares. In addition, the equity/assets ratio is Impairment, SEK M -148.6 – – – –29.5 – – – – –5.9 provided to describe the financial position and long-term financial EBITDA, SEK M -505.2 234.0 2,627.1 953.7 –83.6 –21.4 –27.9 8.2 8.3 –14.7 sustainability. Financial position – Balance sheet 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Average credit period Average value of accounts receivable over the period in relation to net sales, multiplied by 360 day. Intangible assets, SEK M 1,102.7 1,188.3 71.4 49.7 69.8 54.3 29.1 28.2 22.9 12.3 Property, plant and equipment, SEK M 30.2 46.6 29.2 20.6 18.8 5.4 4.8 4.2 3.7 0.3 Average number of shares Average number of shares in the period. Financial assets, SEK M 27.8 – – 1.0 – – – 0.9 – – Inventories, SEK M 347.5 646.1 672.7 153.0 98.8 19.9 11.4 4.3 7.9 9.1 Average number of shares after dilution Average number of shaAccounts receivable, SEK M 232.7 437.5 1,132.1 617.9 115.8 31.1 6.2 53.0 17.2 9.7 res plus an increase by the average number of shares that could be Other receivables + prepaid expenses, SEK M 37.8 313.1 435.4 36.6 19.5 10.1 3.1 3.2 3.8 2.3 issued as a result of current remuneration and personnel programs. Cash and cash equivalents + investments in securities etc, SEK M 540.5 920.2 1,162.2 1,031.3 101.9 211.7 60.6 23.0 30.8 50.1 Capital employed Total assets minus non-interest bearing liabilities. Shareholders' equity, SEK M 1,775.5 2,330.8 2,226.1 1,146.8 301.1 289.7 101.9 106.3 78.0 74.3 Deferred tax, SEK M 51.9 189.8 136.3 – – – – 1.2 – – Cash flow from operating activities/share Cash flow from operaNon-current liabilities, SEK M 221.9 – – 0.2 0.4 0.7 – – – ting activities after changes in working capital/average number of Current liabilities, SEK M 491.8 809.3 1,140.6 763.2 123.3 42.3 12.7 9.3 8.3 9.5 shares before and after dilution. Working capital, SEK M 666.7 1,507.6 2,261.8 1,075.6 212.7 230.5 68.6 74.2 51.4 61.7 Cost of goods sold Cost of materials, production expenses and Total assets, SEK M 2,319.2 3,551.8 3,503.0 1,910.1 424.6 332.5 115.3 116.8 86.3 83.8 amortization according to plan of capitalozed development expenInventory turnover rate, days 117 120 43 29 132 94 181 74 103 154 diture. Average credit period, days 79 95 47 46 113 99 1035 184 80 85 Return on capital employed, % -43 6 117 126 –48 –12 –44 3 2.6 –33 Earnings per share for the period Profit for the period/number of Return on equity, % -39 5 121 110 –48 –12 –44 3 2.6 –132 shares outstanding at period end. Return on total capital, % -33 4 75 78 –34 –10 –38 3 2.3 –117 Equity/asset ration, % 77 66 64 60 71 87 87 91 90 89 82 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Cash flow 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net margin Profit for the period as a percentage of revenues. Cash flow from operating activities, SEK M 274.6 376.9 1,130.3 910.4 –174.2 –28.8 14.5 –22.2 –0.6 –11.3 Number of shares outstanding at period end Number of shares Cash flow from investing activities, SEK M -162.6 –1,071.0 –78.3 –26.0 –90.6 –38.3 –11.4 –11.7 –20.4 –1.5 less bought back shares held in treasury. Cash flow from financing activities, SEK M -507.7 481.7 –955.7 47.4 155.0 220.5 34.5 24.9 1.8 40.3 Cash flow for the year, SEK M -395.7 –212.4 96.3 931.8 –109.8 151.1 37.6 –7.8 –19.3 27.5 Operating margin Operating profit as a percentage of revenues. The share 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Operating profit Operating profit before financial income/expenses and tax. Earnings per share, SEK -2.01 0.38 6.40 2.53 –0.49 –0.12 –0.17 0.02 0.01 –0.22 Earnings per share after full dilution, SEK -2.01 0.38 6.33 2.48 –0.49 –0.12 –0.17 0.02 0.01 –0.22 Profit for the year Profit after financial income/expenses and tax. Cash and cash equivalents + investments at yearend/ share, SEK 1.72 2.93 3.70 3.26 0.35 0.83 0.17 0.11 0.16 0.25 Return on equity Profit for the period in relation to average shareEquity per share, SEK 5.66 7.42 7.11 3.63 1.03 1.06 0.47 0.49 0.39 0.65 holders' equity for the period. Average shareholders' equity is defiEquity per share after full dilution, SEK 5.66 7.42 7.09 3.57 0.97 1.04 0.47 0.50 0.39 0.65 ned as shareholders' equity at the start of the period plus shareholCash flow from operating activities per average ders' equity at the end of the period divided by two. number of shares, SEK 0.87 1.20 3.56 2.86 –0.61 –0.11 0.14 –0.10 0.00 –0.10 Number of shares at end of the year, 000 313,967 313,967 313,967 316,196 292,106 270,806 239,041 218,048 198,348 198,348 Return on capital employed Operating profit + financial income as a percentage of capital employed. Average number of shares during the year, 000 313,967 313,967 317,726 315,349 287,574 254,470 228,841 216,943 210,719 89,283 Number of shares after dilution, 000 313,967 313,967 321,408 321,372 310,306 276,441 230,362 216,943 210,719 89,283 Return on equity Net income as a percentage of shareholders' Dividend per share, SEK – – – – – – – – – equity. Share price at end of the year, SEK 10.13 15.81 62.85 118.20 7.00 10.90 2.50 1.90 1.80 0.70 Market capitalization at end of the year, SEK M 3,180 4,964 19,733 37,374 2,033 2,938 559 406 355 131 Return on total capital Operating profit + financial income as a perAnställda vid periodens slut 220 415 306 150 104 48 19 19 19 13 centage of total capital. Revenue increase The increase in revenues compared to the corEarnings per share after dilution Earnings per share plus adjustEBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortizaresponding period one year previously, and exptressed as a percenment for the number of shares and the paid exercise price resulting tion. Operating profit before financial income/expense, taxes, tage. from current remuneration and personnel programs. Earnings per depreciation/amortization and impairment losses. share after dilution can never exceed earnings per share before Working capital Current assets less current non-interesting-beadilution. Equity/assets ratio Shareholders' equity divided by total assets. ring provisions and liabilities. Shareholders' equity per share Shareholders' equity attributable to Gross margin Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. equity holders of the Parent Company divided by the number of shares outstanding, before dilution, at the end of the period. Gross profit Revenues less cost of goods sold. Shareholders' equity per share after dilution See Shareholders' Inventory turnover rate, days Average value of inventory over the equity per share plus adjustment for the number of shares and the period in relation to cost of goods sold, multiplied by 360 days. paid exercise price in current remuneration and personnel programs. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY 83 GRI INDEX AND SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Fingerprints’ sustainability reporting is our yearly reporting of how we create value for the customer, the end-user and the society in general. The sustainability reporting also describe how we work with ethics as well as our environmental and social impact. The Report is found in its entirety on pages 18–30. The sustainability report pertains to the fiscal year 2018. Fingerprints reported on its sustainability work for the first time in The sustainability reporting is also Fingerprints’ communication on initiative. We want to participate in creating better and broader2015. This is the second year the reporting has been prepared purprogress for the Global Compact. based sustainability reporting for listed companies, and thus, more suant to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, Core option. The Fingerprints have also been applying the Nasdaq Nordic & Baltic sustainable and transparent markets. Report satisfies the standards on sustainability reporting stipulated Guide for ESG reporting, which is a complement to GRI Standards by the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the auditor’s statement and the UN Global Compact, since 2017. The Guide is based on that a sustainability report has been prepared is found on page 30. recommendations from the Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) GRI INDEX – GENERAL DISCLOSURE Title Page Comment Fulfillment UN GC NASDAQ ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 N  ame of the organization Cover/Fingerprint Cards AB. Achieved 102-2 A  ctivities, brands, products, and services 11-12 Products and solutions/Fingerprints’ range does not include any products prohibited on any market. Achieved 102-3 L  ocation of headquarters Rear cover Achieved 102-4 L  ocation of operations Cover inside/Fingerprints in brief Achieved 102-5 O wnership and legal form 31-33 Cover inside/Fingerprints in brief Achieved The share 102-6 Markets served 11-12 Products and solutions Achieved 102-7 S cale of the organization 48-51 Statutory Administration Report Achieved 102-8 I nformation on employees and other workers 21 Human resource/ Achieved S5. Temporary Worker Ratio • All data as of 31 December 2018 • Employees; individuals with a direct employment contract • Coworkers; employees and consultants on assignment with at least of 50% of an FTE position • Fingerprints’ operations are not affected by seasonality 102-9 Supply chain 14-17 Value chain Achieved 102-10 S  ignificant changes to the 4-6 Message from the CEO Achieved organization and its supply chain 18-22 Human resource 102-11 P  recautionary Principle or approach 22-27 Sustainability Achieved Principle 7 • Fingerprints’ Code of Conduct and Environmental Policy apply the Precautionary Principle.. • Fingerprints’ sustainability framework has specific environmental goals linked to the Precautionary Principle. 102-12 E  xternal initiatives 20-22 Sustainability/Fingerprints is a member of the UN Global Compact. Achieved 102-13 M  embership of associations 20-22 Sustainability/Fingerprints is a member of the Responsible Business Alliance, Eurosmart and the UN Global Compact Network. Achieved 84 gri index Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 GRI INDEX – GENERAL DISCLOSURES Title Page Comment Fulfillment UN GC NASDAQ STRATEGY 102-14 S tatement from senior decision-maker 4 Message from the CEO Achieved 35 Message from the Chairman ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 V alues, principles, standards, 22-27 Sustainability/Sustainability Framework, Corporate Responsibility. Achieved Principle 3, 6, 10 G7. Anti-Bribery/ Anti-Corruption and norms of behavior 19 Personnel/Fingerprints has four core values: Smart, Brave, United and Open.. G6. Ethics—Code of Conduct G5. Supplier Code of Conduct GOVERNANCE 102-18 G overnance structure 36-43 Corporate Governance Report Achieved G2. Board— • Governance of Fingerprints as a company. Transparent Practices 22 Sustainability E9. Environmental Policy • Governance of sustainability is through the Sustainability Forum. S8. Global Health Policy • Corporate responsibility governs all Policies and the Code of Conduct. G5: Supplier Code of Conduct G6: Code of Conduct G7: Bribery Anticorruption Code. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 24 Sustainability Achieved 102-41 C ollective bargaining agreements Fingerprints does not apply collective bargaining agreements but encourages its employees to join trade unions. Achieved 102-42 I dentifying and selecting stakeholders 24 Sustainability Achieved 102-43 A pproach to stakeholder engagement 24 Sustainability Achieved • Fingerprints’ management system is certified according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. • Our materiality analysis is included in our management system and is followed up annually. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 24 Sustainability Achieved • Stakeholder dialogue and risk analysis are the foundation for producing the materiality analysis. 28-29 Risks and risk management • Material issues that involve risks to operations are dealt with pursuant to Fingerprints’ risk management procedures. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 gri index 85 GRI INDEX AND SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION GRI INDEX – GENERAL DISCLOSURE Title Page Comment Fulfillment UN GC NASDAQ REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 E  ntities included in the consolidated 26-27 Sustainability section Achieved financial statements • Procedures for gathering sustainability information are in development. Accordingly, specific sustainability data is for the Scandinavian offices only. See the sustainability section for specific detail. 102-46 D  efining report content and topic boundaries 18-27 Sustainability section Achieved • Procedures for gathering sustainability information are in development. • Report contents and its boundaries are presented jointly with sustainability goals. 102-47 L  ist of material topics 24 Sustainability section Achieved • Materiality analysis. 28-29 Risks and risk management • Other Sustainability Risks and Opportunities. 102-48 R  estatements of information No restatements made since the previous year. Achieved 102-49 C  hanges in reporting No restatements made on the previous year affecting the company’s sustainability reporting. Achieved 102-50 R  eporting period 84 1 January–31 December. Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-51 Date of most recent report 84 Reporting is yearly. Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-52 R  eporting cycle 84 Reporting is yearly. Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-53 C  ontact point for questions regarding the report Stefan Pettersson, Head of Investor Relations. Email; Investrel@fingerprints.com Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-54 C  laims of reporting in accordance 84 GRI Standards, Core-nivå. Achieved G9. Sustainability Report with the GRI Standards 102-55 G  RI contentindex 84-87 See this index. Achieved G9. Sustainability Report 102-56 E  xternal assurance Fingerprints does not apply external examination of the sustainability information in its Annual Report. Certain information has Achieved G9. Sustainability Report been examined as part of certification according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and reporting to the CDP. G10 Other Framework Disclosures G11. External Validation & Assurance MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24 Sustainability section Achieved • Stakeholder analysis. • Materiality analysis 28-29 Risks and risk management • Other Sustainability Risks, see in-depth review of each identified risk. 103-2 T he management approach and its components Generally; Policies have been produced for material segments under Corporate Responsibility (including a speak-up policy for Achieved escalating sensitive issues) and specific targets related to each material segment are under sustainability targets. 22-27 Sustainability section • Intressentanalys. • Väsentlighetsanalys. • Corporate Responsibility. • Sustainability Framework. • Sustainability targets 28-29 Risks and risk management • Other Sustainability Risks, see in-depth review of each identified risk. 103-3 E valuation of the management approach Auditor's report. Achieved 86 gri index Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 GRI INDEX – SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Title Page Comment Fulfillment UN GC NASDAQ ECONOMIC Anti-corruption 205-1 O perations assessed for risks related to corruption. 28-29 Risks and risk management Partial p. 10. • A risk assessment for corruption is conducted at an overall level. 205-2 C ommunication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures. 18-27 Sustainability section Achieved p. 10. • Sustainability targets/all employees undergo training in corporate responsibility, and specifically, on the Code of Conduct, in their induction training. • 50% of employees have taken e-learning in the Code of Conduct, which contains an in-depth section on corruption. 205-3 C onfirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. Fingerprints did not have any corruption incidents in 2018. Achieved p. 10. ENVIRONMENT Materials Industry-specific targets for measuring spoilage levels in production. 26 Sustainability section p. 7, 8. Measures spoilage of silicon wafers and employs a target of continuos improvement. Emissions 305-2 E nergy indirect (Scope 2) GhG emissions. 26 Sustainability section Achieved p. 7, 8. E1. Direct & indirect The sustainability targets state a reduction of CO2 emissions pursuant to scope 2. The methodology is desribed in the following GHG emissions notes. Supplier environmental assessments 308-2 N egative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 26 Sustainability section Achieved Targets set for developing a tool to enable comparisons between suppliers’ environmental impacts. SOCIAL IMPACT Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 W orkers representation in formal joint management27 Sustainability section Partial worker health and safety committees. health & safety councils and health & safety representatives were appointed at all Swedish offices in 2017. 403-2 T ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 27 Sustainability section Achieved S7. lnjury Rate and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. • Under health & safety. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 D iversity of governance bodies and employees. 21 Personnel Partial p. 6. S12. Board – Diversity Fingerprints does not record the minority origin of its staff, and accordingly does not disclose this item, only gender, age group, S4. Gender Diversity and region. 44-47 Board of Directors/Group Management Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. Fingerprints judges that the impact of human rights can primarily be on purchasing raw materials for plants if conflict minerals Partial p.1, 2 are utilized. Also through biometric integrity being protected in the usage of Fingerprints’ products. Impact has not been analy& 4. zed by country. Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 gri index 87 SHAREHOLDER GLOSSARY INFORMATION Fingerprint's IR website Algorithm Matching Touch sensor Updated corporate, share and insider information, an archive of A systematic procedure for how to conduct The process of comparing an image of a A sensor that scans a fingerprint directly financial reports and press releases, and a subscription facility a calculation or solve a problem in a given fingerprint with a pre-processed template, when a fingertip touches the sensor surfor financial reports and press releases is available at www.fingernumber of steps. In Fingerprints’ specific and assessing whether or not they are face; compare to swipe sensor. prints.com. For environmental and cost reasons, Fingerprints has case, the method refers to the comparison similar. decided not to distribute physical Annual Reports to shareholders. of two fingerprints with each other. Wafer Annual and Quarterly Reports, and Press releases, are available Modality A thin circular slice of silicon containing a from the company’s investor website. Authentication Type of biometric feature, such as fingernumber of integrated circuits such as senControl process for a particular entity; in print sensors and iris sensors. sor chips. Reporting dates conjunction with logging on, for example. • Q1 Interim Report 2019 January–March,15 May 2019 The word is synonymous with verification. ODM Verification • Q2 Interim Report 2019 January–June,15 August 2019 Original Design Manufacturer, a company The comparison of compiled biometric data • Q3 Interim Report 2019 January–September, 15 November 2019 Biometric system that develops and manufactures products with a given template for the purpose of A pattern recognition system that identifies sold under the trademarks of other compaverifying that the two match. This enables Annual General Meeting or verifies an individual by studying a phynies. the authentication of an individual with a The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 3 p.m. on siological characteristic of that individual, high degree of certainty. Wednesday, 22 May 2019 at Scandic Crown, Polhemsplatsen 3, such as a fingerprint. OEM Gothenburg, Sweden. Original Equipment Manufacturers—comShareholders who wish to participate in the AGM should firstly Chip panies that manufacture the end product be included in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden A piece of silicon that an integrated circuit that is sold on an open market. AB as of Thursday 16 May 2019, and secondly notify the company of is embedded in, such as a sensor chip. their participation by no later than 4 p.m. on 16 May 2019, either via Normally, a silicon wafer is divided into a Smart card the company’s website, fingerprints.com/agm2019, by telephone number of chips, with each chip being Plastic card with an embedded chip con+46 (0)8 518 01552, or by mail to Computershare AB, Fingerprint essentially identical. taining information about the card and its Cards AB AGM , Box 610, 182 16 Danderyd. owner. Design win Decision by a customer (OEM or ODM) to Smartphone/tablet Contact information start developing one or several commercial A combined mobile phone and handheld Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) products using Fingerprints’ technology computer linked to the Internet via mobile Box 2412 integrated into one or more of its products. broadband. A smartphone has a complete 403 16 Gothenburg mobile operating system that is transfeVisitors: Identification rable between multiple devices enabling Kungsgatan 20 Comparison of compiled biometric data the user to easily install mobile apps, which Gothenburg with all stored templates for the purpose of are small third-party programs that Sweden identifying one of these templates (and thus increase the phone’s functionality. an individual) from many. Telefon: +46 (0)31 60 78 20 Template Fax: +46 (0)31 13 73 85 The Internet of Things An arrangement of unique data that repreE-mail: investrel@fingerprints.com Internet-connected devices that are linked sents a specific fingerprint. Website: www.fingerprints.com to the Internet and can thus communicate with/be controlled via the Internet. 88 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION/GLOSSARY Fingerprint Cards AB 2018 Production: Fingerprints in cooperation with Stockholm Kommunikation Print: Danagård Litho 2019. POSTAL ADDRESS VISITING ADDRESS PHONE P.O Box 2412 Kungsgatan 20 + 46 (0)31 60 78 20 SE-403 16 Gothenburg, Sweden SE-411 19 Gothenburg, Sweden
