Sustainable Development Report Material focus area Constructive engagement: For the year ended 30 September 2018 Lonmin Plc 2018 A Solid Government, regulatory and other stakeholders Performance ready for the next era Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals (PGMs). We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way. Mission –– ­ To grow and build our portfolio of high quality assets –– To­ deliver the requirements of the South African Broad-based Socio-economic Mining Charter and we welcome the opportunity to transform our business –– To­ build a value-based culture founded on safe work, continuous improvement, common standards and procedures, community involvement and one that rewards employees for high performance We are successful when –– Our ­ employees live and work safely and experience the personal satisfaction that comes with high performance and recognition –– Our ­ shareholders are realising a superior total return on their investment and support our corporate sustainability values –– ­ The communities in which we operate value our relationships –– We­ are meeting our commitments to all business partners and our suppliers, contractors, partners and customers support our Charter Our values –– ­ Zero Harm – We are committed to Zero Harm to people and the environment –– Integrity, ­ honesty and trust – We are committed ethical people who do what we say we will do –– ­ Transparency – Open, honest communication and free sharing of information –– ­ Respect for each other – Embracing our diversity enriched by openness, sharing, trust, teamwork and involvement –– ­ High performance – Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes –– ­ Employee self-worth – To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families Brian Beamish Ben Magara Chairman Chief Executive Officer May 2014 Inside flap Lonmin Charter Inside front Approach to reporting cover Company Overview 2 Who we are 2 What we do 2 Where we operate 3 Our outputs 3 How we spend our earnings Our Approach to Sustainable Development 5 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 8 Joint Letter from the Chairmen of the SHE Committee and the SET Committee 10 Our Sustainability Approach MATERIAL FOCUS AREA Constructive Engagement: Government, Regulatory and Other Stakeholders 14 Accountability 14 Approach 16 Performance Employee Relationships 20 Accountability 20 Approach 21 Performance Safety and Health 30 Accountability 30 Safety 35 Health and wellbeing Community Relationships and Investment 38 Accountability 38 Approach 39 Performance Managing Environmental Impacts and Opportunities 46 Accountability 46 Approach 48 Performance Governance Annexures Navigation This report indicates reasonable assurance from KPMG with (RA), and limited assurance with (LA). Data impacted by the five-month strike across the platinum industry in 2014. Comparative years in graphs. Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Approach to Reporting This Sustainable Development Report (this report) presents an overview of Lonmin Plc (Lonmin, the Group or the Company) our approach to sustainable development and detail regarding the most material sustainability matters affecting Lonmin and its stakeholders. The report is structured around chapters that present the context, management approach and performance data for Lonmin’s five material focus areas. These are: constructive engagement, employee relationships, safety and health, community relationships, and managing environmental impacts and opportunities. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards): Core option and its Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. The GRI index is available at https://www.lonmin.com/ sustainable-development/sustainable-development-overview. The report is also informed by the principles of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), the ICMM reporting requirements and Lonmin’s internally developed guidelines. Scope and boundary The information herein refers to Lonmin’s 2018 financial year, 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018 (the financial year or the year). Our previous Sustainable Development Report covered the 2017 financial year. The content of the report relates to Lonmin’s subsidiaries: Western Platinum Limited (WPL), Eastern Platinum Limited (EPL), Messina Platinum Mines Limited (MPML), Akanani Mining (Proprietary) Limited (Akanani) and Pandora unless otherwise stipulated. The report boundary includes the exploration activities over which the Company exercises management control. /1 Approach to Reporting Significant changes to the Company We are optimising our remaining ore reserves and Sibanye-Stillwater. General Meetings of the shareholders resources while reducing high-cost production. In line of Sibanye-Stillwater and Lonmin are scheduled for early with the Group’s rationalisation of high-cost areas in an 2019. These approvals and the sanction of the Courts of oversupplied PGM market, production from Generation 1 England and Wales remain the final substantive conditions shafts (4B, Hossy, W1 and E1) at 2.3 million tonnes was required to complete the transaction. 13.2% lower than the prior year in line with strategy. E2 shaft was put on care and maintenance in Units of measurement and November 2017. W1 and E1 are at the end of their comparative data resource lives, mining is in remnant areas. They are Monetary amounts reflected in this report are expressed operated by contractors who are responsible for all the in South African Rand (R) or, where indicated, US Dollars relevant costs. This arrangement provides Lonmin with (US$). The average exchange rate in the financial year better flexibility to manage operations, depending on their was US$1:R13.07 (2017: US$1:R13.37). Intensity or profitability. Another optimisation initiative, the bulk tailings efficiency ratios are calculated on total saleable refined treatment project, was commissioned in February 2018. PGMs of 1,318,618 Platinum Group Metals ounces Further detail is provided on page 55. (PGMoz) (2017:1,320,802 PGMoz), unless As part of our ongoing disposal of non-core assets, indicated otherwise. Lonmin entered into a conditional Sale of Shares Agreement to sell our 50% interest in Petrozim Limited Rectifications to the joint-venture partner National Oil Infrastructure The general waste materials recycled and re-used Company of Zimbabwe Limited. The Company also sold total for recycled (tonnes) was incorrectly reported in the the Northern Ireland exploration company to Australia’s 2017 Sustainable Development Report as 2,695 tonnes Walkabout Resources. for the 2015 column. The corrected total is 6,619 tonnes. On 13 December 2017, Lonmin announced that it acquired Learnerships for 2017 for mining were 26 and not 21 as full control of Pandora. Lonmin acquired Anglo Platinum’s previously reported. In the key performance statistics 42.5% participation interest in the Pandora Joint Venture table, the people registered for adult education and and the remaining 7.5% from Mvelaphanda Resources. training in 2016 is 432 and not 691 as previously reported; and for 2017 we excluded the community members and On 28 June 2018, the UK’s Competition and Markets the figure should be 204. Authority unconditionally cleared the all-share offer for Lonmin by Sibanye-Stillwater. On 18 September 2018, the Assurance South African Competition Commission recommended KPMG Services (Pty) Ltd assured selected performance that the South African Competition Tribunal approved the information, as disclosed in this report, in accordance with proposed transaction, subject to certain conditions, which International Standards on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) were agreeable to both Sibanye-Stillwater and the 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than Commission. On 21 November 2018, the South African Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Competition Tribunal cleared the all-share offer for Lonmin The assurance reports are on pages 69 to 72 of by Sibanye-Stillwater, subject to agreed conditions with this report. Feedback and requests Lonmin values feedback from its stakeholders on our Sustainable Development Report in terms of our approach to reporting and how we address our material focus areas. To give feedback or to request more information, please contact: Dr Mel Mentz Group Head of Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability +27 14 571 4561 or +27 83 653 1080 mel.mentz@lonmin.com /2 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Company Overview Who we are –– ­ Lonmin is a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) –– Lonmin ­ holds rights to significant areas of the Bushveld Igneous Complex in South Africa – the world’s largest deposit of PGMs and home to around 80% of the world’s known PGM resources –– T­ he Company is one of three integrated primary platinum producers globally and operates a mine-to-market business –– L­ onmin has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE Limited) What we do Where we operate –– Lonmin explores, mines, refines and markets –– O ­ perational head office in Marikana, South Africa Platinum Group Metals (PGMs) – Platinum, and a registered office in London, United Kingdom Palladium, Rhodium, Iridium, Ruthenium and Gold for Lonmin Plc –– ­ Our activities include: –– ­ Operations based in South Africa: Underground mining of two ‘reefs’ oo Marikana operations: The mining and processing activities Merensky and UG2 each of WPL, EPL and Pandora in the North West province, approximately 1m thick. which include the base metal refinery (BMR), smelter and Mining concentrators Processing ore to produce oo Limpopo operations: The operations of Messina Platinum high-purity refined metals for sale, Mines Limited (MPML) (wholly owned by WPL) and the in various finished forms. Akanani activities in Limpopo Processing oo The precious metal refinery (PMR): The PMR owned by WPL is located in Brakpan, Gauteng Group Shared Support Services –– E ­ xploration in South Africa focused at the Akanani (SSS) which include procurement, medical and technical services project to develop a viable operation, and exploration SSS among others. projects in Canada 11 vertical and incline shafts (of which 1 vertical shaft and 2 incline shafts are on care and maintenance) Akanani One smelter complex Limpopo One analytic laboratory The Bushveld One base metal refinery (BMR) Igneous Complex Seven concentrators (one concentrator under care and maintenance) Marikana Rustenburg One bulk tailings treatment plant Johannesburg One Precious Metals Refinery (PMR) Lonmin’s main production (76% of total production) is from its core shafts, the K5 Shaft MK3 Shaft Marikana operations Generation 2 shafts which Pandora Deeps are large and long-life. K4 Shaft MK2 Shaft Production from the Pandora Shallows/E4 Generation 2 shafts E3 Incline Shaft increased by 1.6% from Hossy Shaft (including K3 Shaft Rowland Shaft Saffy Shaft Pandora) the previous year. E2 Incline Shaft 4B Incline Shaft E1 Incline Shaft Shaft 1 Shaft Newman Split reef Incline Shaft Mined out areas /3 Our outputs Company Overview –– ­ Platinum is our principal product, contributing PGMs are primarily used in the automotive and jewellery 45% of our revenues (681,580 ounces sold industries. They play an important role in medical, industrial in 2018) and emissions reduction applications due to their robust –– ­ Palladium is our second highest source of catalytic and electrical properties. Platinum is a crucial revenue, followed by Rhodium component in hydrogen fuel cells, which are a clean, efficient and scalable alternative to internal combustion –– Saleable ­ by-products produced from PGM mining engines and stationary power systems. include gold, copper, nickel and chrome –– Rhodium increased from 9% to 16% of the total revenue basket Global demands for PGMs1 in 2018 Lonmin saleable refined PGMs 2.2 5.6 1,800,000 1.9 2.6 3.2 1,500,000 3.3 1,200,000 7.5 39.2 ounces (%) 900,000 2.4 600,000 882,094 1,447,364 1,447,724 1,320,802 1,318,618 300,000 32.1 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Automotive Jewellery Electrical Chemical Investment Medical Glass Off-road Petroleum Other Product opportunities and product stewardship How we spend our earnings Lonmin realises product opportunities and promotes PGMs are important to South Africa’s wealth, wellbeing, product stewardship through: and social infrastructure. The businesses using PGMs pay taxes and royalties, create jobs, and enrich the socio–– ­ Industry association participation to develop new economic development of their surrounding communities. markets and applications for PGMs –– ­ Technology business incubator sponsorship of The analysis below shows how the US$1,339 million of the Platinum Incubator (previously known as Seda net cash earned in the financial year was distributed. Platinum Incubator) at Orbit TVET2 College in Shareholders received no dividend during the year, and none was recommended for 2018. Rustenburg, South Africa. Lonmin assists start-ups and small businesses in overcoming barriers to entry Cash distribution in sectors such as in PGM jewellery-making, among 4 9 others and support beneficiation in South Africa –– ­ Investigating innovative opportunities and 1 1 applications for PGMs: Lonmin developed a specialised platinum powder for use in 3D-printing. We encourage small, medium and micro-sized (%) 35 50 enterprises and larger companies to produce PGM products. We installed a 3D printer at the PMR to print prototypes (page 21: AR) –– Thakadu Nickel Purification Plant: Thakadu Battery Materials (Pvt) Ltd is in the process of constructing a Payment to employees Payment to suppliers Payment to/for communities R250 million purification plant at Lonmin’s BMR. The Payment to bank lenders Government taxes Cash reinvested plant will convert Lonmin’s existing crude nickel sulphate Further information on payments to and for communities is into high-quality battery-grade nickel sulphate, which available on page 44, and our value-added statement is could be sold at a premium and thus create value for on page 77. both Lonmin and Thakadu (page 21: AR) An illustrated overview of our business model and a description of our strategy can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018. 1 Source: SFA (Oxford) estimates. 2 TVET: for Technical and Vocational Education and Training. Our Approach to Sustainable Development 5 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 8 Joint Letter from the Chairmen of the SHE Committee and the SET Committee 10 Our Sustainability Approach /5 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer Our Approach to Sustainable Development After achieving 15-months without a fatality, tragically The solid operational performance, coupled with the effect our colleague Mr Tembelani Manyana, was fatally injured of metal prices and exchange rates, resulted in an at our K3 shaft on 30 September 2018. We extend our operating profit of $101 million. Regrettably, however, condolences to his family, colleagues and friends. despite all of these initiatives and progress the liquidity remains insufficient and we continue to be financially constrained and unable to fund the significant investment Lonmin is a resilient company that has overcome required to sustain our business. major challenges and is focused on opportunities to remain net cash positive, in a low pricing environment. To improve Lonmin’s liquidity we entered into a US$200 million forward metal sale agreement with Pangaea Investments Management Limited, an associate The 2018 financial year presented another testing company of Jiangxi Copper Company Limited on 22 operating environment. The Rand was favourable, but, October 2018. The new facilities will however not fully and otherwise, market conditions remained tough – sustainably address our fundamental business liquidity persistently low Platinum prices and high electricity, water challenges, and we still believe that the Sibanye-Stillwater and labour cost inflation. While there will inevitably be all-share offer to acquire Lonmin (the Offer) is the best for short-term volatility in the prices of one or more of the Lonmin. Once completed, the Offer will create an enlarged PGMs, we believe that the long-term fundamental geographically and diversified precious metal group that economics of these metals remain highly attractive. In this we believe will provide long-term sustainability. regard, the prices of Palladium and Rhodium more than doubled, however, Platinum (the main revenue contributor) Constructive engagements languished around $850 per ounce almost a third of its Lonmin’s strategy is underpinned by proactive engagement former glory. Lonmin is one of three integrated primary to build and sustain authentic relationships. Lonmin cannot platinum producers globally with an enviable mine-toconstructively engage with its stakeholders without integrity, market business. Lonmin is highly leveraged to PGM honesty and trust as defined in Lonmin’s Charter. We prices and exchange rates and our strategy is to preserve launched the ‘Buang Le Rona’ (meaning ‘Talk to Us’) cash to be able to sustainably withstand the current low grievance mechanism in April 2018 with the aim of price environment so that all our stakeholders including improving the dialogue between Lonmin and stakeholders. shareholders will benefit when the PGM pricing Community members can lodge their grievances, and we environment ultimately improves. track progress on responding to their concerns in pursuit of shared value. We are pleased to say that, amid these conditions, we used every available lever to maintain our net cash We have submitted our SLP for 2019 to 2023 to the position: We delivered what we promised in most areas of Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) for approval. Our our business this year, our core shafts, the Generation 2 SLPs’ impact and sustainability rely on strong partnerships shafts, increased production by 1.6% as planned. To and a clear understanding of community needs. Lonmin reduce high-cost production in a low-price environment, has had constructive engagement with the DMR, and we we closed some Generation 1 shafts as promised. We sold are implementing our undertakings with extensions for 681,580 platinum ounces, which exceeded our market our SLP obligations 2014 – 2018, granted till 2020. guidance of 650,000 – 680,000 ounce, and we achieved The progress is tracked and regular feedback is given unit costs guidance with a unit cost of R12,307 per PGM on this to the Lonmin Board as well as the Department ounce, an increase of 5.2% compared to the prior year of Mineral Resources. (R11,701 per PGM ounce). Ben Magara Chief Executive Officer /6 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer (continued) Lonmin engages with local, provincial and national beneficiaries graduated: Bhekithemba Gadlela (Diploma in Government on a continuous basis. We engage with Business Management) and Mandla Yawa (Honours in Government on our integrated Lonmin Facilitated Animal Science). Employee Home Owners Programme (LFEHOP). Key stakeholders have already endorsed the LFEHOP Safety and health and it is set for implementation in 2019. Lonmin considers safety and health to be critically important. We participate in initiatives such as the Mine The third Broad-Based Socio-economic Empowerment Health and Safety Council’s (MHSC) milestones and Charter for the South African Mining and Minerals Industry, participate in the Minerals Council’s National Safety Day. 2018 (Mining Charter III), is a great improvement from the We pursue continual improvement in safety and health prior drafts. We welcome the “new dawn” as government performance through our membership of the International has embarked on a path of partnership and engagement. Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). At the 2018 Areas of ambiguity remain in the Charter and it is hoped MineSafe conference Lonmin’s K3 UG2 section won the that a Guidance document to be published in the near prestigious JT Ryan Award. future will provide clarity. I am pleased to report a downward trend in our safety Transformation is more than just achieving numbers and indicators. Year on year we saw a 11.5% improvement BEE targets. Lonmin is pleased with the look and feel of on our lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), a 5.2% the business and high performance culture brought about improvement of our total injury frequency rate (TIFR), and by the strength of diversity across all levels of the we reduced Section 54 stoppages by 43% to 24. We Company today. owe these improvements to a shared appreciation of Employee relationships our commitment to Zero Harm and the right level of focus on management routines. The Safety Strategy drives We continue investing in our relationship with employees a mindful safety culture through various proactive and organised labour. Together, we balance workers’ interventions, team collaboration, accountability for needs with the business’s financial sustainability. I am actions, engagements, compliance audits and knowledge encouraged with the productive relationships that we sharing. We need to remain vigilant to maintain our rhythm have established. The lowest level employee working and energy and continue to embed the Lonmin Life Rules, underground earns more than R12,500 per month. a set of non-negotiable safety rules. An operational efficiency programme could reduce our Lonmin’s strategy to address HIV/Aids includes education, workforce by over 12,000 over the next three years. The eliminating the stigma around the virus, and providing South African Tribunal has approved the Sibanye-Stillwater emotional and medical support to those living with HIV/ and Lonmin transaction subject to agreed conditions which Aids. Aids related deaths reduced by 44% from the include a moratorium on retrenchments at Lonmin for six previous year. months. In 2018, the Company reduced its workforce by 1,572 employees and 829 contractors, of whom 685 Noise remains a significant health risk at our operations. contracted at East 2 Shaft. I thank our employees for their Despite Lonmin’s efforts to reduce exposure to prolonged continued resilience and focus in these uncertain times. periods of high levels of noise, we did not achieve our 2018 target and recorded 78 new cases of noise-induced We have an on-site office that assists employees to manage hearing loss (NIHL). The increasing age profile of patients their debt and evaluates emoluments attachment orders. is an influencing factor. Since inception in 2016, the office has reduced the outstanding balances of employee loans by R7.1 million Our mantra of ‘Safe, Profitable, Happy Tonnes Daily’ made and prevented 15 homes and 21 vehicles from being positive strides this year. Our Generation 2 shafts received repossessed. the international OHSAS1 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Standard certification for the first time – a Lonmin has a key focus on developing modern housing noteworthy achievement. facilities to improve the quality of life of its employees. Our financial investment in employee apartment housing Community relationships and investments has reached over R520 million. Lonmin committed another The two primary concerns for community members are R420 million towards housing in our new SLP local infrastructure development and employment (Generation III), despite the industry’s difficulties. We opportunities directly or through supplier investment. The received endorsement from key stakeholders on our ‘lower for longer’ platinum pricing environment has already integrated LFEHOP, set for implementation in 2019. We cost the industry over 26,000 jobs in the past five years continue to engage with Government as integral partners and has made it especially difficult to address to this strategy. unemployment in surrounding communities. To help alleviate unemployment, Lonmin continues investing in We remain committed to the Sixteen-Eight Memorial procurement from local suppliers in order to assist in job Education Trust, founded in memory of the employees creation. This year, we spent R1.2 billion on suppliers from who lost their lives in 2012, and I am proud to announce our host communities. We are reviewing our procurement that two Sixteen-Eight Memorial Education Trust contracts with the Bapo Ba Mogale Community (Bapo) 1 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. /7 Our Approach to Sustainable Development to improve efficiencies and are assisting in skills While the impact on possible job losses in the first three development and capacity building to ensure contracts years is primarily driven by placing high-cost and depleting remain sustainable. The Competition Commission has Generation 1 shafts on care and maintenance, forecasting mandated that, should the Offer materialise, Sibanyethe potential impact on employment is dependent on Stillwater must honour contracts with Lonmin’s existing future PGM prices and business liquidity. Historically Disadvantaged South African (HDSA) owned Lonmin’s actions were all part of seeking to build a suppliers and the existing black economic empowerment sustainable business, driving efficiencies to obtain (BEE) arrangements with the Bapo. financial security, and safeguarding the welfare of all our During the year, Lonmin invested R29.9 million on basic stakeholders. We acknowledge the social and labour community service projects, including upgrading three challenges of the past, and we strive to conduct our roads serving the surrounding communities. The Company business in a sustainable and socially and environmentally completed the Sethwethwa High School in Limpopo, responsible manner. We are a member of the United which serves the Makoeng village. We handed over the Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and ICMM and we Marikana Primary School to the North West Department recognise the ‘Agenda 2030’ to address the most of Education. important economic, environmental, social and governance challenges. As part of our SLP III, we have committed to contribute to the country’s national school sanitation campaign. Market dynamics and outlook Environmental impacts and opportunities The Lonmin team remains focused on operational excellence and dealing with the tougher conditions that Water is becoming scarcer, while demand is increasing face the mining industry. We remain in a net cash positive with increasing population. It is critical that we balance position as at year-end. This demonstrates decisive water conservation and demand management with the actions to manage our mine-to-market business, the competing needs for this resource. Seeking and utilising strength of our assets, our excellent processing operations opportunities relating to a resource as scarce as water is and the resilience of our business. We maintain focus on fundamentally important to Lonmin. We continue to utilise minimising disruption to the business as we conclude the anthropogenic aquifer systems – using backfilled opencast Offer. Our mission for sustainability, as defined by our pits that can store large volumes of water, as a source of Charter remains intact: “to build a value-based culture water for the operations to lessen the intake of fresh water. founded on safe work, continuous improvement, common During the year our energy-efficiency programmes saved standards and procedures, community involvement and 78,155 Megawatt hours (MWh) and reduced our carbon one that rewards employees for high performance”. To be footprint by 75,791 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions successful Lonmin is focused on creating shared value for (tCO2e). The Company continues to invest in key projects all our stakeholders. We remain focused on building with the aim to reduce its sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions. bridges and mending relationships between our We continue researching how to minimise our hazardous employees, organised labour and all other stakeholders. waste streams and have commenced with the construction of a vacuum belt filter at the smelter. Acknowledgement I would like to express my gratitude to our stakeholders, Unfortunately, Lonmin had a level 42 environmental particularly management and our employees for staying incident. Tailings spilled from the new bulk tailings resilient, operating safely and helping us build the bridges treatment plant pipeline into the secondary tributary of the toward our future success. Maretlwana River. We commenced with the remediation and submitted our Rehabilitation Plan to the DMR. Yours faithfully, Governance Management’s agility and responsiveness were essential during the dynamism and difficulties of the past few years. Ben Magara Our focus remains on managing the business for long-term Chief Executive Officer sustainability, and we had to make tough strategic decisions in reducing fixed costs, removing high cost production, 30 January 2019 and reducing capital expenditure. We have reduced jobs responsibly, drive our SLP commitments, and deliver on production targets. Only a thriving and profitable Lonmin can contribute to a sustainable reduction in poverty. Level 4 environmental incidents are those that have a significant impact on the environment, but are reversible within the lifetime of the operations. Level 4 or 2 5 incidents are reported to regulatory authorities in terms of section 30 of National Environmental Management Act (NEMA) and section 20 of the National Water Act. /8 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Joint Letter from the Chairmen of the SHE Committee and the SET Committee Zero Harm to people and the environment is one of education, skills development and social infrastructure. Lonmin’s core values. In practice, this means that the We have markedly improved our relationships with our safety, health and wellbeing of our employees and the community stakeholders, largely owing to more structured communities and environment within which we operate and meaningful engagement. We implemented the Buang are a priority for Lonmin. Le Rona community grievance mechanism this year to allow members of the community direct contact with the We regret to report that one fatal accident occurred at the end of the 2018 financial year. We extend our sincere Company to voice their concerns and make suggestions. condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the This initiative received input from all affected stakeholders late Mr Tembelani Manyana. This fatality is one too many; over many months of planning and research. It constitutes it is unacceptable and we will continue to work towards what the Company considers best practice. eliminating injuries and fatalities in the workplace. Our Lonmin is concluding its five-year 2013 to 2018 SLP ongoing focus is reflected in the broader safety trends, commitments and we will submit a close-out report to the with 15 months of fatality-free production prior to the DMR in due course. We were, unfortunately, unable to tragic accident at K3 on 30 September 2018’ an honour all our SLP commitments for 2014 to 2018, improvement of 11.5% in the rolling LTIFR to 4.00 per primarily due to financial constraints. Consequently, a million man hours worked; and a reduction of 9% in the remedial plan formulated by Lonmin to address severity of injuries. We believe this improving trend is the shortcomings has been formally approved by the DMR. product of an increased and holistic focus on proactive Outstanding obligations will be carried forward and safety management. In order to improve our knowledge concluded between 2019 and 2020. In July this year, we and to share our learnings with our peers, several submitted the new SLPs (commonly referred to as the members of our management team participated in the Generation III SLP) for 2019 to 2023 to the DMR. Minerals Council SA CEO Zero Harm Forum, the ICMM Health and Safety Forum, and the Mines Health and In March this year, Dr Len Konar decided to step down Safety Forum. In addition, the SHE Committee, together as a Non-executive Director on the Lonmin Board and, with other members of the Board and management, met therefore, his chairmanship of the SET Committee. On with the DMR’s Safety Inspectorate to discuss safety in the behalf of our colleagues on the Board and management, wider national and regional context, but also specifically we would like to thank Len for his contribution and in relation to Lonmin’s safety performance. The DMR commitment to Lonmin these past eight years. Of course, commended Lonmin on its efforts to date. However, we it has to be acknowledged that none of the positive news all, including the DMR, acknowledge that there is no room we have been able to report this year would have been for complacency and plenty of room for improvement. possible if it were not for the hard work and commitment shown by our employees and our management team, for Our health and wellbeing programmes continue to show good results – 4,744 employees are receiving anti-retroviral which we extend our appreciation. treatment and there were 44% less Aids-related deaths this On a final note, you will have read in the CEO’s letter that year compared to 2017. It is also noted that our TB the Lonmin Board reached an agreement with Sibanyeincidence per 100,000 employees has nearly halved over Stillwater on the terms of an All-share Offer to acquire the past 10 years. Lonmin remains particularly focused on Lonmin. We believe the offer is a comprehensive solution preventing noise-induced hearing loss Noise Induced to Lonmin’s challenges and that it provides Lonmin and its Hearing Loss as unfortunately new cases are still being stakeholders with a more secure future. One of the diagnosed despite our efforts to address the issue. The conditions agreed between the South African Competition increasing age profile of patients is an influencing factor. Commission and Sibanye-Stillwater is the requirement for A number of initiatives have been implemented to address Sibanye-Stillwater to honour Lonmin’s current and future this issue, which are discussed in more detail later in this SLPs as agreed with the DMR, as well as existing report (page 36). agreements with the Bapo Ba Mogale Community. In light Lonmin’s environmental performance continues to of this commitment, we are confident that the momentum improve. We remain committed to meeting changing in these important areas will be maintained. environmental requirements and regulations. We have plans in place to optimise water and energy usage, and we are monitoring carbon tax legislation to ensure continued compliance in this area. We contribute to the upliftment of the communities around Jonathan Leslie Kennedy Bungane our operations by focusing on community health, Chairman, SHE Committee Chairman, SET Committee 30 January 2019 Our Approach to Sustainable Development /9 / 10 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Our Sustainability Approach Lonmin Charter (Inside/outside flap) Lonmin Internal policies, framework and Our values procedures including: –– Draft Stakeholder Engagement Framework Our approach to sustainability arises from our values, which are defined in –– Draft Grievance Mechanism Procedure the Lonmin Charter. Our values are –– Investor Relations and Communication Policy based on Zero Harm to people and –– Recruitment Policy the environment. We strive for high –– Women in Mining Policy performance in all areas across –– Fatal Risk Control Protocols the Company. –– HIV/Aids and Tuberculosis Policy –– Draft CSI Policy –– Human Rights Policy Lonmin Safety and Sustainable Development Policy –– Security Policy –– Environmental Standards The policy details the Group’s commitment to creating sustainable –– Water Policy value for our stakeholders through –– Code of Business Ethics environmentally and socially responsible –– Risk Policy and ethical practices. Our policy aligns –– ISO 9001 Quality Management System with the ICMM principles. –– ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Page 80 –– OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Systems Standard Lonmin’s strategy External policies, frameworks and regulations, including: The importance of sustainability matters is recognised in Lonmin’s –– Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) which requires a Social and strategy. Labour Plan (SLP) To view our strategy, please refer to –– The Broad-based Socio-economic our Annual Report and Accounts Empowerment Charter for the South African 2018. Mining and Minerals Industry (the Mining Charter) –– Labour Relations Act –– Immigration Act –– Mine Health and Safety Council (MHSC) milestones –– Mine Health and Safety Act (MHSA) –– National Environmental Management Act (NEMA) and various other environmental regulations –– ICMM assurance framework, principles and position statements –– United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles –– GRI standards Our sustainability approach considers the UNGC principles, ICMM principles and position statements and relevant legislation, the MHSC’s milestones, as well as our SLP commitments. Sustainability considerations are incorporated into Lonmin’s Life of Business Plan, which spans more than 40 years (excluding any future planned shafts), and details operational plans to mine and process the mineral resources. Lonmin complies with the ICMM’s Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance Procedure, ICMM Sustainable Development principles, applicable position statements and the ICMM reporting requirements. The 15 Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards and Safety and Sustainable Development Policy align to the 10 ICMM Sustainable Development principles. Lonmin has various internal policies, procedures and frameworks that align to the mandatory requirements of the ICMM position statements. Lonmin acknowledges the ICMM’s: A practical guide to consistent water reporting and took the first steps to align to it, but is still adjusting current systems to fully report against this guide. / 11 Our Approach to Sustainable Development Our approach cascades throughout the Company and is Lonmin’s operating context and the synergies between implemented through line management as appropriate. Lonmin’s current programmes and the SDGs through the The Executive Committee (Exco) monitors Lonmin’s policies following process: and practices, with an Executive Vice-President assigned to 1. Understanding the country-specific context by taking each key area. The Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) cognisance and assimilating the South African National and the Social, Ethics and Transformation (SET) Development Plan (NDP) to the SDGs Committees of the Board oversee and advise the Board on SHE and SET matters help set aspirational targets 2. Understanding the local governmental context: and implement a culture in which these goals are promoted Linking agreed SLP commitments to the SDGs and enforced. The Chief Executive Officer is ultimately 3. Understanding the industry context: Linking the accountable for sustainability performance across all areas. mining value chain to the SDGs using guidance from Further details of our Governance for Sustainable the ICMM Development can be found on page 14. 4. Conducting a survey identifying Lonmin programmes Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that can contribute to the SDGs The SDGs define global sustainable development priorities 5. Categorising identified programmes according to their and aspirations for 2030, and seek to mobilise global relevance to Lonmin efforts around a common set of goals and targets. The 6. Applying the National Business Initiative maturity SDGs call for world-wide action among governments, matrix to determine affected SDGs and the relevant business and civil society to end poverty and create a life programmes in relation to the perceived maturity of of dignity and opportunity for all, within the boundaries of contribution the planet.1 7. Linking the SDGs to material focus areas, principal Taking the nature of Lonmin’s activities into account, risks, and peer benchmarking we gained an understanding of the SDGs in relation to SDG linkage to Lonmin’s material focus areas 8 7 Number of SDGs per material focus area 7 6 6 5 Most relevant to Lonmin2 4 3 3 2 1 1 0 Employee Safety Community Managing relationships and relationships environmental health and impacts and investments opportunities Material focus area: Constructive engagement pervasive across all SDGs. By understanding how we can contribute to the SDGs, they will serve as a reference to update and refine Lonmin’s sustainability approach. 1 Source: SDG Compass Guide Executive Summary. 2 As per survey completed by Lonmin employees that work in the sustainability departments. / 12 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Our Sustainability Approach (continued) Regulations The mining and beneficiation industries are highly Charter and it is hoped that a guideline document to regulated. To retain our legal and social licences to be published will provide further clarity on the Charter operate, we need to interact closely with regulators in obligations. our sustainability approach and operating activities. Social and Labour Plans Mining and prospecting rights –– ­ What: Our commitment to developing and –– ­ What: Our mining rights constitute our primary legal empowering our host communities remains on of the licence to operate pillars of our transformation journey. The MPRDA –– ­ How: The DMR issues mining rights in terms of the requires mining companies to commit to SLPs as a MPRDA, and Lonmin retain its rights by complying prerequisite to acquire mining or prospecting rights. with the MPRDA requirements This is aimed at ensuring the effective transformation of the mining industry and empower communities. –– ­ Status: Lonmin’s new order mining rights for core operations are valid to 2037 and renewable to 2067 –– ­ How: The projects contained in SLPs are identified and planned in collaboration with community The Mining Charter stakeholders and local, regional and national –– ­ What: The Mining Charter drives transformation and Government. Mining companies submit their SLPs socio-economic development in the mining industry to the DMR for scrutiny and approval, as well as through regulations monitoring compliance. –– ­ How: There are set targets and programmes across –– S ­ tatus: We are concluding our current five-year SLPs, nine areas that aim to promote meaningful economic and will submit a close-out report to the DMR. Financial partnership with Historically Disadvantaged South constraints prevented Lonmin from implementing all of Africans (HDSAs) in the mining industry. Mining its current SLP commitments for the 2014 to 2018 time companies report their progress against the Mining period. We are implementing our outstanding Charter annually to the DMR undertakings with extensions granted up to 2020. However, we have formulated a remedial plan to –– ­ Status: The Mining Charter was revised in 2010 and address the backlog, which was reviewed and set targets to 2014 (Mining Charter II). The Mining approved by the DMR. We submitted our new SLP Charter III was published in the Government Gazette in commitments (2019 – 2023) to the DMR and approval September 2018. Areas of ambiguity remain in the is pending. Mining Charter III – focus areas SLP focus areas –– Ownership (page 43) –– Human resources development programme –– Inclusive procurement, supplier and enterprise (pages 24-26) development (pages 43 and 44) –– Mine community economic development –– Human resources development (pages 24-26) (pages 39-44) –– Employment equity (pages 26 and 27) –– Processes of downscaling and retrenchment (pages 6 and 21) –– Mine community development (pages 39-44) –– Housing and living conditions (pages 27-29) Key SLP features 2018: –– Increased intake of mining learnerships (page 25) Materiality determination process –– On track to complete the infill apartment project (page 27) –– Completed and handover of a primary school in Marikana (page 40) A matter is material to Lonmin if it could substantially –– Refurbishment of the Sonop old-age home commenced (page 42) impact our ability to create value for all our stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. –– Completed and upgraded three roads in the community (page 43) Lonmin’s process for determining its material matters Our material matters were determined and reaffirmed aligns with the approach to materiality recommended in following a separate process that considers operational the GRI Standards. The process also considers the (value drivers and impacts) and contextual (risk and guidance provided in the International Integrated Reporting stakeholder analysis) variables. These were then reviewed Council’s (IIRC) Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework. against the GRI Standards and Lonmin’s strategy. The Company has workshopped the process annually since 2014. We internally assessed the five material focus areas against our risks, stakeholder perspectives and the GRI standards, and they remain as 2017. / 13 Our Approach to Sustainable Development Material focus areas overview Constructive engagement: Government, regulatory and other stakeholders The future of every aspect of our business depends on our relationships. Quality relationships with external stakeholders and between management and employees are central to creating shared value and securing a sustainable, win-win and inclusive future for Lonmin and its stakeholders. Pages 14 – 19 Employee relationships Executing our strategy in a labour-intensive mining 56.2% industry, depends on good relations with our employees, HDSA (including white women) contractors and unions1. management representation The industrial relations environment has stabilised from 2017: 55.6% prior years which is attributed to continuous and improved dialogue between unions and company management. 55 tonnes While the environment remained stable, the potential of production missed due to social unrest for volatility remains. These can hamper production and threaten the Company’s sustainability if relationships are 2017: 143 tonnes not managed. Pages 20 – 29 Safety and health 4.00 We are committed to Zero Harm and believe that Zero LTIFR Harm is achievable and therefore apply a proactive approach to secure the safety and health of all employees 2017: 4.52 and contractors at our operations. Poor safety performance can result in serious injury or 4,744 patients on anti-retroviral treatment loss of life, and can negatively impact production and the Company’s reputation. Health and wellness are critical to 2017: 4,843 quality of life, employee morale, Lonmin’s productivity, and our safety performance. Pages 30 – 37 Community relationships and investment In Lonmin’s view, investing in our surrounding communities R59 million is a social and a business imperative. The goodwill and SLP community spend at WPL and EPL wellbeing of our communities is important to us as it gives 2017: R80.6 million us our social licence to operate. Our approach is based on the belief that communities must see Lonmin as a R392.5 million net positive contributor to their livelihood. Strong received by Bapo Ba Mogale and constructive relationships with the communities for services provided during 2018 surrounding our operations help create a predictable and stable operating environment. 2017: R325.3 million Pages 38 – 45 Managing environmental impacts and opportunities 4.86 GJ/PGMoz energy consumed per ounce of refined PGMs Mining and metals processing activities directly impact produced the environment and are resource-intensive. Lonmin is committed to minimising our environmental footprint and, 2017: 4.72 GJ/PGMoz where necessary, mitigate or remediate our impacts. Pages 46 – 58 6.23 m3/PGMoz water consumed per ounce of refined PGMs produced 2017: 5.76 m3/PGMoz 1 The majority union is the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU). / 14 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Constructive Engagement: Government, Regulatory and other Stakeholders Key chapter takeaway Launch of the Buang Le Rona grievance mechanism in April 2018 The future of every aspect of our business depends on It formalises engagement policies and procedures for each our relationships. Strong relationships with external stakeholder group. stakeholders, including business, government, organised Our Stakeholder Engagement Framework is rigorously labour, and community leaders, and between applied to: building community collaboration and management and employees are important to shared partnerships; create shared value and common purpose; value and a sustainable future for all stakeholders. and to mitigate the risks related to poor relationships and –– Optimal employee-union relations significantly engagement. enhance operational execution and improve We improve our understanding of stakeholder views by employer-employee relationships. A breakdown in carrying out desktop reviews, analysing media coverage, relations could lead to mistrust and cause production online sources and internal conversations, and conducting stoppages consultation sessions. –– A sound relationship with surrounding communities We launched the Buang enhances organisational reputation. A poor Le Rona grievance relationship could disrupt operations and result in mechanism in April 2018. community unrest The grievance mechanism Accountability is for the public, mainly the communities The Executive Vice-President of Stakeholder Engagement T H E T H A N I N AT H I BUANG LE RONA surrounding Lonmin, to and Regulatory Affairs co-ordinates stakeholder WE ARE LISTENING raise concerns. engagement and reports to the Chief Executive Officer. Stakeholders can engage Approach directly via email or telephone with Lonmin. Lonmin’s strategy is underpinned by continuously DO YOU HAVE A improving stakeholder relationships. In our Safety and COMPLAINT or GRIEVANCE? LONMIN IS HERE TO LISTEN Queries and suggestions Sustainable Development Policy, we commit to DIAL 0801 113 943 are lodged centrally then EMAIL thethanathi@lonmin.com / buanglerona@lonmin.com “maintaining transparent and ongoing consultative TALK TO US. MAKE YOUR VOICE HEARD. assigned to relevant line relationships with all stakeholders and incorporating managers to address. this engagement into the decision-making process”. The administrator feeds responses back to the source of the query or suggestion. Lonmin’s Stakeholder Engagement and Regulatory Affairs Entries are logged within a system that assesses the Department segments and prioritises stakeholder groups severity of entries to be analysed, including the time it takes and individuals following a risk-based approach. to respond to and close entries. / 15 Material focus area Constructive Engagement: Improving relationships with key stakeholders Government, Regulatory and other Stakeholders Our employees can use our internal human resource defend whistle-blower anonymity, and encourage processes to lodge a grievance or suggestion. A 24-hour appropriate professional behaviour, legitimacy and ethics hotline is available to all employees, contractors and best practice. community members where they can anonymously report Lonmin supports South Africa’s broader development ethical breaches or raise any other concerns. The hotline goals and collaborates with Government on its sociois operated by an independent third-party, and the call economic development projects, as outlined on page 39. logging process is designed to protect individual rights, The diagram below illustrates the stakeholder groups, most prominent methods of engagements and frequency. The frequency that we engage stakeholders varies from daily, monthly, quarterly to annually –– Shareholders: The Board –– Customers: The Marketing –– Employees and contractors: engages through the Annual Department holds regular We hold from daily to weekly General Meeting (AGM), and meetings, occasional site visits meetings and publish information interim roadshows with investors and customer audits and in Weekly Bulletin newsletters. in the United Kingdom and satisfaction surveys We have forums and Steering South Africa –– Government and regulators: Committees, shaft lekgotlas, –– Media: Our Communications Each area engages with either the wellness days, industrial theatre, Department engages with the Department of Mineral Resources and formal contractor meetings media through media roundtables, (DMR) or the applicable as needed media statements, interviews, department through meetings, –– Unions: We engage through panel discussions, results joint inspections and regular meetings with union announcements, site visits assessments, and participates structures and representatives, and ‘meet-and-greets’ in forums as and when required. tripartite safety visits, and Future –– Industry associations: We attend Our representatives engage with Forums, among others monthly to quarterly meetings Government at levels relevant to –– Communities: We meet with and have representation on the nature of engagement community representatives, have governance structures –– Non-governmental organisations focus group and ward councillor –– Civil society: Lonmin participates (NGOs): We engage with NGOs meetings and have roadshows in the ICMM and has bi-annual involved in advocacy or who raise –– Suppliers: We interact daily with meetings. Individuals and legitimate concerns related to suppliers, hold formal tender organisations independent from impacts on the mining industry meetings, and perform site Government engage with the inspections at suppliers Company on an ad hoc basis / 16 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Constructive Engagement: Government, Regulatory and other Stakeholders (continued) Performance Our stakeholders’ key concerns relate to the following: Economic viability Safety performance Employee and union relations Water and energy constraints Stakeholder themes Community relations Legislative change Skills pipeline Disease profile Interested and impacted stakeholders All stakeholders All stakeholders All stakeholders Communities, suppliers, customers, media, industry associations, Government and regulators, NGOs, civil society and shareholders All stakeholders Employees, contractors, unions, Government, media and shareholders Employees and contractors, unions, communities and Government Employees and contractors, unions, Government and regulators, NGOs, civil society and communities Lonmin’s material focus areas include responses to each Our responses to stakeholder concerns are further stakeholder theme. We explain our strategy and approach detailed in the material focus area chapters and in the to each material focus area. We also provide detailed Annual Report and Accounts 2018. performance statistics. / 17 Material focus area Constructive Engagement: Economic viability Government, Regulatory and other Stakeholders Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response The South African mining industry operates in a testing environment, –– Letter from the Chief Executive characterised by subdued platinum prices, and inflationary cost pressures. Officer page 5 The Company reviewed the strategic options available to Lonmin. These included shaft closure, employee retrenchment, cost optimisation projects, selling non-core assets, and entering negotiations on the all-share offer from Sibanye-Stillwater (refer to page 8). The potential impact of failure of the acquisition of the Group by SibanyeStillwater represents a threat to the Groups viability, in spite of initiatives undertaken, including the refinancing arrangement, should the transaction not conclude by 28 February 2019, the feasibility of an asset sale to SibanyeStillwater, as contemplated in the 2.7 announcement, as well as any other alternative transaction will have to be assessed by the Board. The UK Competition and Markets Authority cleared the transaction, including formal recommendation of the transaction by the Competition Commission SA to the Competition Tribunal SA. On 21 November 2018 the Competition Tribunal SA approved the transaction against agreed conditions. Safety performance Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response Mining is inherently dangerous. A poor safety performance can result in loss –– Safety incidents page 32 of life and serious injury to our employees. It can also negatively impact –– Safety stoppages page 34 production, affect costs, cause reputational damage and result in unfavourable –– Trauma and emergency care regulatory intervention. page 37 Safety incidents can cause loss of life and injuries to employees resulting in work stoppages and Section 54 stoppages that will impact the Company’s ability to achieve production and financial targets. The DMR and Minerals Council of South Africa (MCSA) drive towards Zero Harm by inviting mining companies to participate in industry initiatives to improve safety. Employee and union relations Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response Optimal relations can significantly enhance operational execution and improve –– Employee relationships page 20 employer-employee relationships, whilst a breakdown in relations could result –– Remuneration and benefits in production stoppages as well as a breakdown of trust. page 23 Unions advocate for safe working and living conditions, and negotiate wages –– Safety page 30 on employees’ behalf. The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) is the majority union at our operations. The industrial relations environment has stabilised from prior years which is attributed to continuous and improved dialogue between unions and the company management. Whilst the environment has remained stable, the potential for volatility remains, which could result in disruptions to operations and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. / 18 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Constructive Engagement: Government, Regulatory and other Stakeholders (continued) Water and energy constraints Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response Access to secure energy and water as well as the optimal use of the input –– Mine community economic resources are critical for mining and processing operations. development page 43 The higher than inflation tariff increases in electricity and water are set to –– Water management page 49 continue. Near term uncertainty is set to continue with continued pressure for –– Energy management page 51 above inflationary increases. Water availability has also been challenging, due to ageing infrastructure and increased water demand from local communities, mining and agricultural sectors in the area. Rustenburg Municipality has notified all mines that it intends taking over water distribution from Rand Water Board (RWB). Reduced dependency on RWB supply, to the Lonmin operations, is set to be an ongoing strategic drive. Supply constraints in respect of energy or water could impact our ability to operate effectively and meet our production targets. Furthermore, cost increases above inflation in respect of these utilities impact the Group’s liquidity and ultimately margins. Community relations Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response A sound relationship with surrounding communities will enhance relations and –– Skills development page 25 organisational reputation while a failure to do so could result in community –– Community health page 41 unrest, potential disruption operations. –– Mine community economic Our communities are interested in local project opportunities, Social and development: Labour Plans (SLPs), social infrastructure, housing, environmental matters (such as dust), bursaries for the youth, and employment opportunities at oo BEE equity ownership Lonmin. Local traditional authorities include the Mphahlele, Ledwaba, Kekana page 43 and Bapo Ba Mogale Traditional Community (Bapo). oo Enterprise development There may be occasions where expectations by a host community cannot page 44 be met and may result in conflict, unrest and production stoppages. The oo Preferential procurement relationship with host communities is particularly vulnerable due to expectation page 44 gaps between community leadership structures and the company. This results in informal and unstructured engagement between different splinter groups engaging the company on varying matters and at times results in unrealistic expectations by the communities. Legislative change Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response The Company is subject to the risks associated with conducting business in –– Safety stoppages page 34 South Africa, including but not limited to, changes to the country’s laws and –– Mine community economic regulations. A change in the ruling parties leadership and ultimately SA development page 43 president during February 2018 has resulted in an announcement by the new DMR Minister of the potential withdrawal of the Mineral and Petroleum –– Energy management page 51 Resources Development Act (MPRDA) Amendment Bill. The initial release of Mining Charter III in July 2017 created much controversy and concern for the mining industry at large, however the initiation of the public engagement process and commentary and resultant promulgation of the revised charter in September 2018, has brought certainty and clarity to the industry. The Mining Charter III in its current form seeks to create a balance between improving transformation and ensuring the industry’s viability during volatile times. Pending environmental regulations such as the carbon tax, will have direct and indirect financial impacts on the Company. Non-compliance with legislation carries financial penalties and reputational risks. / 19 Material focus area Constructive Engagement: Skills pipeline Government, Regulatory and other Stakeholders Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response The loss of critical skills remains a challenge for the Company. The uncertainties –– Remuneration and benefits related to the Company’s financing and sustainability remains and these are page 23 amplified by the continued uncertainty in the mining sector at large. Under these –– Skills development page 25 conditions, the loss of key skills is a significant risk to the organisation. The loss of critical skills in key positions could play a significant role in our ability to deliver against production and financial targets. In order to retain our skilled labour, we continuously review our remuneration packages and the incentive and retention schemes. This allows our pay structures to remain in line with the packages offered by our peers. An inherent risk of attracting and retaining employees of the required calibre is that it can result in increased costs. Disease profile Context of stakeholder concerns Lonmin’s response HIV/Aids-related diseases remain the biggest cause of in-service deaths. –– NIHL page 36 Tuberculosis (TB) infection rates among employees and community members –– HIV/Aids page 36 are high. However, the treatments for TB and HIV/Aids are effective, particularly –– Tuberculosis page 37 with early treatment. Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) is an occupational risk to employees and contractors, as exposure to high noise levels continues for prolonged periods. Lonmin’s role is to promote wellbeing. Health affects employees’ quality of life, productivity and absenteeism. We subscribe to the initiatives rolled out by the DMR and Department of Health. / 20 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Employee Relationships Key chapter takeaways Lonmin Facilitated Employee Home Ownership Programme (LFEHOP) endorsed by key stakeholders Financial literacy and counselling saving employees R5.8 million from illegal garnishee orders this year Human resources are key to value creation in a to provide our employees and their families with support to labour-intensive mining environment. We recognise that be even more effective. Our focus on the provision of the Company’s sustainability is inextricably linked to the decent accommodation and living conditions for our productivity, commitment and wellness of our labour employees continues in line with our values and strive to force. Lonmin’s human resources comprises the 23,142 enhance the quality of life of our employees and their as at 30 September 2018 permanent employees and families. 7,002 contractors. The Remuneration Committee of the Board reviews and Accountability ratifies all remuneration and benefits matters. Collective bargaining agreements determine wages for employees Our Human Resources Department implements our in the bargaining units. We pay competitive wages, Human Resources Strategy, Lonmin Facilitated Employee benchmarked against comparable peers. Home Ownership Programme (LFEHOP) and Human Rights Policy. These influence our relationships with Transformation is monitored and overseen at Board level employees. The Executive Vice-President for Human by the Social, Ethics and Transformation (SET) Committee Resources manages and implements the strategy and of the Board. The Executive Committee (Exco) receives reports to the Chief Executive Officer. monthly reports on Historically Disadvantaged South African (HDSA) representation in the Company. Approach We accept that our employees may choose to join unions Our environment is labour intensive and requires that we that will represent their interests, and we work towards work with all our people to continuously motivate, inspire and enable a high performance culture that delivers healthy and mutually beneficial relationships with these superior and innovative outcomes as outlined in our unions guided by agreements that we negotiate with strategic plans. them, as well as the prevailing legal framework of the country in which we operate. Operating in an environment as challenging as ours forces us to focus on attracting, developing and retaining We interact with unions at different levels within the motivated, committed and contributing employees. Where Company and engage on an ongoing basis through we find instances of low morale, we review and invest in various organised labour and management structures to prioritised initiatives to ensure that our people have the share information on Lonmin’s performance and its skills they need to perform optimally in an environment evolving operating environment. We also deal with relevant characterised by open communication and guidance to issues within the guidelines of our agreements with labour. align performance to organisational objectives. We Lonmin conducted an in-depth review of its housing recognise and reward superior performance, and review strategy in 2017. The Company established a joint forum, our retention risks and apply the necessary tools to retain comprising management and AMCU, to oversee this our talent. revision. A Strategic Advisor and Implementation Agent, Employee well-being is at the core of what we do and we were appointed to co-ordinate and oversee the projects invest in initiatives like Employee Assistance Programmes stemming from the review. Lonmin’s financial wellbeing / 21 Material focus area Employee Relationships Investing in employee relationships and development programme supports the LFEHOP. It enables employees to Performance become transaction ready, and resolve credit-worthiness issue and affordability challenges. The detailed Employee profile and demographics Implementation Plan, including a funding solution, will be As at 30 September 2018 Lonmin had 23,142 integral to the Generation III Social and Labour Plans (2017: 24,713) employees. Of our employees, 79.07% (SLPs), which will be implemented from 2019. Further are HDSAs (2017: 79.22%), including 9.4% female information is available on page 12. employees (of total employees) (2017: 9.1%). Our headcount decreased following implementation of ‘The Way We Work at Lonmin’ (TWWW@L) is an ongoing section 189A of the Labour Relations Act and section 52 leader-led change process to develop and institutionalise a of the MPRDA. In addition to this further measures were Lonmin culture of productive behaviour and a teamwork implemented such as the moratorium placed on non-core mentality. The initiative initiated in 2013 is based on five recruitment and continued focused on cost efficiencies. core concepts that aim to improve communication, entrench accountability, and empower resource teams to Employees in management positions decreased from fulfil their obligations. 435 at 30 September 2017 to 404 at 30 September 2018, a 7.1% decrease, due to voluntary retrenchments, natural Lonmin introduced its revised disciplinary procedure in attrition and limited forced retrenchments. Our contractor 2018. The procedure outlines the repercussions of failure headcount is 7,002 (2017: 7,831), 9.2% (2017: 8.7%) of to observe Company standards, including absenteeism whom are women. and safety disciplines. Passion, pride and purpose Working Shaping together our future safely TWWW@L Accountable for People make excellence it happen / 22 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Employee Relationships (continued) Own employees as at 30 September 30 September 2018 Employment category Paterson band 2017 Male Female Total Temporary employees Temporary 127 87 36 123 Unskilled and defined decision-making A-band 12,188 10,143 1,128 11,271 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision-making B-band 8,743 7,917 313 8,230 Skilled technical and academically qualified junior management; supervisors; foremen and superintendents C-band 3,220 2,523 591 3,114 Professionally qualified and experienced specialists and mid-management D-band 309 199 87 286 Senior management E-band 118 94 14 108 Top management F-band 8 8 2 10 Total 24,713 20,971 2,171 23,142 Lonmin employs predominantly South Africans to support the local economy. South Africans make up 84% of our workforce. We host training programmes in our surrounding communities to develop a pipeline of skilled people to serve the industry as a whole. The Community Relationships and Investment chapter (pages 38 to 45) details community education and skills development. Employee1 demographics by geographic origin Percentage of total employees3 Number of employees at 30 September 30 September 30 September 2018 2017 2018 Origin % % Male Female Total Eastern Cape 34 33 7,546 320 7,866 North West 30 31 5,643 1,473 7,116 Limpopo 5 5 1,061 76 1,137 Free State 4 4 809 35 844 Gauteng 5 5 931 160 1,091 KwaZulu-Natal 3 3 657 30 687 Mpumalanga 2 2 332 27 359 Northern Cape 1 1 224 21 245 Western Cape 0 0 5 2 7 Foreign2 16 16 3,763 27 3,790 Grand total 100 100 20,971 2,171 23,142 ¹ Contractors per origin are not reported or recorded. 2 Most foreign employees come from Mozambique and Lesotho. female + male 3 Percentages are calculated using ( total employees ). / 23 Material focus area Employee Relationships Employee turnover Lonmin’s turnover rate increased from 4% in 2017 to 8.4% in 2018 due to labour reduction programme which resulted from planned shaft closures. The Company reduced 2,400 jobs this year, including contractors at 1B, Newman and Hossy shafts. The total reduction for contractors amounted to 829, East 2 shaft had the majority reduction of 685 contractors. The workforce reduction Section 189A voluntary retrenchment process concluded successfully without disruption. Employee turnover by reason As at 30 September 2017 As at 30 September 2018 Male Female Total Male Female Total New recruits 373 52 425 316 29 345 Resignations (179) (30) (209) (293) (47) (340) Deaths (not work-related) (190) (6) (196) (141) (4) (145) Deaths (work-related) (3) (0) (3) (1) 0 (1) Dismissals (390) (20) (410) (250) (15) (265) Retirements (102) (0) (102) (87) (3) (90) Retrenchments – voluntary separation packages (28) (2) (30) (954) (43) (997) Retrenchments 0 0 0 (6) (1) (7) Medical repatriation (55) (3) (58) (70) (2) (72) Total exits (947) (61) (1,008) (1,802) (115) (1,917) Net (loss) (574) (9) (583) (1,486) (86) (1,572) Productivity and absenteeism To be sustainable over the long term, Lonmin needs to We monitor measures to address absenteeism: improve labour productivity. This will help us meet –– Linking attendance to bonus payments, and using production targets while reducing costs. Productivity buffer crews, both are being piloted at all our shafts improvement initiatives include: –– Daily nutritional supplements to employees –– Introducing buffer crews: For example, stoping is more –– Interviews with employees who have high absenteeism productive when blasting, clearing and backfilling have rates reduced time lags between processes. Buffer crews overlap with regular crews to implement the next step Remuneration and benefits in the stoping process Lonmin pays competitive wages and takes the absolute –– Addressing employee absenteeism: We made level of earnings for employees into consideration when headway in reducing the number of ‘absent without determining wages. Employees have access to financial permission’ cases. Production is impacted by sick and non-financial benefits, exceeding those specified in leave cases (unplanned unavailability) and the overtime the Basic Conditions of Employment Act. These include: necessary for standard production yields. We seek to –– On-site healthcare and medical aid from a basket of understand the root causes and how to support schemes employees –– Comprehensive life and disability insurance –– As previously reported we have a programme in place to empower frontline supervisors: This delivers a –– Funeral cover marginal impact in relation to the entire workforce that –– A defined contribution pension scheme we continue to implement –– Four months’ paid maternity leave –– Implementing the Theory of Constraints Framework: –– Free-of-charge transport to and from shafts, plants, This will optimise half levels at Generation 2 shafts housing areas and bus stops for employees from the Absenteeism decreased to 12% (2017: 13%), which communities surrounding our Marikana operations equates to 834,498 person days lost/shifts lost. Planned –– Financial literacy education and counselling unavailability due to training or leave was 11%. –– An employee wellness service that provides free, confidential, professional counselling and therapy for emotional, physical or financial distress / 24 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Employee Relationships (continued) Employees not on the production bonus schemes have the share-based compensation plan it withdrew in 2015. an incentivised corporate balanced scorecard, which The plan spreads annual cash bonuses payments over measures performance against a range of targets. The three years to improve retention. balanced scorecard is explained further on page 93 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018. Financial literacy and counselling Lonmin’s induction programme2 includes a financial fitness As part of the current wage agreement, Lonmin and module and an on-site office assists employees to AMCU task teams were assigned to employee housing, manage their debt, and evaluates emolument attachment job grading, medical aid benefits and the benefit fund. orders (garnishee orders). In September 2018, an independent facilitator joined the task team discussions. An externally facilitated financial wellbeing programme addresses employee indebtedness. The external financial Below is an example of the basic agreed guaranteed wellness service provider offers employees several other packages for category 4 to 9 employees. These figures financial services, including: exclude overtime and safe production bonuses, which typically make up 16% of employees’ wages. –– Audits of emolument attachment orders (EAOs/ garnishee orders): Before Lonmin implements the Lowest-paid entry-level underground employee deductions, the provider conducts audits on each remuneration order issued against Lonmin employees. This prevents Basic Cash Guaranteed irregular or illegal EAOs from being deducted. Some salary remuneration1 package examples of irregularities addressed include incorrect Date R R R jurisdiction, excessive legal fees, and excessive interest charged. As at February 2018 this process has seized 1 July 2018 505 irregular EAOs and managed balanced savings of (current) 11,713 15,328 17,588 R5.8 million for employees, and R12.2 million since inception in 2016. Employee Profit Share Scheme (EPSS) –– Reviewing interest charged: Since inception in 2016, The EPSS is in place for employees who do not participate interest rate reviews have helped reduce the in the Share Award Schemes. The EPSS is an opportunity outstanding balances on our employees’ loans by for economic partnership that shares related R7.1 million. Interest on employee debt decreased responsibilities and involvement. It is an opportunity to from 28% to 6%, and the total debt instalments align objectives and share in rewards of achieving charged to employees reduced by over R640,000 a common objectives. A provision of US$2 million month. To date, the process has prevented 15 homes (R26.1 million) was made in 2018, as Lonmin made a and 21 vehicles from being repossessed. profit. Before 2018, the Employee Profit Sharing Scheme had not paid any benefits to employees because Lonmin –– Assisting employees with tax consulting services: had not been in a profitable position since the inception of The tax consulting services facilitate tax savings the scheme. and refunds for employees. The service enables the detection of tax scams involving illegitimate tax The Company introduced a staggered deferred cash plan practitioners. for management employees in December 2016 to replace The Sixteen-Eight Memorial Trust The Sixteen-Eight Memorial Trust was founded in memory of the employees who lost their lives at Marikana in 2012. The Trust funds education for the deceased’s children. Education is directed at learning subjects that apply to formally recognised qualifications or certification. To date, the Trust has disbursed R14 million to educating beneficiaries. Beneficiary-related decisions and engagements are managed through an Independent Board of Trustees. Number of beneficiaries Female Male Age 1 – 10 Age 11 – 20 Age 21+ Graduates 141 67 74 39 66 36 2 1 Cash remuneration is paid directly to the employee. The guaranteed package includes payments to funds on behalf of employees (e.g. provident fund). 2 Induction training is a prerequisite for all employees. Those working in core operations attend mandatory refresher training every 12 to 18 months. / 25 Material focus area Employee Relationships Skills development Recent headcount reduction across the industry reduced the short-term risk of critical skills shortages in mining. Losing critical skills remains a risk for Lonmin. The focus on cost containment and cash preservation constrained spend on developmental training beyond legal requirements. Lonmin invested 2,076,294 training hours at our training facility in Marikana. Breakdown of average training hours per workforce category 2017 2018 Category Male Female Male Female Contractors 32.22 20.95 27.41 19.52 Unskilled and defined decision-making 26.22 22.37 29.31 22.86 Semi-skilled and discretionary decision-making 21.94 12.02 36.84 13.94 Skilled technical and academically qualified, junior management, Supervisors, Foremen and Superintendents 14.45 12.73 15.87 14.41 Professionally qualified, experienced specialists, and mid-management 13.32 11.00 13.53 15.70 Senior management 8.28 7.50 10.49 9.54 Top management 21.00 0.00 11.40 0.00 Our training programmes are fit-for-purpose. By avoiding The Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) requires duplication, we optimise the amount of time spent by Rock Engineers and qualified surveyors to visit the employees on training. Mining Charter III’s more stringent underground operations often, hence the motivation for a specifications on human resources development (HRD) rock engineering-specific internship. These programmes spend allocation have significant cost implications. We are contribute to our strategy to create a buffer of skills, and monitoring developments in this regard, and have a support the SLP Human Resources Development healthy internal pipeline of more than 1,000 employees commitments. awaiting the next stage skills development over and above the community skills development we support. Learnership distribution In line with the focus on cost management, the 2017 2018 programme to develop and upskill leadership planned for Mining 26 104 2018 is on hold. However, we concluded a pilot project Processing 42 36 to upskill leadership employees with 200 attendees and Engineering 21 21 successfully trained an additional 800 supervisory level employees. Total 89 161 We trained 19,933 employees and 8,283 contractors in Mentorship programme and Individual 2018. Total investment in skills development increased to Development Plans R178.3 million compared to R169.67 million in 2017. The 66 (2017: 104) formal mentorships, of which 33% are HRD expenditure as a percentage of the annual payroll is women, facilitate skills transfer and knowledge sharing. 2.2% (2017: 2.3%). The moratoriums on development training spend impact the performance of core skills. Individual Development Plans (IDPs) help employees to Nonetheless, Lonmin remained committed to skills establish and implement personal and career development development by completing 3,424 assessments goals. Formal IDPs are in place for 2,058 Category 4 to 9 compared to 2,949 in 2017. We remain focused on and C-band employees, 15% of whom are women. competencies critical to mining and processing operations. Lonmin determines core skills requirements Adult education and training (AET) at operations by assessing the Life of Business Plan In the South African schooling system, a level 4 AET and comparing attrition rates in various skill sets. course is equivalent to a grade 9 qualification. 114 employees registered for AET courses during 2018 (2017: Learnerships 128). We are exploring more cost-effective and sustainable Lonmin offers learnerships in the mining, processing and ways to provide AET. engineering functions to address the scarcity of scarce technical skills in these fields, with a focus on rock engineering. / 26 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Employee Relationships (continued) Portable skills training HDSAs in management (including white women) 60 employees and 81 community members received portable skills training (2017: 68 employees and 165 60 community members). Portable skills include sewing, 50 55.6 56.2 50.3 52.4 cooking, welding, farming and plumbing. 48.4 40 As part of the voluntary retrenchment process, employees 30 choose between portable skills training and monetary % retrenchment packages. We saw a notable preference in 20 receiving the monetary reward. 10 Bursaries and graduates 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Lonmin identifies and develops promising candidates through its bursary and graduate programmes to secure a future pipeline of necessary skills. The programmes focus Women in mining on students in mining or mining-related disciplines such Lonmin fosters a working environment that welcomes the as electrical, mechanical and industrial or chemical contribution of women in a traditionally male-dominated engineering, as well as metallurgy and mining technical industry. This is supported through our Human Resources services. Strategy and the Women in Mining Committee, established in 2017. An engagement session determined Comprehensive bursaries include a service-binding the main concerns, consolidated the women-in-mining contract after graduation for a period matching the structures, and agreed an overarching strategy and related duration of the studies. HDSAs and members of projects for the next three years. AMCU is set to appoint surrounding communities receive preference. Bursars representatives to the Committee in due course. enter Lonmin’s graduate-in-training programme after completing their studies. In 2018, women made up 9.4% of the full-time and fixed-term workforce, and 6.6% of core mining positions. Bursary distribution 2017 2018 Women employed Bursaries in place 44 40 Bursars from local 12 communities 22 20 10 Female bursars 19 16 9.1 9.1 9.4 HDSA bursars 36 34 8 8.2 8.8 Bursars absorbed into 6 6.3 6.4 6.6 Graduate-in-training % 5.4 6.0 programme 10 8 4 2 Employment equity and diversity 0 Lonmin recognises transformation as a business 14 (!) 15 16 17 18 imperative, and we are committed to cultivating a Women at Lonmin Women in core positions workforce that reflects the diversity in our country, and a working environment suitable for women. From 24 to 26 July 2018, the Communications Transformation and empowerment Department hosted a series of workshops at all shafts. The workshops, jointly facilitated by the Human Despite the moratorium on appointments due to cost Resources, Health and Safety, and Communications constraints, we are making good progress in improving Departments, create awareness around the Women in HDSA representation in management. HDSAs in Mining Policy. Lonmin focused on maternity, sexual management increased to 56.2%1 in 2018 (2017: 55.6%). harassment, career advancement, personal protective This remains above the Broad-based Socio-economic equipment, and safe underground ablution facilities. Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining and The workshops were conducted following a study within Minerals Industry (the Mining Charter II) target of 40%. the Platinum Belt by the Human Rights Commission Targets relating to transformation are included in the to reduce the unacceptably high levels of sexual Corporate Balanced Scorecard that is used to measure harassment in the mining industry. performance for the incentive scheme. 1 This figure excludes non-executive directors. / 27 Material focus area Employee Relationships An employment equity survey was completed during the The Lonmin Exco and Board has proposed a commitment year to gain an understanding of factors viewed by our of R420 million towards the Generation III SLP, employees to impact on employment equity. The survey (2019 to 2023) despite Lonmin’s financial difficulty. This will attracted more service department respondents than bring the total investment for our current (2014 – 2018) operational respondents which was not proportional to the and new SLPs (2019 – 2023) to approximately R1 billion. service to operational employee numbers within Lonmin. The Generation III SLP have been submitted to the DMR The respondent’s demographic profile did correlate to the and we are in discussion with them. South African demographics which are important when conducting an assessment on equity. We were encouraged Lonmin Facilitated Employee Home Owners by the open and passionate input from employees. From Programme (LFEHOP) the responses two clear needs were identified: The LFEHOP aims to address the accommodation requirements of employees. Another aim is to integrate –– A ­ need for regular and clear communication regarding plans for schools, clinics, transport hubs and other employment equity matters municipal infrastructure. Collaborative partnerships with –– A ­ need for establishment of a forum as platform to Government are central to the strategy. The LFEHOP is facilitate discussion. We are considering to establish an structured to provide: Employment Equity Forum –– Access to ownership at place of work via a range Accommodation and living conditions of options to acquire suitable accommodation, as well Lonmin acknowledges that living conditions influence our as options providing support to enable employees to employees’ and their families’ general wellbeing and ability transact effectively to focus and perform at work. Employees deserve decent –– Access to rental accommodation at place of work for living standards and should be able to decide how and those employees who cannot yet afford or choose not where they want to live. Their decision allows for to be home owners considerations such as personal circumstances, –– Access to ownership at place of origin by providing affordable and market-related rates, and integration into transactional support the broader society during their employment at Lonmin. Infill apartment project Lonmin committed R500 million towards employee housing and living conditions for 2014 to 2018 and has Lonmin developed 1,240 modern infill apartments. The spent in excess of R520 million. Of the R520 million project includes paving and landscaping to transform allocated for 2014 to 2018, Lonmin has spent open spaces into employee housing villages. R84.8 million on completing the hostel conversion We have developed the areas between converted hostel programme. Over and above this commitment, Lonmin blocks into apartment blocks. spends R475 million per year in living-out allowances to category 4 to 9 employees, and incurs an operating The infill programme has been completed and Lonmin cost for its rental stock of R57 million per year, after have a portfolio of 5,453 units to rent to employees mainly subsidisation. The average rental rate per housing unit in in Marikana and Mooinooi. 2018 was R385 per month. Single units represent 56% and family units 44% of all stock. Development phase Number of units Allotted units Status Phase 1 and 2 493 493 Complete: Apartments were allocated to category 4 to 9 employees who met registration criteria. Allocation was determined through the joint forum and provided on a first-come, first-served basis. Rental rates were agreed with unions and based on comprehensive benchmarking. Phase 3 300 300 Complete Phase 4 447 0 We have completed these units, with only minor activities to still take place such as landscaping. Occupancy is anticipated for February 2019. / 28 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Employee Relationships (continued) Marikana Housing Development Company project intervention instrument. The Inter-Ministerial Committee Lonmin has 1,149 two-bedroom homes managed by the (IMC) made up of the Presidency, National Department of Marikana Housing Development Company, a section 21 Human Settlements (DHS), Department of Planning non-profit company. These 45 m2 homes have been Monitoring and Evaluation (DPME) and the Department of available for employees for purchase or on a rent-to-buy Mineral Resources (DMR) has been tasked to implement scheme since 2005. These homes are valued at the programme through the HDA. approximately R80,000 each, including land, and are sold A delivery partnership opportunity presents itself whereby for R62,426 each. We are improving marketing and Lonmin can support the DoH’s implementation of the education programmes to encourage employees to defined human settlement initiatives and national purchase these houses. Affordability, indebtedness, and government’s mining town transformation initiative. access to mortgage funding create challenges. In 2018, The purpose of the delivery partnership is to enable 402 people (2017: 374) have taken ownership of these Lonmin and the HDA to jointly implement defined housing houses. initiatives in the Marikana and surrounding areas in full Collaboration projects alignment with the local municipalities and the province, this will improve current housing circumstances and Infrastructure development increase available accommodation opportunities for Lonmin wishes to create home ownership opportunities employees and the wider community. for its employees in an integrated way with the community. Similarly, government wishes to revitalise mining Lonmin has developed its LFEHOP to integrate with communities through its National Department of Housing’s Government’s STP so as to provide an integrated human settlement delivery. Lonmin provided support to refine the (DoH) Revitalisation of Distressed Mining Towns STP by compiling a Spatial Master Plan as a proposed Communities Programme. blueprint for public-private partnership and all other future The Special Presidential Package (SPP) aims to revitalise interventions regardless of whether the project takes the mining towns in a sustainable manner. The National form of an Integrated Residential Development Project Department of Human Settlements through the Housing (IRDP) or an Upgrading of Informal Settlements Project Development Agency (HDA) is in the process of finalising (UISP). A schematic of the partnership scheme is its Mining Town Spatial Transformation Plan (STP) as an shown below: RSA Government Partnership Lonmin Main co-operative agreement Developer Facilitate 1st project agreement Implementation lead Employee benefits Apply existing protocols Transactional support IRDP: UISP: (IGR/IMC/MINMEC/NDP) helpdesk (manage demand) Marikana X13 Nkaneng Spacial policy framework Release of bulk water (SDF/IDP/STP) capacity Affordable Owner Owner Secondary Contribute professional Funding housing builder upgrader market services (ad hoc) (IRDP/UISP/MIG/DMTP) BNGs Formalisation Services normalisation Government/Lonmin Delivery Partnership – Institutional Arrangements / 29 Material focus area Employee Relationships Acronym key for schematic partnership scheme on page 28 IGR: Inter-Governmental Relations IMC: Inter-Ministerial Committee MINMEC: Ministers and Members of Executive Council NDP: National Development Plan SDF: Spatial Development Framework IDP: Integrated Development Plan STP: Spatial Transformation Plan IRDP: Integrated Residential Development Programme UISP: Upgrade of Informal Settlements Programme MIG: Municipal Infrastructure Grant DMTP: Distressed Mining Town Programme BNGs: Breaking New Grounds Local procurement The infill apartment project contracts 100% black-owned companies from the surrounding community. To improve the success of local contractors who apply for, tender and execute these projects, Lonmin compiled a new contractor information pack and made it available through the Black Umbrella incubator in Mooinooi. Read more on page 44. Union relations Our employees have rights to collective bargaining, and freedom of association and representation. At year-end, 19,206 employees (83%) were members of various organised trade unions. AMCU represents 82.1% of full-time employees at year-end, making it the majority union. AMCU has collective bargaining rights; unrestricted access to the workplace; and rights to deductions, full-time shop stewards and office facilities on the Company’s premises, in terms of the Labour Relations Act. AMCU appointed new leadership during 2018, which involved a change in individuals who were previously presented on combined engagements structures. Union representation 0.0 0.2 (2017: 3.1) (2017: 2.5) 0.1 0.6 (2017: 4.6) (2017: 0.6) 17.0 (2017: 7.3) (%) 82.1 (2017: 81.9) AMCU No trade union National Union of Solidarity Mineworkers Chemical Energy Paper Printing United Association of Wood and Allied Workers Union South Africa / 30 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Safety and Health Key chapter takeaways One fatality (2017: 5) Section 54 stoppages reduction by 43% Noise Induced Hearing Loss increase of 53% OHSAS1 18001 Occupational Health and Safety management systems standard certification awarded to Generation 2 shafts Lonmin is committed to Zero Harm to employees and presents SHE matters at the highest operational level, contractors. We view safety as a proxy for good and the Chief Executive Officer is ultimately accountable performance and critical for our reputation as an employer. for the safety, health and wellbeing of all employees and Safety incidents are a key risk, as they can seriously or contractors when they are on-site. fatally injure employees or contractors. This can increase costs, damage Lonmin’s reputation and cause Line Managers are responsible for the safety of their interventions, such as work stoppages and Section 54 teams. Safety performance is analysed daily and circulated stoppages, which impact the Company’s ability to achieve to the Mine Managers Forum, the Operational Steering production and financial targets. We aim to ensure the Committee of the Board and Exco. Performance is necessary legislative controls and procedures are in place reported to the Board monthly and quarterly to the to ensure the safety and health of our workforce. SHE Committee of the Board. Lonmin’s Health Department implements our occupational health and Health and wellbeing are critical to improving quality wellness priorities. of life, morale, productivity, and safety performance. The prevalence of tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/Aids, among Lonmin has a formal agreement covering safety and health our employees is the biggest cause of in-service deaths. with the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Prolonged exposure to high levels of noise is also a Union (AMCU). The agreement defines how full-time and significant occupational health risk in the mining industry, part-time safety representatives are elected, trained and as it may lead to noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). appointed. We employ 29 full-time safety and health Lonmin’s primary health facilities serve more than representatives and 1,600 part-time health and safety 15,000 employees, contractors, and community members representatives throughout our operations. On-site Lonmin every month. We understand that the overall health and and AMCU safety representatives collaborate on safety wellness of an employee depends on a range of factors, audits and investigations at each mining operation. many of which arise outside the workplace. Considering Employees can bring safety and health concerns to this this, our safety awareness and healthcare initiatives structure. AMCU representatives play an important role include programmes that extend to our host communities. in communicating safety and health information back to employees. Accountability The responsibility to ensure a safe and healthy working Safety environment lies with every person working at Lonmin. Approach The safety and wellbeing of our employees is governed High standards of safety are integral to operational through Lonmin’s Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) excellence. Our Safety Strategy is based on preventing Strategy, supplemented by a range of internal policies and fatalities and injuries, and promoting a safe, highexternal frameworks. The Head of SHE and Sustainability performance operational culture. We entrench safety 1 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series / 31 Material focus area Safety and Health Promoting safety and health for employees and contractors principles and highlight safety matters at all operations. and manage potential risks and hazards. This guarantees that every employee has an exceptional The audits also identify ‘hot spots’ and high-risk areas. understanding of, and respect for, the importance of Contractors’ workplaces are also inspected according to workplace safety. Further to this, Lonmin’s incentive the same standards. schemes reward good safety performance. The Company The contractor safety management team provides safety, also trains all employees and contractors on safety and health, environment and quality (SHEQ) specifications and health practices upon induction and return from their documents on how to adhere to our standards. The Chief annual leave. Safety Officer for contractors works closely with the The Safety Department manages the safety aspects Company’s Procurement Department to make contractors of community projects and contractor management. aware of these requirements. Contractors in high-risk We assess contractor SHE practices during tender areas are allocated a single point of contact to drive adjudication, project execution, and on finalisation of proactive SHEQ measures. We perform regular safety contracts. Our safety and mining targets require audits on contractors working on-site, as well as safety communities and contractors to understand safety blitzes to focus on safety issues at operations. and health. Management teams’ Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) Lonmin’s Safety Life Rules are non-negotiable rules emphasises Company-wide safety. As part of VFL, senior including the risk areas causing the majority of fatal or management holds weekly safety meetings, regularly serious accidents. These rules form the core of safety inspects sites, and visits operational areas to encourage management and internal safety stoppages are imposed good safety practices. VFL promotes the ‘coach to if they are violated. correction’ approach as opposed to punitive measures. Underground demarcated green coaching areas support Forward energy models determine high-risk areas, and our the corrective behaviour approach. Members of senior operations direct their safety focus accordingly. Fall-ofmanagement can remove an employee from a potentially ground, scraping and rigging, truck and tramming, and unsafe situation to a green area and coach them on machine-related incidents remain major contributors to safe behaviour. serious accidents. Other safety risks in processing We have shifted our focus from reducing lost-time injuries operations include molten materials handling, explosives, (LTIs) to reducing all types of injuries. To this end, we and integrity risks around tailings dams, and sulphur introduced an electronic environment, health, and safety dioxide (SO2) emissions at our smelter. management system that records and analyses near-miss The Chief Safety Officers and union representatives reporting in our mining operations. Although analyses of regularly collaborate to perform cross-site audits that: these reports only recently began, there is a direct (i) verify the levels of compliance to Lonmin’s Fatal Risk correlation between near-miss incident root causes Control Protocols and Safety Life Rules and (ii) help identify and LTIs. / 32 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Safety and Health (continued) We apply the international OHSAS 18001 Occupational We continuously improve our safety initiatives to meet Health and Safety Management Systems standard at all our goal of Zero Harm. Our Generation 2 shafts are all on Generation 2 shafts to help our mining operations to millionaire status (1 million shifts worked without a fatality), manage, control and improve our safety and health risks. except for K3 shaft. Several processing plants have been LTI-free for one year or more. Lonmin is a member of local and international organisations where it learns best safety practices and This year, total injuries decreased from 882 to 781, and participates in the collective drive for safer mining. We LTIs decreased from 373 to 308. In 2017 we set a target to subscribe to and measure safety and health performance reduce our LTIs by 22.5% in 2018. We did not achieve this against the Mine Health and Safety Council (MHSC) target, as our LTIs reduced by 17%. Reported contractor milestones. We are a member of the Minerals Council injuries, as part of total injuries, decreased notably. of South Africa (MCSA) and through the International The 3082 LTIs resulted in 20,155 days lost, with most of Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), pay attention to these attributable to fall-of-ground, scraping and rigging, critical control management, preventing fatalities and and underground track-bound mobile machinery. 25.1% learning from peers. of all injuries were hand and finger-related, mostly among The 2017 ICMM’s annual safety data report1 showed a Rock Drill Operators, general workers, and Winch Drivers. clear decline in the LTI frequency rate (LTIFR) and total These incidents reduced significantly (by 27%) after a injury frequency rate (TIFR) in the mining industry worldcelebrity-hosted campaign regarding hand safety. The wide among ICMM members. African ICMM members LTIFR3 decreased by 11.5% from 2017 to 4.00 per million remain responsible for 55% of fatalities in the mining man hours worked. We believe the reduction in total industry. As an African business, we aim to learn from injuries and LTIs is due to our increased focus on proactive mining operations elsewhere and implement global safety management, safety culture and consequence industry best practice. management. The severity of injuries rate decreased by 9% to Performance 261.68 (2017: 286.61) which represents the total days Safety incidents lost to LTIs per million man hours worked. First aid cases We had one fatal accident at our K3 shaft on decreased to 103 (2017: 151) and medical treatment cases decreased to 473 (2017: 509). We celebrate having 30 September 2018, as a result from a fall-of-ground. had 88 white flag (no-injury) days in 2018 (2017: 78). We regret the incident and extend our condolences to the family of Mr Tembelani Manyana and lament their loss. Key stakeholders, including the Lonmin Chief Executive We will continue to focus on the implementation of our Officer, the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) and Safety Strategy to eliminate fatalities, and further AMCU leadership, jointly held monthly tripartite safety investigate this incident. meetings to emphasise improving safety performance. MCSA launched the National Day of Safety and Health in Mining 2018 campaign on 17 August. Lonmin, as one of the 66 members of MCSA, participated by hosting safety and health days at our operations. 1 ICMM Benchmarking 2017 safety data: progress of ICMM members. www.icmm.com/safetydata-2017. 2 Of the LTIs, 16 injured were women. Women made up 4% of the total LTIFR. 3 LTIFR: (LTIs (308) x 1,000,000 hours)/ 77,021,374.06 man hours. The LTIFR for women is 0.21. / 33 Material focus area Safety and Health The Company also launched a ‘Score a goal for safety’ Safety achievements soccer campaign across all operations. Employees are selected for outstanding safety performance, and stand a Noteworthy safety awards and milestones during 2018 chance to win prizes. include: Total5 recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) –– Achieved 15 months’ fatality-free; 10 million shifts without a fatality 1,200 18 –– Saffy Shaft – 6 million fatality-free shifts 1,000 15 –– K3 Shaft – 3 million fatality-free shifts 800 13.28 12.96 12 –– Rowland Shaft – 3 million fatality-free shifts total injuries 4B Shaft – 1 million fatality-free shifts 10.70 10.14 –– TRIFR 600 9 E3 Shaft – 1 million fatality-free shifts 8.20 –– 400 6 –– Assay Laboratory – 12 years LTI-free 200 3 532 1,162 1,066 882 781 –– Precious metal refinery (PMR) – 2 years LTI-free 0 EPL concentrator – 1 year LTI-free 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 –– TRIFR –– Ore transport – 1 year LTI-free Total injuries –– Rowland concentrator – 1 year LTI-free The ICMM reported a TRIFR of 3.926 in 2017. Lonmin was –– K3 concentrator – 1 year LTI-free the fifth largest contributor to TRIFRs in the surveyed Lonmin won four of seven categories at the 2018 group. Despite having recorded a decrease in 2018 MineSafe conference4: results, we further aim to close the gap between ourselves and the international industry average. South Africa is the –– Most improved mining company largest contributor to fatalities in the mining industry. The –– The JT Ryan Award – Lonmin (underground) industry root cause analysis indicates fall-off-ground in K3 Shaft Upper Group 2 (UG2) section underground mines or machinery and transportation as –– Year-on-year safety improvement award third place the main causes of fatalities. – Saffy Shaft upper section and Shaft Sinkers at K3 Shaft Five-year performance: LTIFR –– Best-in-class safety award – PMR fourth place and 600 6 third place Assay Laboratory 5.41 500 4.97 5 4.52 400 4.00 4 3.34 LTIFR LTIs 300 3 200 2 100 1 217 473 409 373 308 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 LTIs LTIFR Five-year performance: fatalities and fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) 6 0.06 0.06 5 0.05 0.05 4 0.04 0.04 fatalities 3 0.03 FIFR 4 Lonmin attended the MineSafe conference, jointly organised by The Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; Association of Mine 2 0.02 0.02 Managers South Africa; SA Colliery Managers’ Association; and 1 0.01 Metalforming Machinery Makers’ Association. Industry stakeholders 0.01 shared ideas on achieving Zero Harm in the South African mining 1 3 4 5 1 0 0.00 industry at the conference. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 5 These statistics reflect all fatalities, LTIs and medical treatment cases per the ICMM safety definitions. Fatalities FIFR 6 www.icmm.com/safetydata-2017. / 34 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Safety and Health (continued) Comparison of platinum industry – fatality rate1 12 months rolling 0.15 0.12 0.09 Fatality rate 0.06 0.03 0.00 Jan ’15 Feb ’15 Mar ’15 Apr ’15 May ’15 Jun ’15 Jul ’15 Aug ’15 Sep ’15 Oct ’15 Nov ’15 Dec ’15 Jan ’16 Feb ’16 Mar ’16 Apr ’16 May ’16 Jun ’16 Jul ’16 Aug ’16 Sep ’16 Oct ’16 Nov ’16 Dec ’16 Jan ’17 Feb ’17 Mar ’17 Apr ’17 May ’17 Jun ’17 Jul ’17 Aug ’17 Sep ’17 Oct ’17 Nov ’17 Dec ’17 Jan ’18 Feb ’18 Mar ’18 Apr ’18 May ’18 Jun ’18 Jul ’18 Aug ’18 Sep ’18 Lonmin Peer 1 Peer 2 Peer 3 Peer 4 Peer 5 Pt industry Safety stoppages Section 54 stoppages2 are becoming fewer, are of shorter duration, and thus have a lower impact on production. Lonmin won the JT Ryan award for underground Our operations had 24 Section 54 stoppages (2017: 42), operations at the MineSafe 2018 awards ceremony. a loss of 11.75 production days (2017: 86) and 19,826 tonnes of production (2017: 276,437 tonnes). We believe this reflects our safety performance, and our engagement efforts to improve our understanding of, and working relationship with, the DMR inspectorate, employees and unions. The DMR inspector can issue a Section 55 notice, which allows for corrective action. By allowing corrective action rather than stopping operations, the rhythm of the mine continues uninterrupted. This correlates directly with reduced injuries and time-effective turnarounds. If no corrective action is visible, the DMR can issue a Section 54 stoppage. Lonmin received 37 Section 55 notices. Employees receive Section 233 booklets and are informed of their right to withdraw from dangerous workplaces. 1 Source: Bushveld Safety Forum. 2 Where a DMR inspector believes that any practice or condition at a mine endangers the safety or health of any person at the mine, they are authorised to impose a Section 54 stoppage under the Mine Health and Safety Act (MHSA). 3 Section 23 of the MHSA gives employees the right to withdraw from any situation or area that they deem unsafe. / 35 Material focus area Safety and Health Health and wellbeing Approach Lonmin’s Health Strategy is designed to improve our employees’ and their families’ health and quality of life. Health and wellbeing are inherently linked to absenteeism, productivity and performance. Our healthcare services are implemented by our Health Department and cover occupational health and hygiene; primary healthcare; and emergency care. These are provided to Lonmin employees and contractors at the two clinics and a hospital at our Marikana operations, and a clinic at the PMR and Limpopo operations. Occupational health The identification and control of health and hygiene risks and hazards in the working and hygiene environment. This programme is based on risk assessments. It supports regulatory compliance and improves working conditions. It reduces the risk of hazardous exposures by monitoring employees’ exposure to harmful substances or environments. We perform medical surveillance (health assessments), and monitor all occupational diseases listed in terms of applicable legislation, including NIHL, occupational asthma, dermatitis, platinum salt sensitivity and silicosis. Where possible we treat employees, provide physiotherapy and occupational therapy, and assess functional capacity. We work with the International Platinum Group Metals Association to better manage platinum salt sensitivity and collaborate with the Mine Industry Occupational Safety and Health on noise pollution and airborne pollutant control initiatives. Primary healthcare Primary healthcare refers to accessible essential healthcare. Lonmin provides health services 24/7, 365 days a year from the hospital and clinics in Marikana. This includes managing chronic diseases in our workforce, including non-communicable diseases and, most materially, TB and HIV/Aids. Lonmin’s diagnosis, classification and treatment regimens for HIV/Aids and TB align with the South African Department of Health (DoH) and the DMR programme management guidelines. Medical treatment of HIV/Aids is supported by a wellness programme, which addresses the social and emotional effects of the disease through peer educators, awareness campaigns, and HIV/Aids counselling and testing (HCT). The TB Policy outlines the responsibilities of employers and employees, treatment, fitness to work, and training employees. Proactive health and wellbeing is promoted through our wellness programme initiatives, including health days, talk topics, access to a dietician, and an employee assistance programme. Emergency care The stabilisation and transportation to hospital of people with serious injuries and illnesses. Emergency care is offered 24/7 through the Emergency and Disaster Management Department and includes on-site ambulances. –– All catastrophic emergency risks are included in the Lonmin Code of Practice on Emergency Preparedness and Response. The code includes community emergency management planning and support and aims to mitigate the effects of a catastrophic emergency on the local community –– All our operations undergo emergency preparedness training. Bi-annual emergency drills test the effectiveness and readiness of emergency plans –– We conduct a comprehensive emergency preparedness audit annually to test our training interventions and compliance to current emergency procedures –– Relationships and service level agreements with local and Governmental authorities provide backup assistance in the event of major incidents and accidents Contractors undergo medical fitness assessments at the on-site contractor hub and receive induction, which includes training on Lonmin’s SHE procedures. On-site contractors can access our healthcare facilities. Where necessary, contractors are referred to appropriate health services for further medical care. The due diligence process when registering contractor vendors encourages them to offer medical aid to their employees. / 36 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Safety and Health (continued) Performance We spent R265 million on health programmes (2017: R250 million). The total investment increased due to inflationary costs and an increased uptake of healthcare programmes. In excess of 15,000 patients are treated monthly at our health facilities (19,500 visits) The number of women and children treated at our facilities increased 19% year-on-year 2.3% (524) of our employees are categorised as living with disabilities (2017: 1.6%) No new cases of occupational asthma, dermatitis or platinum salt sensitivity were diagnosed during the year 3,914 (2017: 3,974) patients were listed on chronic disease registers other than anti-retroviral treatment (ART) Noise-induced hearing loss Lonmin implements its multi-disciplinary approach to At the time of the change of legislation in 2003, we NIHL through administrative controls, awareness training, recorded baseline hearing tests. An investigation revealed engineering controls and hearing protection devices. The that several baselines were incorrectly tested, and hearing Hearing Conservation Committee continues to review and shifts were calculated from an incorrect reference point. investigate opportunities to reduce noise exposure and This constitutes 78% of NIHL cases reported (2017: 33%), prevent NIHL. Lonmin revised the audiometric testing and similar cases will be reported as they are identified. procedure to include the measurement of standard threshold shifts in accordance with the MHSC milestone HIV/Aids for noise. HIV/Aids-related diseases remain the biggest cause of in-service deaths (55) at Lonmin, although this was We did not achieve our 2018 target reduction rate of 6%, 44% less than 2017. The prevalence of HIV/Aids is as 78 new cases of NIHL were diagnosed (2017: 37). This estimated at 25% in the country. In 2018 Lonmin upward trend followed an increase in the average age in tested 22,747 employees and contractors for HIV/Aids, our patient profile. Our target reduction rate will remain at of whom 10% tested positive (2017: 8%). 6%. We investigate all NIHL cases showing greater than 5% loss of hearing shift, and cases compensated are ART is available to any patient who requires medical shown in the graph below: intervention and who is committed to taking the medication. Patients are treated, given consultations, Five-year performance: NIHL diagnosis and compensation and monitored. for employees Following encouragement to seek early treatment, the 210 number of patients participating in the ART programme 175 increased by 3.4% (from a restated baseline to exclude employees who took voluntary severance packages: 4,590) 140 in 2018 to 4,744, as early treatment is encouraged. At number 105 present the annual medical cost to the Company is estimated to be R7,829 per person. 70 35 66 49 199 108 72 104 37 44 78 67 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 New NIHL cases diagnosed NIHL cases compensated / 37 Material focus area Safety and Health Despite the earlier initiation of ART, improvements in the their medication, they are flagged when clocking in, and treatment success rate, prophylactic treatment to prevent prevented from starting work until they have visited the related infections such as TB, and the ongoing focus on clinic. Patients start ART through the HIV/Aids wellness health education and counselling – some employees programme as soon as possible, regardless of their remain reluctant to start treatment or default on treatment. CD4 count. Patients who default on chronic medication, including ART, To assist with HCT and awareness campaigns, we have experience preventable health deterioration and decreased 206 active workplace peer educators, against the 2018 quality of life. We achieved the 2018 target of less than 3% target of 200. We held three events to raise awareness of patients defaulting from ART. If patients do not collect around HIV/Aids and access to HCT. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Diagnosed and treated TB cases 436 462 411 330 227 HIV/Aids-related deaths 97 119 72 98 55 HCT conducted 17,964 16,301 18,372 23,820 22,747 Patients on ART 3,666 4,167 4,483 4,843 4,744 Tuberculosis Trauma and emergency care We diagnosed and treated 227 new cases of TB, including Road accidents (non-work related) resulted in eight six cases of multi-drug-resistant TB, while no cases of (2017: eight) fatalities, four (2017: six) of whom worked extreme drug-resistant TB were recorded. 75% of new TB at Lonmin. The Emergency and Disaster Management cases were among HIV-positive employees. Our cure and Department responded to 319 roadside accidents, treatment completion rate was 89.4% (2017: 87.6%), 161 of which took place near the mine property. which exceeded our 2018 target of 87%. Lonmin also has proto-teams2 and surface rescue teams To improve completion rates, medical facilities who volunteer for emergency services. Proto-teams continuously communicate with patients to remind them responded to six proto-incidents this year, of which four of treatment collection and early diagnosis. As with ART, were off-mine incidents. Together, proto-teams and TB patients who do not collect treatment are prevented surface rescue teams responded to 19 calls on and off from clocking in at work until treatment is collected. Clinics mine property. proactively contact patients if they do not come to the 4,471 people received first aid training (2017: 4,874), of clinic to take their treatment for three days in the intensive whom 99 were from surrounding communities. 797 people phase of treatment. received basic firefighting training (2017: 1,004), including Health workers and community volunteers implement employees and contractors. contact tracing for every TB patient at the workplace and in communities, (refer to page 42), and verify that patients are taking treatment. TB patients who leave the Company are referred to TEBA Limited1 to complete their treatment course, and Lonmin is kept informed of the outcome. Medically repatriated employees are referred to TEBA for home-based care. TEBA supports and regularly visits about 78 former employees. 1 TEBA Limited is a labour recruitment and management service provider that offers additional services to the mining industry on human resources, social and financial issues during and after employment. 2 Proto-team refers to a team of workers trained to perform underground rescues. Proto teams are trained to fight fires, perform underground rescues, and perform car extrications. / 38 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Community Relationships and Investment Key chapter takeaways Three roads upgraded in communities at a cost of R21 million More direct and open interactions with host communities Two school infrastructure projects completed Our commitment to corporate citizenship defines our duty and reports to the Chief Executive Officer. The Social, to the wellbeing and development of the communities that Ethics and Transformation (SET) Committee of the Board support our operations. monitors progress against transformation, stakeholder relations and community development goals. We strive to maintain a sound relationship and open lines of communication with our communities to avoid Approach unrealistic or unmet expectations, and any resulting Lonmin aims to address some of the critical socioconflict, unrest or disrupted operations. We aim to create economic challenges facing the surrounding communities a more predictable and stable operating environment and labour-sending areas. Our strategic approach to where we can reach our long-term strategic goals. identifying and meeting the needs of these communities Accountability aligns with our corporate citizenship agenda, community investment programme and legislative requirements. The Executive Vice-President of Stakeholder Engagement and Regulatory Affairs co-ordinates Lonmin’s community Lonmin’s community focus areas include education, development commitments and community engagements health, and mine community economic development. Education Education changes lives and we invest in its value chain – from early childhood development (ECD), school infrastructure and sport development, to supporting students at tertiary level. We conduct baseline assessments before commencing projects, specifically in the case of school infrastructure projects and ECD centres, to accurately measure the impact of these projects. Health Our strategy is to invest in health infrastructure projects to provide quality healthcare services to the communities of Marikana, Lebowakgomo (Limpopo) and in the Eastern Cape, in partnership with the Department of Health, local government and other stakeholders. Mine community We aim to upskill communities to take full advantage of economic opportunities. We train economic members of local communities, to develop a pipeline of possible future skilled employees and development increase opportunities for local procurement. These transferable skills can be used for future community development projects. Economic development includes procurement adjudication to preferentially weighted suppliers with good broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) credentials, female representation and, where possible, companies from the surrounding communities. Certain procurement areas are ring-fenced for local community and black economic empowerment (BEE) suppliers only. / 39 Maintaining our social licence to operate Material focus area Community Relationships and investing in the community and Investment We select projects and investments that are in line with Performance local municipal Integrated Development Plans (IDPs1). We invested R59.49 million (2017: R80.56 million) in Municipalities determine these IDPs with relevant community projects that form part of Western Platinum Government departments, who in turn, aligned their Limited (WPL) and Eastern Platinum Limited (EPL) SLPs. focus areas to South Africa’s National Development Plan These projects are managed by the project management (NDP) priorities. office. We monitor progress on these projects, against the Rand value spent on community SLP projects mine community economic development Social and Labour Plan (SLP) targets determined at the start of the 90,000 projects. We report findings to the SET Committee of the Board, and annually to the Department of Mineral 75,000 communities (R’000) Resources (DMR). 60,000 To manage community relations and engagement, 45,000 Stakeholder Engagement Officers interact with 30,000 representatives from local communities through formalised 47,673 62,552 52,063 80,558 59,487 structures. Community members and other stakeholders 15,000 can raise complaints with the Company through these 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 channels and through the Buang Le Rona grievance mechanism (page 14). Thus far, most grievances relate to Project spend in South African Rand against approved budget unemployment and procurement opportunities as reported (health, education and social infrastructure) WPL and EPL on page 44. Socio-economic development initiatives depend on co-operation with local Government. This makes them viable, sustainable, and aligned with the NDP, regional IDPs and other Government-driven community initiatives. 1 IDPs map out short, medium and long-term plans for communities, including spatial planning, economic development and infrastructure development. / 40 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Community Relationships and Investment (continued) A breakdown of community financial investment is provided below. This expenditure includes investment over and above the SLP community projects. 2017 2018 Financial investment in communities1 Rm Rm Community education programme (in schools) 20.3 5.0 Skills development (mining skills, portable skills training, technical skills, community study assistance and learnerships for communities) 10.1 14.3 Sports, arts and culture 1.0 3.0 Community health programmes (including school nutrition programme spend) 17.7 7.2 Basic community services 35.0 29.9 Supplier development 5.5 5.1 Other corporate social investment-related spend (career guidance, community transport and sanitation – refurbishing of ablution facilities – and CSI projects in Limpopo) 13.2 38.9 Total 102.8 103.4 Community education Lonmin has several programmes to help learners in –– Handed over the Sethwethwa School in Limpopo surrounding communities improve their education and project to the Limpopo Department of Education on pass rates. Our skills development programmes aim to 20 April 2018. We invested R3 million in upgrading equip school leavers with the skills to find work in the the school and building new classrooms, as part of mining industry or to become entrepreneurs. the Limpopo SLP Since 2007, Lonmin has supported the infrastructure –– Other infrastructure projects include the electrical needs of 28 schools in surrounding communities, including upgrades at the education centre and student homes additional classrooms, mobile classrooms, electricity in Mooinooi, and upgrades to the ablution facilities at upgrades, sporting facilities, and ablution facilities. Since St Teresa School in Bapong 2010, Lonmin has provided 82 classrooms to local –– Site establishment commenced for a new school schools, with upgraded ablution facilities. Progress during (Leokeng school) building in Bapong 2018 includes: –– Groundwork on the Segwaelane and Marikana sports –– Finished constructing and handed over the new field projects commenced primary school in Marikana for 680 learners Lonmin constructed a new primary school in Marikana. 1 This includes programmes over and above SLP projects for WPL and EPL, and excludes overhead costs and donations. / 41 Material focus area Community Relationships Programmes Programme Details of programme 2018 update Supplementary curriculum The Ithuteng Saturday school programme is aimed at 147 learners participated in the and Investment (Ithuteng) high-potential students in grades 9 to 12. It offers programme (2017: 105) tutoring students in mathematics, English and science. Examination preparedness The EPS programme gives extra classes to learners in 389 learners participated in the and support (EPS) grades 11 and 12 in all subjects in a bid to improve programme (2017: 396) programme grade 12 pass rates. General preparedness The general preparedness programme is a one-year 49 students were identified from programme residential programme that supports students eight high schools in Marikana; applying to tertiary institutions, or for engineering and six high schools in Limpopo learnerships to transition to tertiary education. were supported by the programme (2017: 50) Mining-related skills Young adults with a minimum of Adult Education and 64 cadets completed the training programme Training (AET) level 4 are trained in Competent B skills (2017: 114) and are provided with four months of ‘on-the-face’ training with underground production crews. Community portable skills Community members obtain a portable skill (such as 81 community members bricklaying, crop farming or cosmetology). received portable skills training (2017: 165) Community AET Community members are given the opportunity to 164 community members increase their numeracy and literacy to AET level 4. received AET training (2017: 76) Our support extends to 81 high-potential students Many children cannot access formal education, and are studying non-mining or mining-related fields who are cared for in informal day-care facilities. Lonmin supports unable to access bursary opportunities. A number of these 65 (2017: 62) ECD facilities by providing 180 (2017: 177) students obtain financial assistance once they are ECD educators with basic skills to provide 2,710 (2017: registered students. Lonmin provided differential aptitude 2,777) children with the foundations required to begin tests to 240 top-performing grade 9 learners from 12 high their formal schooling. During the year 10 (2017: 15) schools in the Eastern Cape. More information on our new educators attended ECD level 5 accredited training. bursaries and graduates can be found on page 26. Lonmin holds parent open days to create an While Lonmin and certain of our contractors absorb some understanding of the programme’s Lonmin offers. graduates, we were unable to employ all graduates due to This ensures that learners are given the proper motivation financial constraints, the orderly closure of shafts, and and support by their families. retrenchment. Sport, arts and culture development Around 2,500 learners use Company-sponsored buses to Lonmin sponsors an annual school sports tournament commute to and from school, including trips to community for 30 schools in the communities around Marikana, in church groups, choirs, and sporting events. The Company which approximately 163 sports teams participate. contributes approximately R14 million per year to The Company supports various other sports tournaments community transport. and provides ad hoc assistance to individuals and teams who qualify for district, provincial and national Educator and parent support competitions. Lonmin supports school educators with in-class and off-site workshops, as there is a direct correlation between Community health educator skills and learner outcomes. During 2018, Lonmin’s community health projects focus on creating 46 (2017: 40) educators attended these workshops in awareness around health issues and, where possible, surrounding communities and in Lebowakgomo, Limpopo. additional infrastructure development. The Company spent Nine educators received study assistance to advance R7.2 million on community health initiatives during 2018 their qualifications. (2017: R17.7 million). / 42 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Community Relationships and Investment (continued) Health infrastructure projects Lonmin invests in health infrastructure projects that new accommodation to house vulnerable women and make basic healthcare more accessible to surrounding children. The facilities are under construction. The communities. Municipal approval and re-zoning Reteng non-profit organisation is under construction in processes are complex and affect our planned timelines Segwaelane. It will cater to elderly and disabled people of projects. 2018 health infrastructure projects includes: who are engaged in income-generating initiatives –– Commitment to constructing a forensic mortuary, Lonmin provided emergency medical services training to pending conclusion of tender processes 147 Department of Health employees on basic and –– Planned extension to the Majakaneng clinic is awaiting advanced life support. municipal approval Community wellness –– The Department of Health approved the Marikana Tuberculosis and HIV/Aids Health Centre’s extension to a community health centre Our HIV/Aids wellness programme in the Marikana community aligns with the recommendations of the –– Refurbishment of the Sonop old age home to benefit Department of Health by focusing on home HIV/Aids 206 elderly community members started in July 2018. counselling and testing (HCT) and Tuberculosis (TB) The project will refurbish wards, laundry areas, improve contact tracing. This initiative is crucial in minimising the counsellor’s office, and acquire new wheelchairs the high incidence of HIV/Aids and TB in mines –– We have an SLP commitment to support a multiand communities. purpose health centre. Lonmin identified the Grace Health Centre in Mooinooi as a candidate to finance Community wellness North West – ­ 22 volunteers – ­Andrew Saffy Hospital: 219 referrals, Limpopo 169 TB traces, 2 positive results – 15 volunteers – ­8,316 clinic referrals, – 3,481 peer educator 2,898 pap smears sessions – ­5,716 HIV/Aids tests, – 9,644 community 9% positive results members reached – 197,879 male condoms dispensed – 6,707 female condoms dispensed Eastern Cape – 21 volunteers – 231 patients received care – 59 orphaned children received care – 27 TB patients on directly observed treatments / 43 Material focus area Community Relationships General health promotion Road infrastructure Lonmin runs various health promotion initiatives in the Lonmin completed the upgrade of three roads in the Bapo Marikana community to raise awareness among learners communities (Newtown 1.2 km, Oustad 890 m and and Investment and out-of-school youth about issues such as sexual Leokeng 740 m) – an investment of R21 million. health, HIV/Aids, TB, substance abuse and teenage pregnancy. Programmes include support for school peer Waste removal educators to raise awareness about these issues and The waste and refuse management project started in 2012 encourage young people to access health facilities, where to serve 37,000 households in local communities through necessary. Lonmin dispenses sanitary towels at the a tri-sector partnership between Government, Lonmin community’s schools to improve attendance. and local communities. The project assures a cleaner environment, creates local jobs, and supports enterprise Teenage pregnancy remains a national challenge. development. We continue engagements with various According to the South Africa Demographic and Health parties to find viable options to continue the project. Survey of 2016, as presented in the Key Indicators Report1, the percentage of teenagers aged 15 – 19 Public safety and security bearing children was 16%, showing little change since Lonmin installed two new high mast lights at Marikana as 1998. The percentage of women bearing children at age well as a light in Modderspruit and Bapong respectively. 15 is 4% then increasing rapidly to 28% at age 19. Lonmin We also repaired vandalised lights in Wonderkop. believes that intervention in the communities is essential to addressing this challenge. Enterprise development and procurement Health promotion initiatives at community primary schools Lonmin’s commitment to transformation is embedded focus on child protection, including issues such as child in our business processes. The Broad-based Socioneglect/abuse, personal hygiene, human trafficking, economic Empowerment Charter for the South African and bullying. Mining and Minerals Industry (the Mining Charter) promotes transformation in the mining industry by placing Nutrition and food gardens certain target requirements on companies. We recognise nutrition’s role in physical and mental development, and support the Department of Basic BEE equity ownership Education’s national school nutrition programme. Lonmin Lonmin concluded three BEE transactions with local established five food centres in Marikana and two in communities in November 2014. Through these Limpopo that feed 613 orphaned and vulnerable children. transactions Lonmin met the ‘26% BEE ownership by We train community members on how to cultivate food in 31 December 2014’ target as required by the Mining their home gardens. Lonmin hosts an annual competition Charter II. These transactions help develop and improve that encourages participating schools and households to communities, and align their interests with those of establish the best and most productive gardens. employees and shareholders Mine community economic development Bapo procurement Bulk water infrastructure In terms of the 2014 BEE transaction, Lonmin was to incur R200 million in procurement spend with Bapo entities. Lonmin distributes 8.7 Ml of bulk water per day to formal We exceeded this amount by R1.45 billion. Governance and informal households in areas of Wonderkop. Lonmin’s within the Bapo entities that manage these contracts Rand Water supply provided 3,172,262 m3 of potable remains a work in progress. water during 2018. Lonmin works closely with the local water authority, the Community trusts Madibeng Local Municipality and the Department of Water Lonmin established two separate community trusts in and Sanitation to identify sustainable water solutions for 2014. Each trust holds 0.9% of the ordinary shares in host communities, including exploring alternative methods Lonplats2, and is entitled to dividend payments which to source and store bulk water. have been mandated for upliftment projects in the respective communities. Since inception, the trust has The German Development Corporation supports disbursed a total of R30 million to each trust. Madibeng local municipality. Lonmin’s water infrastructure development initiatives will need to align to the German Development Corporation Bulk Water Master Plan once complete. 1 https://www.statssa.gov.za/publications/Report%2003-00-09/Report%2003-00-092016.pdf. 2 EPL and WPL (together referred to as “Lonplats”). / 44 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Community Relationships and Investment (continued) Enterprise development Enterprise development initiatives provide financial and Discretionary1 procurement totalled R8.03 billion in 2018 non-financial support to small businesses to foster (2017: R7.87 million) across 1,738 suppliers. 18% of entrepreneurship, employment, and economic growth in procurement is non-discretionary. local communities, and so they improve our preferential Lonmin reviews its top-200 suppliers every month to procurement pool. assess BEE compliance and areas for improvement. The A small business incubation centre in Mooinooi, supplier adjudication process requires sign-off on B-BBEE established in partnership with the Black Umbrellas, credentials by cross-functional teams. Our vendor portal facilitates these programmes. The centre creates consists of more than 60,000 local vendors, including the opportunities for local community members who want small enterprises being incubated through the Black to transact with the Company. Umbrellas. We are reviewing our Preferential Procurement Policy to align it to the requirements of the Mining Charter The Black Umbrellas promote entrepreneurship and III, and to renew our focus on local supplier development. support 100% black-owned businesses during their first three years of existence. The programme provides training, Our Procurement Department collaborates with the mentorship, business plan development and access to Enterprise Development Department to develop local practical resources, including office space at the Lonmin suppliers, particularly talented black youth and womencommunity office and IT resources. Lonmin’s Procurement owned suppliers/manufacturers. Department communicates the Company’s procurement needs, and the Black Umbrellas develop a database of Procurement with locally based suppliers robust, accredited vendors. Locally based suppliers 2017 2018 The key statistics from the inception of the Mooinooi Total value spent on local incubator include: procurement R3.56 billion* R3.64 billion* –– Businesses in full incubation: 84 (11 incubated in 2018) Amount spent with suppliers based within –– Permanent jobs created: 858 (52 created in 2018) surrounding communities R1.01 billion* R1.2 billion* Preferential procurement Number of new suppliers The Mining Charter II sets targets of procuring 70% of registered as vendors services, 50% of consumable goods and 40% of capital from surrounding goods from Historically Disadvantaged South African (HDSA) communities 13 12 owned suppliers. Lonmin recognises the importance of actively involving citizens who were previously excluded from Total spend with new vendors* the mainstream economy and we have exceeded these Vendors 2017 2018 procurement targets and seek to comply with the Mining Charter III’s more stringent requirements. Lonmin is aligning Black-owned R94.94 million R163.36 million all procurement activities to comply with the targets over the Non-BEE R57.75 million R51.45 million next five years. Other R2.1 million R14.46 million Preferential procurement performance R154.79 million R229.27 million * Inclusive of VAT. 90 75 60 % 45 30 15 67 67 68 64 74 76 57 73 77 55 70 75 59 64 76 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Capital goods (Target: 40) Consumable goods (Target: 50) Services (Target: 70) 1 Discretionary procurement is expenditure that can be influenced by a company. It excludes spend over which Lonmin has no discretion, such as procurement from the public sector and public enterprises. Material focus area Community Relationships and Investment / 45 / 46 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Managing Environmental Impacts and Opportunities Key chapter takeaways Remediation and rehabilitation are underway to address a level 4 environmental incident at the bulk tailings treatment pipeline 78,155 MWh saved through energy-efficiency programmes Research and trial study approaches to minimisation of various hazardous waste streams to landfill Mining and metal processing are resource-intensive and is aligned and implemented across all operations. directly impact the environment by using water and Environmental risks are incorporated into risk registers, energy, as well as dispersing waste, dust, and greenhouse and corporate and operational teams review them. They gases (GHGs). It is critical that mining operations optimise present the results of these reviews to the SHE and Audit how they use input resources. Our operations are in areas and Risk Committees of the Board. where access to secure energy and water supply are a A range of internal and external audits regularly monitor potential risk and demand exceeds supply. This is and verify the integrity of our certified ISO 14001 compounded by the rapid growth in neighbouring towns Environmental Management System (EMS) and our overall and community settlements that continue the pressure on environmental performance. All operations maintained their bulk water and energy supply. ISO 14001 certification in 2018 and upgraded to the 2015 Increasing environmental regulations have direct and standard. indirect financial impacts on the Company. We see legislative compliance as a minimum, and aim to minimise Approach our impact and continually improve our environmental We are committed to the principles and position performance. Lonmin takes a precautionary approach1 statements of the ICMM and integrate these requirements to environmental management and we have plans to into our EMS. Performance against a range of internal mitigate or remediate our impacts where necessary. environmental indicators, objectives and targets is tracked monthly by the Environmental Department. These reports Accountability are communicated to the operations, the Executive The Chief Executive Officer takes ultimate responsibility Committee (Exco) and the Board. for environmental performance, supported by the Safety, Increasing environmental regulatory requirements, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee of the Board, legislation and amendments, and pending regulations are the Executive Committee (Exco) and senior corporate and increasingly time consuming, complex, and costly. operational management. Non-compliance poses the risk of financial penalties and Lonmin has an Environmental Department within the SHE reputational damage. Each material environmental area is and Sustainability Department, comprising disciplinesubject to different external regulations. specific specialists who ensure the Environmental Strategy 1 Examples of precautionary approach are included in the GRI index: https://www.lonmin.com/sustainable-development/sustainable-development-overview. / 47 Material focus area Managing Environmental Managing our environmental footprint Impacts and Opportunities Our approach to managing each material environmental area, and the strategies and legislation governing them include: Water Our Water Conservation and Demand Management Strategy aims to secure sufficient access to water, optimise fresh and process water consumption and use, use alternative water sources, and consider community water needs. This strategy is supported by our Water Policy and Integrated Water and Waste Management Plans. Our water management programme includes groundwater modelling, water level, surface and groundwater monitoring, toxicity testing, and biomonitoring. Our operations have an extensive water monitoring programme in place. Sampling and analyses (by accredited laboratories) are conducted through an independent service provider. Lonmin reports unplanned discharge incidents to the relevant regulatory authority. Corrective actions are implemented based on a root cause analysis and tracked through our management systems. We participate in the water CDP1 programme accessible at www.cdp.net/en. Energy Through our Energy Management Strategy (aligned with SANS 5001), we manage, track and report energy consumption, efficiency and management projects. A holistic web-based energy management system identifies new opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reductions. In this regard, we focus on compressed air and ventilation facilities, because these facilities comprise a significant component of our total energy footprint. Air An atmospheric emissions licence regulates Lonmin’s various processing activities, for regulated pollutants, inclusive of sulphur dioxide (SO2). Our processes are supported by Emission Reduction Management Plans. Total suspended particles (TSPs) are generated by tailings facilities, transportation on paved and unpaved roads, mining activities such as drilling and blasting, materials handling, crushing and screening. Lonmin has TSP controls in place, including vegetation growth, surface sweeping and chemical and water suppression. 2018 marked the first mandatory reporting requirements for Greenhouse Gases through the NEMAQA2. Reporting was undertaken to the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA). 1 Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project. 2 National Environmental Management: Air Quality Act, 39 of 2004. / 48 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Managing Environmental Impacts and Opportunities (continued) Climate change Lonmin addresses climate change primarily through water, energy and waste approaches, which are outlined in this section. Lonmin is engaging through the Minerals Council with government on carbon tax matters. Forecasts of the likely impact of carbon tax are built into the Life of Business Plan of Lonmin’s Strategy. We participate in the climate change CDP programme, and in 2018 we submitted our 13th consecutive CDP report, available at www.cdp.net/en. Waste Our approach to waste management is guided by our General and Hazardous Waste Management Standard, Mineral Waste Management Standard, Integrated Water and Waste Management Plans, as well as on-site procedures. We apply the waste hierarchy and duty-of-care principle. All our operations separate waste for recycling and re-use at source, with secondary sorting at our salvage yards. Where reusing waste is unachievable, we prioritise reducing it, consider alternatives for disposal to landfill, and use fewer resources to reduce our environmental impact. We dispose of our waste streams responsibly to licensed waste facilities. Waste classifications and landfill assessments take place as per the Waste Classification and Management Regulations. Safety data sheets provide information regarding responsible handling and management of our waste streams to transporters and end users. We conduct third-party audits on external hazardous waste management facilities’ compliance and adherence to the duty of care of our hazardous waste from cradle to cradle/grave. Biodiversity and land We do not operate in high-biodiversity or environmentally sensitive areas. Our Marikana and Limpopo operations are in areas that NEMBA1 lists as vulnerable ecosystems2, and are managed in accordance with our Land and Biodiversity Management Standard, Biodiversity Action Plan and specific discipline-related procedures. We constantly update our heritage site inventory, which lists over 170 heritage sites, including archaeological sites and graves. We aim to leave a legacy of sustainable closure. Our Closure and Rehabilitation Plans are being aligned with the new NEMA3 Financial Provision Regulations, including the requirements of the Rehabilitation Plan. Engaging with stakeholders: An environmental Performance perspective Environmental compliance Environmental engagement mechanisms include: Lonmin commissioned an external audit for an –– A database of interested and affected parties is in independent opinion on the Company’s environmental place for environmental management legal compliance. The audit reported no significant –– A formal grievance mechanism which is audited deviations. The annual ISO 14001 surveillance audits annually as part of ISO 14001 reported opportunities for improvement and no non–– 24/7 environment-specific emergency hotlines are in conformances in 2018. The four ISO 14001 certificates place at Marikana and the Precious Metal Refinery were successfully upgraded to the ISO 14001:2015 (PMR) standard ahead of the transition cut-off date. As part of our self-regulatory framework, Lonmin undertakes internal –– The Buang Le Rona community grievance system environmental KPI audits every six months to verify –– Structured engagements with communities and compliance against legal and ISO 14001 requirements. regulatory authorities Regular audits allow us to continually improve and comply with these requirements. Lonmin received no fines or directives in terms of environmental compliance. 1 National Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act, 10 of 2004. 2 Vulnerable ecosystems are those that have a high risk of significant degradation of ecological structure, function or composition as a result of human intervention, although they are not critically endangered ecosystems of endangered ecosystems per section 52(2) of NEMBA. 3 National Environmental Management Act, 107 of 1998. / 49 Material focus area Managing Environmental Seven environmental incidents were reported for 2018. Six of these are classified as level 31 and one as a level 4. Impacts and Opportunities Regrettably, the level 4 environmental incident took place on 26 February 2018 at the bulk tailings treatment pipeline, due to the failure of the gasket on the flange of the pipeline. Further investigation determined that the slurry entered a tributary of the Maretlwana River. Approximately 4,000 tonnes of slurry spilled into the environment, of which a portion entered the water course. This water body is not designated as a protected area. Lonmin submitted a Rehabilitation Plan to the DMR, which was approved. The rehabilitation should be complete in 2019. Environmental incidents 2018 Impact of Description Level Location Materials the spill Corrective action Rowland Corner dam 3 Smelter Process water Potential land and Upgrade of the pumping and discharge surface water impact reticulation system to ensure adequate re-use of water (10 October 2017) Desilting of the containment Rowland Corner dam 3 Smelter Process water facility discharge (30 January 2018) Bulk tailings slurry spill 4 Concentrators Tailings slurry Land and surface Cleaned area of spill, water impact rehabilitated and remediated (26 February 2018) impacted area Rowland Corner dam 3 Smelter Process water Potential land and Upgrade of the pumping and discharge surface water impact reticulation system to ensure adequate re-use of water (7 March 2018) Desilting of the containment facility Bulk tailings slurry spill 3 Concentrators Tailings slurry Land and surface water impact (3 September 2018) Cleaned area of spill, Bulk tailings slurry spill 3 Concentrators Tailings slurry Land and surface rehabilitated and remediated water impact (7 September 2018) impacted area Rowland concentrator 3 Concentrators Tailings slurry Land and surface tailings line water impact (30 September 2018) Water management Freshwater intake Our operations are located in water-stressed areas with current and future water demand requirements, which demand for water expected to exceed supply. We use an include community water needs. The model simulates how integrated water balance system to inform decisions about water is used and managed on-site, and determines water water use and manage the transfer of water from wateruse requirements in line with our Life of Business Plan. positive areas to water-deficit areas within operations. The Targets are in place for all business units in terms of levels of containment facilities are further incorporated into potable water use. These are continuously tracked and the system to ensure water levels are maintained. Our monitored. Our five-year target for the period 2018 to 2022 site-wide simulation model provides critical insight to our A level 3 environmental incident is defined as an incident that results in a moderate impact on the environment, where natural processes are notably altered 1 but continue in a modified way. Level 3 incident impacts are reversible within the lifetime of the operation and are confined to mine property. Level 4 incidents have a significant impact on the environment, but are reversible within the lifetime of the operations. Level 4 or 5 incidents are reported to regulatory authorities in terms of section 30 of NEMA and section 20 of the National Water Act, 36 of 1998. / 50 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Managing Environmental Impacts and Opportunities (continued) is to reduce third-party water consumption for the the Pandora operations for operational use, with a Marikana and PMR operations by 10% from the 2017 significant portion routed to support the bulk tailings baseline. Targets are in place for all business units in treatment project. alignment to the Group target. In 2018 we submitted an administrative amendment to The bulk of our freshwater intake is at our Marikana the Marikana water use licence (WUL), which is pending operations, making up 89.4% of our total freshwater approval. We further received the WUL for two storm consumption (7,338,575 m3). During 2018 we water containment facilities at the PMR, and the WUL commenced with the abstraction of groundwater from for Pandora. Total freshwater consumption in m3 for 2018 per source and water quality category3 Third-party Produced Operational area Surface water Groundwater water water Total Marikana 185,420 Not yet reported1 6,775,460 n/a 7,338,575 Pandora n/a 377,695 n/a 377,695 Baobab (Limpopo) n/a 823,446 n/a n/a 823,446 PMR n/a n/a 47,284 n/a 47,284 Total 185,420 1,201,141 6,822,744 – 8,209,305 Freshwater (<1,000 mg/litre total dissolved solids) We participated in the ICMM roundtable workshops for the final effluent for operational processes. Our facilities are collective action in respect of water management. registered within the Department of Water and Sanitations’ Greendrop Certification Programme. We are authorised to Key water management initiatives for 2018 included storm discharge final effluent in the event of a positive water water management, projects related to supply (drilling of balance with standards for quality set by the Department boreholes in the anthropogenic aquifers), demand and of Water and Sanitation (DWS). supply management, distribution (metering, calibration, reticulation infrastructure). We also updated our dynamic The PMR continues to optimise the reverse osmosis water balance model. plant to treat contaminated storm water. The reverse osmosis project at the PMR delivered approximately Total freshwater consumption (’000 m3) and fresh water intensity (m3/PGMoz) 15,875 million m3 of treated storm water for re-use in 9.0 9,000 operations. 8,326 8,209 7.5 8,044 7,500 In total, we recycled and re-used 14.1 million m3 7,605 6,206 (2017: 14.9 million m3) of water through our reticulation 6.0 6,000 system at the Marikana operations. m3/PGMoz ’000 m3 4.5 4,500 Water recycling and re-use4 3.0 3,000 18 1.5 1,500 7.04 5.75 5.58 5.76 6.23 15 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 12 million m3 Total freshwater boundary Water intensity 9 Freshwater consumption 6 Re-use and recycle 3 There are eight waste water treatment plants at our 9,5 13,4 15,4 14,9 14,1 0 Marikana operations for domestic waste water. We re-use 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Mine dewatering is currently not included in the total freshwater number for 2018. However the volume of freshwater for dewatering is 1,123,594 m3 for 2018. 2 Previously called freshwater efficiency. This was changed to align to the definition ICMM: A practical guide to consistent water reporting March 2017. 3 As per the ICMM: a practical guide to consistent water reporting March 2017 for water withdrawal. 4 The ICMM: a practical guide to consistent water reporting March 2017 for water efficiency, match our disclosure for water recycling and re-use. / 51 Material focus area Managing Environmental Energy management Impacts and Opportunities Electricity is Lonmin’s most significant energy source (88%), –– Average electricity efficiency per kWh/tonnes hoisted followed by coal (6%). We target a 5% absolute reduction was 129.95 (2017: 149) in electricity consumption for the Marikana and PMR –– Indirect energy (electricity) consumption was operations from the 2017 baseline to 2022. Our operations 1,572,827 MWh, or 5,662 TJ (2017: 5,568 TJ) used 88% (5,662.2 TJ) of total energy on electrical energy. –– Direct energy profile: 741.8 TJ (2017: 671 TJ) The smelter and base metal refinery operations consumed 368.5 TJ of coal, and 267.1 TJ (4%) of diesel was –– A deterioration of our energy efficiency from 2017 to consumed in the transportation of ore and concentrate. 2018 can be ascribed to the high energy base load While not a direct component of the energy profile, 50.4 TJ required for the mining operations against the of fuel was used for transporting our employees and decrease in tonnes hoisted and shafts been placed community members through the bussing services. on care and maintenance –– Total energy consumed increased to 6,404 TJ Electricity consumption targets are set per business area (2017: 6,238 TJ) due to a high energy load required for and reported monthly. shafts on care and maintenance and the change of conversion factors for direct energy sources Electrical energy savings: Compressed air Ventilation Other Total R49.46 R4.02 R8.53 R62.01 (2017: R29.1) (2017: R4.3) (2017: R1.6) (2017: R34.9) R million saved 68,522 4,688 4,945 78,155 MWh saved (2017: 27,736) (2017: 3,650) (2017: 936) (2017: 32,322) 66,466 4,528 4,797 75,791 tCO2e savings 5 (2017: 27,459) (2017: 3,614) (2017: 927) (2017: 32,000) Grid electricity consumption5 and efficiencies Direct and indirect energy consumption (TJ) and energy efficiency (GJ/PGMoz) 1,800 177.90 180 7,800 6 5.30 1,500 153.40 149.32 150 6,500 5 143.72 4.68 4.72 4.86 129.95 4.40 1,200 120 5,200 4 kWh/t hoisted ’000 MWh GJ/PGMoz 900 90 TJ 3,900 3 600 60 2,600 2 3,994 5,835 300 30 1,300 5,657 5,567 5,662 1 1,135 1,621 1,572 1,547 1,573 702.1 950.0 691.0 670.5 741.8 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Grid electricity consumption Grid electricity efficiency for tonnes hoisted Direct energy consumption Indirect energy consumption Total energy efficiency 5 Tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. Conversion: one terajoule (TJ) = 1,000 gigajoules (GJ); one Megawatt = 0.0036 TJ (2006 IPCC Guidelines for national Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 6 Volume 2 Energy, Chapter 1 Introduction). / 52 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Managing Environmental Impacts and Opportunities (continued) Air quality Climate change Our processing facilities minimise their atmospheric We set a new reduction target to reduce absolute scope 1 emissions with air pollution control equipment. The and 2 GHG emissions by 4% by 2022 from a 2017 cleaning and minimising of emissions results in the baseline in alignment with the Life of Business Plan. generation of hazardous waste streams including CaSO3 Absolute GHG emissions increased by 1,892 tCO2 (from the smelter) and liquid acid and alkaline waste (0.08% mainly an increase in scope 1 emissions due to (from the PMR). the disposal to landfill, waste water treatment plants and stationary combustion) against the 2017 baseline for Significant capital investment is required for the smelter scope 1 and 2 emissions. Our carbon footprint is and the PMR to meet NEMAQA emissions standards 1,604,111 tCO2e (scope 1 and 2) (2017: 1,602,850 tCO2e). required by 1 April 2020. During the year we spent Lonmin emitted a total of 1,611 ktCO2e (2017: approximately R100 million at our smelter operations on 1,608.7 ktCO2e) (scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions), key projects aimed at reaching the NEMAQA minimum 94.70% of which came from electricity consumption. emission standard1 for SO2. We capitalised on opportunities to find a sustainable solution for the calcium sulphite waste stream. We identified a solution to reduce GHG by location 2018 1.34 21,606 tCO2e particulate matter emissions at the PMR by 1 April 2020 3.99 0.08 and are on track to meet this requirement. 64,326 tCO2e 1,293 tCO2e We continue to manage air quality impacts from our tailings facilities using vegetative cover and suppression systems. In 2018 we used chemical suppression on the (%) surface of identified tailings facilities. 94.59 1,523,907 tCO2e SO2 emissions for the smelter facility 18 15 Marikana Limpopo PMR Group 12 tonnes/day 9 Carbon footprint 2018: Scope 1, 2 and 3 contribution 0.44 6 7,022.06 tCO2e 4.87 78,468.96 tCO2e 3 7.2 11.2 13.6 13.1 13.1 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (%) 94.69 1,525,642.50 tCO2e Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Performance on GHG intensity (tCO2e/PGMoz) Year Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total intensity 2014 0.068 1.296 0.0032 1.367 2015 0.058 1.153 0.0027 1.214 2016 0.044 1.102 0.0033 1.156 2017 0.054 1.159 0.0044 1.218 2018 0.060 1.157 0.0053 1.221 A release rate of 1,200 mg/Nm3 is required from the current emissions standard of 3,500 mg/Nm3 for SO2. A release rate of 100 mg/Nm3 is required from 1 the current emissions standard of 50mg/Nm3 for particulate matter. / 53 Material focus area Managing Environmental tCO2e Impacts and Opportunities Source1 2017 2018 Scope 1: Direct emissions from operations that are owned or controlled by Lonmin Mobile combustion 18,065 20,887 ­Stationary combustion 38,466 41,254 Explosives 4,705 4,765 Non-combustion product use 227 133 Disposal of waste to landfill (Lonmin operated and owned) 10,165 11,266 Waste water treatment works (Lonmin operated and owned) 116 151 Process emissions 10 10 Scope 2: Energy indirect emissions Electricity 1,531,096 1,525,643 Scope 3: Indirect emissions Category 1: Purchased goods and services 38 43 Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution 1,508 1,890 Category 6: Business travel 1,368 1,293 Category 7: Employee commuting 2,944 3,795 Total carbon footprint 1,608,707 1,611,133 Total GHG emissions – Scope 1 Total GHG emissions – Scope 2 90 1,800 75 1,500 60 1,200 ’000 tCO2e ’000 tCO2e 45 900 30 600 1,142.9 1,669.4 1,587.3 1,531.1 1,525.7 15 300 59,6 84,3 73,1 71,8 78,5 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total GHG emissions – Scope 3 Total GHG emissions 12 1,800 10 1,500 8 1,200 ’000 tCO2e ’000 tCO2e 6 900 4 600 1,205.3 1,757.7 1,665.2 1,608.7 1,611.1 2 300 2,8 3,9 4,7 5,9 7,0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are calculated using the GHG protocol: Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, and scope 3 emissions are calculated 1 using GHG protocol: Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard for the reporting of scope 3 emissions. / 54 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Managing Environmental Impacts and Opportunities (continued) Waste management Lonmin spent approximately R182 million (2017: R132 million) on waste management services across our operations and received an income (which includes discount received for exchange of waste for new product) of approximately R19.4 million primarily for the sale of industrial wastes including metal scrap, rubber, cables and plastic among others. Summary of waste streams Material (tonnes) 2017 2018 General waste to landfill 8,612 8,194 Hazardous waste to landfill 69,747 68,705 General and hazardous waste incinerated 17.1 18.0 General waste recycled, re-used and treated 10,115 8,2421 Hazardous waste recycled, re-used and treated 8,213 20,1292 Material (kilotonnes) Tailings deposition 9,889 11,484 Waste rock deposition 535 652 General waste Registered specialist waste contractors collect waste from our operations and transport it to its respective destination. They dispose of general waste at permitted landfill sites if it cannot be recycled, re-used, refurbished or treated. Lonmin operates the only permitted general waste landfill site in the Mooinooi/Marikana area. This is used by Lonmin, communities, businesses, and neighbouring mines. We report on all general waste disposed of to the Mooinooi landfill as part of the National Waste Information System. The permitted landfill is audited annually to determine the level of compliance. Lonmin finalised and signed off the tender requirements for the detailed designs to extend this facility, in line with the new waste licence received for the landfill. The tender process will commence in the 2019 financial year. –– General ­ waste to landfill decreased by 0.05% from the 2017, but was up by 0.1% in 2018 against a reduction target of 5% from the 2017 baseline –– ­ 50% of general waste was diverted from landfill (recycled, re-used, composted) during the year General waste materials recycled and re-used Recycled (tonnes) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Ferrous and non-ferrous scrap 2,979 4,360 4,158 5,413 5,546 Paper (and mixed domestic recyclables) 30.8 30.0 23.7 17.1 17.9 Rubber 7.90 1,801.00 1,154.00 1,129.00 696.94 Plastics 94 89 188 142 198 Tyres 24.80 219.00 96.60 78.53 81.03 Garden waste composting 288.5 120.0 119.0 3.7 2.4 Total 3,425.7 6,619 5,739.3 6,783.3 6,542.24 Re-used (tonnes) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Recovered steel 77.2 138.0 160.0 151.9 207.0 Food 22.8 33.0 25.0 30.0 19.4 Wood 990 1,219 2,766 3,150 1,467 Plastic 94.3 1.0 5.3 0.0 6.2 Total 1,184.3 1,391 2,956.3 3,331.9 1,699.6 1 The downscaling of operations impacted the quantities of wood and rubber which could be re-used or recycled. 2 The reverse osmosis plant at the PMR has been utilised to treat contaminated stormwater this year which increased the recycled, re-used and treated hazardous waste. / 55 Material focus area Managing Environmental Hazardous waste Impacts and Opportunities We continuously drive research and development for best stream to landfill, the construction of infrastructure for practice environmental options to divert hazardous waste a vacuum belt filter commenced at the smelter, with from landfill. We investigate opportunities to reduce the commissioning due in 2019. This will lower the moisture quantity and toxicity of waste disposed. A total of 68,705 and sodium content of the waste, reducing the toxicity tonnes of hazardous waste was generated, 1.5% less than and quantity to landfill by between 15% and 20%. in 2017. Due to legislative changes effective from 23 August 2019, Lonmin submitted the basic assessment application for all waste with a moisture content greater than 40% is the waste licence process for the PMR waste incinerator prohibited from being disposed to landfill as a liquid. to the DEA for approval. We aim to address our target for To meet this obligation, we are setting up two trial recovery reducing disposal to landfill and securing potential PGM effluent plants (using different technology) at the PMR. recovery within this closed system. After extensive The plants will recover PGMs, water and other metals research was conducted on reducing the CaSO3 waste from the effluent with minimal waste going to landfill. Hazardous waste materials disposed to landfill, recycled and treated Hazardous waste (tonnes) 2017 2018 Disposed to landfill Calcium Sulphite (CaSO3) 43,783 45,957 PMR effluent (tonnes) 24,810 21,424 Other wastes (grease, oily wastes, chemical wastes, laboratory waste, healthcare risk 1,155 1,324 waste, etc.) Recycled (tonnes) Waste bulbs 5.00 7.41 Oil 76 72 E-waste 2.32 2.68 PMR effluent (liquid waste) 6,179 4,005 Batteries and cartridges 3.4 93.4 Re-used (tonnes) Ash 1,888 1,932 Contaminated storm water (new from 2018) – 14,015 Tailings Lonmin stores tailings from the concentrators at six The theft of fencing around our TSFs is a major challenge operational above-ground tailings storage facilities (TSFs) for Lonmin as it exposes our facilities to trespassers and and continuously monitors five dormant TSFs. We animals. Trespassers and animals present safety generated 11,484 kt of tailings (2017: 9,889 kt) which is concerns, damage side slope rehabilitation and hamper deposited onto the operational TSFs. The increase of stability. We continue to engage with regulatory authorities tailings could be ascribed to the bulk tailings treatment on these challenges, and have signs to warn off plant that re-processes tailings. Specific mandatory codes trespassers. Our operations cannot implement dust of practice guide how TSFs are managed and these are suppression measures effectively while people or animals submitted to the DMR and DWS safety offices. We are on-site, or due to the increasing theft of suppression received all authorisations for the construction and infrastructure. operation of Tailings Dam 8. The construction of the return We are working with the University of the Free State to water dam will commence in 2019. assess the feasibility of nitrate-metabolising bacteria as a Specialist tailings contractors manage our TSFs and solution to tailings’ nitrate levels to reduce the potential monitor TSF integrity, stability and functionality. Specialist for land and water contamination. Laboratory trials engineers conduct quarterly inspections to monitor commenced this year. compliance to relevant legislation. Lonmin has a safety, Lonmin commissioned the bulk tailings treatment plant in health, environment and quality (SHEQ) procedure for February 2018. The plant re-processes existing tailings emergency preparedness and response (EPR) for tailings material from the decommissioned Eastern Platinum dam and return water dam failure. This is commensurate Limited (EPL) Tailings Dam 1 by means of hydraulic with potential failure consequences, aligned to the high-pressure wash, which is thickened and pumped at contractor EPR procedure. / 56 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Material focus area Managing Environmental Impacts and Opportunities (continued) the Eastern Platinum bulk tailings treatment plant. Tailings Biodiversity and land management are then transported to the bulk tailings treatment plant Lonmin manages 35,271 hectares of land, none of which and chrome plant to extract PGMs and chrome. is considered high biodiversity or sensitive. A large section In 2018, we re-mined 2,037 kt. Waste tailings deposition of the Marikana and Limpopo operations are in areas that was 13% less after re-processing at 1,800 kt. National Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act (NEMBA) lists as vulnerable ecosystems. We are Waste rock identifying alien and invasive plants at our operations, and Waste rock is barren rock that is mined underground to undertake eradication campaigns to manage this. In 2018, expose ore. It is disposed of onto surface waste rock we improved the management of invasive plant species at stockpiles or dumps. Opencast operations also generate the Baobab operations. We maintain a rehabilitation overburden waste rock stockpiles, which are returned to monitoring programme at our Marikana operations for fill the opencast pit during rehabilitation. opencast pits, and utilise the programme for the side slopes at our various tailings dams. We finalised the Lonmin generated 652 kt of waste rock during 2018 (2017: rehabilitation of the U12a opencast pit at our Marikana 535 kt), 18% more than 2017 due to an increase in operations, with profiling and topsoil placement done as developmental progress. Waste rock is used in road and per our environmental authorisation and opencast general construction by surrounding municipalities, rehabilitation procedure. provincial and national road agencies, the community, other private entities, and by Transnet for railway line ballast. By following this process, waste rock is re-used, which reduces our environmental liability and rehabilitation costs. Land under Lonmin management Hectares Total land managed (all operations) 35,271 Total area in use for Company activities in North West, Limpopo and Gauteng 22,136 Total area disturbed by opencast activities in North West (including overburden Merensky Reef – 341 waste rock and topsoil stockpiles) UG2 Reef – 690 Area rehabilitated to date 684 Area disturbed not yet rehabilitated 347 Total area covered by waste rock (surface – overburden excluding topsoil) 98.5 Total area covered by waste rock (from underground) 66 Total area covered by tailings 955 The accessible land in and around our operations presents Independent specialists conduct annual scheduled and a challenge – communities and animals encroach onto our unscheduled closure cost assessments to determine opencast and tailings dams rehabilitated areas, which Lonmin’s liability for mining and prospecting rights. results in the destruction or illegal removal of infrastructure, These assessment reports are submitted to the DMR overburden, and illegally digging out norite rock from for verification and approval. Shortfalls in our financial rehabilitation areas. We have a greater security presence rehabilitation provision, if any, are covered through bank at these areas and we increased ‘no trespassing’ signage and insurance guarantees or transfers to the Lonmin where possible. In addition, a Memorandum of Platinum Pollution and Rehabilitation Trust Fund. Understanding (MoU) related to animal management The costing of unscheduled closure, which includes on-site was developed with the intention to reach the environmental liability associated with all our assets, agreement with community members regarding animals remediation and rehabilitation required, is included in on the property. We monitor rehabilitated opencast areas Lonmin’s Annual Report and Accounts 2018, available to measure the success of rehabilitation, and the need for at www.lonmin.com. further repair and maintenance in these areas. / 57 Governance 58 Governance for Sustainable Development 62 Governance and Management of Risk 64 Ethics and Human Rights 67 Assurance 68 Independent Assurance Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on Selected Sustainable Development Performance Information 72 Independent Auditor’s Reasonable Assurance Report on Selected Sustainable Development Performance Information / 58 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Governance for Sustainable Development Lonmin’s corporate governance is built on its corporate The Board believes that the effectiveness review process values and the Lonmin Code of Ethics. The Board is provides a valuable opportunity for improving effectiveness guided by Lonmin’s values and a responsible leadership and gives the Board a mechanism for constructive group ethos to oversee the Company’s impact on the and peer feedback to help individual Directors to improve environment and all stakeholders. their ability to contribute to the work of the Board. Lonmin Plc is a company incorporated in England and Detailed information regarding the Board is available on Wales. The Company adheres to the UK Corporate pages 64 to 72 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Code and its supporting guidance and provides details of: (www.frc.org.uk). Lonmin’s significant shareholders can –– ­ How Board members are selected, page 69 be viewed on page 72 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018. –– ­ How Board effectiveness is evaluated, page 69 –– How ­ we communicate with our shareholders and The Board is the custodian of the Company’s strategic formally report feedback, page 72 aims, vision and values. It provides leadership to management within a framework of prudent controls While the Board delegates some functions and authority which enables risk to be assessed and managed to committees it retains ultimate accountability for the appropriately. It assesses whether the necessary financial governance of the Group. In addition to the committees and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place recommended in the UK Corporate Governance Code, to enable the Company to meet its objectives and ensure the Board has established two committees to specifically that it takes full account of safety, environmental and oversee Safety, Health and Environmental matters, the social factors. SHE Committee of the Board and the social, ethics and transformation matters (SET) Committee of the Board. At 30 September 2018, the Board consists of 7 members, Power is delegated from the Board to the Chief Executive including the Chairman, 4 Non-executive Directors Officer, and through him to the management team via a (3 of whom are considered independent) and 2 Executive documented delegation of authority, setting out the Directors. Lonmin has 2 female members on the Board, responsibilities, decision-making and approval powers and 1 of the Directors is a Historically Disadvantaged of management at different levels of the enterprise. South African (HDSA). Board appointments are made on merit against objective criteria that include skills, experience, and personal attributes, including independence of mind. Chairman Strategic Review Committee Audit and Risk Committee SHE Committee Remuneration Committee Board SET Committee Nomination Committee South Africa SET Committee Chief Executive Officer Exco Price and Risk Committee Operations Steering Committee More detailed information on these Committees, including a full discussion of the Company’s Remuneration Policy, can be found in the committee reports in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018. / 59 Governance The interaction between the Board, its Committees and The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from the management of the Company can be summarised its terms of reference, with standing items that the as follows: Committee considers at each meeting, in addition to matters of topical relevance or upon which the Committee SET Committee has otherwise chosen to focus. Lonmin’s SET Committee of the Board oversees the The Committee met formally 6 times during the year, of Company’s strategy and performance in addressing which two meetings were ad-hoc meetings to consider transformation, empowerment, and other social and ethics the draft Generation III social and labour plan. All other issues. The Committee also oversees Lonmin’s inclusive Directors were given a standing invitation to attend any stakeholder engagement and the process of addressing all of these meetings, and many did so. As well as routine stakeholder issues. monitoring activities, the material items considered by the Committee in 2018 were: Social and transformation –– Reviewed progress reports on commitments made in the generation I and II Social and Labour Plans and the requirements of the Mining Charter and considered remedial actions; –– Considered and approved the submission of the generation III Social and Labour Plan; –– Considered the implications of the Mining Charter III and the MPRDA Amendment Bill; –– Reviewed progress reports on the implementation of Lonmin’s employee accommodation programme; –– Received updates on the Bapo Ba Mogale community; –– Received updates on The Sixteen-Eight Memorial Trust, including reviewing the trust management and progress of the students; –– Reviewed the community complaints register and, where relevant, actions taken to address any issues; –– Reviewed plans and stakeholder engagement strategy for a memorial park to the victims of the events of 2012; Ethics –– Received a progress report on actions taken to verify that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in the business and its supply chain; –– Received an update on the Minerals Council’s workshop on “Industry’s implementation of the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”; –– Received a progress report on a range of initiatives introduced to promote awareness of gender equality, combatting sexual harassment in the workplace and reporting, escalation and management of any such incidents; Governance, regulatory and reporting –– Reviewed changes to local and international regulations and new legislation, including Mining Charter III; –– Received feedback in relation to the BASF audit report; –– Considered feedback from external auditors following their assurance review of selected data in the FY2017 annual report and FY2017 Sustainable Development Report; –– Reviewed progress against the Committee objectives for FY2018. / 60 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Governance for Sustainable Development (continued) SHE Committee of the Board In addition to overseeing the areas of safety and health, ensures robust and independent assurance, and provides and the environment, the SHE Committee of the Board advice to the Board on SHE compliance with legal assists the Board in meeting the commitments of the requirements. The Committee met four times during the Sustainable Development Policy. The Committee sets year. The following work was undertaken: aspirational standards, implements an appropriate culture, Safety –– Received reports from accountable managers on the one fatality during FY2018 and all serious safety incidents, including a detailed analysis of factors contributing to the safety incident and the corrective and preventative measures taken to prevent recurrence; –– Reviewed reports on key safety indicators and trends; –– Received a presentation from senior representatives of the DMR in relation to safety within the mining industry both nationally and within the Rustenburg region; –– Reviewed progress and implementation of a strategic plan to improve safety and long-term safety initiatives; –– Reviewed material regulatory compliance and Lonmin’s performance against its peers; Health –– Reviewed reports on health and community indicators and trends; –– Received reports on the various medical schemes available to Lonmin employees and their families; Environment –– Received reports from accountable managers on all serious environmental incidents, including a detailed analysis of factors contributing to the incident and the corrective and preventative measures taken to prevent recurrence; –– Reviewed reports on key environmental indicators and trends; –– Reviewed progress reports on various environmental initiatives; –– Reviewed the Company’s environmental targets against regulatory requirements; –– Reviewed reports on complaints by regulators or third parties, including members of local communities; Governance, regulatory and reporting –– Reviewed changes to local and international safety, health and environmental regulations; –– Reviewed the Committee’s report within the 2017 Annual Report and recommended approval to the Board; –– Considered feedback from external auditors following their assurance review of selected data in the FY2017 annual report and reviewed the FY2017 Sustainable Development Report; –– Reviewed the Committee objectives for FY2018. Governance / 61 / 62 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Governance and Management of Risk Approach Lonmin’s approach to risk management identifies, risk are identified, the effectiveness of the existing controls evaluates, manages and monitors the risks facing the is analysed, and the required mitigation measures are business. The Board determines the Company’s risk identified and implemented. appetite, which is the aggregate amount of risk we actively The top risks and the associated mitigating controls are seek or accept in pursuit of our long-term objectives. reviewed at least quarterly by the Exco, and twice a year The Board decides the Company’s business strategy and by the Board. A summary dashboard providing a visual determines the risk tolerance, which is the maximum breakdown of key risks and mitigating strategies is allowable variation of achieving specific key performance reviewed at every Board meeting. We ensure that our indicators (KPIs) linked to Lonmin’s strategic objectives. regular risk reviews inform the internal audit process and The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board regularly the design of internal controls. reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process A significant portion of Lonmin’s risk profile is attributable and the methodology used to evaluate and quantify the to risks related to sustainability, such as safety, labour and risks. ‘Top-down’ and ‘bottom-up’ risk reviews are carried community relations, social development, transformation, out in each area of our business, involving the Executive and environmental impacts. Each business area is Committee (Exco), and operational and middle managers, responsible for managing safety and environmental impact respectively. mitigation, and for monitoring the applicable action plans Operational and functional risk registers feed into the in place. Each business area is supported by either a Risk principal risk register, which is updated on a three-month Officer or an operational risk champion, who co-ordinate cycle and reviewed by Exco, and the Board. The risk the risk management activity in that business area and management process includes the organisational context, ensure that actions are implemented appropriately. This which requires an analysis and understanding of macroensures that focus on these areas is maintained and that economic factors, stakeholder analysis and organisational accountability is embedded at operational management objectives. This process ensures regulatory compliance, level. and that we appropriately manage risks that could The risk management diagram below depicts how the potentially cause operational disruption. risk management process applies across the Company. Risks are rated on a matrix scoring system based on More detail on how we manage and mitigate risk is probability of occurrence and severity of potential available on pages 22 to 28 of the Annual Report and consequences. As part of this, the root causes of each Accounts 2018. G •• Top-down risk identification and assessment to an ove confirm the validity of the risk register d o rn Board and Committees ve me •• Strategy development process includes assessing rsi nt key risks gh t S •• Establish Lonmin strategy ali trate gn g Executive management •• Identification of strategic risks and mitigation plans me ic nt •• Assurance and monitoring •• Top-down reviews d o Fun •• Bottom-up reviews as pera ction Business unit se tio al functional heads •• Translation of strategic objectives to operational plans ss na me l and General •• Identification of operational risks and mitigation plans nt Managers – •• Identification of functional risks and mitigation plans an Mining and ••  Monitoring performance and compliance against key Processing objectives / 63 Governance Principal risks Lonmin’s principal risks are ranked according to the magnitude of potential impact, their probability, and considering the effectiveness of existing controls. These risks were considered in determining Lonmin’s material focus areas, and inform the content of these chapters. Details of each risk are addressed within the Annual Report and Accounts 2018. 1. Failure to complete transaction with Sibanye-Stillwater 2. Liquidity 3. Operational execution 4. Safety performance* 5. Employee and union relations* 6. Utilities* 7. Community relations* 8. Changes to the political, legal, social, and economic environment* 9. Loss of critical skills* * Indicates the key risks relevant to each of the material focus areas. This list does not describe the full range of risks the Company faces. As the macro-economic environment changes and country and industry circumstances evolve, new risks may arise, existing risks may recede, or the rankings of these risks may change. Increase in electricity tariffs will impact costs. / 64 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Ethics and Human Rights Lonmin aspires to an ethical culture in the Company Allegations of misconduct are logged and investigated, through its corporate values and by leading in a way that and disciplinary action is instituted where required. The demonstrates sound ethics from the top of the main areas of concern investigated relate to fraud, bribery organisation. Lonmin’s Code of Ethics commits the and corruption, and procedure violation. The Company Company to the highest standards of social and business refers to the policy on BEE fronting to address certain practices, and requires that employees, contractors and allegations in this regard. Furthermore, a cautionary stakeholders share this commitment, formalising Lonmin’s statement is included in advertisements for job vacancies, ethical approach to conducting, managing and regulating which declares that Lonmin does not endorse or tolerate all its business dealings. unethical or fraudulent behaviour, bribery, insider trading, corruption or job selling, and that such behaviour will be Approach reported to the relevant authorities. Each case is The Code of Ethics defines Lonmin’s stance on conflicts investigated and internal controls reviewed; and corrective of interest, anti-competitive behaviour, lobbying and actions are developed and implemented should concerns relationships with Government, bribery, insider trading, been identified on failed internal controls. the receipt of gifts and donations, whistle-blowing 90 cases of commercial fraud and unethical behaviour and reporting corruption or unethical behaviour. All were investigated by the Lonmin Business Assurance employees and service providers are required to commit Services and Group Security, comprising 16 cases carried to the principles contained in the Code of Ethics. Those forward from 2017, and 74 cases reported in 2018. All found guilty of contravening the Code of Ethics will be reported cases are investigated through a structured and penalised by dismissal, contract termination and/or formalised investigation process. Of these cases, 29 are legal action. still under review, 17 were undetected due to insufficient An electronic declaration platform commissioned to information or evidence, and 34 were concluded having support the Conflict of Interest and Anti-Bribery and either confirmed or refuted the allegation. The following Anti-Corruption policies to enable employees to make disciplinary action resulted from the 34 cases1 investigated declarations of gifts made and received and other potential and concluded in the year: conflicts of interest. –– Three ­ cases resulted in dismissals and/or final Employees who self-declared Conflicts of Interest warnings through the declaration platform –– ­ Five vendor contracts were terminated Cases –– ­ Three employees received disciplinary action Category reported –– ­ One case was settled with vendors Conflict of Interest – Involvement 22 –– ­ Two cases were referred to a third party Conflict of Interest – Close relationship 24 –– Two­ employees resigned prior to conclusion of Gifts, hospitality and entertainment disciplinary action received 86 Gifts, hospitality and entertainment offered 8 –– ­ Three employees were arrested Further detail on our grievance mechanisms is provided on page 14. The following policies are available online: –– ­ Code of Ethics –– ­ Human Rights Policy –– ­ Whistle-blowing Policy –– The­ Conflict of Interest, Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy –– ­Fraud Prevention Policy –– ­ Fraud Investigation Policy www.lonmin.com/about-us/businessconduct 1 A single case may comprise multiple disciplinary actions. / 65 Cases investigated and concluded (number) Governance Reason 2017 2018 Bribery and Corruption 3 7 Company procedure violations 9 7 Fraud 9 14 Human rights – sexual harassment 1 2 Human rights – intimidation 1 1 Human rights – discrimination 0 2 Human rights – racism 0 1 Total 23 34 Numbers 2017 2018 Number of incidents of sexual harassment cases investigated 2 1 2 Number of whistle-blowing incidents logged through hotline 25 29 Number of cases of unethical behaviour reported 41 15 Percentage of business units analysed for fraud, bribery and corruption risks 100% 100% Respecting human rights Respect for human rights is a fundamental part of Human rights training is included in mandatory annual Lonmin’s culture and governance framework and this is refresher training and the induction programme for all demonstrated by our commitment to operate in employees and contractors, including security personnel. accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles The training aims to increase understanding of individuals’ on Business and Human Rights and the 10 UN Global rights, standards of behaviour they should expect and Compact principles. This commitment is reflected in our reciprocate and the mechanisms to report grievances or Human Rights Policy, a copy of which is available on our incidents, which includes a toll-free ethics hotline service. website, and in many other company policies such as The service provides for operators with different languages our Code of Ethics and our Safety and Sustainable and female operators. Development Policy. Advancing ethics within any organisation takes time and We make a positive contribution to the realisation of whilst Lonmin has a strong foundation, there is more to human rights of our employees and those in the do. Lonmin is developing a human rights due diligence communities surrounding our operations in a range of checklist which is expected to be rolled out next year. This ways through our rigorous approach to safety in the will assist management to identify any breaches and any workplace, the health and wellbeing of our employees and necessary remedial actions and will further embed human the communities, minimising the impact of our operations rights in the business by increasing awareness of human on the environment and ensuring security is carefully rights related risks. Further ethics training for managers managed in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on and executives is expected to be rolled out in 2019. Security and Human Rights. Further information on Lonmin’s activities in these areas is discussed in detail in Human rights and security other sections of this report. The Company focuses on understanding security threats to operations with a primary objective to mitigate The human rights pilot study completed last year which interruption to operations. The Company subscribes to focused on women in mining identified a range of topics and implements the Framework for Peace and Stability which concerned our female employees including, for in the Mining Industry (February 2013), and the Deputyexample, gender equality, sexual harassment in the President’s Framework Agreement for a Sustainable workplace and inadequate ablution facilities. As a result of Mining Industry (July 2013). We continue to build on our the feedback from that study, a number of short, medium relationships at all levels with stakeholders, surrounding and long term actions were identified. In the year under communities and the South African Police Services. review, an awareness campaign was launched using industrial theatre, leaflets and workshops to promote The security risk management process aligns with gender equality and raise awareness that there is zero the fundamentals of ISO 31000, the international risk tolerance within Lonmin for any kind of gender prejudice management standard and the voluntary principles or harassment and reporting/escalation mechanisms on security and human rights, which are human rights were enhanced. Ablution facilities for women have been guidelines designed specifically for extractive sector inspected and, where necessary, have been upgraded companies. and new personal protective equipment specifically designed for women have been sourced and will be available at all shafts. 1 Included in whistle-blowing incidents and unethical behaviour cases reported. / 66 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Ethics and Human Rights (continued) Our focus remains on supporting the safety of our people legal and operational aspects of crowd management. By and the protection of our property through training, education year-end 100% of our personnel were trained. Security and vulnerability assessment processes. We also guarantee employees and contractors all have Private Security that employees have appropriate equipment with applicable Industry Regulatory Authority (PSIRA) training as a logistics necessary for asset protection (for example crimeminimum, of which human rights forms part. prevention vehicles and thermographic cameras). Security employees receive refresher training on these Corporate operational procedures are in place, and there aspects as part of the ongoing training plan and at is a specialised corporate operational procedure on crowd year-end 75% of security employees and 80% of management. Security personnel receive training on the contractors received refresher training. The Lonmin security function does not engage with public disorder incidents, as that is the responsibility of public order policing. % of total security incidents Theft and attempted theft of Company property 42% (2017: 61.4%)1 Theft and attempted theft of private property 8.2% (2017: 13.4%) Malicious damage to Company property 4.9% (2017: 4.1%) Other security-related incidents 44.9% (2017: 21.1%) Material lost to crimes on Lonmin property, including consequential loss (damages) R9.2 million (2017: R5.3 million) Recoveries R891,259.01 (2017: R1.4 million) Full-time security employees 144 (2017: 147) Security contractors 486 (2017: 553) Modern Slavery Act Protecting human rights through the supply chain Lonmin’s human rights commitment includes a prohibition Lonmin seeks to ensure that its counterparties conduct on modern slavery in all its forms, including human their own operations in line with Lonmin’s standards on trafficking and forced or compulsory labour. human rights and modern slavery. All new Lonmin employees are subject to vetting During 2017, Lonmin circulated a questionnaire to all procedures, including age and identity verification, credit existing vendors, requiring them to answer a set of checks, criminal record checks and a medical fitness questions relating specifically to modern slavery risks in their businesses and supply chains. The outcome of this assessment. We have zero tolerance for child labour in survey was discussed with the top 600 suppliers during a the Company, and do not employ individuals or hire supplier workshop held in September 2018 in an attempt contractors aged less than 18 years old. The minimum to create awareness around modern slavery risks. legal working age in South Africa is 15. Lonmin’s approval process for new vendors requires We support the right to collective bargaining and freedom potential vendors to answer questions in relation to human of association of all our employees and contractors, and rights, including whether the vendor has its own Human are committed to building constructive relationships with Rights Policy and whether it provides human rights training recognised unions. Wages for our unionised employees to its staff. We expanded this process to include specific are negotiated by collective agreements with the majority questions regarding the New Vendor’s Policy in respect of union, and in adherence to the South African Labour modern slavery and the due diligence processes in place Relations Act (66 of 1995). We comply with South African in respect of their supply chains. legislation regarding working hours. The standard terms and conditions applicable to contracts Further details on the steps Lonmin takes to reduce the with all vendors required to adhere to a range of legislation risk of modern slavery among its workforce are set out in relevant to human rights, including the South African the 2017 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Labour Relations Act (66 of 1995), the Basic Conditions Statement, available on our website at www.lonmin.com/ of Employment Act (75 of 1997), the Compensation for about-us/governance/modern-slavery-act. Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (130 of 1993), as well as Lonmin’s own Sustainable Development Standards and Code of Business Ethics. 1 We have targeted security interventions of hot-spot areas to reduce theft. / 67 Assurance Governance The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board is responsible External assurance for overseeing internal audit and external assurance Certain aspects and indicators in our sustainable procedures to support the integrity of our measurement development reporting were externally assured to provide and data management systems. These procedures set readers with an objective and impartial opinion over the out the internal management and controls of key risks, balance and legitimacy of the performance data. This and enhance the reliability of information used by investors annual external assurance of our safety, environmental and other stakeholders. Further detail can be found in the and social indicators is obtained to align with the Audit and Risk Committee report in the Annual Report International Council on Mining and Minerals Sustainable and Accounts 2018 on page 79 to page 88. Development Framework. The SHE and SET Committees Lonmin Business Assurance Services of the Board consider and approve the indicators that receive external assurance. Lonmin Business Assurance Services, incorporating Internal Audit, is responsible for providing objective assurance on the adequacy of key internal controls and their effectiveness in managing key risks. The in-house internal auditors are supported by the South African arm of PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc., who provides specialist services to Lonmin. Management uses the findings and recommendations from the Internal Audit reports to identify and implement corrective action plans that are monitored and reported to Exco, the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board and the Board. / 68 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Independent Assurance Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on Selected Sustainable Development Performance Information To the Directors of Lonmin Plc Subject Matter We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on We have been engaged to provide limited assurance selected sustainable development performance information conclusions in our report on the selected information set (selected information), as described below, and presented in out in the table below, marked with an “LA” in the Key the Lonmin Plc (Lonmin) Sustainable Development Report Performance Statistics Table on pages 75 to 76 of the for the year ended 30 September 2018 (the Report). This Report. The selected information described below, has engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team been prepared in accordance with the criteria set out in (a) including safety, social, environmental and assurance (i), (a)(ii), (a)(iii) and (b) of the table below, collectively referred specialists with relevant experience in sustainability reporting. to as “Lonmin’s reporting criteria” within this report. (a) Limited Assurance on the following selected key performance indicators (KPIs): (i) Limited Assurance on the following selected KPIs prepared in accordance Unit Boundary with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and Lonmin’s internally developed reporting guidelines Total fresh water consumption m3 Total Lonmin Total direct and indirect energy TJ Total Lonmin Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions tCO2e Total Lonmin (ii) Limited Assurance on the following selected KPIs prepared in compliance Unit Boundary with the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter (BBSEEC) (2002) and related Scorecard (2004) and Lonmin’s internally developed reporting guidelines Project spend in South African Rands against approved project budget (Health, Rand Value WPL & EPL Education, Social Infrastructure) WPL and EPL Percentage females in Total Own Employee Workforce (WAM) % women WPL & EPL (iii) Limited Assurance on the following KPIs prepared in compliance with the Unit Boundary Amendment to the BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010) and Lonmin’s internally developed reporting guidelines Total percentage historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) (excl. white females) –– EXCO/Senior Management % HDSA WPL & EPL –– Middle Management –– Junior Management Human Resource Development (HRD) expenditure as percentage of total annual % HRD Total WPL & EPL payroll (excl. Mandatory Skills Development Levy) Spend (% split applied) (b) Limited Assurance on the following statement prepared in accordance with the International Council on Mining and Metals’ (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework The Directors’ statement on page 10 of the Report that Lonmin has complied with the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, principles and reporting commitments. / 69 Governance Boundary Key Western Platinum Limited (WPL) & WPL and EPL information only, recorded and reported separately as WPL Eastern Platinum Limited (EPL) and EPL The information is recorded as total WPL & EPL and a percentage (%) split is applied in order to report for the WPL & EPL portions. The % split is calculated Total WPL & EPL (% split applied) based on the number of employees WPL & EPL individually contribute to the total number of employees at WPL & EPL Denotes consolidated data for Lonmin Plc, including WPL, EPL, Pandora and Total Lonmin Limpopo operations Directors’ Responsibilities control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, The Directors are responsible for: professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory –– The selection, preparation and presentation of the requirements. selected information in accordance with Lonmin’s reporting criteria. This responsibility includes the Practitioner’s Responsibility identification of stakeholders and stakeholder Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance requirements, material issues, commitments with conclusion on the selected information based on the respect to sustainability performance and design, procedures we have performed and the evidence we have implementation and maintenance of internal control obtained. We conducted our assurance engagement in relevant to the preparation of the Report that is free accordance with the International Standard on Assurance from material misstatement, whether due to fraud Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance or error; Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing –– The preparation and presentation of the statement that and Assurance Standards Board. That Standard requires Lonmin has complied with the ICMM Sustainable that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain Development Framework, principles and reporting limited assurance about whether the selected information commitments. This responsibility includes ensuring that is free from material misstatement. Lonmin has processes and systems in place that are designed and implemented to operate and monitor A limited assurance engagement undertaken in compliance with the ICMM SD Framework, principles accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) involves assessing and reporting commitments relevant to the preparation the suitability in the circumstances of Lonmin’s use of its of the statement that is free from material reporting criteria as the basis of preparation for the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and selected information, assessing the risks of material –– Determining the appropriateness of the measurement misstatement of the selected information whether due to and reporting criteria in view of the intended users of fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as the selected information and for ensuring that those necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall criteria are publicly available to the Report users. presentation of the selected information. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in Our Independence and Quality Control scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in We have complied with the independence and all other relation to both risk assessment procedures, including an ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional understanding of internal control, and the procedures Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards performed in response to the assessed risks. The Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental procedures we performed were based on our professional principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence judgement and included inquiries, observation of and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. processes followed, inspection of documents, analytical KPMG Services Proprietary Limited applies the procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of International Standard on Quality Control 1, and quantification methods and reporting policies, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. / 70 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Independent Assurance Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on Selected Sustainable Development Performance Information (continued) Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing opportunities that Lonmin considers to be most the procedures listed above we: material and inspected documents related to the outcomes of the materiality process and the On selected information (a)(i), (a)(ii) and (a)(iii) discussions held by the Safety, Health and –– Interviewed management to obtain an understanding Environment Board Committee; of the internal control environment, risk assessment –– Obtained an understanding of the application of the process and information systems relevant to the sustainable development management systems related sustainability reporting process; to the identified material sustainable development –– Inspected documentation to corroborate the issues, risks and opportunities; statements of management in our interviews; –– Inspected that performance indicators related to –– Conducted interviews with relevant key personnel and Lonmin’s material sustainable development issues, data owners to understand data generation, collection risks and opportunities have been disclosed in the and report preparation processes, as well as the Report, and performed the procedures set out in the associated key controls; section above entitled “on selected information (a)(i), –– Inspected supporting documentation on a sample (a)(ii), and (a)(iii)” over the selected information set out basis and performed analytical procedures to evaluate in section (b) of the Subject Matter paragraph; and the data generation and reporting processes against –– Inspected Lonmin’s assessment of their reporting of the reporting criteria; performance in accordance with the core option of –– Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards. significant estimates and judgements made by the The procedures performed in a limited assurance directors in the preparation of the selected information; engagement vary in nature and timing, and are less in –– Undertook site visits to Lonmin’s Marikana operations extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. (which represents the most material contribution to the As a result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited selected information), to complete the abovementioned assurance engagement is substantially lower than the procedures; and assurance that would have been obtained had we –– Evaluated whether the selected information presented performed a reasonable assurance engagement. in the Report is consistent with our overall knowledge Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance and experience of sustainability management and opinion about whether the selected information set out performance at Lonmin. in section (a)(i), (a)(ii), (a)(iii) and (b) of the Subject Matter paragraph above has been prepared, in all material On selected information (b) respects, in accordance with Lonmin’s reporting criteria. –– Inspected Lonmin’s self-assessment regarding its Limited Assurance Conclusion compliance with the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, principles and reporting commitments, Based on the procedures we have performed and and the related documents referred to in the selfevidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our assessment; attention that causes us to believe that: –– Understood the processes that Lonmin has in place for a.) the selected information set out in section (a)(i), (a)(ii) determining and monitoring compliance with the ICMM and (a)(iii) of the Subject Matter paragraph above for Sustainable Development Framework principles and the year ended 30 September 2018 is not prepared, reporting commitments and how the documents in all material respects, in accordance with Lonmin’s referred to in the response are maintained and kept reporting criteria, and up to date; b.) the Directors’ statement on page 10 of the Report –– Conducted interviews with management at the that Lonmin has complied with the ICMM Sustainable sampled operations and executives at head office Development Framework, principles and reporting and inspected documentation to corroborate commitments, is not, in all material respects, their statements; fairly stated. –– Understood the process undertaken to identify the sustainable development issues, risks and / 71 Governance Other Matter Restriction of Liability The maintenance and integrity of the Lonmin website is Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a the responsibility of Lonmin management. Our procedures limited assurance conclusion on the selected information did not involve consideration of these matters and, to the Directors of Lonmin in accordance with the terms of accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to our engagement, and for no other purpose. We do not either the information in the Report or our independent accept or assume liability to any party other than Lonmin, limited assurance report that may have occurred since the for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we initial date of presentation on the Lonmin website. have reached. KPMG Services Proprietary Limited Per PD Naidoo Director 30 January 2019 KPMG Crescent 85 Empire Road Parktown Johannesburg / 72 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Reasonable Assurance Report on Selected Sustainable Development Performance Information To the Directors of Lonmin Plc Subject Matter We have undertaken a reasonable assurance engagement We have been engaged to provide a reasonable on selected sustainable development performance assurance opinion in our report on the selected KPIs information (selected key performance indicators/selected marked with an “RA” in the Key Performance Statistics KPIs), as described below, and presented in the Lonmin Table on page 75 of the Report, set out in the table below. Plc (Lonmin) Sustainable Development Report for the year The selected KPIs described below, have been prepared ended 30 September 2018 (the Report).This engagement in accordance with the criteria set out in the table below, was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of safety and collectively referred to as “Lonmin’s reporting criteria” assurance specialists with relevant experience in within this report. sustainability reporting. Reasonable Assurance on the following selected KPIs prepared in accordance Unit Boundary with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and Lonmin’s internally developed reporting guidelines Total Injury Frequency Rate (TIFR) Ratio Total Lonmin Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Ratio Total Lonmin Boundary Key Denotes consolidated data for Lonmin Plc, including WPL, EPL, Pandora and Total Lonmin Limpopo operations Directors’ Responsibilities KPMG Incorporated applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a The Directors are responsible for the selection, preparation comprehensive system of quality control, including and presentation of the selected KPIs in accordance with documented policies and procedures regarding Lonmin’s reporting criteria. This responsibility includes the compliance with ethical requirements, professional identification of stakeholders and stakeholder standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, material issues, commitments with respect requirements. to sustainable development performance and design, implementation and maintenance of internal control Auditor’s Responsibility relevant to the preparation of the Report that is free from Our responsibility is to express a reasonable assurance material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. conclusion on the selected KPIs based on the procedures The Directors are also responsible for determining the we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. appropriateness of the measurement and reporting criteria We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance in view of the intended users of the selected KPIs and for with the International Standard on Assurance ensuring that those criteria are publicly available to the Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Report users. Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing Our Independence and Quality Control and Assurance Standards Board. That Standard requires We have complied with the independence and all other that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain ethical requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct reasonable assurance about whether the selected KPIs for Registered Auditors, issued by the Independent are free from material misstatement. Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA) that is consistent A reasonable assurance engagement undertaken in with the International Ethics Standards Board for accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) involves performing Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants procedures to obtain evidence about the measurement of (Parts A and B), which is founded on fundamental the selected KPIs and related disclosures in the Report. principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. / 73 Governance depend on the auditor’s professional judgement, including Restriction of Liability the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a the selected KPIs, whether due to fraud or error. reasonable assurance conclusion on the selected KPIs to In making those risk assessments we have considered the Directors of Lonmin in accordance with the terms of internal control relevant to Lonmin’s preparation of the our engagement, and for no other purpose. We do not selected KPIs. A reasonable assurance engagement accept or assume liability to any party other than Lonmin, also includes: for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we have reached. –– Evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods, reporting policies and internal guidelines used and the reasonableness of estimates made KPMG Inc. by Lonmin; Per J le Roux –– Assessing the suitability in the circumstances of the Chartered Accountant (SA) use of the Lonmin reporting criteria as a basis for Registered Auditor preparing the selected information; and Director –– Evaluating the overall presentation of the selected 30 January 2019 sustainability performance information. KPMG Crescent We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient 85 Empire Road and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Parktown Reasonable Assurance Opinion Johannesburg In our opinion, the selected KPIs set out in the Subject Matter paragraph above for the year ended 30 September 2018 are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Lonmin reporting criteria. Other Matter The maintenance and integrity of the Lonmin website is the responsibility of Lonmin management. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the Report or our independent reasonable assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date of its presentation on the Lonmin website. / 74 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Annexures 75 Key Performance Statistics 77 Financial Value-Added Statement 78 Environmental, Social and Governance Performance 80 Safety And Sustainable Development Policy / 75 Key Performance Statistics Annexures Year on year Measurement 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 trend Corporate profile: Production Total saleable refined PGMs Ounces 882,094 1,447,364 1,440,724 1,320,802 1,318,618 Material focus area: Employee relationships Employees Number 28,276 26,968 25,296 24,713 23,142 Contractors Number 10,016 8,701 7,497 7,831 7,002 HDSAs, including white women employed in management Percentage 48.4 50 52.4 55.6 56.2 Women employed in mining (WIM)1 Percentage 5.35 6 6.3 6.4 6.6 Women employed at mining (WAM)2 Percentage 8.18 8.8 9.1 9.1 9.43 Employee turnover rate Percentage 5.0 9.1 7.9 4.0 8.4 Employees belonging to organised trade unions Percentage 88.6 91 93 92.7 82.99 People registered for AET Number 473 781 432 204 278 People on learnership programme Number 144 148 38 89 161 People on bursary programme Number 89 98 66 44 40 Employees with mentorship agreements Number 75 115 104 105 66 Total HRD expenditure as a % of annual payroll (excluding mandatory skills development levy) (for WPL and EPL) Percentage 3.3 2.6 2.3 2.3 2.2 3LA Total HRD expenditure in financial year (for WPL and EPL) R million 172 182 156 169.7 178 Material Focus Area: Safety and Health Fatalities Number 1 3 4 5 1 Lost-time injury frequency rate Rate4 3.34 5.41 4.97 4.52 4.00 3RA Level 3 safety incidents Number 12 21 11 18 19 Lost-time injuries Number 217 473 409 373 308 Total injury frequency rate Rate4 8.20 13.28 12.96 10.70 10.14 3RA Section 54 stoppages Number 20 36 50 42 24 New NIHL cases diagnosed Number 66 199 72 37 78 NIHL cases compensated Number 49 108 104 44 67 Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases Number 436 462 411 330 227 HIV/Aids-related deaths Number 97 119 72 98 55 HIV counselling and testing conducted Number 17,964 16,301 18,372 23,820 22,747 Patients on anti-retroviral treatment Number 3,666 4,167 4,483 4,843 4,744 Assurance provided by KPMG: Reasonable (3RA), Limited (3LA) 1 Women employed in mining represent those employed in core mining operations. 2 Women employed at the mine represent all women employed at our operations. 3 We employ 10.2% (3LA) of women (WAM) at WPL and 7.0% (3LA) of women (WAM) at EPL. 4 Injuries per million hours worked. / 76 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Key Performance Statistics (continued) Year on year Measurement 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 trend Material focus area: Community relationship and investment Community members receiving portable skills training Number 158 138 137 165 81 Project spend against approved budget (health, education and social infrastructure) – WPL and EPL Rand 47,672,897 62,551,667 52,062,623 80,558,123 59,486,630 3LA Material focus area: Environment Total freshwater consumption m3 6,206,167 8,326,566 8,043,792 7,604,582 8,209,305 3LA Total freshwater consumption intensity m3/PGMoz 7.04 5.8 5.58 5.76 6.23 Electricity MWh 1,135,000 1,620,862 1,571,620 1,546,561 1,572,827 Electricity efficiency MWh/PGMoz 1.28 1.12 1.09 1.17 1.19 Total direct and indirect energy TJ 4,696.7 6,783.1 6,344.2 6,238.1 6,404 3LA Energy efficiency GJ/PGMoz 5.32 4.68 4.40 4.72 4.86 Greenhouse gas emissions 2 (scope 1, 2, 3) KtCO2e 1,205 1,757 1,665 1,608.7 1,611.1 GHG efficiency tCO2e/ (scope 1 and 2) PGMoz 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.2 Tailings disposed to tailings facilities kt 6,006 11,636 10,222 9,889 11,484 Waste rock disposed to rock dumps kt 4911 870 865 535 652 Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill Tonnes 40,097 86,881 70,603 69,747 68,705 General waste to landfill Tonnes 5,460 8,585 8,766 8,612 8,194 Average sulphur dioxide emissions Tonnes/day 7.16 11.2 13.60 13.1 13.06 Assurance provided by KPMG: Reasonable (3RA), Limited (3LA) Additional information Percentage HDSA excluding white females per management level 120 100.0 ✓LA 100 80 % 60 55.3 ✓LA 40.0 ✓LA 45.3 ✓LA 40 40.0 ✓LA 38.8 ✓LA 20 0 EXCO/senior Middle Junior management management management WPL EPL 1 Quantity of waste rock disposed to rock dumps has been restated. 2 GHG emissions for scopes 1 and 2 are 1,604,111 tCO2e.3LA / 77 Financial Value-Added Statement Annexures Through business operations, shareholdings, investments, procurement contracts and development projects, Lonmin distributes financial value to a variety of stakeholders1. US$ million 2017 2018 Net cash generated Customers, consumers, and investment income Cash received for products 1,159 1 339 Cash returns on investment 6 6 Suppliers2 Cash payments for materials and services purchased (460) (465) Cost of borrowings (18) (16) Net cash flows 687 864 Cash distributed Human capital (salaries and benefits) 619 677 Social capital3 10 9 Donations 1 2 Other community projects 9 7 Government taxes 45 50 Directors remuneration – – Shareholders’ distribution – – Cash retained for growth 13 128 Net cash distributed 687 864 1 Prepared in US Dollars, which is the Group’s reporting currency and aligns to its financial statements. 2 Lonmin has a 30-day payment policy on services and procurement. 3 Includes expenses related to the Social and Labour Plan community projects, donations, and other community investments, including salary and administration costs. / 78 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Environmental, Social and Governance Performance Water Anthropogenic aquifer systems Lonmin uses backfilled opencast pits that can store large volumes of water, as a source of water to the operations, using anthropogenic aquifers to support the intake of freshwater. All operations are ISO 14001 certified (since 2003). Environmental of general waste was diverted from landfill to be recycled, Direct and indirect energy consumption (TJ) and energy efficiency (GJ/PGMoz) 50% re-used and composted 7,800 6 during the year. 5.30 6,500 5 35,271 hectares of land 4.68 4.72 4.86 4.40 5,200 4 GJ/PGMoz TJ 3,900 3 managed by Lonmin. 2,600 2 5,835 We recycled and re-used 1,300 3,994 5,657 5,567 5,662 1 0 2014 702.1 2015 950.0 2016 691.0 2017 670.5 2018 741.8 0 14.1 million m 3 of water through our reticulation system Direct energy consumption Indirect energy consumption at the Marikana operations. Total energy efficiency Total freshwater consumption (’000 m3) and fresh water intensity (m3/PGMoz) 9.0 9,000 Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 8,326 8,209 8,044 7.5 7,500 7,605 20,887 Mobile combustion 6,206 6.0 6,000 m3/PGMoz ’000 m3 4.5 4,500 41,254 ­Stationary combustion 3.0 3,000 1.5 1,500 7.04 5.75 5.58 5.76 6.23 4,765 Explosives 0.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total freshwater boundary 133 Non-combustion product use Water intensity Freshwater consumption Disposal of waste to landfill Energy efficiency savings 11,266 (Lonmin operated and owned) R62.01 (2017: R34.9) R million saved 151.28 Waste water treatment works (Lonmin operated and owned) 78,155 (2017: 32,322) MWh saved 75,791 (2017: 32,000) tCO e savings 2 10.44 Process emissions / 79 Annexures Social Women employed Five-year performance: LTIFR 12 600 6 5.41 10 500 4.97 5 4.52 8 400 4.00 4 8.2 8.8 9.1 9.1 9.4 3.34 LTIFR 6 LTIs 300 3 % 5.4 6.0 6.3 6.4 6.6. 4 200 2 2 100 1 217 473 409 373 308 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Women in core positions Women at Lonmin LTIs LTIFR Lonmin invested 2 million training hours at our 15 months’ fatality-free; 10 million shifts training facilities this year. without a fatality. 66 formal mentorships in place The JT Ryan Award – Lonmin (underground) (33% women). K3 Shaft Upper Group 2 (UG2) section. 82.99% of employees are unionised, 27.2% decrease in hand injuries. AMCU represents 82.1%. Significant reduction in injuries at the R18 million saved for employees through the processing division: inception of a financial counselling service. 64% reduction in lost time injuries. 81 community members receiving portable 46% reduction in total injuries. skills training. AIDS related deaths decreased year on year by 44% Finished construction of a new primary school in Marikana serving 680 learners. The TB incidents halved over the last 10 years from 1,580 per 100,000 employees in 2008 to 729 in 2018 Governance 28% women on the board Tax Policy: www.lonmin.com/about-us/governance/tax Launched the Buang Le Rona grievance T H E T H A N I N AT H I BUANG LE RONA WE ARE LISTENING mechanism for the Human Rights Policy: public, mainly the www.lonmin.com/component/jdownloads/ communities send/3-business-conduct/137-lonmin-humansurrounding Lonmin, rights-policy DO YOU HAVE A to raise concerns. COMPLAINT or GRIEVANCE? LONMIN IS HERE TO LISTEN Business Conduct: DIAL 0801 113 943 www.lonmin.com/about-us/business-conduct EMAIL thethanathi@lonmin.com / buanglerona@lonmin.com TALK TO US. MAKE YOUR VOICE HEARD. / 80 Lonmin Plc Sustainable Development Report 2018 Safety and Sustainable Development Policy GREYMATTER & FINCH # 12763 www.lonmin.com Lonmin Plc Registered in England, Company Number 103002 Registered Office: Connaught House, 1 – 3 Mount Street, London W1K 3NB
