MEMORIA SOSTENIBILIDAD 2015 RESPONSABILIDAD SOCIAL CORPORATIVA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1. Plan de Trabajo 1. COMITMENT ............................................................................................................................3 2. RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT ..............................................................................................4 3. CSR POLICY ............................................................................................................................5 4. ACTIVITY ..................................................................................................................................7 5. INDICADORES .........................................................................................................................8 2 1. Plan de Trabajo 1. COMITMENT In 2017 Adasa has carried out projects according to the core business of the Company as a specialised engineering on water cycle and environment. The overall national contracts (Spain) registered an 84% and 16% corresponds to international activity. In Spain we can highlight the renewals of maintenance contracts related to water quality monitoring networks and weather radar networks, promoted by the River Basins of Ebro, Guadiana and Duero, AEMET, SMC and Catalan Government. Adasa has carried out international projects in Bangladesh, Australia, Algeria and Morocco, among others. Related to research, development and innovation activities, in 2017 Adasa has developed the equipment for quality control of aquaculture (AWQM Advanced Water Quality Monitoring). Day to day, Adasa remains committed to the values of the UN Global Compact, and making a strong effort to create economic, environmental and social value in the short and medium term, and to contribute to the progress and society welfare. Regards, Albert Molina General Manager 3 1. Plan de Trabajo 2. RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT On the way to excellence, Adasa has implemented and certified an Integrated Management System – Quality and Environment based on international standards: ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and EMAS. Day to day, Adasa remains making a strong effort to create economic, environmental and social value in the short and medium term, and to contribute to the progress and society welfare. Adasa has been a signatory member to the United Nations Global Compact since 2007. The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. www.unglobalcompact.org Since 2006 ADASA is in EMAS Registration, keeping its commitment to transparent and sustainable management. Adasa voluntarily joined Eco-management and Audit Scheme (CE1221/2009-EMAS) in 2006. After 10 years we still keep our commitment to Performance, Credibility and Transparency in Environmental Management. The environmental data contained in Sustainability Report are externally verified during the annual EMAS verification (audit). 4 1. Plan de Trabajo 3. CSR POLICY Adasa is an engineering specialised in sector-based solutions and technological solutions applied to water and the environment, and carries out its business in a changing and globalised environment where the excellence of its technology, services and management are an essential requisite for competitiveness, development and progress. The knowledge and experience of Adasa allow us to provide solutions that fulfil the needs and expectations of our clients. The General Management leads the organisation towards a model of EXCELLENCE, TOTAL QUALITY and Social Responsibility, based on the following strategic plans: process-based management, knowledge management, human capital and the organisation’s capacity to innovate. Adasa is committed to: Team ▪ Creating and maintaining a climate that guarantees and promotes a favourable environment and organisation. ▪ Providing the resources and carrying out the appropriate actions for implementing a policy of ongoing training and development. ▪ Facilitating and managing: Internal communications. A positive work-life balance. Fairness and justice in terms of remuneration for each person’s contribution. Equal opportunities. The opportunity to participate in certain decisions making, taking into account the interests and concerns of the employees affected by changes. ▪ Improving and guaranteeing the safety of the working environment: appropriate environmental conditions and physical workspaces; appropriate, modern working equipment. Clients ▪ Establishing effective channels of communications that enhance the company to identify their needs and foresee their demands. ▪ Maintaining a spirit of ongoing improvement throughout the relationship, externalising the added value to the client and promoting research, development and innovation in the services provided. ▪ Guaranteeing an excellent service in terms of quality. Adasa has implemented a quality management system based on ISO 9001 and UNE 166002 (R+D+i). Society ▪ Maintaining a social communication channel, based on the principle of transparency, whilst promoting a cooperative relationship with the authorities and an open dialogue with the stakeholders, to whom this policy is directed. In fulfilling our commitment to these communication channels, we have set up the website: www.adasasistemas.com 5 1. Plan de Trabajo ▪ Fostering training, research and informative actions to improve the health, safety and integration of our employees whilst promoting a system of ongoing improvement in our environmental management. Suppliers ▪ Encouraging our suppliers to act in a socially responsible manner, establishing mutually beneficial, open, respectful and honest relationships. ▪ Maintaining the appropriate data confidentiality and privacy by implementing quality, environmental and social criteria when evaluating suppliers. Environment ▪ Any project must be based on the principle of protecting and improving the environment and the prevention of pollution in order to promote the global objective of sustainable development. The improvement and protection strategies include actions to combat climate change. ▪ Adasa has implemented an environmental management system certified by the UNE: EN: ISO 14001:04 standards and the EMAS Regulation, which means that it has an active strategy of ongoing improvement for minimising its environmental impact and contributing to a sustainable environment form a life cycle perspective by developing new environmental protection technologies. ▪ Every year, the organisation renews its commitment to transparency (EMAS) and publishes important environmental information in the Environmental Declaration. This presents the data on the consumption of resources, waste generation and the environmental impacts associated with its activities. Health&Safety ▪ Providing the resources necessary to guarantee the safety of our employees and effectively improve the working conditions of the different activities in the company. ▪ Adasa has implemented a management system for the prevention of risks in the workplace, according to the OHSAS 18001 standard, to ensure optimal safety conditions in the workplace. 6 1. Plan de Trabajo 4. ACTIVITY Adasa is a recognised engineering company that provides technological solutions for the management of the integral water cycle and the environment. Set up in 1988, it is currently a member of Comsa Corporación Group. Adasa supports an integrated, multidisciplinary approach to water resources management and leads its activities to achieve the environment protection. Adasa pursues technological excellence to be the driving for assisting public and private organisations in the development of their activities, the improvement of their service efficiency, ensuring resources optimisation and reducing operational costs. As experienced services integrators, Adasa covers a wide spectrum of related services, including consultancy, development, maintenance, and operations. Adasa joins water and environment expertise and highly specific technology capabilities, and understands the sector needs. It focusses its complete portfolio on water resources management (water quality monitoring and hydrology), smart operation of water utilities and operators, and irrigation and rural water. Adasa also fosters environment monitoring solutions in meteorology and air quality. More than 25 years of R+D and innovation have lead Adasa to develop 50 worldwide projects and 12 patents, highlighting innovative products for real time water quality monitoring, as well as advanced ICT solutions for water sector, matching R+D and innovation activities with water needs. Adasa has been recognised for its continuous cooperation with universities, technologic organisations, scientific institutions and research centers, with the aim of promoting scientific culture and spreading technological knowledge. Adasa pursues to achieve the balance of scientific know-how, its conversion in goods and services and its market introduction. Worldwide successful experiences place Adasa at the forefront of the sector, providing an intense technical specialisation and a strong water & environment expertise. 7 1. Plan de Trabajo 5. INDICATORS FINANCIAL ANNUAL TURNOVER F1 12 M€ CONTRACTED PROJECTS BY LOCATION (%) F2 CONTRACTED PROJECTS BY CONTINENT (%) F3 8 1. Plan de Trabajo ENVIRONMENT ELECTRICITY E1 CONSUMPTION (kWh/employee) PAPER E2 CONSUMPTION (kg/employee) TOTAL WASTE E3 (kg/employee) EMISSIONS CO2 E4 (%) 9 1. Plan de Trabajo SOCIAL STAFF S1 (Number of employees) AVERAGE EMPLOYEE AGE S2 (years) 43 AVERAGE EMPLOYEE S3 PERMANENCY (years) 10 PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT S4 (%) 88 DISTRIBUTION BY S5 PROFESSIONAL GROUP (%) 80% 20% 10 1. Plan de Trabajo HEALTH & SAFETY Comparative by Activity WORK INJURIES Sector LTIIR = 2472,53 HS1 Lost Time Injuries Incidence Rate (Nr LTI* 105/Number of employees) LTI= Lost Time Injury LTI=3 Number of employees = 121 employees LTIFR = 13,70 HS2 Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (Nr LTI*106/Hours worked) SEVERITY RATE = 0,17 HS3 (Nr Lost Workdays LTI *103/ Hours worked) DURATION RATE = 13,00 HS4 (Nr Lost Workdays / Nr LTI) All accidents have been classified as MINOR injuries. 11 1. Plan de Trabajo www.adasasistemas.com adasa@adasasistemas.com
