Rising Technologies COP Report 2018-2019 Content : 1. Social Ethics / CSR System 2. 2018 Overall Activity Plan and Report 3. Supplier Social Ethics / CSR Management 4. Customer Social Ethics / CSR Management 5. Employee Handbook – Company Regulation 6. Environmental, Health, and Safety 7. CSR Activity Social Ethics / CSR System Commitment Letter Company Policies Company Policies Company Policies Company Policies Company Policies Company Policies Company Policies Company Policies Company Policy Company Policies Company Ethics Objective Target CSR Organization Chart Procurement Control Agreement Procurement Control Agreement Internal Ethics Survey – 1/2 Declaration for New Employee Internal Ethics Survey 2/2 2019 Evo Vadis Assesment Result Noted : The medals are a CSR recognition program based upon percentile ranking of Eco Vadis score 2019 Overall Activity Plan and Report Activity Plan 2019 Supplier/Customer Social Ethics / CSR Management Control of Supplier and Purchasing Procedure Control of Supplier and Purchasing Procedure Control of Supplier and Purchasing Procedure Control of Supplier and Purchasing Procedure Supplier Performance 2015 2019 Supplier Performance Purchasing Dept. To Achieve 98% of Supplier Delivery Performance Customer Satisfaction 2015 2019 Customer Satisfaction 2015 2019 Supplier Social Ethics / CSR Communication Summary List Supplier Social Ethics / CSR Communication Sample of Communication Sample of Supplier Lab Test Report Rising UL Label Supplier Free Banned Substance Declaration Social Ethics / CSR Communication to Customer Rising Declaration to Customer Employee Handbook – Company Regulation Company Regulation 2019-2021 Environmental, Health, and Safety ISO Certificate – Quality Management System ISO Certificate – Environmental Management System Water and Electricity Control Consumption Water Consumption Target : Previous Ave Man Hour Consumption – 5% Electricity Consumption Target : Previous Ave Man Hour Consumption – 5% Company UL Certificate Environmental Report of The Organisation Generally company Environmental have meet with Local Env. Legal & Other Requirements, which regularly report (Env. Monitoring and 3rd Party Measurement) to Env. Ministry UKL-UPL = Environmental Monitoring and Conservation Report Half Yearly Environmental Measure by Independent Party – July 2019 Air and Noise Half Yearly Environmental Measure by Independent Party – July 2018 Waste Water Environmental Awareness 1/2 lets ….. save the earth through use wisely …. energy and water resources. Hazardous Waste Disposal Cert by Licensed Company May and August 2019 Packaging Reused Box (pc’s) Project Monitoring Environmental Work Instruction 1/2 Environmental Work Instruction 2/2 ERP Procedure ERT Team Yearly Fire Drill Exercise Report Day/Date : Tuesday/19th Feb 2019 Participant : Fire Drill Committee Aim : To refresh the skill on how to handle fire and operate fire equipment Short Brief & Preparation Yearly Fire Drill Exercise Report Fire Drill Exercise 2019 Emergency Evacuation Summary Report Purpose of Drill : Testing of effectiveness of the Emergency Preparedness Procedure Scenario : Fire happen in Tinning Process Date & Time : 5th April 2019 Time : 02:45 pm to 02:57 pm Time Emergency Evacuation : 4.33 minutes Total Time Needed : 13 minutes Emergency Evacuation Exercise – Empl Evacuation Day/Date of Exercise : Friday, 5th April 2019 Trainer : ERT Team Trainee : All Empl. Method : Practical Aim : Fast, Effective and Safely Evacuation The ERT member activate the alarm Evacuation HR Announce for Evacuation Evacuation Evacuation Safety Comm. Check the Situation Emergency Evacuation Exercise – Empl Evacuation Day/Date of Exercise : Friday, 5th April 2019 Trainer : ERT Team Trainee : All Empl. Method : Practical Aim : Fast, Effective and Safely Evacuation The Leader Check the Staff Safety Comm. extinguish the fire Briefing on Intention and Importance of Emergency Evacuation Report Submission Emergency Exercise First Aider Exercise – Empl. Casualty Day/Date of Exercise : Friday, 5th April 2019 First Aider : Trained and certified company First Aider Casualty Person : Tinning Operator Aim : Proper and correct first aider to victim Age Measurement CSR Activity Ethics Objective Target Management Communication, Meal and Fruit, Bonus 2019 Blood Donation – Year 2019 Registration and Fill up the Form Blood Examination Blood Donation – Year 2019 Blood Donating Charity Activity – Year 2019 Management and HOD release the donation Nursing Home Puri Kebajikan Charity Activity – Year 2019 Orphanage Qurrotu A’yun Charity Activity – Year 2019 Orphanage Damai Sejahtera SPORT AND RECREATION Thank You
