PREFACE BY THE CEO Taking care of a better climate – both inside and outside our customers’ homes. This is our vision – a vision that motivates and drives more than 13,000 employees. When making business decisions, we take not only economic but also environmental and social aspects into account. The Vaillant Group has had a central Sustainability Management department since 2011. As part of the S.E.E.D.S. sustainability programme, we set binding goals in the focus fields Environment, Employees, Development & Products and Society. The Vaillant Group’s involvement in the UN Global Compact – the world’s largest and most important sustainability initiative – also forms part of our S.E.E.D.S. programme. The initiative aims to strengthen the commitment shown by companies in the areas human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. This report contains key sustainability indicators and target attainment levels alongside an annual progress update with an eye to the Global Compact and information on our S.E.E.D.S. programme. Remscheid, November 2019 Dr.-Ing. Norbert Schiedeck CEO of the Vaillant Group ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This document’s purpose is to provide information on the Vaillant Group’s progress with respect to the implementation of the Ten Principles enshrined in the Global Compact in the day-to-day practice of our business. The action we have taken in this field is founded on our expressed corporate principles and our management systems. The reporting period for this progress update covers the eighth year of the Vaillant Group’s involvement in the Global Compact, from 11 October 2018 to 10 October 2019. Further information on our sustainability activities can be found on our website: www.vaillant-group.com HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 1: • Strategic sustainability • We place our suppliers The Vaillant Group commits Supporting human rights programme S.E.E.D.S. under a written obligation to itself in particular to protect adhere to the principles of the human rights. Principle 2: • Vaillant Group guideline on Global Compact. Eliminating human rights the Global Compact As a way of expressing our abuses • We conduct supplier corporate responsibility, we • Supplier management audits, which are based on drafted a declaration of Principle 3: system (supplier screening, questionnaires, in due principles to respect human Upholding the freedom of supplier assessment, general consideration of social rights in the past reporting association and right to purchasing terms, contractual standards. period. This will be published collective bargaining terms) towards the end of 2019. In • With the help of risk connection with the declaration • Vaillant Group principles on of principles, an analysis was assessments, we are able to Principle 4: social responsibility carried out to identify all of the identify actual and potential Elimination of all forms of human rights violations. interest groups concerned. We • Vaillant Group Spirit forced and compulsory also defined assessment Corporate values labour • We have put an electronic criteria for a risk assessment. entrepreneurship, trust, violation reporting system in In doing this, we focused on integrity, passion place for employees, aspects such as the probability Principle 5: customers and business of human rights being violated, • Vaillant Group Code of Abolition of child labour partners, which helps them to the severity of potential human Conduct report violations of laws and rights abuses and the internal regulations. possibility of the Vaillant Group • UK Modern Slavery Act Principle 6: having a counteractive or Elimination of discrimination • The Vaillant Group preventive influence. commits itself to the collective agreements in place at the We evaluated the countries in main sites. Minimum wage which we source our goods regulations are respected in with an eye to potential risks. terms of pay. The results were then analysed by internal task In Germany, over 80 per cent groups, made up of people of employees at Vaillant from different departments GmbH are covered by within the company – including collective agreements. the functional areas Sustainability, Purchasing and • The company expressly HR – and the works council. recognises the UK’s Modern This interdisciplinary approach PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Slavery Act. to the evaluation allowed us to take an in-depth look at every • The Vaillant Group relevant viewpoint from the supports the Fair Company different perspectives of the initiative. The member various specialist areas. companies guarantee fair conditions for internships. In order to fulfil our duty of care to protect human rights also within our supply chain, we organised several training sessions for supplier auditors on the topic “social audits of suppliers” in November 2018 and June 2019. Moreover, we reviewed our standardized questionnaire used in the supplier audits and updated the sections on human rights and labour standards, occupational health, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. In 2018, a total of 237 supplier audits were carried out. As well as the progress report for the UN Global Compact, the Vaillant Group also publishes a statement on the UK’s Modern Slavery Act once a year. This formal declaration is published with the goal of identifying and preventing human rights abuses along the value chains. The statement was published for the third time in 2019. The general Vaillant Group Code of Conduct was extensively revised upon introducing a new compliance PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS management system in 2019. Besides a number of companywide applicable and binding principles of conduct, the Code of Conduct also defines a catalogue of employees’ rights and key aspects of company co-determination, which the Vaillant Group acknowledges and promises to protect. In the reporting period, the Vaillant Group introduced an electronic violation reporting system. Employees, customers and business partners can use the system to flag up grievances or report violations of laws or internal regulations without any risks being posed to the person submitting the report. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 7: • Vaillant Group vision • The Vaillant Group The Vaillant Group has an Taking a precautionary “Taking care of a better carries out annual environmental management approach to environmental climate. Inside each home and environmental audits. system certified in accordance challenges the world around it.” with DIN EN ISO 14001 for all • All sustainability production and development Principle 8: • Multi-site certification indicators are continuously sites. In the reporting period Promoting greater pursuant to DIN EN ISO 14001 recorded across the company we conducted a total of 15 environmental responsibility and DIN EN ISO 45001 and pooled together in a internal system audits besides central reporting tool, the making a number of Principle 9: • Strategic sustainability Vaillant Group Sustainability improvements to energy Developing and diffusing programme S.E.E.D.S. Scorecard. efficiency and putting environmentally friendly measures in place to reduce • Vaillant Group principles technologies • Waste prevention: we are CO2 emissions. This included on environmental policy updating parts of the building increasing the amount of recyclable packaging for our technology at our production • Vaillant Group principles production materials. site in Bergheim. Moreon social responsibility over, so-called Green Value • Energy efficiency: we Walks were held at several • Group-wide, binding generally equip our own sites. These systematic, sustainability targets for 2020 buildings and production sites regular inspections aim to in the focus field Environment: solely with heaters based on identify where energy and reducing CO2 emissions by 25 high-efficiency condensing other resources are being per cent, increasing energy technology; furthermore, we wasted. Further site-specific efficiency by 25 per cent, install technologies at our sites improvements were made, for reducing water consumption by that are operated using instance, in Belper, UK, which 50 per cent and waste volume renewable energies. Existing is now powered by renewable by 20 per cent systems and lighting energies just like all of its technology are gradually being German counterparts. At our • Group-wide, binding modernised. headquarters in Remscheid, sustainability targets for 2020 preparatory work was carried in the focus field Development • The Vaillant Group out for the installation of & Products: generating 80 per maintains an internal global additional charging stations for cent of sales through highnetwork of sustainability electric vehicles. efficiency products, reducing representatives (S.E.E.D.S. greenhouse gas emissions Ambassadors) who record and In all, the successful from the product portfolio by 15 assess sustainability aspects implementation of these per cent in the core areas every year. measures meant that we were able not only to improve our PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS • Integrating environmentally • We place our suppliers environmental performance relevant aspects into under an obligation to comply indicators across the board, processes with the applicable statutory but that we had in fact already environmental standards. met our 2020 environmental • Vaillant Group product targets in full by the end of strategy with a focus on high• We carry out supplier 2018. We are currently working efficiency technologies, audits at regular intervals. on the continuation of the renewable energies, system S.E.E.D.S. programme, which technology and digital services • Environmental includes defining new target compatibility aspects play an values in our focus areas for ever greater role when 2030. selecting suppliers and service providers. In 2018, high-efficiency technologies and renewable • We train new employees energies once again made up on the topic of “sustainability at the largest share of the Vaillant the Vaillant Group”. Group’s product sales at 69.8 per cent. • The Vaillant Group champions the responsible In March 2019, the Vaillant use of natural resources in Group presented its first heat various initiatives and pump with natural coolant at networks. The company is a the leading international partner of the German industry trade fair ISH. As this National Sustainability Day, natural coolant exhibits a member of the German particularly low global-warming Association of Environmental potential compared with Management (B.A.U.M. e. V.) conventional coolants and as and of the Sustainability the heat pump can also be Leadership Forum overseen installed in existing buildings, by B.A.U.M. e. V. / Centre for the product helps substantially Sustainability Management at reduce CO2 emissions. Leuphana University Lüneburg. In order to allow sustainability criteria to be systematically • The company is a observed from the very start of member of the steering product development, we committee of the German compiled the 6 Green Rules in dialogue forum Wirtschaft 2017, which are now firmly macht Klimaschutz and anchored in our product moderates the working group development processes. In the PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS on business-related climate reporting period, we protection goals. continuously held training sessions on the use of the 6 • The Vaillant Group is a Green Rules and supported strategic partner of the the implementation of product international children’s charity development projects. “SOS Children’s Villages worldwide”. The Green iQ product range was expanded by a further • The Vaillant Group has a heat pump model. Green iQ business unit dedicated to products satisfy elevated expanding and strengthening sustainability criteria the heat pump and renewable throughout their entire life energies business. cycle, from production all the way through to recycling at the • We are constantly end of a product’s service life. developing our portfolio of In order to raise awareness of high-efficiency and ecosustainability at the company friendly product technologies. and among the workforce, sustainability training forms • We offer technology part of the induction schedule training courses for installers. for new employees at the company headquarters in Remscheid. Besides this, the annual S.E.E.D.S. Ambassador Meeting was held in June 2019. The meeting was attended by employees who are responsible for sustainability activities in their business units or national sales companies. The partnership with the international children’s charity “SOS Children’s Villages worldwide” has long been a key part of our company’s social engagement. The Vaillant Group equips the children’s villages with environmentally friendly and PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS energy-efficient heating technology. In 2018, nine SOS Children’s Villages were fitted with modern heating technology. Moreover, in one of the largest projects carried out to date, the Vaillant Group fitted two newly built SOS Children’s Villages in France with 30 heat pumps. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 10: • Vaillant Group Corporate • We conduct Group-wide In order to protect and promote Measures to fight corruption Governance Policy compliance training on the topic mutual corporate targets, the of fighting corruption. Vaillant Group launched a • Vaillant Group Code of new, Group-wide compliance Conduct • Group-wide, internal management system on 1 July approval is required for gifts 2019. The system launch was • Vaillant Group Compliance and benefits above a certain accompanied by an internal Management System threshold that are to be granted information and to individuals. communication campaign to • Vaillant Group Antiraise awareness among Corruption Policy • Adherence to the Group employees. Anti-Corruption Policy is • Vaillant Group Spirit reviewed and monitored by the The new Compliance Corporate values Internal Audit department and Management System covers entrepreneurship, trust, the Group Compliance four focus areas and is binding integrity, passion Committee. for all Vaillant Group employees and companies. • We have put an electronic violation reporting system in A key part of the Compliance place for employees, Management System is the customers and business comprehensive Code of partners, which helps them to Conduct. This is based in report violations of laws and particular on two of the Vaillant internal regulations. Group’s corporate values: trust and integrity. The Code of • Communicating the Conduct helps our company fundamental corporate values make sure that everyone acts (Vaillant Group Spirit) forms a in accordance with the rules, in firm part of welcome and keeping with all applicable induction events for new laws and company regulations. employees. Besides publishing the Code of Conduct, an updated and more precisely defined Group AntiCorruption Policy was also released. With the aid of approval specifications and release restrictions, it is PRINCIPLES AND GLOBAL COMPACT MANAGEMENT MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2018/2019 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS ensured that gifts and benefits are only granted or accepted if they are permissible and within the law. Gifts and benefits are also recorded transparently. Our internal guidelines serve to protect both our employees and our company from experiencing any criminal repercussions or other disadvantages. All employees have access to instructions, detailed information and elearning programmes on the Vaillant Group intranet. Other areas covered by the Compliance Management System are antitrust law, data protection and anti-money laundering. Group policies have also been issued for each of these areas. All Vaillant Group employees can refer to these policies to help them decide which situations are of particular relevance when dealing with our business partners and when the responsible Compliance Officer should be consulted. The implementation of the Compliance Management System and its effectiveness are also subject of external evaluations and audits.
