REINVENTION LARGEST BEE FUTURE STRATEGY PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY TOMORROW 2018 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress www.exxaro.com Statement CEO statement of report Exxaro Resources (Exxaro) is one of the largest South African-based diversified resources companies, with interests in the Communication on coal, titanium dioxide, ferrous, zinc and renewable energy commodities. Exxaro became a signatory of the United Nations Progress Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. As one of the foremost black-owned diversified resources companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the signing of the UNGC marked our foundational commitment to sustainability. The IFC CEO statement of report commitment and focus is ongoing and we are once again proud to reaffirm our support of the 10 principles of the Global 1 Human rights Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 2 Labour In this Communication on Progress for 2018, we draw on Exxaro’s integrated and supplementary reports for 2018 to describe 4 Environment how the 10 UNGC principles are incorporated into our business. The integrated and supplementary reports are both products 9 Anti-corruption of the company’s strategic objectives, legislative and regulatory requirements, including the Companies Act of South Africa 10 Sustainable development goals 18 Administration No 71 of 2008, as amended (Companies Act), the mining charter and the JSE Limited Listings Requirements, as well as global best practice standards as reflected in the International Integrated Reporting Council’s framework for integrated reporting, the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, UN Global Compact principles and the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2016 (King IV™*) and AccountAbility 1000SES. Exxaro remains an active member of the National Business Initiative (NBI) in South Africa. The NBI has aligned the South African National Development Plan (NDP) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and awareness has been created in business on the need to support the SDGs. From the basis of moral and economic imperatives Exxaro is addressing many of the SDGs in our sustainability drive. Details of sustainability successes can be found in both the integrated and supplementary reports and are available online under: https://www.exxaro.com/investors/integrated-reports Sincerely, Mxolisi Mgojo Chief Executive Officer Exxaro Resources For enquiries: Contact: Hanno Olinger, Manager Integrated Reporting and ESG Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Fixed line: +27 12 307 3359 Fax: +27 12 307 5327 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 * Copyright and trademarks are owned by the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC and all of its rights are reserved. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 1. Businesses should support and Exxaro has a labour and human rights policy (policy) enforced in which the intent under Exxaro has consistently complied with this policy during 2018 respect the protection of paragraph 4 is stated as follows: and no transgressions have been recorded at any operations, internationally proclaimed “The company, as a responsible employer, will at all times comply with all labour legislation subsidiaries, or suppliers of Exxaro both in South Africa and human rights in South Africa, including the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the Labour internationally. Relations Act, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Employment Equity Act, the Skills Development Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, the Mine Health and Safety Act, the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The company will also comply with all Labour Organization (ILO) codes and guidelines as ratified by the Republic of South Africa.” Under paragraph 5.1 of the policy it states: “The company unreservedly supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” HUMAN RIGHTS Under paragraph 5.2 of the policy it states: “The company unreservedly supports the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.” 2. Make sure that they are not As reported under UNGC principle 1, the policy also covers human rights abuses. Induction programmes educate all employees and contractors complicit in human rights on human rights. Refresher courses are available to all Under paragraph 6 of the policy it states: abuses employees and contractors and they also cover human rights “The company will ensure that all employees are trained in the principles of human rights on issues. an ongoing basis.” Furthermore, policies on discrimination, harassment and Exxaro’s supplier code of conduct requires that every supplier or service provider adheres racism are in place, as are structures to protect employees’ to human rights-related declarations, labour laws, regulations and guidelines. These include human rights in the workplace. inter alia: ●● Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) Exxaro’s employees are aware of their human rights and to ●● ILO international labour standards date Exxaro has not been complicit in the violation of any ●● ILO codes of practice in safety and health human rights. ●● OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ●● Constitution of the Republic of South Africa (Act No 108 of 1996) Suppliers and service providers are aware of their ●● Basic Conditions of Employment Act (Act No 11 of 2002) responsibilities towards their workers and the human rights that their employees must be afforded. Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 1 LABOUR GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 3. Businesses should uphold the Paragraph 4.3 of the policy states the following: Constructive engagement remains the cornerstone of our freedom of association and “The company supports an employee’s right to freedom of association and to join a trade approach to organised labour. All our trade union engagement the effective recognition of union of their choice.” structures are functioning well as a vital conduit for managing the right to collective issues. In addition, our employee relations strategy provides an bargaining effective framework for maintaining a healthy workplace climate. Paragraph 4.4 of the policy states the following: Our policies and procedures are developed within the “The company supports the principle of collective bargaining. In this regard the company framework of relevant labour legislation, and employees are has entered into formal recognition agreements with various trade unions.” managed individually and collectively. In total, 4 882 of our employees are represented by affiliated unions recognised by Exxaro subsidiaries: primarily National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), Solidarity, Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU), UASA (formerly United Association of South Africa), Food and Allied Workers Union (FAWU) and National Union of Metalworking of South Africa. LABOUR Union Members National Union of Mineworkers 3 846 Solidarity 525 AMCU 333 United Association of South Africa 83 National Union of Metalworkers 49 Food and Allied Workers Union 46 Total 4 882 4. T  he elimination of all forms of Paragraph 4.2 of the policy states the following: The Basic Conditions of Employment Act (chapter six) forced and compulsory labour “Subject to the provisions of the Constitution of South Africa, the company will not cause, specifically prohibits the employment of children and forced demand or impose forced labour on any other person.” labour. Exxaro’s supplier code of conduct requires that every supplier or service provider adhere to To date Exxaro has not been complicit in the violation of the human rights-related declarations, labour laws, regulations and guidelines. These include policy or the Basic Conditions of Employment Act. inter alia: ●● Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) Exxaro performs annual audits on its suppliers and service ●● ILO international labour standards providers and during 2018 no violations of the Basic Conditions ●● Constitution of the Republic of South Africa (Act No 108 of 1996) of Employment Act were recorded. ●● Basic Conditions of Employment Act (Act No 11 of 2002) 2 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 LABOUR (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 5. The effective abolition of child Paragraph 4.1 of the policy states the following: The employee master file records for 2018 disclose that no labour “The company will not employ child labour in contravention of the Basic Conditions of employees younger than 18 years of age were in the employ Employment Act and the Occupational Health and Safety Act.” of Exxaro. Below is the percentage distribution of employees by age: Employee distribution by age (%) 20 19 15 16 14 13 12 10 11 11 LABOUR 5 4 0 <17 18–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–65 6. The elimination of Paragraph 4.5 of the policy states the following: There is no discrimination between the salaries of men and discrimination in respect of “The company promotes the principles of equal opportunities and prohibits unfair women in the bargaining unit category as collective employment and occupation discrimination and has established policies, namely the employment equity policy and agreements determine specific guaranteed minimum salaries. policies prohibiting racial harassment, sexual harassment and unfair discrimination to In the management and specialist category, individual salaries promote these principles.” are strictly based on contracted performance. As an employer, Exxaro is firmly committed to the concept and practice of equal opportunity, irrespective of race, religion, gender, health status, sexual preference or nationality. Our corporate values guide the way we do business, and discrimination on any grounds is not acceptable. A comprehensive suite of policies covers employment, labour relations, occupational health and safety, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity. Our aim is to provide working conditions that are safe and healthy, opportunities that are enriching and an environment conducive to performance. Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 3 ENVIRONMENT GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 7. Businesses should support a Exxaro adopts the precautionary principle, which is entrenched in the National All Exxaro’s business units have ISO 14001 accreditation, precautionary approach to Environmental Management Act (NEMA), when evaluating the environmental impacts of reflecting the global industry standards in place to minimise environmental challenges business opportunities. environmental impacts. We focus on responsible use by conserving natural resources and reducing the burden of pollutants on the environment through: ●● Ensuring all activities are properly authorised All our South African operations have environmental ●● Complying with all statutory environmental requirements as a minimum management programmes (EMPs) as required under the ●● Using energy and water as efficiently as possible Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) ●● Conducting activities responsibly from the twin perspectives of compliance and and National Environmental Management Act (NEMA). natural resource use ENVIRONMENT ●● Participating actively in voluntary benchmarks, such as the global carbon and water disclosure projects ●● Developing innovative policies and programmes to address environmental impacts and use of natural resources. Comprehensive group standards have enhanced the implementation of legal requirements These standards inform key measurable compliance indicators and sustainable use of natural resources. These include management standards for air to ensure that Exxaro remains a legally authorised sustainable quality, water, energy, rehabilitation and mine closure, and environmental incident business. management and reporting. Legal compliance South African mining companies are heavily regulated, with compliance centred on During 2018 environmental licensing applications for various receiving, converting and retaining all mining rights. To ensure we continue to meet legal new projects were at different stages of their respective requirements as a minimum, compliance across Exxaro is monitored by two boardregulatory assessment. We have continuously engaged with mandated entities: the sustainability, risk and compliance committee as well as the social the relevant authorities, agencies and other stakeholders to and ethics committee. expedite these licences. Running all our operations with approved EMPs is fundamental to our sustainability and Exxaro received no environmental stoppage directives and no legal compliance. fines were issued during 2018. 4 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8. Undertake initiatives to Key continuous environmental risks at Exxaro’s operations have been identified These risks have been determined with the commensurate promote greater and are listed below: impacts and the required mitigation actions required to environmental responsibility ●● Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) minimise or avoid these risks. ●● Air quality management ●● Water quality management, security of supply Exxaro performed an annual enterprise-wide risk assessment ●● Hazardous waste management in 2018 and no environmental risks were listed in the top 10 of ●● Biodiversity management the enterprise risk register. The risk ranking is dictated by the ●● Ongoing rehabilitation residual risk score after all potential treatments and controls ●● Cost of, and provision for, environmental liabilities have been put in place. This excellent result is due to robust ●● Improving compliance to granted environmental licences risk management continuously performed at the operations. ●● Increasing statutory and non-statutory environmental requirements ●● Environmental incidents (level 3). Carbon footprint Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions, measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) from sources owned or controlled by Exxaro, eg emissions from diesel, petrol, gas and anthracite combusted in day-to-day mining operations. ENVIRONMENT Scope 2: GHG emissions from electricity generation by Eskom (South Africa’s largest power utility), purchased by Exxaro. Scope 3: Emissions outside our control but emanating from our products or activities, eg customer burning coal sold by Exxaro. The scope 1, 2 and 3 emission protocol provides a common measurement platform to compare firms, aggregate data to national level and compare countries. South Africa has set arguably the most aggressive carbon abatement targets of any developing country: to reduce emissions by 34% below business as usual by 2020, and 42% by 2025. Operational activities are guided by our climate change response strategy. A steering committee oversees related improvement projects and activities, and ensures these are aligned with Exxaro’s climate change position statement. This supports a clear understanding of the risks and opportunities presented by energy and emissions in the broader sense, and enables operations to focus on managing energy, emissions and other climate change-related issues. Carbon disclosure Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Exxaro participates in two programmes: CDP Climate Change (since 2008) and CDP Water. Exxaro’s current CDP score is a B and falls within the CDP’s The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a UK-based global climate change management level of maturity. Organisations scoring a B are in reporting system. Our carbon performance is externally assured annually. the 46% of highest scoring companies on the CDP index. Exxaro lies within the top 36% of companies in the mining sector and performs better than the industry average. Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 5 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8. Undertake initiatives to Energy management Energy management promote greater Exxaro considers the consumption of electricity and diesel as a proxy for GHG emissions. The primary sources of energy for Exxaro’s mining operations environmental responsibility are diesel and electricity. After being normalised to the energy As part of Exxaro’s energy and carbon management programme, our coal operations have (continued) unit of measure, gigajoules (GJ), diesel and electricity account focused on reducing energy consumption, including projects to specifically increase the for 59% and 41% of energy consumed respectively. efficiency of diesel and electricity use. Total energy consumed in 2018 was 4 977 270 GJ The head office technology department has initiated a project to reduce diesel consumption (2017: 4 584 170 GJ). This represented a nominal year-on-year at all our operations. To facilitate energy-saving initiatives, energy-intensity targets are set increase of 8% (2017: 9%). annually based to the prior two-year performance for each operation and are monitored ENVIRONMENT monthly. These targets were reviewed at the end of the 2017 and long-term (five years) The increase in diesel consumption during 2018 was primarily targets have been proposed. These were implemented in the second half of 2018. driven by higher levels of activity in concurrent rehabilitation across all the operations. Secondly, the increase in diesel consumption was also driven by higher production levels at Exxaro’s flagship operation — Grootegeluk. Although the nominal electricity and diesel consumption figures increased in 2018, the trend for energy intensity, at a group level, moved in a positive direction. The electricity intensity (based on production tonnes) was 12.9MWh/kt (2017: 13.8MWh/kt). The corresponding group-level diesel intensity measure (based on production tonnes) was 1 592ℓ/kt (2017: 1 655ℓ/kt). At a group level, the electricity and diesel intensity measures thus improved by 6% and 4% respectively. 6 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8. Undertake initiatives to Air quality Air quality promote greater As a mining group, air quality is a risk to Exxaro on several levels, particularly dust and Comparing Exxaro’s dust-fallout rate against the regulated environmental responsibility other pollutants (eg PM10 and PM2.5) from opencast operations. Accordingly, we focus on: non-residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day), no operation exceeded (continued) ●● Minimising impact on the receiving environment the two allowable annual limits in 2018. ●● Full legislative compliance ●● Air quality management planning ●● Risk management ●● Monitoring, measurement and reporting. Daily measures ensure we address the challenges of Exxaro’s dust-generating activities (blasting, drilling, crushing and screening, vehicle entrainment, materials handling and wind erosion of exposed operational areas). These include applying dust-suppressant agents on haul roads, watering secondary unpaved operational roads, vegetating topsoil stockpiles and overburden material. All mining operations monitor daily dust-fallout rates and results are assessed against national regulations. We track our compliance against the stringent residential limit (600mg/m2/day) instead of the non-residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day) to minimise the impact on residents. This will ensure fallout dust is reduced to the residential limit. ENVIRONMENT Water management Water management Water is a strategic natural resource for South Africa. It is also key to our business. The Water management is integral to our licence to operate. The Exxaro water management policy therefore defines our commitment to the sustainable use 2018 group water strategy identified the following focus areas of water, with a strong focus on efficiency through reuse and recycling. This policy is aligned to excel in: to the legislative environmental framework governed mainly by the National Water Act ●● Compliance No 36 of 1998. In support of the Act, the Department of Water and Sanitation has issued an ●● Operational water efficiency integrated water resource management hierarchy that prioritises mine and waste ●● Policies, standards and processes management decisions and actions. This hierarchy informs both our policy and strategy on ●● Water technologies mine and waste water management as: ●● Stakeholder partnerships. ●● Pollution prevention ●● Minimise environmental impacts A comprehensive programme is entrenching responsible and ●● Maximise water reuse and reclamation sustainable water management across Exxaro. It concentrates ●● Responsible water discharge and disposal on relevant water-use and related risk issues — from security of ●● Water treatment. supply to water efficiency and water-cost management — and manages these within current and anticipated regulatory Translating policy into action, our management standard on water for mining and industrial compliance requirements. This is supported by continually use articulates our commitment to develop and implement an effective integrated water enhancing our competence in water-management issues and waste management plan across the lifecycle of a mine. This includes planning, through company-wide research and skills development. construction, operation, decommissioning, closure and rehabilitation phases. The standard We also reinforce awareness of water issues through ongoing reflects management’s vision to: communication and training. ●● Ensure a cost-effective integrated approach to water management Our strategy also articulates aspirational goals that include ●● Be environmentally responsible becoming self-sufficient in our operational water requirements ●● Be ecologically sustainable. and becoming a leader in water technology solutions. Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 7 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8. Undertake initiatives to These management standards are enacted by adhering to the Department of Water and We are managing water-related risks, minimising impacts, and promote greater Sanitation’s best practice guidelines on: operating efficiently through reduction, reuse and recycling. environmental responsibility ●● The integrated water and waste management plan Most of our operations have water conservation plans that (continued) ●● Storm water management planning support the national strategy to ensure equitable distribution ●● Water and salt balances of water resources that allows for business growth and ●● Water monitoring systems protection (sustainable use). ENVIRONMENT ●● Water reuse and reclamation We are also committed to protecting and improving water ●● Pollution control dams quality by ensuring the water we discharge is the same or ●● Environmental performance indicators. better than the original water abstracted. Central to this are the two water treatment plants in our Mpumalanga region as part of our long-term water management strategy. These plants have total capacity to treat 11.5 megalitres per day. The plant at Matla has been operational for three years while the plant at North Block Complex (NBC) has been operational for two years. Through water-conservation measures all operations reached their respective five-year water intensity targets, apart from NBC and Eerstelingsfontein. Protected Biodiversity 8 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8. Undertake initiatives to Hazardous waste management Hazardous waste promote greater Waste management is a key compliance indicator in Exxaro’s social licence to operate. The total weight of hazardous waste generated at our managed environmental responsibility Our group-wide standard enforces use of the waste management hierarchy, which in turn coal operations in 2018 dropped by 14% to 2 616 tonnes (2017: (continued) promotes waste prevention or minimisation, reuse, recycling, recovering energy and 3 058 tonnes). ensuring safe disposal of waste in line with the National Environmental Management: Waste Act No 59 of 2008 and supporting legislation. Exxaro is developing abatement plans for waste-tyre stockpiles as per requirements issued by the Department of Environmental Affairs (effective date: September 2017). Responsible conservation of biodiversity Biodiversity management Biodiversity means species diversity and species richness in an ecological environment. During 2018 Exxaro’s biodiversity investments focused on In Exxaro, our goal is to conserve biodiversity for future generations by sustainably using wetland rehabilitation, wetland offsets, delineation and wetland the resources of our mining operations and South Africa’s natural resources. studies. To reach this goal, we have developed biodiversity action plans for our business units. The principles of these guidelines are already incorporated ENVIRONMENT In addition, our comprehensive biodiversity management standard was approved in 2018. into our planning and execution phases. As an example, the The guiding principles include the best practice standards on wetland offsets (Wetland principles of best practice standards were used in several Offsets: A Best Practical Guideline for South Africa 2014), as well as the mining and projects to avoid constructing infrastructure in sensitive biodiversity guideline mainstreaming biodiversity into the mining sector (DEA, DMR, wetland areas. Chamber of Mines, SA Mining and Biodiversity Forum and SANBI, 2013). The Belfast beneficiation plant is an example of where best In addition to complying with legislation and best practice, we aim to develop a competitive practice standards were applied in the design phase of the advantage through conservation and re-establishing resilient ecosystems that underscore project. Impacts upon the environmentally sensitive wetlands our commitment to duty-of-care principles. were avoided by the relocation of the beneficiation plant. Risk-based external reviews The annual risk analyses and external audits were done in 2018 In the first quarter each year, our sustainability department and each business unit perform and most of the findings have been successfully addressed. a risk analysis based on the group environment and risk assurance process, with risks reported to appropriate management in terms of Exxaro’s governance process. Where mines are eligible for an external review, these are conducted under commercial agreements with competent third parties. Concurrent rehabilitation plan At 31 December 2018, the total land disturbed was 9 559ha All business units have a five-year concurrent rehabilitation schedule and associated (2017: 10 745ha) and total land rehabilitated was 2 469ha budget: (2017: 2 260ha). ●● The schedules set measurable targets for each mine ●● Schedules prevent backlogs building up, increasing liabilities ●● Budgets enable managers to implement plans without cash flow constraints Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 9 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8. Undertake initiatives to Environmental liabilities and rehabilitation Liabilities promote greater All business units annually review their financial provisions. They also consider Refer to the Exxaro supplementary report for detailed figures environmental responsibility amendments to rehabilitation plans and closure objectives based on regular EMP on liabilities per operation. (continued) performance assessments. The cost estimates of activities in the concurrent and final closure rehabilitation programme are reviewed and adjusted where necessary. Water-related liabilities are calculated as per the Exxaro excess water risks and liability management standard. The Exxaro Environmental Rehabilitation Fund (EERF) EERF The Exxaro EERF and the ECC trust funds provide for a portion of these liabilities, while During 2018 the trust funds earned R146 million additional bank guarantees are taken out to provide for new developments and cover any (2017: R588 million), including cash contributions, interest shortfalls in financial provisions. Environmental rehabilitation liabilities are updated earned on investments and fair-value adjustments. biannually for internal reporting at interim and financial year end and submitted annually to the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR). The fund has recorded a 9% growth (2017: 36%). Updating these provisions biannually highlights potential rehabilitation alternatives that could decrease the long-term closure liabilities of mines. ENVIRONMENT Mine closure Mine closure All closure activities are executed against risk-based principles. As several Exxaro mines Exxaro had six operations in active closure in 2018 — Arnot, are nearing their end of life, mine-closure planning is already in place to ensure the closure Tshikondeni, Durnacol, Hlobane, Strathrae and Gravelotte. process complies with the latest legislative requirements. Case study: Tshikondeni mine closure Understanding that operational closure, concurrent rehabilitation and land management The Tshikondeni mine stopped operating in late 2014 when the activities directly link employees, community, environment, government and infrastructure, coal resources were exhausted. we are committed to: ●● Ensure the operational closure process is conducted inclusively and within the Exxaro undertook to minimise the impacts of the mine closure legal framework at Tshikondeni on the local communities. ●● Proactively manage environmental impacts to minimise residual liabilities The Tshikondeni Legacy Project was launched, and it is a ●● Leave behind a positive legacy for our employees and local communities partnership between Exxaro and the local Makuya tribe. ●● Allocate required financial resources to ensure this process is concluded The Makuya Tshikondeni Development Foundation (MTDF) was ●● Manage Exxaro land according to an agreed strategy. established as a non-profit company to hold the assets and receive proceeds on behalf of the local Makuya tribe. During 2018 Exxaro Resources donated the Tshikondeni mine village and related infrastructure to the MTDF. Furthermore, funding was approved to establish an eco-village as a core business activity of the MTDF. The Tshikondeni area is located alongside a national game reserve. In 2018, Exxaro handed over 56 homes to the local community as part of the closure plans. The homes handed over directly benefited 56 families and 448 community members. 10 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8. Undertake initiatives to Environmental incidents Exxaro had no level 3 environmental incidents during the promote greater Exxaro places all the necessary mitigation and preventative mechanisms in place to avoid review period. environmental responsibility the occurrence of level 3 environmental incidents. An environmental incident is considered ENVIRONMENT (continued) as a level 3 when the consequences cost more than R500 000 to rehabilitate. 9. Encourage the development Exxaro sponsors academic chair positions at universities to broaden the body of knowledge and diffusion of on sustainable development initiatives. environmentally friendly The three university chairs that Exxaro sponsors are: The chairs each had notable successes and have delivered technologies ●● The Exxaro chair in global change and sustainability (Wits) productive outputs. ●● The Exxaro chair in business and climate change (Unisa) Refer to the Exxaro supplementary report for more details on ●● The Exxaro chair in energy, water and food (Pretoria). the case studies of the university chairs. Wetland crossing. Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 10. B  usinesses should work The social and ethics committee of the board approved a comprehensive anti-fraud and An anonymous reporting line has been in place for over against all forms of anti-bribery programme that runs continuously and involves among others: a decade in terms whereof reported cases of alleged corruption, including ●● Awareness training and assessment for employees as well as part of new employee irregularities are investigated by an in-house dedicated induction forensic team. extortion and bribery ANTI-CORRUPTION ●● Data analytics on the employee and vendor database to proactively detect potential For the 2018 financial year, the outcome of forensic declared or undeclared conflicts of interest investigations translated into the following: ●● Anti-bribery and corruption due diligence checks on high risk suppliers and third-party ●● 482 investigations intermediaries ●● 185 disciplinary cases ●● Anti-bribery and corruption checks on any potential equity investment, joint venture, or ●● 42 criminal cases registered similar association ●● 49 arrests ●● Independent assessment of the robustness of all anti-fraud and anti-bribery initiatives ●● 54 cases of copper cable theft. in terms of ISO 370001 as well as an internal assessment of compliance with all relevant local and global legislation and regulations including but not limited to the South African The total monetary amount of all investigations and incidents Companies Act, King IV, the OECD guidelines, the South African Prevention and of copper cable theft amounted to R7.2 million of which Combatting of Corrupt Activities Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of the USA, R1.9 million was recovered. the UK Bribery Act and the UNGC. Good Governance 12 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Exxaro has participated with South Africa’s National Business Initiative (NBI) and with industry to create an alignment between the South African National Development Plan (NDP) and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Exxaro is committed to support the country in the execution of the NDP, and the most material SDGs. At an executive level there is an awareness of how important the commitment and implementation of the SDGs are. The most material of the SDGs related to our core mining operations are already being addressed and thus have a connection to the respective SDGs. Exxaro will continue embedding the implementation of the most material SDGs with a more formalised approach. UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION RELATED MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 1. End poverty in all its form everywhere South Africa’s national strategy is to address poverty, During 2018 Exxaro funded 24 beneficiaries for unemployment and inequality because of the legacy of R186 million. apartheid. In response to this, Exxaro has a comprehensive These funds were used by the beneficiaries to financially enterprise and supplier development (ESD) programme that strengthen their enterprises. Exxaro has also provided seeks to foster job creation in the local communities where we non-financial support to further ensure the economic have a footprint. The ESD programme supports the sustainability and growth of the small enterprises. establishment of entrepreneurs and small businesses through grants and loans, investment and training. 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, Our strategy is to seek opportunities in the agri sector as part of Exxaro has also entered into a partnership to produce insectand promote sustainable agriculture the food-energy-water nexus strategy of Exxaro. Our focus for based protein as animal feed. the future is specifically on agricultural and land management Exxaro has entered into a partnership to introduce innovative opportunities to supply food and enable small enterprises to water leakage technology to the market. The technology allows produce and sell agricultural produce. Furthermore, our future water pipe leaks to be sealed without the need for excavation. focus is also on renewable energy projects. For our water The direct benefit of the approach is to reduce water losses from projects refer to SDG 6. the municipal supply side up to the consumer. Our Local Communities Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 13 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONTINUED) UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION RELATED MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at Our health and hygiene strategy aims to reduce all forms of Lost-time injury frequency rate of 0.12. all ages occupational and lifestyle diseases. Furthermore, we have a comprehensive safety improvement programme in place to reduce occupation-related injuries and fatalities. We measure the number of injuries and fatalities per 200 000 man-hours worked. 65 cases reported. We measure the health and hygiene of our employees identifying and monitoring the occurrence of: Occupational health injury frequency rate of 0.33. ●● Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) ●● Pneumoconiosis ●● Silicosis ●● Chronic obstructive airways disease (COAD) Patient confidentiality limits accuracy. ●● Occupational tuberculosis (TB) We have started monitoring the lifestyle diseases in the company and have identified three major causes of deaths: ●● Diabetes ●● Hypertension ●● Heart disease We actively run HIV/Aids awareness campaigns and supply anti-retroviral drugs to sustain and improve the health of our HIV+ employees. 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and Focused education initiatives through the Exxaro people Exxaro has, on average, annually invested 37% of community promote life-long learning opportunities for all development initiative (EPDI) trust. The primary education spend on education-related initiatives. strategy focuses on early childhood development, primary school education and school infrastructure. Education will provide social 59 bursars mobility, employment opportunities and reduce poverty. R4.5 million per annum We actively provide bursaries to the youth to further their 75% black South Africans tertiary studies. 25% women 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Our human resources employment equity, women-in-mining and 22% of workforce are women. diversity policies support this goal. We have an annual bring-a36% of interns are women. girl to work day to support opportunities for women in the workplace. 40% of professionals-in-training are women. 14 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONTINUED) UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION RELATED MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water Our business of tomorrow focuses on water initiatives in For 2018 the water intensity was: and sanitation for all communities and preserving water as a scarce commodity in 0.10kℓ/TTM South Africa. As part of our comprehensive water strategy, our (2017: 0.14kℓ/TTM) policy is to reduce, reuse and recycle water. We measure our water intensity usage in kilotonnes per total tonnes mined 11.5 million litres of water treated daily. (kℓ/TTM). Our water treatment plants at Matla and NBC are producing potable, drinkable water, and the innovative processes used are reducing the energy required to achieve this. 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and Exxaro owns 50% of a clean-energy company (with two Amakhala Emoyeni windfarm installed capacity of 134MW. modern energy for all operating windfarms producing electricity) and is investigating opportunities to become an independent power producer. Tsitsikamma Community windfarm installed capacity of 95MW. The local communities benefit from the windfarms through employment opportunities, and in some cases, local power supply. 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Exxaro’s focus on enterprise and supplier development will Target – to spend 3% of annual earnings before interest and tax growth, full and productive employment and decent work for create small businesses and foster entrepreneurship and (EBIT). all employability. The focus is to make the poor, underprivileged and host community members more employable. We have constituted the necessary governance and processes to identity the beneficiaries that require funding, upskilling and development. 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Efficient capital allocation for sustaining and expanding Sustaining capital spend for 2018: R2.8 billion (2017: R3.0 billion). sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation operations will ensure that our infrastructure remains resilient Expansion capital spend for 2018: R2.9 billion (2017: R1 billion). and environment-friendly. We have established an innovation department dedicated solely to explore all opportunities in the 4th industrial revolution. Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 15 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONTINUED) UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION RELATED MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries Exxaro operates primarily in South Africa. Our focus on Pay differential between executives and employees reduced by transformation is reflected in a representative workforce and we 30%. have prioritised reducing income inequality. 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, Exxaro’s socio-economic development, community development During 2018 infrastructure development comprised over 70% of resilient and sustainable and enterprise and supplier development are contributing to social labour spend. This was done in the form of constructing employment and poverty reduction, while improving quality of community housing, centres and roads. life. Our social and labour plans focus on building infrastructure to support our host municipalities and communities. 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Exxaro measures intensity ratios (particularly energy and water For the Exxaro coal operations, the average electricity intensity use, as well as emissions) to minimise our impact on the (MWh/kt) improved by 6%. environment while improving productivity. Conversely, the average diesel intensities (ℓ/kt) for the coal Increased energy consumption is caused by longer haul operations worsened by 6%. The increase in diesel intensity is distances between pit and plant, higher production volumes and reflective of non-production-related activities that require diesel increased concurrent rehabilitation. usage and do not directly raise production volumes. 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its Exxaro fully supports climate-change initiatives in South Africa GHG emissions during 2018: impacts with a global view. Our comprehensive climate-change strategy Scope 1: measures our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3). Our focus in our 315.4 kt CO2e operations is to reduce our carbon footprint through the (2017: 324.9 kt CO2e) twin-pronged approach of reducing energy consumption and increasing our overall energy efficiency. Scope 2: 552.1 kt CO2e We annually submit our carbon performance to the CDP and (2017: 539.0 kt CO2e) Exxaro is a signatory to the UNFCCC COP commitments. Scope 3: 72 928 kt CO2e (2017: 76 462 kt CO2e) Exxaro achieved a B score from the CDP for climate change performance. 16 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONTINUED) UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION RELATED MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and Exxaro has a comprehensive water-management strategy, but is Currently not a focus area. marine resources for sustainable development not located near marine resources. 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of Exxaro aims to minimise its impact on biodiversity and the For 2018 our rehabilitation status was: terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, environment where we mine. Disturbed land: 9 559ha (2017: 10 745ha) combat desertification, and halt and reverse land We perform concurrent rehabilitation and execute final degradation and halt biodiversity loss Rehabilitated land: 2 469ha (2017: 2 260ha) rehabilitation on all operational sites post mine closure. 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable Our socio-economic and community development goals support Diverse. development, provide access to justice for all and build this goal. Exxaro specifically focuses on maintaining educational effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all institutions in our communities, and community infrastructure levels such as clinics, training facilities and roads. 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the Exxaro supports this goal through NBI, the Minerals Council of Enhanced national reputation. global partnership for sustainable development South Africa (MCSA), and engaging with mining regulatory bodies. Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 17 ADMINISTRATION Group company secretary and registered office S van Loggerenberg United States ADR depositary Exxaro Resources Limited The Bank of New York Mellon Roger Dyason Road 101 Barclay Street Pretoria West, 0183 New York NY 10286 (PO Box 9229, Pretoria, 0001) United States of America South Africa Telephone +27 12 307 5000 Registrars Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited Sponsor Rosebank Tower Absa Bank Limited (acting through its corporate and investment bank division) 15 Biermann Avenue Barclays Sandton North Rosebank, 2196 15 Alice Lane (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107) Sandton, 2196 Contact Company registration number With ongoing feedback from a range of stakeholders, we are able to contextualise certain issues 2000/011076/06 better for more informed understanding by readers. We welcome your suggestions, which should be JSE share code: EXX directed to: ISIN code: ZAE000084992 Hanno Olinger Manager: Integrated reporting and ESG Auditors Tel: +27 12 307 3359 PricewaterhouseCoopers Incorporated Mobile: +27 83 609 1094 2 Eglin Road Fax: +27 12 307 5327 Sunninghill, 2157 Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Web: www.exxaro.com Commercial bankers The conneXXion Absa Bank Limited 263B, West Avenue Die Hoewes Corporate law advisers Centurion 0163 EOH Legal Services Proprietary Limited Roger Dyason Road Pretoria West 0183 18 Exxaro United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 www.exxaro.com
