2 0 1 9 United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) August 2018 – August 2019 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 1st August 2019 Membership date 9th June 2008 Number of employees 25 Sector Instruments for acoustics UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 3 CONTENT COMPANY DESCRIPTION ......................................................................... 5 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT .............................. 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY .................................... 10 HUMAN RIGHTS ....................................................................................... 11 Policy and Processes ............................................................................ 11 Results ................................................................................................... 11 LABOUR .................................................................................................... 12 Policy and Processes ............................................................................ 12 Results ................................................................................................... 12 ENVIRONMENT ........................................................................................ 14 Policy and Processes ............................................................................ 14 Results ................................................................................................... 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................................................................................. 20 Policy and Processes ............................................................................ 20 Results ................................................................................................... 20 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 4 COMPANY DESCRIPTION CESVA is company specialized in the design and manufacture of equipment for noise control and measurement, it was founded in 1969 in Barcelona and has since been working to offer acoustic solutions to end problems related to noise and vibration and help protect the environment and improve the quality of people’s life. Our mission is to help our customers to measure and control both noise & vibration. We do this by designing and manufacturing systems that are extremely easy to use, but which do not compromise on power & functionality. Our activities are centered mainly on the development and manufacture of precision microphones and acoustic instruments and software applications for all of them, which makes them more powerful and competitive in the national and international market. CESVA is certified according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 for the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of instruments for the measurement and control of noise The concept of quality is fundamental in our business philosophy, since one of our priorities is its continuous search and what creates added value for our customers. We want the future to sound great. We hope to achieve this by offering quality instruments to sound professionals, to enable them to perform measurement & assessment of noise & vibration in the most efficient way possible. We want to help them achieve this whilst meeting & surpassing the technical levels required by the regulations of wherever they are used. We focus on research and development to create new products, improve quality and maintain competitiveness in the market. Currently CESVA has its own R & D that absorbs 70% of company resources. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 5 We like to listen and identify the needs of our customers to create a relationship of mutual trust. We design and manufacture equipment that meet their needs and comply with the requirements of the latest standard in the market. Our ongoing commitment to research and development has enabled us to obtain several patents of acoustic instrumentation and being pioneer in the design of equipment with single measurement range and with simultaneous measurement of all functions, using Bluetooth on sound insulation measures or being the first company in Spain to obtain the pattern approval of a sound level meter. We sit on several committees, both Spanish and International, for the creation and revision of regulations and standards, allowing us to have a global and updated vision of the latest industry requirements. This global reach, together with a foresighted commercial strategy, has led to our range of products becoming a point of reference in the field of precision instrumentation for sound level measurement. This year is not like any other for CESVA, since 2019 is marked by an important date for us. CESVA celebrates its 50th anniversary. To celebrate our 50 years of life, CESVA has designed a logo to commemorate its half century in the world of acoustics, recovering and adapting the logo used during the 70s in HIFI equipment, as a tribute to one of its founders. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 6 Commemorative logo designed for the 50th anniversary of CESVA An article where CESVA reviews the most important milestones achieved during these 50 years, including its adhesion to the United Nations Global Compact in 2008, has been published in the Magazine Revista de Acústica of the Spanish Acoustic Society. First page of the article “CESVA celebrates its 50 anniversary” at “revista de acústica” of SEA UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 7 Second page of the article UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 8 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT This year 2019 we are very proud to celebrate our 50th anniversary. This special occasion has allowed us to tell all our clients and our circle of influence our 50 years of history. One of the key milestones has been the incorporation of the company in 2008 to the United Nations Global Compact. Being part of the Global Compact has helped us focus our actions on CSR and not leave aside any of the four strategic areas, however obvious they may appear. The communications on progress are for us a date indicated in the annual calendar to take stock of how the principles of the Global Compact have been reflected in our business strategy, culture and daily operations. The COP of CESVA instruments for the period August 2018August 2019 reflects our corporate DNA oriented to the sustainable generation of economic value and social contribution in terms of CSR, as well as respect for human rights, the quality of working conditions within our company and businesses we operate, the rejection of any act of corruption and the protection of the environment, especially in the field most closely linked to our business area: noise pollution. We have also devoted a large part of our efforts to disseminating and transmitting the smart cities philosophy, so that the future of many cities is socially, environmentally and economically more sustainable. Finally and especially in this tenth anniversary, we are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders through our main communication channels. Joan Casamajó Monclús General Manager of CESVA instruments s.l.u. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY # PRINCIPLE IMPLEMENTED PROGRESS 1 SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT 2 COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment ABUSES. UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF 3 ASSOCIATION AND THE YES We continue with full commitment COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL 4 FORMS OF FORCED AND YES We continue with full commitment COMPULSORY LABOUR. UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE 5 ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR YES We continue with full commitment UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF A worker has retired after many years 6 DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF YES working for the company and two new EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. workers have joined. SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY 7 APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL YES We continue with full commitment CHALLENGES. UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO We have participated in several Noise 8 PROMOTE GREATER YES Awareness activities. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT We have pushed our noise monitoring AND DIFFUSION OF solution for Smart Cities and 9 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY YES participated in committees for its TECHNOLOGIES. standardization. WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN 10 ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING YES We continue with full commitment EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 10 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses HUMAN RIGHTS should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1: Businesses should human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights support and respect abuses. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Policy and Processes In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, 2: make sure that they we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with are not complicit in a systematically poor human rights record. human rights abuses. All our customers, suppliers and employees have been informed of the policies of corporate social responsibility. Results In 2019 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 11 LABOUR LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child association and the labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment effective recognition of the right to collective and occupation. bargaining; 4: The elimination of all Policy and Processes forms of forced and compulsory labour; CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and ability. 5: The effective abolition of child Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the labour; and recruitment process. In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human 6: The elimination of Rights, we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their discrimination in production processes. respect of employment and occupation. We reject all forms of intolerance, bullying or discrimination. We consider any of these manifestations are disrespectful and unacceptable practice in our company. The transparency and honesty govern our every action in this area. Training is also an integral part of our company culture. Our workers are aware of the need to constantly improve their knowledge and skills. Results In 2019 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. The worker with the longest standing of the company has retired during 2019. It is an honor for CESVA that this worker has finished her working life with us. It has been so many years of working relationship and the UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 12 company is very grateful for her loyalty and dedication to the company and for all that she has contributed during all these years. Two new workers have joined the company's administration area. We continue to hire an engineering student, with a paid contract, to do a practical training during the summer. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 13 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 7: Businesses are environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater asked to support a environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and precautionary diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental At CESVA we assume respect for the environment as a fundamental challenges; factor in the performance of our activities, especially in the field more closely linked to our business: noise pollution. 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater We operate responsibly in order to respond to the needs of our environmental responsibility; and customers, always trying to minimize negative environmental impacts that may arise from it. 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Policy and Processes environmentally friendly technologies. At CESVA we keep with the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the factory. We continue being active members of ECOTIC ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works towards environmental protection and sustainable development through the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of electrical and electronic devices. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. We have also devoted much of our efforts to disseminating and transmitting the philosophy of smart cities, so that the future of many cities is socially, environmentally and economically more sustainable. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 14 Results The results achieved applying the 3R policies are positive. CESVA is listed in the National Register of Industrial Establishments producing Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). We continue to make the environmental management of batteries with ECOPILAS Foundation which is recorded in the register of foundations of the Spanish Ministry of Environment UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 15 We have participated in the Inter-noise 2019 congress, the 48th International Congress and Exhibition on Noise Control Engineering, held in the city of Madrid, from June 16 to 19, 2019. The Congress was organized by the International Institute of Noise Control Engineering (I-INCE) and the Spanish Acoustic Society (SEA), which celebrates its 50th anniversary this year. The congress had a wide exposition of research works from all over the world, as well as an exhibition of equipment and systems, measurement and control of noise and vibrations. This year coinciding with the 50th anniversary of CESVA and also with the 50th anniversary of the Spanish Acoustic Society, CESVA has been GOLD sponsor of Internoise 2019 Madrid. The first edition of the prestigious congress held in Spain. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 16 CESVA Booth at Internoise 2019 CESVA Booth at Internoise 2019 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 17 CESVA, as a partner of Sentilo showed its solutions for smart noise management at the latest edition of internoise held in Madrid on June 2019. The congress attendants were very interested in the CESVA TA120 noise sensor that is 100% Sentilo compliant including secured https protocol and in the intuitive noise monitoring platform CESVA NoisePatform Several cities liked the solution of the TA120 sensor sending noise data to the city platform (Sentilo) and then using NoisePlatform as a Sentilo subscription based application. CESVA Booth at Internoise 2019 showing Sentilo platform for Smart Cities CESVA remains an active part of the working group GT7.2 “Noise Pollution control systems” in the SC4 / CTN 178 Smart Cities. Energy and Environment of AENOR (It is legally responsible for the development and dissemination of technical standards in Spain). The objective of this group is to establish the guidelines to standardize the UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 18 actions conducted by smart cities for the diagnosis, monitoring and control of noise pollution and environmental awareness and education. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states ANTI-CORRUPTION simply that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Processes CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2019 | page 20 Maracaibo, 6  08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
