[Type here] Part II , 10 principles Human right  Business should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human right. The company realizes that human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal, indivisible, and should be promoted practical with justice and fair without prejudice. It has a policy to run a business with respect to the international human rights law and based on the principle of strictly and does not support activities with the violation of human rights. The company has set the practices associated with the respect for human rights, in the regulation of the company increasing as follows. 1. The company respect for the worker rights as defined in the general law or the constitution, as well as to not take any actions to hinder the use of such rights of employees. 2. The company will not support and encourage the employees to take any actions as a violation of human rights or the rights of others. 3. The company preserves the personal data of employees a secret and will not be published to outsiders, in any way, unless authorized by the employee. 4. Employees will treat others with equality and not take any action to offend or threaten the rights of other people. SVI got the Best Company Award: In Y2012 by Thai Department of Labor Protection and Welfare for a best company that conducting business full compliance with Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety, Thai laws.  Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses.  All of supply chain is free from any human right abuses. Our company shall not accept any human right abuses both in our company and any suppliers in our supply chain.  We encouraged each of our suppliers to follow the Code of Conduct with our company. Labor standard  The freedom of association and effective recognition of right to collective bargaining.  Our company respects the freedom of association and upholds the effective recognition of the right to collective the bargaining.  The benefit market survey in the similar industrial types have been perform on the regular basis, provide the right services and support to all employees.  Suggestion box have been provided inside the company, allow each level of employees to provide suggestions openly.  The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.  The employees of SVI Public Co.,Ltd have freely chosen their employment and are free to leave the company upon due notice. [Type here]  The effective abolition of child labor.  It has been defined clearly into our company working Regulation. Our company does not use childlabor, aged not less than 18 years old.  The Company does not use trafficked, forced labour or child labour. The Company shall comply with applicable laws whether laws prohibiting complaints to support slavery or trafficking, and shall not use or enter into the agreement for forced labour including slavery such as assign employees to certain types of work which they either do not willing to do or as punishment.  Development of Communities and Societies With the intention to contribute to a sustainable Thai society and to strengthen our relationship with our community, the company has on-going social activities, such as the “Prescription Eyeglasses Project”, “blood donation” activities and a student education support project. (supporting high school vocational students). An internship is offered by the company for 1 semester to support students to learn about working processes in order to enable them to work after graduation. “Bilateral projects” are a joint project between the company and technical colleges, where the students will carry out on the job training in the company to gain more knowledge and experience for 1 year. Later the students will be able to solve many problems which may arise in their job process.  Given the artificial flowers to Labour Department of Pathumthani SVI public Company Limited by voluntary staffs has been delivered the artificial flowers that will be given to public mourners before The late King Bhumibol’s royal cremation on October 26,2017 is an amount 1,009ea which received by Mrs.Tianrath Navamawat Head of Labour Department of Pathumthani on September 6, 2017.  Knowledge sharing SVI Public Company Limited joined the project, “Factory Tour” as of Year 2017 with Bangkadi Industrial park. To convey the knowledge and experience to primary school in the area of Pathum Thani on the topic “Environment conscious And Safety” so that the students are conscious of the environment, to prevent and reduce the risk of everyday accidents. The event was held 5 times in 5 schools. [Type here]  Support the youth and people within the communities SVI public Company Limited supported Ministry of social development and human security to provide drinking water and necessary consumer goods to those people affected by flooding Bangkadi, PathumThani Province SVI public Company Limited were joined in CSR Program of Social Care activities with Bangkadi Personnel Management Group of human Resourses, to motivate and develop social life better, we are also provided goods and food to the homeless shelter Dependent woman Thanyaburi, Pathum Thani on August 30,2017.  The elimination of the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  In relation to recruitment or conditions of employment, our company does not engage in a support discrimination based on race, caste, national origin, religion, gender, union membership or political affiliation. Environment.  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  The Company monitors, inspects and controls environmental pollution generated by the Company to ensure that we comply with Thai government and Law requirement. [Type here]   Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  The Company initiates Green Projects for example Energy Saving, Paper less, Reduce scrap etc.   Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  The company is fully certified with ISO14001 : 2015, TS16949 , TS13485 and some other world class standard. [Type here]   Certified the ISO OHSAS 18001 , Occupational Health & Safety and Environmental  Anti-Corruption  Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • SVI Public supports the anti corruption initiatives through on internal code of business conduct. [Type here] The Company realizes the importance of the fight against corruption. The written anti-corruption and related policies have been established with the monitoring process to ensure that employees and concerned parties comply with the policies and anti-corruption programs. The Company also provides whistleblowing channels, set up an anti-corruption committee with the senior management as a chairman, does corruption risk assessment, employees’ training as well as participating with partners to fight against corruption. Hana has been a signatory company of Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption (CAC) since 2014, with the objective to support the Coalition against Corruption aiming to counter corruption in any forms. The Company has lately been certified as a member of Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption since January 2016 which affirms that the Company has supported the fighting corruption through the implementation of policies and effective mechanisms to prevent corruption at company and industry levels. Anti-Corruption Policy The Company realizes that corruption is illegal and also destroys trust from outside parties. Therefore, the Board of Directors has approved a policy to combat corruption in all its forms and against all kinds of corruption and, as a result, avoid the negative reputation that accompanies it. SVI’s has a policy that our management and employees have to comply with: Management and Employees must not request or accept bribes that may mislead or avoid doing something that may result in negative consequences for the Company. SVI’s Management and Employees must not offer or give any benefits to external parties in order to motivate those people to perform or avoid performing certain actions as it could create negative results to the Company. If there is any corruption discovered within the Company, SVI will respond immediately with serious disciplinary action and take legal action promptly. Compliance with Anti-Corruption policy The company and its subsidiaries have operated in compliance with the anti-corruption policy as follows: 1) Audit and evaluate the business risk. To identify the operations of the company or subsidiary risk that may have been involved in corruption. The company has a low risk to be impacted by corruption. The risk of corruption and supervision systems of corruption are defined to Executives and employees so that they must follow the moral and ethics guidelines strictly. The company and its subsidiaries provide the proper risk management system as to prevent fraud and corruption within the company. There are measures against fraud and corruption with proper risk assessment, as well as the monitoring and evaluation based on the risk management plan. The company and its subsidiaries have been supervised, controlled and monitored in order to prevent exposure to fraud and corruption as follows: The company has an audit process to evaluate internal control system, comprehensive risk management system and important works, such as the procurement contract system arrangement, system setting and control of the budget. The approval system of payment and recording are clarified clearly. Have best practice and ethics guideline for directors, executives and employees engaged in anticorruption practices, in order to prevent the risk of fraud and corruption including the suggestions of how to improve it. Have more channels to receive information tip offs or complaints about violation in relation to illegal or ethical business of the company. The company establishes the guideline for the protection or [Type here] involvement in leaking of financial report or internal control system including the policy to protect a person who reports the case of fraud to the company. The company has a system to inspect and punish anyone engaging in corruption. The head of each department is responsible for tracking performance, taking action and informing the authority for acknowledgement. 2) Communication and training to the staff as to provide knowledge about the policies and practices of anticorruption policy and practice. The company provides communication for the basic practice on how to prevent involvement with corruption. The ethics of operating the business for management and employees are defined and employees have to know and participate in related anti-corruption measures, already posted on the Company’s website. 3) Guidelines for follow-up and evaluation of the anti-corruption policy. The company defines a concept and practice including the follow-up and evaluation of anti-corruption policy and practice as follows: • The Company has presented the anti-corruption policy, responsibility and practice to new employees on the orientation day, in which, new employees have to sign for acknowledgement of this policy, where by the communication made to the existing employees of this policy twice a year through Smart Meeting which is conducted on weekly basis, publishing in SVI Newsletter, and posting it on the company’s bulletin board. • A letter of Anti-Corruption policy, concept and practice were sent to all suppliers, contractors and all Financial Institutions. • The executives and employees must do self-evaluation assessment for Best Practice, good corporate governance and business ethics. All management and employees have to participate in the protection against corruption and not acting in conflict of the company’s code of ethics. • To provide internal audit system for auditing internal control systems, risk management, and good corporate governance. The report for improvement has to be ongoing. The annual audit plan has to be approved by the Audit Committee. Any materialized information has to be reported to the Audit Committee. • To identify Risk Management Committee’s and Internal Audit’s responsibility in evaluation of the risk of fraud and corruption constantly. In order to take action against fraud and corruption effectively, as well as to follow up and review for improvement, the report of evaluation has to be submitted to the Risk Management Committee and the Board of Directors regularly on a timely basis. [Type here]
