Sustainability Report 2018 Cooling down global warming 2 Contents Table of contents About Alfa Laval 3 CEO interview 4 Our business 6 Strategy and governance 8 Sustainability targets 9 Growth drivers 10 Key technologies 12 UN Global Goals 14 Water efficiency 16 Energy efficiency 18 Marine ecosystems 20 Environment 22 Employees 24 Health and safety 26 Community involvement 28 Supply chain 30 Business integrity 32 Auditor’s opinion 34 Global Compact Index 34 GRI Content Index 35 Sustainability notes 36 About the report Alfa Laval has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2011, and complies with its ten principles for responsible business. The Sustainability Report is Alfa Laval’s annual Global Compact Communication on Progress about how we live up to, and work with, these principles. This is the first year Alfa Laval reports on sustainability activities in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. This report together with the risk section in the Alfa Laval Annual Report 2018 fulfil the requirements in the Swedish Annual Account Act. Contact Catarina Paulson Head of Sustainability catarina.paulson@alfalaval.com Presence in over 100 countries Alfa Laval’s sales and aftermarket organization operates in more than 100 countries — either directly or in collaboration with external partners. The company’s production structure is also global, with 40 major facilities in Europe, Asia, the US and Latin America. Additionally, Alfa Laval has more than 100 service centres distributed worldwide to meet customer needs. About Alfa Laval 3 To optimize the performance of our customers’ processes — time and time again Alfa Laval is a leading, global provider of first-rate products in the areas of heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. With these as its base, Alfa Laval aims to help enhance the productivity and competitiveness of its customers in various industries throughout the world. We define their challenges and deliver products and solutions that meet their requirements — mainly in energy, the environment, marine and food. Three industry-based divisions: Food & Water, Energy and Marine, with a shared supply chain Net sales Number of employees at year-end Ten largest markets MSEK Order intake MSEK %* 50,000 20,000 United States 6,810 15.1% China (incl Hong Kong) 6,003 13.3% 40,000 Nordic 4,409 9.8% 15,000 Korea, South 3,945 8.8% 30,000 10,000 Japan 3,212 7.1% 20,000 Adriatic 2,637 5.9% 5,000 South East Asia 2,337 5.2% 35,634 35,314 40,666 16,941 16,367 17,228 10,000 Mid Europe 1,972 4.4% 0 0 Benelux 1,360 3.0% 16 17 18 16 17 18 India 1,169 2.6% * Percentage of total order intake 4 CEO interview “  It is essential to realize that waste is the enemy of sustainability and, seeing it from this perspective, there are only upsides to working with sustainability.” CEO interview 5 Interview with our CEO What does sustainability mean to Alfa Laval? and challenging, but I believe the progress we are making in this Sustainability is first of all a business opportunity for Alfa Laval. area is beyond what companies normally manage to achieve. Our products and solutions enable our customers to tackle their We continue our work to implement the ten principles of the UN environmental challenges be it by cleaning or reusing water, Global Compact. In addition, Alfa Laval contributes positively to increasing energy efficiency or ensuring that their processes are many of the UN Sustainable Development Goals as presented in more resource efficient. Equally important is our internal work with the coming pages of this report. Today, I would say energy sustainability. By implementing our Business Principles, we can, efficiency is our most significant contribution at the global level, for example, minimize our own environmental footprint and which makes a positive difference both to energy use and carbon optimize working conditions in our supply chain. emissions compared to many other companies. Our products also contribute to cleaning water and from a business point of How does sustainability fit into Alfa Laval’s view, we believe we can develop this area even more. business strategy? It is today a pronounced priority, partly driven by external trends What are the main priorities going forward? and stricter legislation and partly by the realization of business If we don’t run our operations in a safe way, the rest doesn’t opportunities in this area. Sustainable performance has always matter. The main priority for 2019 is therefore to improve our health been a key value of our products and in our development process and safety performance. We have been working with health and we strive to make new products more efficient than their safety in many parts of the organization, but it has not received the predecessors, from a life cycle perspective. With our strong attention it deserves. Today, it is higher up on our agenda and market position, we prepare for the future, with emphasis on consciousness. We realize that if we don’t make changes to our applications connected to the environment and energy. safety culture, we will never achieve a satisfactory safety level. Beginning early next year, we will introduce and implement “I care”, What are the greatest challenges in achieving which is an initiative to continuously improve our safety culture. Alfa Laval’s sustainability goals? This includes setting clear standards and supporting managers In order to remain a successful business, we need to continue to with the necessary tools to ensure this behavioural shift. grow while respecting the planetary boundaries. We struggle with decreasing our environmental impact in absolute terms when our What opportunities/challenges can you see in integrating business is growing very fast. Two examples are ambitious energy sustainability into the company? consumption and carbon emission targets towards 2020 that are Sustainability cannot be seen as an independent part of a business. absolute, which means that they are not relative to our production It is essential to realize that waste is the enemy of sustainability and, levels. As our business grows and has a greater positive impact seeing it from this perspective, there are only upsides to working on our customers, we use more energy in our own production. It’s with sustainability. When an organization becomes efficient, the positive on a global level that our business grows and we pressure on natural resources reduces as well. This automatically contribute but we need to become even more efficient internally. reduces costs and improves profitability. Sustainability should One of the actions taken during the year was to implement KPIs therefore be integrated into all parts of the business, be it design, for energy in all our production sites to increase the focus on sales or production — to maintain profitability and to reduce efficiency. Key measures to promote our carbon emission target pressure on scarce resources. In Alfa Laval’s case, sustainability is during the year included investing in solar panels to generate also a key part of our business as our products help our customers electricity in one of our factories in China and increasing the to both improve environmental and bottom line performance. proportion of renewable electricity we source. Which sustainability achievement are you most proud of Lund, February 2019 from 2018? The work in the supply chain with dedicated effort to focus, follow up and secure the improvement of our direct suppliers in high-risk countries stands out. To take one example, we have launched a sustainability development programme with certain suppliers in selected markets and these have so far resulted in significant improvements in areas such as health and safety as well as Tom Erixon environmental performance. This work is of course never ending President and CEO 6 Our business Our business We help create better everyday conditions for people by offering efficient and environmentally responsible products and solutions in the areas of heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. The organization has three industry-oriented Business Divisions: Food & Water, Energy, and Marine. Resources 58,072 Total assets, MSEK 17,228 Employees >100 Energy Division Food & Water Division Production and The Energy Division has customers in a The Food & Water Division has customers service operations range of sectors, including oil and gas in various sectors, including food, extraction, processing and transportation, pharmaceuticals, biotech, edible oils, refinery, petrochemicals and power breweries, and dairy products. The 1,020 generation. The division’s main technology division also specialises on water and is heat transfer and Alfa Laval is heating waste treatment. The offering includes and cooling some of the world’s tallest heat transfer, separation products and R&D investments, MSEK buildings. flow management products, such as pumps and valves. 267,976 Energy consumption, MWh Our business 7 Outcomes 40,666 Net sales, MSEK > 3,500 Patents 5,831 Operating income, MSEK 46,028 Carbon emissions, tonnes CO²e Marine Division Economic value distributed The Marine Division’s customers include 5% 1% ship-owners, yards, manufacturers of Investments Payments to providers of capital diesel engines, as well as companies that 5% work with oil and gas extraction at sea. Its Public Sector (taxes) offering includes heat transfer equipment, high speed separators and pump systems, 6% Shareholders as well as several different environmental(dividends) related products and systems. 32,411 MSEK 32% Distributed 52% Employee (salaries economic value Suppliers & remunerations) (purchases) 8 Strategy and governance Strategy and governance NS P AR EN CY EN VI R O N M TR A EN T Our Business Principles define the way we should act in society BUSINESS whilst achieving our business goals. The Business Principles PRINCIPLES BUS — social, environmental, business integrity and transparency — INE form the basis of our sustainability work. Our approach is to focus SS IN IA L C TE on the areas where we have identified the highest risks and where GR SO IT Y we can have the greatest influence. Social — Respect for human rights optimize our customers’ use of natural responsible for implementing the Business Respect for human rights is fundamental. resources. Read more on pages 14–23. Principles, including setting and reviewing Ensuring good working conditions is an targets for improvements. Our Managing essential part of this work and we have Transparency — Commitment to Directors have the responsibility to translate zero tolerance of child and forced labour. open dialogue the Principles and associated policies into One of our primary priorities is to prevent Alfa Laval’s ambition is to build trust local rules and procedures. Line Managers workplace accidents in all our premises. through open dialogue with our various ensure that their employees understand Our vision is a workplace free from stakeholders, including sustainability the Principles and receive the necessary accidents and work-related illness. opportunities and challenges. Read more training to implement them. An independent Read more about this work in the health about our stakeholder dialogues and internal audit function provides support in and safety section on page 26. materiality assessment on page 36. monitoring compliance. Business Integrity — High ethical Governance Whistle-blowing system standards Our Business Principles together with other All employees at Alfa Laval are entitled to a Our performance is governed by high policies guide our employees in their everyday safe and fair working environment where ethical standards and the principle is based work. Many international guidelines form the everyone is treated with respect and in on following all relevant laws where we source of the Business Principles including accordance with our Business Principles. operate. Read more about our focus on the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Primarily we encourage our employees to anti-bribery and anti-corruption on page 32. Enterprises, the United Nations Guiding resolve work-related issues and Principles on Business and Human Rights disagreements through an open dialogue. Environment — Optimizing the use and the United Nations Global Compact. If this is not possible for any reason, a of natural resources The Board is responsible for monitoring Group-wide whistle-blowing system enables We work to use energy and water efficiently the implementation of the Business stakeholders to report suspected breaches in our production and service operations. Principles. A sustainability plan with focus of our Business Principles. Both internal and Equally important is our ability to provide areas is agreed at Board level and followed external stakeholders can report breaches products, service and solutions that can up annually. Group Management is anonymously without repercussions. Sustainability targets 9 Targets and target achievements Alfa Laval’s environmental and social targets aim to drive efficiency and behavioural change to achieve higher results in the long term. The graphs presented are a selection of the Groups’ sustainability targets. Progress on Alfa Laval’s sustainability targets is presented in more detail within each section of the report. Environmental targets by 2020 Energy consumption Carbon emissions Water consumption Target: Reduce energy consumption by 10% Target: Reduce carbon emissions by 15% Target: Reduce water consumption by 10% between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. MWh Tonnes CO²e m³ 300,000 80,000 800,000 70,000 700,000 250,000 60,000 600,000 200,000 50,000 500,000 150,000 40,000 400,000 30,000 300,000 100,000 246,774 252,120 254,434 267,976 76,777 74,504 75,558 46,028 732,107 708,448 739,159 716,186 20,000 200,000 50,000 10,000 100,000 0 0 0 15 16 17 18 15 16 17 18 15 16 17 18 Energy consumption increased by 8.6% Carbon emissions from energy consumption Water consumption decreased by 2.2% compared to 2015. The increase is mainly decreased by 40% compared to 2015. The compared to 2015. Projects will be attributable to increased production. decrease is a result of changed electricity implemented in China, India and US to agreements, from fossil-based to renewables. reduce water consumption in these water scarce areas. Social targets by 2020 Accidents Absenteeism Gender equality Target: Reduction of Lost Time Injuries by Target: Reduction of absenteeism by 6% Target: Increase the proportion of women in the 30% between 2017 and 2020. between 2017 and 2020. company as a whole and also in leading positions. Number % % 250 2.5 30 2.12 25 200 2.08 150 2.0 20 150 122 15 100 1.5 10 50 5 19.6 25.7 19.7 25.8 0 1.0 0 17 18 17 18 17 18 Reduction of Lost Time Injuries by 19% The absenteeism decreased by 1.9% In 2018, the proportion of women employed in compared to 2017. The improvements are a compared to 2017. We will continue to work the company (excl. non-Alfa Laval branded result of several actions taken both at local proactively to reduce the absenteeism during acquisitions) was 19.7%. Alfa Laval works to and global levels. Among them are investment 2019. increase the proportion of women and one of in safe equipment, improved procedures and the targets is to recruit 30% women. In 2018, work to improve safe behaviour. the proportion of new recruits was 23%. Employees Senior Management The charts present the like-for-like figures to enable relevant comparisons. Read more about our targets and ambitions within health and safety, employee satisfaction, career development and diversity on pages 24–27. Read more about our progress and other environmental targets on page 22. 10 Growth drivers Societal changes create demand The world is changing and with change comes new opportunities. Global trends in the area of food, transport and energy, are creating new opportunities for growth. These structural changes include: the search for more sustainable methods of energy generation due to rising energy needs; a growing middle class that is creating greater demand for processed foods; environmental legislation imposing increasingly stringent requirements on emissions to air and water; and international trade creating a need for marine transport solutions. Growth drivers 11 Energy Environment The world’s energy needs are continuing to grow. Human impact on the environment is driving new and There are two ways to manage this challenge: increase increasingly stringent laws. In parallel with this, a the total energy generation and make greater use of sustainability mindset has also evolved and is technologies that enable greater efficiency or recycling encouraging companies to take voluntary steps that of the energy generated. contribute to environmental improvement. Opportunities Opportunities Alfa Laval offers products and solutions for oil and gas Alfa Laval has a wide range of products for managing exploration, power production, renewable fuels, various environmental challenges such as reducing refinement and much more. Alfa Laval products play energy use and the treatment of wastewater — both in an important role in efforts to make the world’s municipal water treatment plants and in industrial industrial processes more energy efficient. processes. World trade Food International trade helps to connect a world where raw The growing middle class and urbanization are two materials are extracted in one country and processed global megatrends that are continuing at an in another, before final products are transported to undiminished rate. This is, for example, contributing to customers around the globe. increasing demand for ready-made food and the development of more efficient supply chains with the Opportunities capacity to reduce waste. Alfa Laval has provided the marine industry with Opportunities equipment for 100 years — from engine room separators for cleaning fuel, to heat exchangers for Alfa Laval’s history began in 1883 with the development generating freshwater and pumping systems for of a separator for separating cream from milk. Since efficient loading and unloading. Alfa Laval offers various then, hygienic applications in the food industry have solutions that reduce impact on the environment, been expanded to include heat exchangers, pumps including systems for treating ballast water or reducing and valves. These products meet the strictest hygiene the sulphur content in ship exhaust gas. requirements and can help to optimise the use of raw materials. Alfa Laval offers products and solutions that play an important role in efforts to make skyscrapers more energy efficient. Read about the Lakhta Centre where Alfa Laval equipment is used for climate control on page 18. Other buildings where Alfa Laval technology is used for climate control include the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the Shanghai Tower in Shanghai and the Bank of America Tower in New York. 12 Key technologies World-leading in three key technologies Alfa Laval’s operations are based on three key technologies — heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. These technologies play a key role in a number of industrial processes and Alfa Laval commands a world-leading position in all three areas. In 2018, heat transfer products accounted for 44 percent of sales, separation products for 18 percent and fluid handling products for 23 percent. Heat transfer Heating and cooling are basic needs for creation of a pleasant indoor climate or series of plates assembled closely to each both the individual and in most industrial domestic hot water in private households, other. Between these plates run two processes. There are a large number of to name only a few examples. channels containing media at different industries today in which heat transfer The main product in Alfa Laval’s offering temperatures — often liquids. These flow solutions are required for heating, cooling, — the compact plate heat exchanger — is on either side of the thin plates and in ventilation, evaporation or condensation. more efficient than alternative technologies. opposite directions to each other, resulting Heat transfer products from Alfa Laval are Heat exchangers transfer heating or in a heat transfer between the media. used in numerous areas — from food cooling, often from one liquid to another. production and petrochemicals to the Plate heat exchangers are made up of a Two media at different temperatures flow on either side of thin plates and in opposite directions to each other resulting in heat transfer between the media. Key technologies 13 Separation Separation is the technology that represents decanter centrifuges, filters, strainers and are separated from one another. The liquid the origin of the Alfa Laval we see today. membranes. Separation products are used, with the highest density is separated The business began in 1883, with a for example, in the dewatering of sludge in naturally from the other liquid when it sinks continuous separator, separating cream wastewater treatment plants and in food to the bottom. By rotating the mixture, from milk, and this technology remains a and pharmaceutical processes. rather like what happens in a washing core Alfa Laval technology to this day. With precision and a high degree of machine, centrifugal force can be used to Alfa Laval’s offering includes separators, reliability, liquids, solid particles and gases speed up the process. Centrifugal force makes it possible to separate liquids, solid particles and gases from one another with reliability, precision and speed. Fluid handling The transportation and regulation instance, the production of mozzarella liquids at once — in the same valve, of fluids in an efficient and safe manner is cheese, in the pharmaceutical industry, without the liquids coming into contact crucial to many industries. Alfa Laval in the production of various fruit juice with each other. This makes it possible to focuses on fluid handling products, such concentrates and in pumping/offloading create flow systems where cleaning and as pumps and valves, for industries with oil from tanker vessels. production take place in parallel. stringent hygiene requirements but also Pumps drive the flow of liquids, while pumping systems for the marine industry valves are used to guide the flow by and the offshore market. The fluid handling opening and closing. Alfa Laval’s unique products fulfil an important function in, for valves make it possible to handle two Two liquids can flow in the same valve without coming into contact with each other, enabling the creation of flow systems where cleaning and production can take place in parallel. 14 UN Global Goals Contributing to the UN Global Goals The United Nations has adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, known as the Global Goals, that world leaders have pledged to achieve. Alfa Laval contributes to progress by continuously improving our own sustainability performance and enables change by supporting customers to reach their environmental targets. Contributing to progress Enabling change By implementing our Business Principles, setting measurable Alfa Laval’s products and solutions enable our customers to goals and working to continuously improve, we contribute to improve the efficiency of their production processes by, for example, several of the Global Goals. Examples are improving the health improving energy efficiency, reusing water or reducing waste. In this and safety of our employees, competence development, gender report we highlight how some of our products and solutions have equality, responsible supply chain and reducing corruption risks. supported our customers to meet environmental legislation and improve energy and water efficiency. See three product cases where Alfa Laval enables change on pages 16 – 21. Zero hunger S  ustainable cities and communities 2 11 Alfa Laval products and solutions improve shelf life, reduce Alfa Laval provides solutions for energy efficient district waste and make food production hygienic and safe. heating and cooling — often using waste heat as well as thermal storage solutions.  ood health and well-being G 3 Alfa Laval delivers efficient, hygienic equipment improving  esponsible consumption and production R 12 sustainable performance in the pharmaceutical industry. Alfa Laval’s ambition is to make every new product more efficient than its predecessor in a life cycle perspective. Quality education Many of our products contribute to turning waste into value 4 Alfa Laval is committed to ensure competence development in in different type of production processes. our own business. We also support charities and volunteering projects related to child education across the globe. Climate action 13 Alfa Laval works to minimize climate impact across the value Gender equality chain. Our diverse products improve energy efficiency 5 Diversity and inclusion are key priorities for Alfa Laval and which, in turn, lowers the consumption of fossil fuels and the aim is that the composition of employees reflects the thus reduces carbon emissions. geographic markets where we operate.  ife below water L 14  lean water and sanitation C Alfa Laval offers a whole range of products in the areas of 6 Alfa Laval offers a wide range of technologies to treat energy and environment which contribute to reducing wastewater and generate fresh water. These solutions marine pollution and protecting marine biodiversity. contribute to improved access to clean and fresh water across the globe. L  ife on land 15 Alfa Laval provides a cooling solution that protects the A  ffordable and clean energy world’s largest seed collection to provide a backup if a 7 Alfa Laval products are involved throughout the renewable natural catastrophe, environmental damage or war would energy production process, from heating and cooling to deplete the Earth’s crop diversity. mixing and separation.  eace, justice and strong institutions P 16  ecent work and economic growth D Alfa Laval has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 8 Alfa Laval’s Business Principles require decent working corruption. Our programme builds on the six steps outlined conditions. Working conditions and safety are a highly in the UK Bribery Act and is based on a “prevent, detect prioritized area both in our own operations and in the and correct” methodology. demands we set on our suppliers. P  artnership for the goals 17 I ndustry, innovation and infrastructure Alfa Laval has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact 9 Alfa Laval invests heavily in research and development, since 2011. We actively engage with stakeholders across launches between 30–40 new products per year and has our entire value chain to develop common solutions and over 3,500 patents. create shared value. UN Global Goals 15 Enabling change Contributing to progress Customer magazine focuses on the Global Goals The international customer magazine, Here, includes the latest insights, analysis and inspiration from the world of Alfa Laval. The magazine contains customer cases, trends and latest innovations. The magazine number 36 is dedicated to UN Sustainability Development Goals and describes how Alfa Laval products and solutions enable customers to contribute to the Global Goals. The magazine is available at www.alfalaval.com 16 Enabling change: Water efficiency Promoting water efficiency in the food industry Water scarcity affects more than 40 percent of the global population and is expected to have an even greater impact in the future as the global population increases and climate change affects water availability. The production of food and medicine requires significant amounts of water, not least for cleaning during production processes to secure food safety and product quality. Water efficiency measures in production are necessary to mitigate water scarcity and its effects. Water efficiency 17 The production of food and medicine requires significant amounts of water — both in the products themselves and in production processes. Cleaning is essential in the food industry to secure food safety and product quality. Being an integral part of the production cycle, cleaning also has a major impact on overall performance including the ability to reduce energy, water and chemical consumption. One stage of the production process that uses large amounts of water is the cleaning of tanks. There are more than one million stainless steel tanks installed in food and pharmaceutical companies around the world. Tanks are used for many different applications such as storing raw milk, performing yeast propagation in making beer and to store finished products. The vast majority of processing happens in batches. Regardless of how they are used, all tanks need to be cleaned. Alfa Laval offers different technologies to do this. Using rotary jets to clean the tanks achieves a reduction in water consumption of more than 50% compared with alternative technologies. Another water consuming phase in hygenic processes is the cleaning of valves. Valves need to be 100% clean before commencing the next product batch. A large beverage, brewery or dairy plant has several hundred valves. Alfa Laval has comprehensive knowledge to support customers in understanding how to optimize the cleaning procedure of the valves. One example of the impact of this optimization comes from a large dairy in the UK. Alfa Laval has installed more than 800 Unique Mixproof Valves in this dairy. By optimizing the cleaning procedure of the Unique Mixproof Valves, i.e. the use of seat lift and seat push, a third-party validation has shown that more than 10 million litres of water are saved every year in this dairy. > 10 million litres in water savings Alfa Laval Unique Mixproof Valve can be optimized to reduce the water used when cleaning the seals and seats of the valve. Sustainable Development Goals By cleaning and reusing water, Alfa Laval’s products contribute to achieving Global Goal 6 ‘Clean Water and Sanitation’, Goal 9 ‘Industry, innovation and infrastructure’, Goal 11 ‘Sustainable cities and communities’ and Goal 12 ‘Responsible Consumption and Production’. 18 Enabling change: Energy efficiency Energy efficiency in cities High-rise buildings play an important role in accommodating growing urban populations around the world. Buildings use energy during their operation, not the least for heating and cooling. As cities consume over two-thirds of the world’s energy and account for more than 50% of global CO ² emissions it is essential that we transform the way we build and manage our urban spaces. © 2018 Lakhta Center Multifunctional Complex Energy efficiency 19 In 2018, St Petersburg in Russia became home to the tallest building in Europe — the 462 metre high Lakhta Center. The building is just one of many around the world using Alfa Laval technology for climate control. Others include the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the Shanghai Tower in Shanghai and the Bank of America Tower in New York. Both the construction and the continued operation of the skyscraper have bold targets when it comes to the building’s environmental impact. One of the most distinguishing features of the Lakhta Center is its double facade skin, which provides thermal insulation and natural ventilation. It is estimated that the facade will reduce the building’s heating and air conditioning needs by 50%. In addition, conventional heating devices have been replaced by infrared radiators that can reuse heat emitted from other devices, and sensors automatically optimize temperature and lighting according to the number of people in each room. Among the Lakhta Center’s energy-saving solutions are 61 Alfa Laval gasketed plate heat exchangers, which will be used for heating, ventilation, hot water and air conditioning. Due to their high heat-transfer efficiency, the heat exchangers will minimize heat loss. ~ 40% energy savings Alfa Laval gasketed plate heat exchangers for air conditioning and heating applications save up to 40% energy compared with other solutions. Sustainable Development Goals By improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon emissions, Alfa Laval products contribute to achieving several of the UN Global Goals. Energy efficiency and reducing the use of fossil fuels are part of achieving Goals 7, 9, 11, 12 and 13. 20 Enabling change: Marine ecosystems Protecting marine ecosystems Invasive species, transported into new ecosystems via the ballast water of ships, cause severe and often irreversible damage to marine environments and the economies that depend upon them. With well over 75,000 ships in transit worldwide, it’s imperative to combat this threat. Marine ecosystems 21 Water is pumped into a ship’s ballast tanks to provide stability during transit, then pumped out again when the ship takes on cargo. Unfortunately, the pumps take in eggs, larvae and microorganisms as well that can be transported far beyond their native habitat. On any given day, the ballast water in transit aboard the world’s fleet may contain 10,000 different species. Most of these organisms perish while in transit. But when they survive, they can pose serious risks to local ecosystems, human health and regional economies. The result may be toxic algae tides, clogged waterways or the collapse of indigenous aquatic populations. Invasive comb jellies have depleted fisheries in the Caspian Sea, for example, while the United States has spent billions of dollars fighting invasive zebra mussels in the Great Lakes and beyond. The key to stopping marine invasions is ballast water treatment, an application where Alfa Laval PureBallast has led the way for more than a decade. PureBallast uses enhanced treatment with UV light to neutralize the organisms present in ballast water, ensuring that they cannot survive and multiply in their host location. The process is simple, clean and chemicalfree, which means it is safe for ship crews and poses no additional threat to the marine environment. Treatment occurs as a natural part of the ship’s ballast water operations, without excessive energy use or the creation of residual by-products. Protecting marine and costal ecosystems Alfa Laval PureBallast protects marine and coastal ecosystems by preventing the introduction and impact of invasive alien species. Sustainable Development Goals PureBallast addresses several Global Goals, most notably Goal 14 Life Below Water. The goal includes protecting marine and coastal ecosystems to avoid significant adverse impacts, as well as maintaining overall marine health and biodiversity. Although PureBallast is a marine solution, it also addresses Goal 15 Life on Land, which is frequently dependent on nearby water bodies and connecting waterways. This goal refers to preventing the introduction and impact of invasive alien species, not only on land but also in marine ecosystems. 22 Environment Environment Alfa Laval works to optimize the use of natural resources in both our own and our customers’ operations. As part of this commitment, we work continuously to reduce our energy and water use, decrease carbon emissions as well as improve our waste management processes in our production and service operations. Energy and renewables Most of the water consumed is used in The environmental targets for 2020 include the testing of our products and in their 41% reducing energy consumption by 10% and servicing. The target is to reduce water carbon emissions by 15% compared with consumption with 10% by 2020 compared 2015. To ensure Alfa Laval achieves its with 2015. In 2018, the water consumption carbon emission target, we work to was reduced by 2.2%. Even if the trend is Renewable energy used in 2018 increase the proportion of renewable turning, we are still not satisfied. The 10 electricity used. In 2018, 64% of Alfa Laval’s challenges to reduce water consumption electricity was sourced from renewable are increased production and increased sources, compared with 27% 2015. testing at several of our sites. Alfa Laval During the year, we changed electricity continues to concentrate its efforts on Sites in water scarce areas agreements at several sites. We focused sites situated in regions where there is 70% on sites where electricity was generated water scarcity. from coal or other fossil fuels to optimize A global water action group was carbon emission savings. In 2018, six of initiated during the year, including sites our large operation sites in China and India with the highest water consumption in Recycled waste in 2018 began to source 100% of their electricity geographic areas of high water stress. from renewable sources. The sites we are prioritizing are located in Other activities are ongoing at Alfa Laval India, China and certain areas of the USA. with the aim of reducing carbon emission The focus for the group is to implement and energy consumption. These activities action plans to reduce water use. Read and chemical selection process for its include using energy as a key performance more about the sites in water scarce areas products and we work to reduce the use indicator in all manufacturing sites, which is in the Sustainability notes on page 36. of substances of very high concern and to monitored monthly, and a newly established eliminate chemicals listed as banned in our cross-company energy group that focuses Waste and chemical management Black and Grey list. The list follows the on sharing best practice. Alfa Laval has the objective to recycle regulations in our area of business and 85% of the waste generated in its sometimes goes beyond the requirements Water management operations by 2020. In 2018, Alfa Laval of national legislation. The use of chemicals Alfa Laval’s main production processes do operations recycled 70% of waste. listed as banned decreased by 56% not require significant amounts of water. Alfa Laval has a robust material compared with 2017. The decrease was Environmental targets 2020 with baseline 2015 CO² Reduce carbon Reduce energy Reduce water No banned Recycling emissions by 15% consumption by 10% consumption by 10% chemicals 85% of waste Environmental targets The Alfa Laval Group has five environmental targets towards 2020. These are to reduce energy and water consumption, decrease carbon emissions, eliminate banned chemicals and increase waste recycling. The Alfa Laval Environment Policy and Environmental Strategy towards 2020 apply to the entire Group. Environment 23  mainly due to a change of method for “ removing paint in service centres. Removing the paint mechanically has enabled us to phase out dichloromethane. During 2018, we improved the follow-up We use Alfa Laval’s heat process and created training to enhance exchangers to optimize the understanding and reporting. cooling function in the system. Goods transportation It’s very satisfying that we use The goal for goods transportation is to reduce carbon emissions by 15% by 2020 our own products to improve compared with 2015. During the year, energy efficiency and thereby emissions from goods transportation amounted to 61,931 tonnes of CO². Goods reduce carbon emissions.” transportation emissions per tonneJohan Åhlund, Real Estate Manager kilometre were 110 gram/tonne-km compared with 92 in 2015. Our progress is currently not satisfactory, as our carbon emissions from goods transport increased due to greater transport need and more air freight compared to sea freight. One of Alfa Laval’s oldest manufacturing sites is situated in Eskilstuna, Sweden. Even though there has been an increase in production, the site has managed to reduce its energy consumption by over 12% compared with 2015. Johan Åhlund works as a Real Estate Manager at the site in Eskilstuna and has been a driving force in this development. One project he is particularly proud of is the implementation of geothermal cooling that has so far reduced energy consumption by 1,250 MWh. The site also uses 15 Alfa Laval heat exchangers. Sustainable Development Goals Alfa Laval works to optimize the use of natural resources. This involves reducing carbon emissions by improving energy efficiency and increasing the proportion of renewable electricity. We also work to reduce water consumption and improve our waste management processes. Alfa Laval contributes to Goal 7 “Affordable and clean energy”, Goal 12 “Responsible consumption and production” and Goal 13 “Climate action”. 24 Employees Employees Alfa Laval is committed to be an attractive employer by offering our employees engaging career and development opportunities. Career development of a global training programme. In 2018, the Being a multi-faceted company with a global programme included 866 courses. diverse range of products within various More than 11,500 employees participated in application areas, industries and countries the courses offered through the learning means that we can offer our employees portal in 2018. The average hours of training many engaging career and development per employees was 9.4 hours compared opportunities. Alfa Laval uses an open with 7.2 hours the previous year. internal recruitment process that One example of a training programme encourages mobility within the Group. is EDGE that focuses on competence Available positions are published on the development for project managers. The intranet and all employees are welcome programme was first launched in 2016 to apply. This open process creates and 270 project managers have since an inclusive environment with equal participated. The training includes a mix of opportunities for professional development. classroom, virtual training and on-the-job When it comes to personal development, activities that lead to new ways of working. our employees are in the driving seat. An important part of our employees’ skills Diversity promotes growth development takes place in their daily Alfa Laval’s vision is to create an inclusive work and in various types of interactive workplace where diversity is essential to relationships with more experienced achieving the company’s objectives. important aspect of this strategy. Alfa Laval colleagues, managers or mentors. In We believe that diversity maximizes the works to increase the proportion of women addition, formal training programmes potential of individuals and of the at management level and the number of complement the daily learning experience. organization as a whole. Our work with women in the company as a whole. Our diversity helps us ensure that the ambition is to recognize women with Training programmes composition of employees reflects the executive potential at an early stage. The We provide all our employees with training geographic markets where we operate. proportion of female employees in the in several different areas through our own At end of 2018, 17 nationalities were total company was 20.5% (20.2) and the training platform. The platform includes a represented within the senior management proportion of female managers was 20.5% broad range of courses from basic training and 100 nationalities within the Group. (19.9). Alfa Laval works to expand the to advanced training in areas such as Alfa Laval’s “Diversity for growth” recruitment base for female management leadership and project management. Some strategy includes equal career positions by employing a greater courses are offered locally and others as part opportunities. Gender equality is an proportion of female graduates. Number of employees (2016–2018) Gender balance (2018) Women Men 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 16,941 16,367 17,228 Group Management Senior Management Other Employees Women 22% Women 26% Women 20% 0 16 17 18 Men 78% Men 74% Men 80% The charts present the proportion of men and women within different roles in Alfa Laval. The figures do not cover non-Alfa Laval branded acquisition. Employees 25 “  The mentorship programme gave me a broader perception of Alfa Laval and its overall strategy. It has been a great opportunity to develop my leadership and confidence.” Sara Billo, Quality Health Safety and Environment Manager Impact — Alfa Laval’s development and mentorship programme Alfa Laval’s “Diversity for growth” strategy, includes equal career opportunities to support women in their career development within the company and to create a dynamic and diverse working environment to sustain successful business. One initiative within this strategy is the development and mentorship programme — “Impact”. The purpose of the programme is to identify, retain and develop emerging female leaders within Alfa Laval in order to increase the number of management positions held by women. Twelve employees participated in the mentorship programme during the year. Employee Satisfaction purpose contributes to increasing to support in attracting, retaining and Every year Alfa Laval conducts an employee engagement. In other words, engaging employees. employee survey that includes aspects employees are motivated by being a part of such as employee motivation and “creating everyday conditions for people”. An appreciated employer satisfaction. The 2018 employee survey The Alfa Laval DNA was established in For the sixth year in a row, Alfa Laval has showed that our employees are highly 2017. It summarizes the characteristics of been voted one of Sweden’s top 30 motivated and confident about the future our company, what has made us a strong employers. The employer branding success of Alfa Laval. The results states brand and provides guidance on how we company Universum, conducts an that 80% of all employees feel engaged. need to act in order to drive solid organic annual survey among around 150 large This figure is 2%-points higher than last growth. The purpose of the DNA is to companies. The employees working for year and more than 10%-points higher provide direction, help drive the cultural each of the participating companies are than the benchmark within our industry. changes needed for a successful asked to assess their employer on a wide The survey indicates that our company implementation of our new strategy and range of criteria. Sustainable Development Goals Alfa Laval has more than 16,000 employees globally. As a large employer, we contribute to Goal 4 “Quality education” and Goal 5 “Gender equality”. Our employee philosophy includes four important components: • We provide safe and healthy working conditions • We continually develop employee competence and flexibility • There shall be no direct or indirect discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin • We recognize the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining 26 Health and safety Injuries Health and safety indicators LWD LTIF 2018 2018 2017 2017 5,000 2.5 Total Like-for-like Total Like-for-like Lost Time Injury ¹ ) 122 122 152 150 4,000 2.0 Lost Time Injury Frequency ² ) 0.78 0.78 0.97 0.96 3,000 1.5 0.97 Lost Working Days ³ ) 2,794 2,794 3,975 3,903 2,000 0.78 1.0 Absenteeism (%) 4) 2.08 2.08 2.12 2.12 1,000 0.5 3,975 2,794 0 0.0 17 18 Figures include all entities. Total figures include all Alfa Laval entities and like-for-like figures include sites in the 2017 baseline. Lost Working Days ¹ ) Number of reported accidents including travel accidents ³ ) Days lost due to accidents Lost Time Injury Frequency ² ) Number of accidents per 200,000 working hours 4) Days lost due to any form of illness (including LTIs) Health and safety 27 Health and safety Alfa Laval’s safety vision is “We return home safely — every day”. This vision means that our ambition is to have a workplace that is free from accidents and work-related illnesses. At Alfa Laval, we work to continuously known as 3PR (three prioritized safety improve our Health and Safety (H&S) risks) at our facilities. Using this method, Priorities to improve performance. Our global H&S Policy employees are made aware of existing health and safety requires that our workplaces have high and prioritized risks and the importance of standards of safety and well-being. The their own behaviour and attitude towards Alfa Laval Global H&S manual underlines the risks in reducing the number of Safe behaviour the accountability of our managers to fulfil accidents. This method has been and uphold this policy. The work is implemented with a priority focus on sites supported by local Occupational Health that have had the largest number of injuries and Safety management systems. (LTIs). At these sites, we have noted that Additionally, all Alfa Laval’s facilities are the focus on behavioural change has made expected to comply with local legislation a positive impact on reducing injuries. and regulations. “Stop-Think-Act” is another method implemented to promote awareness and Targets and progress safe behaviour. It is a behavioural tool Alfa Laval’s key target towards 2020 is to used by Field Service Engineers to Safe Protective reduce Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) by 30% emphasize the importance of performing procedures equipment compared with 2017. For those sites with a last-minute risk analysis just before zero LTIs, the ambition is to maintain zero. starting work. Stop-Think-Act has been In addition, we have an annual target to implemented worldwide. Our assessments reduce absenteeism by 2%. highlight that the concept has contributed Tragically, Alfa Laval had one fatality to an increased safety awareness, which during 2018, which resulted from an has led to safer behaviour and reduced Good health and well-being accident in Alfa Laval’s Krakow factory. risk of injury. At Alfa Laval, ensuring good health is both The accident should not have happened, about concern for the individual as well as and we are working to ensure it never Investments in safe machines promoting Alfa Laval’s continued business happens again. and equipment success. Alfa Laval’s work is based on The total number of LTIs was reduced During 2018, Alfa Laval has invested in continuous improvement and development to 122 (152) and the like-for-like number of improving the safety of machines and through systematically working to improve accidents was 150. The total number of equipment. Investments in tanks and health and safety. Local conditions Lost Working Days decreased to 2,794 safety equipment for degasketing with determine the nature of the actions (3,975). Absence among Alfa Laval’s liquid nitrogen and machine guarding for implemented to improve health and employees due to illness or work-related decanter balancing machines have been well-being. Examples include company accidents was reduced to 2.08% (2.12%). given priority. sponsored exercise for employees during During 2018, Alfa Laval focused on their free time and ergonomics training. enhancing health and safety performance Global safety standards in three main areas: safe behaviour, The development of standardized investments in protective equipments, procedures for all service operation sites and the development of safe procedures. has focused on safe procedures for degasketing with liquid nitrogen and safe Focus on safe behaviour handling of hazardous materials. To Promoting behavioural change is ensure reduced safety risks, we will necessary to create a safety culture in the continue to develop global safety workplace. At Alfa Laval, we use a method standards in the coming years. Sustainable Development Goal Global Goal 8 is intended to promote “Decent work for all”. This means protecting labour rights and promoting safe working environments for all workers. Working conditions and safety are a highly prioritized areas for Alfa Laval. 28 Community involvement Community involvement Alfa Laval strives to be a good corporate citizen that has a positive influence on the communities we work in. We support local charities and volunteering projects in many countries where we are present. In this year’s report, we highlight some initiatives managed by Alfa Laval in India. Education providing 40 girls in India scholarships for Water and Sanitation Education is a key to development five years. The project has also installed In addition to education, Alfa Laval also and opportunities for otherwise solar panels on four school buildings and supports projects to increase access to underprivileged children. This is why created a modern library. clean water and sanitation. Two clean Alfa Laval supports educational initiatives In addition, Alfa Laval supports eight drinking water plants in villages near for children to bring about wider community learning centres for 900 Cuddalore through WaterLife have been community development. children in slums in Pune and constructed. These water plants will give At corporate level, Alfa Laval has Ahmednagar. The program also provides more than 11,000 villagers access to clean chosen to support Pratham, which is an activities such as computer classes, and potable water. The water plants are innovative learning organization that summer camps, community art events modern, solar-powered, cashless vending improves the quality of education in India. and science activities and lectures for machines to provide clean drinking water As one of the largest non-governmental around 350 children. 24 hours a day. organizations in the country, Pratham Alfa Laval has also built a higher ‘One Home One Toilet’ is also a project focuses on high-quality, low-cost, and secondary school in the remote village of supported by Alfa Laval. As of the end of replicable interventions to address gaps Velvand as the children there had to travel 2018, 1,829 toilets have been installed in in the education system. several kilometres to school. Alfa Laval the homes of people living in slums in Alfa Laval India supports various provided a school bus to ensure children Pune and Navi Mumbai. initiatives to promote education and with less privileged backgrounds were develop the supporting infrastructure. able to attend this school until the new One project the company has focused on school in Velvand was built. empowers girls through education by Community involvement 29 New Delhi Mumbai Location of CSR initiatives in India  schools and 8 community learning centers 3 in the states of Maharashtra, Kerala and Assam S  anitation and water purification facilities in 2 schools and 7 slums areas in states of Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu  community learning centers in states 7 of Maharashtra  ducation and vocational training for women E in a village and a community in Maharashtra Installed water purification plants in 1 village and 1 school each in states of Maharashtra and Kerala  Solar energy installations in 4 buildings in a school in the state of Maharashtra Sustainable Development Goals Alfa Laval support charities and volunteering projects that promote development and children’s rights, education and health. Through the initiatives above, Alfa Laval contributes to Goal 4 “Quality education”, Goal 5 “Gender equality” and Goal 6 “Clean water and sanitation”. 30 Supply chain Responsible sourcing Responsible supplier management is a prioritized area for Alfa Laval. We strive to ensure that our suppliers live up to our sustainability standards — our Business Principles. Responsible supplier management Alfa Laval monitor the status of suppliers Alfa Laval is a global company with more regarding critical indicators such as 100% than 40 production sites and distribution anti-corruption, environmental issues centres in Europe, Asia and America. We and working conditions. expect our suppliers to act ethically and in full compliance with the applicable Monitoring high-risk suppliers Direct suppliers screened using regulation in every country they operate. Our highest priorities are to improve environmental and social criteria By imposing sustainability requirements the health and safety, labour conditions on our direct suppliers, we encourage and working environment of our direct them to develop their capacity to meet suppliers’ employees in high-risk countries stricter demands and ultimately become and industries. The initial screening is the more sustainable. We work continuously basis for our prioritization and ensures suppliers, including the implementation of to improve our performance, however with that we prioritize the suppliers that pose our Business Principles. suppliers in many countries around the the highest risk of breaches to our world we can never be complacent or Business Principles. This is followed by Audits and action plans completely satisfied with our progress. three levels of risk assessment. Read Audits are conducted by both internallymore below. certified auditors and external third-party Performance beyond compliance auditors. They review how well our suppliers The Alfa Laval Business Principles play Governance structure comply with our Business Principles and an integral role in our sourcing process. The Alfa Laval Supplier Risk and help prepare improvement plans. Our audit At Alfa Laval, all employees in the Compliance Council sets the annual platform highlights six areas with deviations procurement organization are required to improvement plans and allocates resources that we define as critical: child labour, undergo mandatory training on antiaccordingly. The Council is responsible for young labour, forced labour, freedom of bribery and anti-corruption as well as our verifying that our supply chain lives up to association, health and safety, fire protection Business Principles. In total, more than Alfa Laval’s Business Principles and and environment. Deviations in these areas 317 employees within the purchasing continuously improves. Master auditors will require immediate correction if Alfa Laval organization have been trained. All conduct supplier audits and support with is to commence or continue a relationship managers in the purchasing organization supplier development activities. They are with a supplier. have also completed a six-hour in-depth also responsible for training and certifying During the year, we conducted 90 training on supplier Business Principles. auditors, and for identifying and dealing supplier audits to assess their social or The purchasing organization with non-compliance in the organization. environmental impacts. All suppliers implemented a new scorecard last Purchasing managers are responsible identified as having potential or actual year. The scorecard is designed to help for the continuous development of our negative impacts are followed up with an Assessing supplier risk Country risk Product & production process risk Governance & policies Risk related to human rights breaches or Risk related to occupational health and safety Risk based on analyses and screenings of the bribery/corruption in the country where the or environmental impacts associated to supplier’s available documentation of CSR supplier is based. supplier production processes. policies and governance. Supply chain 31 improvement action plan. Alfa Laval’s main objective is to promote improvements throughout the supply chain. Suppliers with serious breaches are given a limited time to implement the necessary improvements. If insufficient progress is made, Alfa Laval has an escalation process to ensure suppliers that fail to improve according to the action plan will be phased out. During 2018, Alfa Laval phased out five suppliers due to Business Principle breaches. Increasing supplier understanding Promoting supplier in-depth understanding of our Business Principles is key to improving our supply chain. China and India have been the primary focus for many years. During 2018, we widened our scope to include Mexico and Brazil. Deviations 2018 Alfa Laval conducts various initiatives to increase the level of understanding in these 4% 24% countries. In 2018, 130 suppliers have Discrimination Environmental been trained on our Business Principles 8% including human rights issues. The suppliers Transparency that participated made faster progress after participating in these initiatives. They 12% also showed a better understanding of the Personal protective equipment and fact that these improvements can also 19% machine safety benefit their business. Health and safety Alfa Laval has also piloted a new 15% sustainable development programme for Working hours / wages suppliers during the year. The programme 18% is built on collaboration and ensures that Emergency preparation training, assessment and improvements are carried out together with the supplier. The aim of the programme is to improve supplier competence within the area of sustainability as well as ensuring long-term compliance with the Alfa Laval Business We published a policy on conflict minerals has zero tolerance within its own Principles. The programme includes in 2013 on our website and have since organization and supply chain. We are competence development, cooperative worked with the vision to achieve “conflictcommitted to protecting human rights and due diligence and coaching. During 2018, free” deliveries to our customers. We supporting the principles contained within 18 suppliers in China participated in the implemented a supplier platform in 2016 to the Universal Declaration of Human programme. The pilot programme in China increase the efficiency in communicating, Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on has proven to be effective and successful, training and reviewing supplier responses Business and Human Rights, the OECD and a further roll-out is being evaluated. in this area. In 2018, we have identified 650 Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises suppliers which we have communicated and the ILO Core Conventions on Labour Conflict minerals with to ensure compliance. Standards. Alfa Laval’s Modern Slavery The Dodd Frank Act requires companies Act Statement is available on our website. to conduct due diligence to ensure that Modern Slavery Act Last year, Modern Slavery was included in the minerals used in its products are not The continued prevalence of forced labour our internal and supplier training as well as sourced from mines that finance armed and human trafficking is a serious global in the monitoring, auditing and follow-up groups guilty of human rights violations. issue with many victims, and Alfa Laval activities with suppliers. Sustainable Development Goal One essential part of the Global Goal 8 is intended to promote “Decent work for all”. This involves protecting labour rights and promoting safe working environments for all workers. Alfa Laval’s Business Principles require decent working conditions. Working conditions and safety are highly prioritized areas — both in our own operations and through the demands we place on our suppliers. 32 Business integrity Business integrity Operating our business with integrity is essential to ensure that we live up to the expectations of our stakeholders. They should be able to depend on us to conduct our business in a responsible and fair manner. ABAC Policy Business Principles Whistle-blowing system CY EN VI R EN O P AR N NS M TR A EN T BUSINESS PRINCIPLES BUS INE L SS IN IA TE C GR SO IT Y All employees have received One of Alfa Laval’s Business Principles A group-wide whistle-blowing system enables information on Alfa Laval’s policies and is Business Integrity. stakeholders to report suspected breaches of procedures regarding anti-corruption. our Business Principles anonymously. Business integrity 33 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption process Top level commitment Risk assessment • Group ABAC Policy • Annual risk assessment • Commercial Ethics Council • Risk assessment in supply chain • Corporate Governance sign-off Proportionate procedures Communication & training • Risk mitigation actions • ABAC information available on the intranet • Supplier contracts include ABAC clause • ABAC training for employees • ABAC training for suppliers Due diligence Monitoring & review • Agent and distributor due diligence guidelines • Internal audit • Due diligence on mergers and acquisitions • Whistle-blowing function • Annual Corporate Sustainability Reporting Compliance with laws, regulations the six steps outlined in the UK Bribery Act annual sign-off. Internal audits are and Business Principles and is based on a “prevent, detect and conducted regularly and are intended to It is important for Alfa Laval to conduct its correct” methodology. ensure that appropriate processes are in business with honesty, integrity and respect Risk assessments are made on a global place and function properly. for others. This means that we follow the level. More than 80% of Alfa Laval’s sales Business Principles of Alfa Laval as well as companies have been evaluated for risks Focus on ABAC training all applicable laws and regulations. We related to corruption and the highest Information on Alfa Laval’s policies and carefully monitor the development of exposure was found connected to the use procedures regarding anti-bribery and international regulations, social standards of agents and distributors. In addition, it anti-corruption is made available to all and voluntary initiatives, including areas was concluded that Alfa Laval’s whistleemployees, through various distribution such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and blowing system needs to be communicated channels. During 2018, a mandatory conflict of interest. During 2018, we have more widely. Information about the ABAC training for all white-collar continued to build on our internal processes whistle-blowing system was included in employees was launched. In total, more to ensure that we follow laws and a new training. than 10,000 employees have received regulations relevant to our business. No public legal cases regarding targeted training focusing on ABAC. corruption have been brought against Anti-bribery and anti-corruption the organization or its employees during Alfa Laval has a zero-tolerance approach the reporting period. towards any form of bribery and corruption. The international scope of Alfa Laval’s sales Leading by example organization means that we are active in The Commercial Ethics Council, chaired several countries where there is a high risk by the CEO, is responsible for ensuring Proportion that have received of corruption. One of many tools used by that we have the appropriate policies and training in anti-corruption Alfa Laval in assessing risk is Transparency processes in place. All managers are International’s Corruption Perception Index. responsible for ensuring compliance with 2018 Alfa Laval’s Anti-Bribery and Antiour policies, including the ABAC Policy The Group Management 100% Corruption (ABAC) Policy outlines the and the implementation of local guidelines. expectations the company has on all Line managers are reminded about their White-collar employees 72% employees. Alfa Laval has built its work responsibility to implement all Alfa Laval with anti-bribery and anti-corruption on corporate policies each year through an Sustainable Development Goal Global Goal 16 is intended to substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all its forms. We cannot achieve sustainable development without tackling corruption and Alfa Laval continuously works to eliminate all forms of unethical behaviour. 34 Auditor’s opinion Auditor’s opinion Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. To the general meeting of the shareholders in standard RevR 12 The auditor’s report on Opinion Alfa Laval AB (publ), corp. id 556587-8054. the statutory sustainability report. This A statutory sustainability report has been means that our examination of the prepared. Engagement and responsibility statutory sustainability report is different The Board of Directors is responsible for and substantially less in scope than an Lund, 8 March 2019 that the statutory sustainability report audit conducted in accordance with on pages 1–40 has been prepared in International Standards on Auditing and Ernst & Young AB accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination Staffan Landén The scope of the audit has provided us with sufficient basis for Authorised Public Accountant Our examination of the statutory our opinions. sustainability report has been conducted Karoline Tedevall in accordance with FAR’s auditing Authorised Public Accountant Global Compact Index Global Compact Index Principle Page Human rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 1 8, 24-31, 38-39 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 2 8, 24-31, 38-39 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 3 8, 24-31, 38-39 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 4 8, 24-31, 38-39 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 5 8, 24-31, 38-39 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 6 8, 24-31, 38-39 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principles 7 8, 22-23, 36-39 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principles 8 8, 22-23, 28-31, 36-38 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principles 9 8, 10-23, 36-38 Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 8, 30-33, 39 GRI Content Index 35 GRI Content Index The report covers the 2018 calendar year and focuses on material topics and activities in line with stakeholder concerns. This is the first year Alfa Laval reports on sustainability activities in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. All reported GRI-Standard modules refer to version 2016. No external assurance has been undertaken. The previous Sustainability Report was published in March 2017. Data and sustainability information for previous years are available at www.alfalaval.com/about-us/sustainability/ General Standard Disclosures Omissions Page Specific Standard Disclosures Omissions Page Organizational profile GRI 300: Environmental standard series 102-1 Name of the organization AR 58 Water AR 3-4, 58, 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 22 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 121-124 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source SR 22, 36 102-3 Location of headquarters AR 58 Emissions 102-4 Location of operations AR 36, 106 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 22-23 AR 12, 58, 102-5 Ownership and legal form 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR 22-23, 37 121-124 AR 3-4, 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR 22-23, 37 102-6 Markets served 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions SR 22-23, 37 10-11, 38 SR 6-7, Effluents and waste 102-7 Scale of the organization AR 5, 68 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 22-23 SR 24, 38, 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR 22-23, 37 AR 69-70 306-3 Significant spills SR 37-38 102-9 Supply chain SR 30-31 Environmental compliance 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain SR 30-31 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 22-23 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SR 36 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 22-23, 38 102-12 External initiatives SR 14, 34 Supplier environmental assessment 102-13 Membership of associations SR 14, 34 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 30-31, 39 Strategy 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 30-31, 39 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 5 GRI 400: Social standards Ethics and integrity Employment 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour SR 8, 25 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 24-27, 38 Governance 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR 38 102-18 Governance structure SR 8, 36-39 Occupational Health and Safety Stakeholder engagement 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 24-27, 38-39 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 36 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, SR 26-27, 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SR 38 403-2 lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities 38-39 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR 36 Training and education 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 36 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 24, 38 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 36 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 24, 38 Reporting practice Diversity and equal opportunity 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 58 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 24-26, 38 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries SR 35-39 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SR 24-26, 38 102-47 List of material topics SR 35-36 Non-discrimination 102-48 Restatement of information SR 35-39 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 24-31, 38 102-49 Changes in reporting SR 35-39 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 38 102-50 Reporting period SR 35 Child labour 102-51 Date of most recent report SR 35 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 30-31, 39 102-52 Reporting cycle SR 35 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 408-1 SR 30-31, 39 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR 2 incidents of child labour 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards SR 35 Forced or compulsory labour 102-55 GRI Content Index SR 35 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 30-31, 39 102-56 External Assurance SR 35 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 409-1 SR 30-31, 39 incidents of forced or compulsory labour Specific Standard Disclosures Omissions Page Human Rights Assessment GRI 200: Economic standard series 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 30-31, 39 Economic performance 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures SR 30-31, 39 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 7, AR 74 Supplier social assessment 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR 7, AR 74 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 30-31, 39 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SR 30-31, 39 Anti-corruption 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken SR 30-31, 39 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 32-33 Customer privacy 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption SR 32-33 Communication and training on anti-corruption 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 39 205-2 SR 33, 39 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of policies and procedures 418-1 SR 39 Energy customer privacy and losses of customer data Socio-economic compliance 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 22-23 103 Management Approach ¹ ) SR 8, 32-33, 38 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR 22, 36-37 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 419-1 SR 38 SR = Sustainability Report 2018 AR = Annual Report 2018 Partially reported social and economic area ¹ ) Includes 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries, 103-2 The management approach and its components, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Reasons for omission 102-8 & 205-2: Information unavailable regarding business partners and the necessary detail of global employee data cannot be obtained for 2018. The objective is to report both GRI indicators in full 2020. 408-1 & 409-1: The boundary for these two material topics are within the supply chain. 36 Sustainability notes Sustainability notes Stakeholder engagement emissions, water consumption and waste Water management Engaging with our stakeholders provides management. It is important for Alfa Laval Throughout the value chain, Alfa Laval important input and helps us continuously to attract talent and work with career affects both the quality as well as the improve and make progress towards our development, diversity, equal opportunities availability of water. Alfa Laval offers a business and sustainability goals. We and non-discrimination including wide range of technologies to treat engage in both formal and informal non-harassment. Compliance includes wastewater and generate fresh water. dialogue with our stakeholders. The environmental and socio-economic Alfa Laval’s own production processes stakeholder groups identified as priority compliance, anti-bribery anti-corruption require relatively small amounts of water. groups for engagement on sustainability and data protection. A responsible supply Most of the water consumed in our issues are customers, owners, employees, chain and good relationships with suppliers processes is used in the testing and future employees, business partners, are central to Alfa Laval’s commitment to servicing of our products. Our target is to neighbours, authorities and media. We provide customers with the most innovative reduce the water consumption by 2% per have regular contact with our customers and optimal solutions. The boundaries of year with a focus on our sites in regions and every third year we conduct a brand material issues vary from topic to topic. affected by water scarcity. Alfa Laval has study, which provides us with an in-depth used the World Resources Institute understanding of how our customers Developing new products ‘Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas’ tools to perceive our company. Employees can Alfa Laval is divided into three divisions assess areas with water stress. Alfa Laval give feedback directly to their managers or working with marine, food & water and has identified 10 sites in high-risk areas. through annual employee surveys. Our energy applications. Within each division, The water consumption from these sites shareholders participate in Annual General Business Units are responsible for product represents 13% of the company’s total Meetings and investors are invited to our offerings to these industries. Each Business water consumption. A global water action annual capital markets days. We have Unit has an R&D organization responsible group was initiated during the year that regular contact with our suppliers and for developing innovative product solutions. consists of Alfa Laval sites with the invite many of them to supplier conferences New products are developed within cross highest water consumption in water and workshops. We have open dialogue functional projects. We perform risk stressed areas. During the year, the data with the communities in which we operate, analysis to improve health and safety quality for water consumption has been including collaboration with universities. aspects, both from internal and customer improved and resulted in significant perspectives. All new products are changes compared to previous report. Materiality assessment optimized from a holistic life cycle A materiality assessment was conducted perspective. Life cycle analyses are used together with the non-profit organization BSR to analyse the environmental impact of new in 2016. The assessment included interviews products vs. those they replace. Since the Water management and surveys with customers, employees, beginning of 2015, Alfa Laval has performed suppliers, academia and investors. The aim more than 180 LCAs, which have Water stress Number was to identify the sustainability topics where developed knowledge on how to optimize Extremely high risk 0 sites we can make the greatest positive difference. our products from an environmental High risk 10 sites During 2018, the assessment was perspective. Our ambition is that each new complemented with an internal analysis product should have a lower environmental Medium-high risk 79 sites based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). impact than its predecessor. Research Low-medium risk 64 sites The analysis gave us a more comprehensive and development investments amount to Low risk 16 sites overview that also identified relevant key between 2 and 2.5% of net sales per year. performance indicators. These assessments By the end of 2018, Alfa Laval had more have highlighted the key role Alfa Laval’s than 3,500 patents in its portfolio. products and services play in helping our customers achieve their energy efficiency, Environment climate and water goals. This was ranked Alfa Laval’s Business Principles (the Energy and carbon emissions as important, both internally and externally company Code of Conduct) addresses Alfa Laval works continuously to reduce — internally because of the business the precautionary principle as does energy consumption by optimizing opportunities created for the company, the corporate Environment Policy. We operations and investing in energy-efficient and externally because our products and support a precautionary approach to technologies. In 2018, the normalized solutions can help customers reduce their environmental challenges and establish energy consumption for comparable sites environmental impact. measurable objectives for improved (like for like) increased by 8.6% compared The material topics are: occupational environmental performance and resource with 2015. Read more about the increase health and safety, fair working conditions, utilization in order for own operations to and Alfa Laval’s work to reduce anti-corruption, energy use, carbon become as efficient as possible. consumption on page 22. Sustainability notes 37 One quarter of Alfa Laval’s energy consumption consists of energy converted Direct energy consumption within the organization (MWh) internally. See the chart showing the breakdown of our energy converted 2015 2016 2017 2018 internally during 2018. Renewable energy Electricity, purchased 154,521 155,456 159,546 168,646 includes biogas and renewable energy Heat, purchased 22,828 23,785 24,552 29,749 converted, which includes energy from Other energy converted internally 69,425 72,880 70,336 69,581 photovoltaic systems. All other energy sources are fossil-based (non-renewable). Total energy 246,774 252,120 254,434 267,976 The carbon emission data for previous Renewable energy (%) 17% 21% 21% 41% years have been updated to follow the GHG Protocol. The emission factors have also been updated. The table below presents Alfa Laval’s Scope 1–3 emissions where Scope 1 includes energy Energy converted internally 2018 consumption within the organization and company cars. Scope 2 includes direct 2% 2% Renewable Heavy oil emissions (market-based method) and 2% energy converted Biogas 0.2% Scope 3 includes goods transportation, Coal business travel (air travel and rental cars). 5% The base year for the calculations is 2015 LPG and the strategy period is 2016–2020. 5% Read more about our targets on page 9. Light oil Alfa Laval works to reduce carbon emissions in all three scopes. Our work in 84% Natural gas scope 1 & 2 is further explained on page 22. Regarding the transportation of goods, the aim is to ship as little as possible by air. However, there are occasions when the organization has limited opportunity to inﬂuence this choice, such as when a customer has an urgent need for a product, which makes air freight the only viable solution. Alfa Laval has an important Carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes CO2 e) role in explaining to customers what the effects are in the case of various transport 2015 2016 2017 2018 choices, in order to avoid air freight as Scope 1 19,488 20,179 19,240 20,148 much as possible. In 2018, 70% of goods Scope 2 64,991 61,682 63,663 33,250 were transported by road, 23% were Scope 3 70,614 75,964 78,650 90,050 shipped by sea, 6% were transported by Total 155,093 157,825 161,553 143,448 air and 1% by rail. The increased need for transport was mainly due to more transportation to China and the type of products delivered during 2018, which required more air freight. Our main Total weight of waste 2018 (tonnes) challenge is changing the means of Hazardous Non-hazardous transport from air to land and sea. Recycling 1,118 15,680 Effluents and waste Composting 0 1,099 In 2018, waste amounted to a total of Recovery, including energy recovery 583 1,753 25,461 tonnes. Our production sites work Incineration (mass burn) 528 3,360 to reduce waste. Alfa Laval has a target to Landfill 342 998 recycle 85% of waste by 2020. In 2018, a significant proportion (70%) was recycled. 10% (2,571 tonnes) was hazardous waste. 38 Sustainability notes In 2018, Alfa Laval recorded no non-monetary sanctions regarding branded acquisitions) was 15,530 (14,795) significant spills. There were two larger environmental or socioeconomic employees of which 96.8% were full-time spills reported 2017, that occurred in performance have come to Alfa Laval’s and 3.2% part-time. Sweden and Norway. Investigations have attention during 2018. Our Code of Conduct stipulates that been conducted in conjunction with both all employees shall be free to form and to the incidents in order to ascertain the Employees join trade unions or similar external causes of the spills and, wherever Unless stated otherwise, all information representative organizations and to bargain possible, to institute measures that will in this report concerning the number of collectively. The coverage varies from prevent similar spills from happening again. employees refers to data from actual country to country. Globally, approximately number of employees on 31 December for 45% of employees are covered by Environmental and each year. The total number of employees collective bargaining agreements. socioeconomic compliance amounted to 17,228 (16,367), of which At Alfa Laval, every employee must Legislative compliance ensures our 20.5% (20.2%) are women. The number have a performance and career business legitimacy. No significant fines or of employees (excluding non-Alfa Laval development review with their manager at least once a year. Alfa Laval’s training platform includes a broad range of courses from basic training to advanced training in areas such as leadership and project management. The data in the table New employee hires and employee turnover presents the total number of training hours 2016 2017 2018 provided by the platform. Number Percent Number Percent Number Percent Total number and rate of new 1,047 7% 1,104 7% 2,006 13% Non-discrimination employee hires In the recent employee survey, 86% (84%) Of whom are women 274 26% 291 26% 453 23% of the participants responded that their Total number and rate of working group is free from any kind of 1,992 13% 1,646 11% 1,795 12% employee turnover discrimination and harassment. In 2018, Of whom are women 455 23% 364 22% 349 19% 29% of the legal entities had projects or This table does not include non-Alfa Laval branded acquisitions. The employee turnover for the complete initiatives in place to prevent discrimination Alfa Laval Group was 10.8% compared with 11.1% in 2017. or harassment. There have not been any court cases regarding discrimination or harassment during 2018. Training hours per employee Health and safety 2017 2018 The Alfa Laval Global Health and Safety Number of training hours provided to employees 106,868 145,477 Policy is signed by the CEO. The policy Number of employees 14,795 15,530 clearly states that the managing directors Average training hours per employee 7.2 9.4 and site managers are responsible for This table does not include non-Alfa Laval branded acquisitions. fulfilling and upholding this policy. They are in turn supported by global and local health, safety and environment resources. Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2018 All sites shall implement local occupational health and safety management systems Board of Group Senior Other Directors Management Management employees and have access to a company doctor or Total number 7 9 62 15,459 health care professionals to support the organization with health-related issues. Women 29% 22% 26% 20% The minimum required competence and Men 71% 78% 74% 80% training on health and safety is defined in < 30 years 0% 0% 0% 15% Alfa Laval’s Health & Safety Manual. All 30–50 years 14% 0% 55% 58% legal entities must secure the correct > 50 years 86% 100% 45% 27% competence and shall identify specific training needs based on country legislation Diversity data in the table does not include non-Alfa Laval branded acquisitions. The data for the Board of Directors is excl. employee representatives. or other requirements. The required training also includes training for new employees, a tailored safety training for Sustainability notes 39 specific roles, emergency preparedness organization provided 470 hours of training data. Processes are also designed for and response training, training on safe on human rights policies or procedures reporting to the authorities and individuals behaviour and leadership, as well as concerning aspects of human rights during involved in a breach of personal data. The training in the different tools such as 2018. In total, more than 310 employees organization regularly audits how personal Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment have been trained in human rights. data is being processed or stored to (HIRA), Injury Analysis and Job Safety assess the need for changes. In 2018, Analysis. During 2018, the method for Anti-corruption Alfa Laval did not receive any substantiated calculating health and safety data has Mandatory training on anti-corruption is complaints concerning breaches of been updated. Frequency rate data is now held on a biennial basis for all white-collar customer privacy or identified leaks or calculated based on 200,000 worked employees. The training is not tailored to losses of customer data. hours. different groups of employees, but it includes different scenarios that provide Supply chain examples of situations in various roles Alfa Laval has a responsibility to promote within the company. and manage sustainability issues Charity donations are generally made throughout its value chain. Work with our at local level, and mainly to organizations suppliers is based on a process where promoting child education. All donations the focus is on evaluation, competence are approved by the manager of the legal development and continuous entity. When a donation exceeds 2,000 improvement. The work is based on risk EUR, it is reported to the central assessments related to human rights, organization. bribery/corruption, environmental, and health and safety. The risk of child labour, Data privacy young workers, forced or compulsory Alfa Laval respects and handles the labour depends on the geographical personal data of our customers and location of the supplier. Other risk factors employees with due care. The main include the maturity of the supplier in policies covering data privacy are the Human Rights compliance as well as the Alfa Laval Privacy Policy supported by type of industry and process. All new direct guidelines related to the GDPR, and local suppliers are screened based on social and global HR policies. The Group Privacy criteria and a supplier risk assessment is Responsible work on the highest level and also included in the supplier on-boarding persons responsible for data privacy have process. This is followed by Business been appointed at all Alfa Laval legal Principle audits and awareness training to entities. They are in turn supported by key enhance supplier competence and support functions in each corporate knowledge. The risk of Alfa Laval’s function. Alfa Laval has also appointed a suppliers violating worker rights to exercise Data Privacy Board, which includes the freedom of association or collective Chief Information Officer, Vice President bargaining is greatest in our defined and Group General Counsel, Chief high-risk countries. Three of the identified Financial Officer and Senior Vice President countries are China, Russia and Mexico Human Resources. where Alfa Laval focuses on training to Alfa Laval has a structured approach to create awareness. The procurement handling potential breaches of personal Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures 2017 2018 Total number of employees that have received training 1,209 10,059 Total number of employees 14,795 15,530 Percentage of employees 8.2% 64.8% Carbon dioxide. One of the most challenging menaces to our planet’s climate. Mainly caused by the extensive use of fossil fuels. Forecasts predict that energy demand will increase by some 30 percent during the next two decades. The encouraging news is that the use of energy-efficient equipment can off-set more than this increase. Alfa Laval is a frontrunner in energy efficiency. Our high-technology heat exchangers are a case in point. They can increase energy efficiency in industrial processes by up to 50 per cent. Thanks to Alfa Laval’s new installations of heat exchangers, global carbon dioxide emissions are reduced by about 150 million tons — every year! This equals the combined yearly emissions of at least 30 million cars. It is all about contributing to a cleaner environment. Pure Performance. Energy. Environment. Marine. Mechanical engineering. Sanitary. Chemical. You name the industry. Alfa Laval is helping all of them to purify and refine their processes and products. Time and time again. We are hard at work in more than 100 countries implementing our expertise, technical support and service. Helping to create a cleaner environment and better living conditions for all mankind. Alfa Laval in brief Alfa Laval is a leading global provider of specialized products and engineered solutions. The company’s equipment, systems and services are dedicated to helping customers optimize the performance of their processes. Time and time again. Alfa Laval helps customers to heat, cool, separate and transport products such as oil, water, chemicals, beverages, foodstuffs, starch and pharmaceuticals. Alfa Laval’s worldwide organization works closely with customers in 100 countries to help optimize their processes. More information on the Internet Alfa Laval’s website is continuously updated with new information, including contact details for all countries. Read more at www.alfalaval.com 100001201-1-EN 1903
