COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 We achieved the business plan and exceeded the goal! We achieved an average increase in net asset value of 17.4 percent per year. GUIDING PRINCIPLES 2014–2018 Our guiding principles aim to clarify important focus areas in our operations. To start production of 7,500 apartments NUMBER OF APARTMENT CONSTRUCTION STARTS IN THE BUSINESS PLAN Housing construction requires both endurance and advance planning, not least when 7,500 it comes to carrying out zoning plan work together with the municipalities. Some of our major urban development projects were affected by delays in the zoning plan process, which meant that we had to defer planned construction starts. These projects 5,000 will be completed, but according to a modified timetable. 4,605 units We have a uniform and high construction rate of about 2,000 apartments in production. During 2018, we started construction of 1,400 apartments, of which 2,500 579 were in the Stockholm business area and 821 in the Gothenburg business area. Overall during the business plan, construction started of 4,605 apartments. To reduce the carbon footprint of the property holdings REDUCED CARBON FOOTPRINT PER SQ M by at least 15 percent per sq m 2014 9% The work on reducing our carbon footprint occurs in several ways, such as optimized 2015 38% operations, improved technical installations with modern energy units powered by internally produced carbon-neutral wind power, and by replacing fossil fuels with 2016 43% greener technology. Optimization of operations contributes to lower operating expenses 2017 41% and a reduced carbon footprint. During 2018, the carbon footprint per square meter increased by 18 percent, which is due to the fact that the district heating this year 2018 30% * was based on larger proportion of oil, something that Wallenstam cannot influence. 15% During the entire business plan, the carbon footprint decreased by just over 30 percent Shows total improvement from the start of the business plan. per square meter. * Estimated value of actual impact. The proportion of tenants willing to recommend Wallenstam MORE CUSTOMERS RECOMMENDING WALLENSTAM should increase annually Tenants Tenants Residential Commercial 2014 ✔ ✔ It is important that our customers are happy and satisfied with their apartment or premises. Over the years, tenant views and wishes have led to a number of concrete 2015 ✔ ✘ improvements, for example renegotiated supplier contracts for better cleaning of 2016 ✘ ✔ stairwells, new playground equipment and central customer service, which improved 2017 ✔ ✔ accessibility and service levels, with increased customer satisfaction as a result. 2018 ✘ ✔ Unfortunately, the proportion of residential tenants that are willing to recommend Wallenstam as a landlord decreased in 2018 compared to 2017. Among commercial tenants, the proportion of tenants that are willing to recommend Wallenstam as a landlord increased. 2 WE ACHIEVED THE BUSINESS PLAN BUSINESS PLAN GOAL 2023: GUIDING TO ACHIEVE AN INCREASE IN NET ASSET VALUE OF PRINCIPLES SEK 40 per share Our guiding principles aim to clarify important focus areas in our operations. The goal to achieve an increase in net asset value of SEK 40 per share during the period is equivalent to an increase of 50 percent starting from October 1, 2018. CUSTOMER The Group’s net asset value amounted to SEK 25,608 million on We shall exceed customer expectations and September 30, 2018, which corresponds to SEK 79.20 per share, and is improve the overall impression of Wallenstam every year through attractive apartments and the starting point of the measurement. On December 31, 2018, the net premises as well as good service. asset value amounted to SEK 26,574 million, which corresponds to SEK 82.30 per share. This means that we have generated SEK 3.10 per share EMPLOYEE to date. Net asset value growth is created by successful letting, efficient Through our strong corporate culture, we shall management, value-creating investments, cost-efficient new construction be an attractive employer and improve our and strong business operations. Engagement Index score every year. Wallenstam during the business plan 2023 will continue to work in the growth regions of Gothenburg, Stockholm and Uppsala. We will strive ENVIRONMENT to become even more service-oriented, productive and cost-efficient, so We shall reduce our environmental impact every year, through initiatives within the focus areas we can create even more value for our shareholders, employees, customers energy, transports and resources. and society as a whole. During the business plan, the equity/assets ratio shall not fall below 30 percent. INCREASE IN NET ASSET VALUE, SEK/SHARE 40 30 20 10 3.10 0 Q4 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 4 AFFÄRSPLAN BUSINESS PLAN 2019–2023 2019–2023 2019–2023 HOW WE CREATE THE INCREASE IN NET ASSET VALUE • Know what the market is demanding SUCCESSFUL LETTING • High service level • Businesslike manner • Quality in a cost-efficient way EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT • Sustainable approach • Good customer relationships Together they • Refine our properties VALUE-CREATING INVESTMENTS • Businesslike decisions all generate the • Future demand increase in net asset value • Quality PROFITABLE NEW CONSTRUCTION • Cost-efficiency • Long-term and sustainable • Property transactions GOOD BUSINESS OPERATIONS • Business acumen • Good culture Inom Vallgraven 20:18, Gothenburg BUSINESS PLAN 2019–2023 5 COMMENTS BY THE CEO We achieved the goal! income from property management of SEK -50 million. The challenging goal, which we adopted in late 2013, Income from property management during the year was that we should achieve an average net asset value increased by 25 percent. We achieved this even though growth, excluding dividends and repurchases, of at least during the business plan we sold properties, which were 10 percent per year, and we have achieved this by a good located a bit outside of our focus areas, for just over SEK measure! Net asset value growth, excluding dividends and 9 billion, something that has a negative impact on income repurchases, during the period 2014-2018 amounted to a from property management in the near term. However, by total average of 17.4 percent per year, which is equivalent to always working actively to increase our efficiency within about SEK 14 billion in total for the business plan. all business areas and by providing newly produced proThe market was favorable during this period, but perties, we have generated this positive growth in income without our dedicated and committed employees, the from property management. company would not have been able to deliver this excellent result. Fantastic work has been done, and everyone New challenging goal contributed within their respective area of the business. In December, we unveiled our new business plan and our The letting department has really worked hard on filling new goal: To achieve an increase in net asset value of SEK and negotiating all of our commercial space and on letting 40 per share from October 1, 2018 through December 31, all of the apartments we completed over the years. Our 2023. management operations have worked diligently to streamThe net asset value is a metric, which is good to use in line the operation and maintenance of our properties. The our business, since it measures many different parameters project organization has managed to raise the production in the business; letting, management, new production, rate in our new production considerably. We have also investments and the business operations. What is not been successful in reducing the carbon footprint in our included in the net asset value is the future value, for holdings, and we increased the proportion of customers example in our planned projects – these values are added who want to recommend us as a landlord. later when we start to refine or build the property. It is worth noting that in the new goal, we are measurMore than SEK 1 billion in income ing in SEK per share, so it will be easier to relate to. In from property management addition, we have opted to use the established definition During 2018, we achieved income from property manageof net asset value, in other words, that the net asset value is ment of more than SEK 1 billion. For me personally, this calculated by also including the effect of the dividends and is an important milestone – especially considering the any repurchases made during the period. fact that as CEO of the company, I have also experienced If we had used the same model in the previous business 8 COMMENTS BY THE CEO We are entering the new business plan with a fantastic basis. Now we are building on this by continuing to work with everything we do today in an even better way. COMMENTS BY THE CEO 9 We shall be a company where customers perceive that we are accessible and that we act in a professional and service-oriented way. plan, this would have meant during the period 2014We shall be a company where customers perceive that we 2018 that we increased the net asset value by SEK 34.80 are accessible and that we act in a professional and serviceper share. In the new business plan, we shall deliver an oriented way. increase of SEK 40 per share, consequently a new challenging goal that we will aim to achieve up to and including Sustainability even more in focus 2023. Sustainability – in many senses of the word – is and is becoming increasingly important. In the environmental Become even better area, we have worked for a long time to reduce our carbon We are entering the new business plan with a fantastic dioxide emissions and to increase the share of renewable basis. Now we are building on this by continuing to work energy in our properties, but we can and will do more. The with everything we do today in an even better way. This big challenge in our properties is the existing holdings will include even more cost-efficiency in our new conwith our older buildings, which need to be gradually devestruction and management – naturally with the same reloped to become better from an environmental standpoint. quirements for high quality – optimization of operations, Sustainability is also about building sustainable cities as well as good service and accessibility for our customers. and communities. Here, I want to say that a large part of Our employees are one of the company’s most important our business concept is about building and developing success factors in this work, something I often talk about. good homes and areas where people feel happy and secure. We will really safeguard the drive, engagement and the We create 1,500-2,000 new homes each year, something special spirit that we have at Wallenstam! that is extra valuable in these times of a severe housing The goal in the business plan has been supplemented by shortage. three guiding principles, important areas, which we will During the year, we advanced our sustainability strategy focus on: and appointed Karin Mizgalski as Sustainability Manager • We shall exceed customer expectations and improve the with the task of driving and developing the sustainability overall impression of Wallenstam every year through attwork at Wallenstam. Through a central function, we can ractive apartments and premises as well as good service. gather our strengths, clarify our efforts while becoming • Through our strong corporate culture, we shall be an even better and also identify new business opportunities. attractive employer and improve our Engagement Index As of 2018, Wallenstam is a member of the UN Global score every year. Compact and supports its 10 principles regarding human • We shall reduce our environmental impact every year, rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. through initiatives within the focus areas energy, transports and resources. Continued strong demand Being a player in an active market with strong demand of Our important customers course is very nice and very interesting. The strong market The property sector has undergone a change over a climate in Western Sweden is continuing, with a low number of years, from a more distinct “property owner vacancy rate for centrally located offices as a result. In the focus”, to a more customer-focused approach. In the case office market, the coworking concept has strengthened its of Wallenstam, for example, it is ten years since we introposition with its flexible form of letting, and during the duced a central customer service function in the company, fourth quarter we had the privilege of becoming an owner something that has led to greater accessibility and a higher in Convendum. Convendum has a well-developed and level of service for our customers. During the previous attractive offering where we see interesting future business plan, customer experience was already one of the opportunities. most important focus areas and in the business plan we Retail in the inner city is challenged by changing are now starting it is even more clearly defined, both as a consumption patterns and here, like other players, we face guiding principle and in our vision and business concept. a challenge in terms of promoting initiatives that improve the conditions for a lively inner city – to build more housing, provide more office space, create meeting places for 10 COMMENTS BY THE CEO socializing and experiences. Gränby 9:6, Uppsala On the residential side, we see continued lower demand perty crisis during the 1990s, I got valuable experience and for co-op apartments, while demand for rental apartments saw clearly which properties have low risk and the greatest is even higher than before – here we see no signs of a financial strength even in difficult periods. slowdown, quite the contrary. The severe housing shortage We will mark Wallenstam’s anniversary in different in the cities we operate in is of course one reason for the ways during the year, and in this context I would like strong demand but the rental apartment concept is also to hereby also thank everyone that in various ways has very much in tune with the times, you see it is a form of contributed to Wallenstam’s fantastic performance during “coliving”. A flexible, hassle-free form of housing, which these 75 years. All the competencies and experience we the tenant does not have to manage himself/herself, and have gathered – in both economic upturns and downturns also with no financial risk for the tenant. – we will take with us for the future challenges that await. With expectation, confidence and excitement, I look forCelebrating 75 years with an eye to the future ward to another journey together with our shareholders, In November 2019, Wallenstam will celebrate 75 years! It the Board, employees, customers, suppliers and partners! feels fantastic to think back to how my father started the company in 1944, towards the end of the Second World War. He borrowed a small amount of private capital and built a detached house, close to Slottsskogen here in Gothenburg. The construction made a loss, but the company was up and running! I had the privilege of receiving the baton in 1991, during a very special period, which even today still defines Wallenstam – with commercial properties in Gothenburg inner city and residential properties in Hans Wallenstam attractive locations in growth regions. Through the proCEO COMMENTS BY THE CEO 11 THIS IS HOW WE C R E ATE VA LU E 1 Our resources 2 Our operations Financial capital SEK 22 billion in capital from shareholders and generated profits that remain in the company and Business process SEK 21 billion from external lenders. Wallenstam builds, develops and manages properties and areas based on the needs of people and society, and according to the wishes and requirements of customers and shareholders. We Produced capital create value growth through cost-efficient construction, development and management as well as a high level of service More than 200 properties – residential properties in and long-term sustainability. Profits are reinvested and used to attractive locations in the growth regions of Gothendevelop the business further. Shareholders receive a share of the burg, Stockholm and Uppsala as well as commercial profits in the form of dividends. properties in Gothenburg inner city. 66 wind turbines from Jämtland in the north to Skåne in the south, producing renewable energy. Efficient management and development Our properties and public areas adjacent to the properties are develoHuman capital ped and refined based on maintenance plans and customer needs and More than 250 dedicated and knowledgeable emwishes. Safety, comfort and long-term profitability are key words when ployees and gathered competencies through partners we, for example, modernize the courtyards of residential properties, carry within management, service and construction. out optimized operations projects, or when we develop inner city environments to contribute to meeting places and a city pulse. Through our own wind power production, we are self-sufficient in renewable energy, Social and relationship capital something that makes us less sensitive to electricity price fluctuations. All customers that live in our 9,000 rental apartments, or that work in the offices, shops etc., which comprise more than 500,000 sq m of commercial floor space. In addition, relationships with electricity customers, financiers, partners, municipalities and local communities. Intellectual capital Cost-efficient developAbout 11,000 potential apartments in the project ment and management portfolio which can become future homes for families of residential properties through our combined experience and processes relating to management, construction and urban and commercial premises development with dialogue and collaboration. with a high level of Demand service and long-term Natural capital sustainability. Land, energy and building materials such as wood, stone and metal provide the basis for our operations. Construction and acquisition 6 THIS IS HOW WE CREATE VALUE and business model 3 Created value for our stakeholders Successful letting organization Owners With good knowledge of the local market and its needs and great com• Stable and safe investment mitment in taking care of customer relationships, a strong basis is • Share price trend created for maintaining a uniform and high occupancy rate in our com• Share dividend mercial holdings. The residential holdings are fully let and in line with • Value growth the completion of our new construction projects, letting of a large number of apartments occurs every year. Customers Cost-efficient construction • Functional, qualitative homes and well-adapted, flexible working environments We mainly build rental apartments for our own management, but also • Realized entrepreneurial and residential dreams a smaller number of co-op apartments and commercial properties. Our • Housing free from financial risk cost-efficient process and flexible business model, makes it possible to • Simplified and hassle-free everyday life complete our new construction projects in both economic upturns and – at home and at work downturns. We work continually to acquire land and seek land allocations in order to continually replenish our project portfolio. Employee • Jobs with secure and stable employer • Personal and professional development • Salaries and benefits Suppliers, partners and lenders • Paid goods and services Value growth • Interest payments • Long-term collaborative relationships • Jobs Society and the city • Regional development through more housing and premises for people and companies • More attractive, lively cities with pleasant meeting places and developed infrastructure and service Profit • Tax revenue and jobs • Engagement in the local community and sponsorship Environment • More renewable energy • Lower environmental impact by reduction of energy Dividend use, carbon emissions and water consumption in our properties • The possibility of charging electric vehicles, solutions for sorting at source, access to Sales carpooling and initiatives to promote cycling etc. THIS IS HOW WE CREATE VALUE 7 Seglarskon 1 and 2, Stockholm RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE Wallenstam wants to contribute to a better society, today and for future generations. This is our driving force and what makes us proud of our business. For us, sustainability is about pursuing respon-sible enterprise. We do this by taking responsibility for the impact we have on society and by creating solutions that contribute to a long-term positive development. Wallenstam supports the UN initiative Global Compact. This sustainability report constitutes Wallenstam's Communication on Progress (COP) report. We believe that integrated sustainability work and strong Organization, governance and reporting social engagement go hand in hand with long-term proDuring 2018, we continued the work on developing our fitability. This provides good control, minimizes business sustainability strategy. As a result of this work, Karin and operational risks, improves efficiency, generates new Mizgalski was appointed Sustainability Manager in May solutions and business and ensures more engaged 2018, with the task of driving, developing and following up employees, more secure investors and more satisfied Wallenstam’s sustainability work. The CEO is ultimately customers. For this reason, sustainability is a core part of responsible for the work with the material topics and risks our business. that are prioritized in Wallenstam’s sustainability work. The For us, sustainable enterprise is also about continuous practical and day-to-day sustainability work is conducted in improvements. To set goals, develop our operations, all parts of the operations and all employees have a responwhere our sustainability efforts play a part. To refine and sibility to implement and drive the sustainability work in streamline our processes in order to improve our working their respective departments. Outcomes are followed up and methods. regularly reported to the Group Management and Board. RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE 27 Wallenstam has reported its sustainability work every MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY AREAS year since 2006 and reports according to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) since 2010. Critical Stakeholder dialogue During fall 2018, as part of the work with the business plan 2019-2023, a stakeholder analysis was conducted in a B questionnaire format in order to pinpoint the key issues that we should focus on within the scope of our sustainImportance for D able development efforts. A web survey was sent to seE C lected residential tenants, commercial customers, lenders stakeholders A and to the Board, Group Management and employees. K I H These groups are considered to have a direct impact on our J organization, and/or are directly impacted by us. G F Through our stakeholder dialogues, which apart from Very important the described stakeholder analysis occur continually in the day-to-day operations, we obtain a relevant view of external requirements and wishes. Apart from this, during the Very important Wallenstam’s Critical fall in internal working groups we mapped and prioritized impact activities and key focus areas for the guiding principles in the business plan 2019-2023. See also page 4. Stable financial position and anti-corruption Social conditions and employees Clarity with values Customer Our core values – progress, respect, commitment – are Environment clearly reflected in our long-term sustainability work. Progress shows our attitude to continual improvements, A Financial position F Equality and in balance diversity that the work is never finished. We find rewarding collaboration, for example with researchers regarding solar cells B Anti-corruption G Customer satisfaction and battery storage, in the planning work with municipaC Good working H Greenhouse gases conditions lities and land owners and with partners in order to offer I Energy efficiency services to our tenants relating to mobility. D Safe and secure J Waste management working Respect towards each other in the company is something environment K Sustainable building natural. We want to spread the same attitude during materials E Inclusive contacts with customers, contractors, suppliers and other corporate culture Inom Vallgraven, Gothenburg 28 RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE Training and information about the Code of Conduct and specific guidelines on, for example anti-corruption and information security, are mandatory for all employees including the Group Management and Board. stakeholders. For instance, that we comply with laws and to have an environmental, social and commercial comregulations, that we do not insult or discriminate against mitment in everything we do. We shall comply with laws anyone and that we work actively to ensure the equal value and regulations, and apply responsible business methods of everyone, both in the company and in society. Respect – characterized by high business ethics and good business in business is based on active anti-corruption work. We practice. We impose requirements on contractors that enhave a declared zero tolerance policy against bribery, ter into cooperation agreements with us that they follow inappropriate gifts and the like. The boundary for what the content of our Code of Conduct and act according is a bribe or equivalent extends a long way. Our internal to it. Violations of the Code of Conduct, internally or by guidelines help determine how we should act in relation to partners, can damage Wallenstam’s operations and brand. bribery and inappropriate gifts. The Code of Conduct, which is available in its entirety on Our drive to contribute to a better society is based on a www.wallenstam.se, is revised annually and adopted by great commitment. We want to be close to our customers the Board. and offer good overall solutions for housing and premises. Training and information about the Code of Conduct We are committed to our commercial tenants’ operations and specific guidelines on, for example anti-corruption and we want to be flexible to meet their needs. Our ambiand information security, are mandatory for all employees tion is to conduct long-term sustainable business and including the Group Management and Board. Training develop responsible enterprise for the benefit of both occurs regularly, as part of the introductory program for society and our own operations. We see that it is imnew employees, among other ways and as digital training. portant for society to have attractive, vibrant inner cities Wallenstam’s Ethics Council, with representatives from and more housing. Wallenstam safeguards the rental the entire business, holds about four meetings annually. apartment, which is a flexible form of housing for the The Ethics Council is the body that works centrally in the tenant and crucial so that more people will have the Group on advancing the Group’s anti-corruption work, chance to reside in our cities. and it conducts risk analyses in the area and proposes possible measures. The Ethics Council receives regular Code of Conduct and Ethics Council questions of an informational character that the Council In the construction and property sector, there are risks, answers. Most questions relate to what employees can give for example related to the working environment, coror receive, in other words, questions connected to busiruption, human rights and the environment. Our Code ness ethics and corruption. We provide information to all of Conduct serves as a guide for us. It is based on our employees based on commonly asked questions. No cases core values, and provides guidance and continuity for arose during 2018 where further investigation was requiour actions all the way to the dialogue and meeting with red. The Council has developed a whistleblower function, our stakeholders. The Code of Conduct, and a number of which was introduced during 2018, and routines have been guidelines connected to it, set out Wallenstam’s approach created for how these cases should be handled. No cases and clarify how we want to act as a company. The goal is were reported via the whistleblower function during 2018. RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE 29 AGENDA 2030. Wallenstam has prioritized five global sustainable development goals (SDGs) within the UN’s Agenda 2030. Within these, we are working in various ways with a number of different sub-areas in order to help reach the goals. DECENT WORK AND GENDER EQUALITY ECONOMIC GROWTH Equality and diversity Long-term sustainable financial position For us equality and diversity are important principles. We create the right conditions for a long-term sustainable During recruitments and in our internal processes we work financial position in harmony with the environment and to ensure that men and women have the same conditions, social development. Long-term profitability is one of the for example in relation to development initiatives and setbasic requirements for us as a company and our owners ting of salaries. Nevertheless, we always need to maintain an want to see a return on the capital they have invested in the ongoing dialogue about what equality, respect and diversity business. Through efficient organization, cost-efficiency means in our company. Our Code of Conduct is clear that in the entire operations and focus on locations displaying discrimination must not occur. Read more on page 40. growth and strong demand, we can ensure long-term economic stability. This also means that we should be profitable – profits that we can reinvest in the business. Wallenstam is flexible in a volatile housing market in AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY a way that provides assurance for our stakeholders. We mainly build rental apartments for our own management, Renewable energy and provide badly needed housing. During the business Through our wholly-owned wind power company, Svensk plan, we will work for even more efficient processes in our NaturEnergi, we can offer all tenants and customers in our management, letting, new production and other activities. properties a renewable alternative for electrical energy. The Through profitable property development, we create production in our 66 wind turbines covers Wallenstam’s value for our customers, society in general and also for the overall electrical energy needs. company’s employees and owners. One of our guiding prinOur largest carbon footprint comes from district ciples means that with attractive apartments and premises heating, which supplies the heating in many properties. To and good service, we shall exceed customer expectations the extent that the heating is based on waste heat or is and improve the overall impression of Wallenstam every produced with renewable raw materials, district heating year. We regularly measure what our customers think, see can be a good environmental alternative. Wallenstam page 50. Long-term plans and investments over time also participates in a dialogue with district heating producers create secure jobs in production and management. about finding new solutions to deliver a better environmental performance. We aim to be able to replace district Wallenstam’s supply chain heating with renewable energy from our own wind In our business, we utilize the services of more than turbines in more and more of our properties. We are also 6,000 suppliers, including our Wallenstam Partners that investigating and evaluating other technical solutions for perform property upkeep and maintenance, and building sustainable energy production, such as solar energy, energy contractors who are involved in our new construction storage etc. operations. We buy goods and services from energy, IT, 30 RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE Viewing point on the hill at Kallebäcks Terrasser, Gothenburg and telecommunications companies, and borrow capital physical environment and relationships with neighbors and from banks. In addition, we use the services of consultants visitors in the area, influence tenants perceptions of security. such as technical consultants and architects, and others. In the work to increase security, we are making a number of Often suppliers in turn use the services of subcontractors. efforts in the day-to-day management as well as selective Our suppliers are usually domiciled in Sweden, but for measures. One example is our collaboration with Husinstance, sourcing of construction material etc. also occurs kurage, which works proactively to prevent violence in close in other European countries and in the rest of the world. relationships through neighborhood cooperation. We aim for close and long-term collaboration, which Within the scope of our urban development projects, we means that we can develop together with our partners. want to create the conditions for safe communities already As a client, we have both a responsibility and an opportuduring the projecting and zoning plan work. We can achieve nity to demand good operational standards in the entire this by planning premises for various types of activities, such production chain. During procurement of contractors and as offices, stores, geriatric and child care etc. In collaboration purchasing of services, the responsibilities of our partners with our commercial tenants, the city and other organizaare stipulated in agreements in relation to business ethics, tions in society, we are pursuing activities to create a vibrant the environment, working conditions, safety etc. inner city. Taken together, this is creating a 24-7 pulse in the area while we can meet various needs at the same time. We actively participate in research and development SUSTAINABLE CITIES within urban development, construction and management. AND COMMUNITIES Development efforts can relate to all from new technology in management operations to modern mobility solutions Urban development of safe areas in new city districts. A large part of our development work We aim to create safe and welcoming areas and properties occurs in collaboration with others. During 2018, Daniel that people want to live in, work in and visit. Both the Svartling, IT Manager, was also appointed Innovation RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISEE 31 Manager in the company. In his role, he is supported by HEATING CONSUMPTION, CLIMATE-ADJUSTED Wallenstam’s Innovation Council whose goal is to chankWh/sq m nel and create new business opportunities for the company. 105 Results from our different projects become solutions in the 100 housing of the future and town planning. 95 90 Social engagement for reduced exclusion 85 Wallenstam is passionate about fighting exclusion and 80 about creating city districts where everyone can feel safe 0 14 15 16 17 18 and a sense of belonging. We believe that supporting youth activities in the local communities where we operate is a CO2-IMPACT recipe for success. For this reason, we participate in many kg/sq m local projects, which focus on helping young people to 6 have active leisure time. Examples of our initiatives include 5 letting premises for associations, creating meeting places 4 and supporting activities for young people and particularly 3 vulnerable groups. The aim to reduce exclusion is also the 2 background for our collaboration with organizations such 1 as Project Playground, Barnens Ö, Stiftelsen Läxhjälpen, 0 14 15 16 17 18 Mitt Liv, Stockholm City Mission, the Refugee Mission in * Estimated value for actual impact, see page 150-151. Gothenburg and many sports associations. Cooperation and support mainly occur through sponsorship and participation in different sustainability-related initiatives. GLOBAL COMPACT. Wallenstam has signed the Transports for tenants and employees UN’s Global Compact, which We are looking at various mobility solutions in order to means that we support and work on offer our tenants practical and environmentally-friendly the basis of ten principles relating to transport solutions. We have previously conducted a pilot human rights, labor, a precautionary approach, anti-corruption and project where we offered a carpooling service to our tenants. taking responsibility in relation The concept has been further advanced and we will launch to environmental issues. the service in several of our areas in conjunction with AVIS. We are currently developing composite mobility solutions involving bicycles, cars and other types of transports in some of our urban development projects, for example in Kallebäcks Terrasser in Gothenburg. Today we are building HUMAN RIGHTS in recharging possibilities for electric vehicles in our new Our operations are conducted in Sweden and we follow appconstruction projects. licable rules for example relating to working conditions, the working environment and freedom of association. Wallenstam supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights and we see that we can contribute positively in many areas, including by fighting discrimination, treating everyone with respect – employees and customers as well as others we meet – and by offering equal opportunities to employees. Having a home is a fundamental need and constitutes an important part of a functioning society. Ultimately, we want to contribute to a good living standard for many people by producing and managing residential properties, primarily rental apartments, and develop safe, secure and lively city districts. There is currently a severe housing shortage, which means that many people are finding it hard to get a home. We have more than 280 social contracts with municipalities and organizations, where we make housing available for people who find it difficult to obtain a regular contract. For example, this can relate to transitional accommodation or various types of sheltered accommodation and housing for new arrivals. Several of the contracts change over to regular leases when it is possible for the tenant. 32 RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE We aim to be able to replace district heating with renewable energy from our own wind turbines in more and more of our properties. Internally, we encourage use of public transport to and business and includes health protection, waste managefrom the workplace by offering the possibility of buying an ment and potential disruptions from properties such as annual travel card through a net salary deduction. Bicycles noise, smoke and odors. There are also rules for maximum are available for shorter trips and we are expanding the energy usage for our properties and soil remediation number of internal pool cars, which reduces the need for measures based on soil investigations prior to construction employees to take their own car to work. start. During the business plan, we want to focus more on The standard of our work is not always based on legislahow we can find solutions for reducing the environmental tion or external requirements but we create solutions ourimpact from transports in our operations. selves. This occurs to a large extent in operation of properties, where we continually optimize and operate metering Resources in focus in order to reduce consumption of energy and resources and How we use our resources is becoming increasingly critical, create a good financial position with continuous improvewhich is also evident in our internal work and in dialogues ments. During 2018, we implemented major energy saving with stakeholders. For this reason, in our current business projects in four commercial properties and in two residenplan, we have opted to define it as a new focus area in our tial properties, which delivered a reduction in energy use of sustainability work over the coming years. Resources consist 10–45 percent in each property. of several elements, such as waste management, recycling, Individual electricity and water metering has been stanbuilding materials etc. dard in our new construction since 2006. The possibility of sorting at source is offered in all of our Such an installation contributes to a reduction in properties, both for residential tenants and for commercial consumption by tenants of 10–25 percent following a tenants. Needs vary with the tenants’ businesses and the running-in period. Our efforts in the environmental area possibilities also vary depending on the design and location are delivering good results. During the period 2014-2018, we of the properties. Within this area, there are improvements reduced the carbon footprint in our property holdings by to be made, both to make it easier for tenants and to reduce just over 30 percent per square meter. More efficient energy our environmental impact. There is also great potential for use is also a focus area in the business plan 2019-2023. a reduced environmental impact in our new production operations, when it comes to sorting at source, recycling and Environmental certification of properties materials. There are several environmental programs and certificaThis work has begun, and action plans, activities and roution systems for buildings in the market, such as Green tines for statistics and follow up will be gradually developed Building and Miljöbyggnad (“Sweden Environmental during the business plan. Building”). We use environmental programs as a specification for requirements concerning energy usage, quality of indoor environments and climate as well as choice of material for both new construction and existing buildings. CLIMATE ACTION Our aim is to achieve at least a Miljöbyggnad silver rating for our new production and many of our properties Drive the development for meet the requirements for certification under this standard reduced environmental impact although they are not certified. We have chosen to certify We place great importance on limiting environmental imour buildings when required, for example by a municipality pacts in our production, operation and management of proor customer. Four residential properties in the environperties. The property sector in Sweden uses a lot of energy mentally-designed Kvillebäcken district in Gothenburg are and accounts for a large proportion of the overall carbon currently certified according Miljöbyggnad silver rating. In footprint in society, which means that it is a prioritized our commercial holdings, we are working to reduce energy area for Wallenstam from an environmental and economic use so that properties meet the requirements for Green perspective. Building certification. Six of our properties meet the requiEnvironmental legislation impacts many parts of our rements for Green Building certification. RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE 33 RISKS T H AT G ENERATE O P P O R T U N I T I ES Minimizing risks and optimizing opportunities is an integrated part of our operations. Wallenstam’s employees participate in both the risk inventory and the preventative work. Employees at Wallenstam participated in seminars aimed at conducting an inventory of risks in the operations. An impact assessment of the identified risks was performed based on an estimate of harmfulness and probability. The company management and Board subsequently prioritized the most important risks. This work aims to develop strategies and measures to reduce the risks and optimize opportunities. This is ongoing work, which is continually developed and the company’s compliance function is responsible for follow up. All events cannot be foreseen. For this reason, part of our risk work is to be prepared for crisis management. We conduct regular drills of our crisis management organization based on special guidelines and crisis checklists. This helps to minimize losses to the operations and our stakeholders. 34 RISKS THAT GENERATE OPPORTUNITIES Operations Opportunities and risks connected to the operations refer to matters that are related to our core business. RISK AREA: PRODUCTION AND RISK AREA: RISK AREA: INFORMATION RISK AREA: MANAGEMENT OF PROPERTIES PARTNERS AND IT SECURITY ANTI-CORRUPTION DESCRIPTION OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK Occupational accidents. Competition for contractors. That IT systems are attacked and the Risk for corruption linked to allocation operations manipulated or that inforof apartments/premises. Unpredictable events that result in inThat procurements are not conducted/ mation gets into the wrong hands. creased costs, such as environmental agreements not correctly entered into, Risk for corruption during procurefactors, for example substances in soil which can cause uncertainty about That sensitive information is circulated ments and purchasing. or leakage that requires decontaminaresponsibility and increased costs. to the wrong people. tion or areas of natural value, which need to be protected. That partners do not follow entered into Non-compliance with legal requireagreements or our Code of Conduct. ments. DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY Good control of business operations, DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY strong credibility for business partners and other stakeholders and assurance Safe working environment without DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY for employees with clarity regarding personal injuries. Good collaboration, long-term planning, Well-functioning and fit-for-purpose rules and routines. good financial position and high quality. IT security for our operations and that Good financial position and environinformation is handled securely. mental performance. That we have secure and efficient processes for purchasing and signing of Increased administrative efficiency due Value growth through cost-efficient contracts, providing secure collaboration. to new IT security routines. WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT new construction projects. Improved, clear processes and templaGood business ethics and satisfactory tes for procurements, purchasing and working conditions among contractors letting. Routines where two persons and subcontractors. jointly shall review and authorize WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT lettings and purchasing and also WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT check tenders and agreements prior Continual work with security-enhanWorking environment plans are preto signing. Spot-checks for checking cing measures surrounding IT security, pared early on and followed up in the agreements. Focus on checking exisWALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT upgrades of firewalls, antivirus protecentire project. Building work environting contracts, for example unlawful tion and systems, anti-hacking tests, ment coordinators are appointed to Develop long-term relationships and subletting. routines for IT security etc. ensure occupational safety at the well-established collaboration with planning stage. In contractor agreecontractors and suppliers. An Ethics Council tasked with driving New policy and guidelines for informents, coordinators are appointed and monitoring the anti-corruption We have developed processes and tempmation security as well as internal with equivalent responsibility during work at Wallenstam. lates for procurement and purchasing, information and training. the construction phase. Sufficiently long time plans to avoid stress and we bring in the right competencies to the Internal information and support process and at least two people always New routines for information sharing mistakes. through the Ethics Council. review tenders and agreements before and handling. Analysis of environmental risks during they are signed. Introduction of a whistleblower A Data Protection Officer who works acquisition of land, soil investigations function. Information to and dialogue with contcontinually with GDPR issues. during new construction and continual investigations of environmental risks. ractors about requirements for compliInternal transparency about side-line ance with Wallenstam’s Code of Conduct. jobs and assignments that may affect Efficient organization of projecting, interests. Project managers are highly knowledplanning, procurement, construction geable and very closely involved in their and choice of contractor. projects. Improved routines for follow-up of agreements and on-site checks. Routines for logbooks and ID checks etc. have been introduced at workplaces and random checks are regularly performed at partners. Training and development of routines regarding supplier checks. RISKS THAT GENERATE OPPORTUNITIES 35 External RISK AREA: RISK AREA: Opportunities and RISK AREA: FINANCING EMPLOYEES MARKET CONDITIONS risks connected to the external environment exist outside of our operations, for example in the DESCRIPTION OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK form of changing DESCRIPTION OF RISK Weak liquidity impedes investments Less confidence or attractiveness among market conditions. Weaker property values. Increased land and the ability to meet payment existing and potential employees. These are risks that prices. obligations. we have little ability Not to be able to recruit and retain Lower electricity prices, which means employees with the right competencies to influence in the lower wind turbine values. and commitment. short term, but Lack of resources and increased costs. which we must take That employees do not live and act DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY into account in the according to the company’s values. Strong liquidity provides the freedom planning of strategic of action to complete approved investdevelopment. ments and meet payment obligations. DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY Positive development in the value of To be perceived as an attractive our properties. employer. Increased access to land and land WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT Possibility of recruiting employees with allocations as most other players Proximity to the market and the banks. the right profile and competencies. do not have the same long-term Good relationships with several lenders possibilities for investments during provides good financing possibilities. Development of employees and the an economic downturn. company. Financing is always secured before Higher electricity prices, which means new construction starts, which elimiTo develop employees, the operations increased wind turbine values. nates the risk of low liquidity. and the brand based on strong common values. Strong liquidity and high equity/ assets ratio. WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT Liquidity forecasts are updated WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT continuously with the objective of Having properties in attractive locaoptimizing cash management. Focus on employees is regarded as tions lowers the risk of falling values important for quality and satisfied during an economic downturn. customers. Offer a good working environment, attractive and market-related Cost-efficient new construction means working conditions, health and wellness less sensitivity to changing property training, skills development and internal values, since we generate surplus recruitment for new positions. value in our construction, mitigating the effects of a downturn. ProfitThe synthetic options scheme for ability is also ensured in the event of a employees, which offers clear participachange in market conditions through tion in the company’s development. the yield requirement prior to construction start. Recruitment is prioritized as a strategic area. The processes are being strengtheSelf-sufficiency in renewable energy ned and HR competencies should always provides lower price sensitivity. be engaged during recruitments. Regular employee surveys are a tool for improvements, connected to the guiding principle of an annual improvement in the Engagement Index score, which is followed up during the business plan. Introduction program with conference about the company’s history, values, policies and guidelines etc. Managers are supported in dialogues about values in the form of checklists, templates for development discussions etc. 36 RISKS THAT GENERATE OPPORTUNITIES RISK AREA: RISK AREA: RISK AREA: CHANGES IN RISK AREA: INFRASTRUCTURE INTEREST RATES SUPPLY AND DEMAND LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DESCRIPTION OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK Interest rate increases that result in Lower demand, for example for comChanges in laws, regulations and Changes and construction of higher costs and a large impact on mercial premises, co-op apartments, regulatory requirements, for example infrastructure or other matters that profits. or rental apartments. relating to the environment, design, can affect the attractiveness of our tax issues, charges etc., which result properties negatively. Protracted planning processes and a in increased costs and additional shortage of available land. administration. DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY Long-term assurance and control over financing costs. Changes and construction of DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY DESCRIPTION OF OPPORTUNITY infrastructure or other matters that Heavy and stable demand for our Changes in laws and regulations, can affect the attractiveness of our products. which result in reduced costs and less properties positively. administration. Good access to land for new construcWALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT tion. Loan portfolio of different maturities and spread among various forms of WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT credit and lenders. Assessment of the WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT term for capital tied-up is based on Continual monitoring of the developfactors such as pricing and Follow development of issues concerment of our areas. WALLENSTAM’S MANAGEMENT refinancing risk in the capital ning our operations. Interpret legal market. Own and manage properties in cases and regulatory changes that Co-operation with the municipality, attractive areas, which are charactermay result in changed conditions. other property owners, tenants and Interest rate derivatives are used to ized by growth and strong demand. center associations. diversify risk, to protect the underlying Proactivity in order to meet new portfolio and as a flexible means of Follow market trends. requirements, practice and laws. Initiatives in cooperation with tenants influencing the fixed interest terms in to strengthen the attractiveness of the loan portfolio. Flexible business model with the Comments on proposals, meetings the inner city through events, offers, possibility to convert and adapt supply, with decision-makers in order to clarify accessibility, marketing and commuform of tenure and conditions etc. in the consequences for the property and nication etc. the case of changing demand. energy sectors. Long-term planning, close collaboraEnergy-efficient construction and tion with municipalities, several renewable energy investments. concurrent development projects. Land acquisition in focus. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Property value using other yield requirements SEK million Cash flow SEK million 0.50 percentage points lower 52,799 Change in rental income, residential, 1% 8.8 0.25 percentage points lower 49,022 Change in rental income in negotiable commercial contracts, 1% 1.6 Property value according to our estimate 45,811 Change in operating costs, 1% 4.8 0.25 percentage points higher 43,039 Change in loan interest rate, 1 percentage point (annual) 124 0.50 percentage points higher 40,625 RISKS THAT GENERATE OPPORTUNITIES 37 ORGANIZATION AND E M P L O Y E E S Today, more than 250 people work in the Wallenstam Group and are strongly engaged in the company’s development. We are careful to maintain an atmosphere where consideration is shown to employees and offer challenges that provide individuals with the opportunity to grow in their professional roles. Attractive employer policies and well-functioning routines in place to identify ill Dedicated people with the right competencies in the right health among our employees, and we attach great implace is one of the key factors for successful enterprise, as well portance to the physical working environment and healthas a pleasant workplace, which offers employees the opporpromoting activities. There are excellent opportunities for tunity to develop and grow along with the company. One of both group and individual training in fitness centers at each our guiding principles is to be an attractive employer through office, while health and wellness training is subsidized. All our strong corporate culture and to improve our Engageemployees are also offered regular occupational healthcare ment Index score every year. with the purpose of promoting continued good health. As far as possible, Wallenstam provides opportunities During 2018, all permanent employees in the company for advancement within the company, e.g. by announcing were invited to participate in a new synthetic options vacant positions internally first. Continual skills developscheme, which is used as a further incentive for employees ment and challenges in the day-to-day work are other to actively contribute to value creation in the business. elements of a positive work situation. More than 99 percent have opted to participate in the Absence due to illness during the year amounted to 3.3 scheme, see also page 86. percent, which was in line with previous years. We have Wallenstam works actively on offering good conditions 38 ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES 251 Wallenstam had an average of 251 employees (244) during 2018. The majority are permanent employees, with a distribution of 58 percent women and 42 percent men. Approximately 30 percent of the employees are based in Stockholm, the rest are in Gothenburg. Wallenstam’s employees are covered by the collective bargaining agreement with Fastigo. AGE DISTRIBUTION IN THE GROUP Number of 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Age 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 Women Men 8 years is the average length of employment for permanently employed personnel at Wallenstam. Absence due to and an excellent working environment. The company also illness during the year amounted to 3.3 percent. Employee has clear and well-functioning routines for new recruitturnover during the year was 6 percent. ment. Great importance is attached to personal characteristics and qualities, and a welcoming and effective introduction for new employees enables them to quickly EDUCATION LEVEL become acquainted with the business. There is also an Secondary school, 1% introduction and support process for new managers. Upper University or secondary, equivalent, Dedicated employees 32% 67% Employee performance reviews are conducted annually to support career and personal development, follow up jointly-established goals, gauge the work situation and plan future skills development efforts. Skills development occurs via external and internal training courses and through exchange of knowledge among colleagues. During 2018, Wallenstam’s employees participated in training courses in property management and operation, updates to construction rules, law and finance, among PERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT other areas. >10 years, 30% 0–2 years, 31% We conduct regular employee surveys to measure employees’ views of their personal work situation, the company and its management. Here we will also continually follow up our Engagement Index score, in accordance with our guiding principle. Areas singled out for Wallenstam in the survey were 6–10 years, 21% 3–5 years, 18% a high level of satisfaction, great dedication, highlyORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES 39 Wallenstam has a uniform distribution between women and men, both at a Board and Group Management level. regarded leadership and confidence in the management. The results are used as one of a number of tools for advancement of the company. We also conduct regular evaluations where employees provide feedback to their manager based on a number of identified leadership qualities. The result is used as an individual development tool for the company’s managers. Working for equality During recruitments and in our internal work we aim to ensure that men and women have the same conditions, for example in relation to development initiatives and setting of salaries. Wallenstam currently has a uniform distribution between women and men, both at a Board and Group Management level. At middle management level, the distribution is 62 percent women and 38 percent men, while in the company as a whole, it is 58 percent women and 42 percent men. Equality initiatives are based on several different aspects and are an ongoing process, which we as a company continually work to maintain and improve. Values and Code of Conduct The day-to-day operations are pursued on the basis of the Group’s core values; progress, respect and commitment. Overall, the work at Wallenstam is governed by policies, guidelines and instructions and by decision-making and authorization orders, which are all important for clearly defining the company’s standpoints and working methods for the entire organization. The Code of Conduct is based on our core values and emphasizes the policies and guidelines that govern the Group in relation to employees, customers, suppliers and partners. The goal is to have an environmental, social and commercial commitment in everything we do. We shall comply with laws and regulations, and apply responsible business methods – characterized by high business ethics and good business practice. 40 ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES Vallgatan, Gothenburg MANAGEMENT AND BUILDING OPERATIONS WITH A LOCAL PRESENCE Wallenstam is organized as follows: the Stockholm business area, also including the operations in Uppsala, the Gothenburg business area, also including Helsingborg, and Svensk NaturEnergi. Property management and building operations are conducted in each business area with Wallenstam’s own managers and building project managers that cooperate with external suppliers. This local presence enables knowledge about the local property market, changes and business opportunities and provides the basis for understanding our customers’ needs and businesses. This promotes commitment and drive, both in the organization as a whole and on the part of each employee. Our staff, specialized in e.g. finance, law, IT, personnel, information and market, supports our operations. CENTRAL CUSTOMER SERVICE Our customer service is organized as a central function within the company, which enables longer opening hours and a high level of accessibility for our customers who can reach us via the web, e-mail or cost-free phone call. Systematic work and well-developed routines ensure that cases are handled in the best way and we report back to customers during the process. Follow-up and improved routines help us in our continuous ambition to increase customer satisfaction. PARTNER CONCEPT FOR PROPERTY CARE Property care and maintenance are services we procure from external suppliers through a well-developed partner concept, Wallenstam Partner. Recognition and peace of mind for the customer are created by a common working method and by having the Wallenstam logo on vehicles, clothes and ID cards. Close collaboration, frequent partner meetings and visits to buildings by our own property managers on a rolling schedule are important for assuring the quality of property care. BUSINESS AREA BUSINESS AREA SVENSK STOCKHOLM GOTHENBURG NATURENERGI CEO & STAFF FUNCTIONS ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEES 41 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPORTING Wallenstam applies Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Standards. The reporting follows the financial year and is published annually as part of the annual report. The latest GRI Report was published on March 22, 2018. This report describes how the Wallenstam Group has worked with sustainability issues during 2018. Wallenstam has defined the scope of the report as the areas referred to in the GRI index. A table is provided on the following pages of what GRI disclosures are reported and where information about the disclosures is found in Wallenstam’s reporting. This report has not been reviewed by an external party. The contact person with regard to the reporting and its content is Sustainabilty Manager Karin Mizgalski, karin.mizgalski@wallenstam.se. Information is provided below on the disclosures that are not reported elsewhere in the annual report. 102-8: INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS 302-1: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION The average number of employees in 2018 amounted to 251. Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013* All of the Group’s employees are permanent employees, with Fuel consumption the exception of five people who are probationary employees Total fuel consumption from MWh 521 483 624 600 574 608 and 16 people who are employed on a temporary basis, for non-renewable sources Heating oil MWh 379 377 447 499 487 530 example in the form of work as a substitute. 14 people work Natural gas MWh 142 107 177 101 87 78 part time, all of whom are permanent employees. Wallenstam Fuel consumption from renewable sources had no significant variation in the number of employees Non-applicable during the year. Temporary employees are not reported, as Energy consumption Wallenstam uses temporary employees to a minor extent. Electricity** MWh 41,280 35,526 35,742 34,254 35,065 46,687 Heating MWh 96,033 87,475 93,684 89,891 97,060 122,452 102-11: PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE OR APPROACH District heating MWh 95,512 86,992 93,060 89,291 96,486 121,844 In many instances, Wallenstam acts in accordance with the Oil MWh 379 377 447 499 487 530 precautionary approach, even though we do not use it as Natural gas MWh 142 107 177 101 87 78 Cooling MWh 557 621 707 783 692 684 a concept in governance and strategies. For example, the District cooling MWh 557 621 707 783 692 684 precautionary approach is used in our work on identifying, Green cooling MWh analyzing and following up risks. Total energy consumption, MWh 46,148 40,661 44,374 44,974 97,752 123,136 non-renewable 102-13: MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS Total energy consumption, MWh 91,721 82,961 85,758 79,954 35,065 46,687 Representatives of Wallenstam are represented in the renewable Total energy consumption MWh 137,869 123,622 130,133 124,927 132,817 169,823 governing bodies of Avenyföreningen, Fastighetsägarna Göteborg 1:a regionen, Fastighetsägarna Inom Vallgraven Heating per sq m KWh 87.2 82.9 91.5 92.1 105.1 106.6 climate-adjusted (FIVA), Göteborg Citysamverkan ideell förening, Mölnlycke Centrumförening, Nordisk Byggdag and Barn i Nöd, among Own electricity production from renewable sources other organizations. Wind power MWh 337,880 381,440 351,794 415,284 321,200 281,452 201-1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 302-3: ENERGY INTENSITY SEK million 2018 Direct economic value generated Revenues 2,877 kWh/per sq m 116 Economic value distributed Refers to energy use in Wallenstam’s property holdings, not climate-adjusted, including wind power, Payments to suppliers -3,026 district heating, district cooling, oil and natural gas. Does not include tenants’ energy use. Of which, VAT without right to deduction -395 Employee wages and benefits, incl. pensions and taxes -231 Fees and benefits to the Board and CEO, incl. pensions and taxes -10 302-4: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION* Paid energy tax, stamp duty, property tax -111 Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Interest payments to providers of capital, net -1,011 Dividend to shareholders and repurchase of shares -812 Total reduction MWh -14,247 6,511 -5,206 7,889 37,007 Economic value retained -2,324 Reduction electricity MWh -5,754 217 -1,489 812 11,622 Reduction heating MWh -8,557 6,208 -3,793 7,169 25,393 Reduction cooling MWh 64 86 76 -91 -8 305-1: DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS*** Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013* Direct greenhouse gas emissions ton 132 124 158 156 145 159 * Base year 2013 – commences from start of the business plan 2018. 305-2: INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS*** ** The electricity item includes electricity consumption Unit Comment 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013* relating to heat pumps. Electricity ton CO2 Market-based method: 0 0 0 0 0 0 *** All data regarding CO2 in this table is based on inputs 100% internally generated wind power from suppliers, which report according to prevailing ton CO2 Location-based method: 578 462 465 445 456 700 accounting standards. As data for the actual impact Average emission factor in 2018 was not available during preparation of this for Sweden (Svensk Energi) District 4,774 3,763 3,473 3,416 4,010 8,160 reporting, the heating data is based to a minor extent heating on estimated values based on the emission factors for District 0 0 16 19 24 24 the year 2017. cooling 150 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPORTING 305-4: GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY*** 2018 g CO2 per sq m 111 Refers to Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions in Wallenstam’s property holdings excluding tenants. 305-5: REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS*** Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013* Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2 -1,019 -241 -56 589 4,163 Total emissions CO2 per sq m 4.13 3.49 3.40 3.69 5.4 5.93 Reduction of CO2 per sq m % -18.1 -2.8 7.9 31.7 8.9 Accumulated reduction since 2013 per sq m % 30.4 41.1 42.7 37.8 8.9 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER New employees 2018 of whom in Age Number of persons of whom women/men Gothenburg/Stockholm Under 30 years 9 6/3 6/3 30-50 years 12 10/2 7/5 Over 50 years 3 2/1 2/1 Total 24 18/6 15/9 406-1: INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2018. GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission General Disclosures GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organization cover General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 69 disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 69 102-4 Location of operations 69 102-5 Ownership and legal form 80 102-6 Markets served 42-47, 65 102-7 Scale of the organization 69, 74-77 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 38-41, 150 102-9 Supply chain 30-31 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Not applicable 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 32, 150 102-12 External initiatives 27-33 102-13 Membership of associations 150 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8-11 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 27-33 102-18 Governance structure 135-139 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 4-5, 28 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 39 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 27-28 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 27-28 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 28 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 80, 124 All units are covered by the GRI reporting. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 27-29 102-47 List of material topics 28 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting 28 102-50 Reporting period 150 102-51 Date of most recent report 150 102-52 Reporting cycle 150 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 150 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 150 102-55 GRI content index 151-152 102-56 External assurance 150 Index continues on next page WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPORTING 151 GRI CONTENT INDEX, CONT. GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission Agenda 2030 UN Global Compact SDG Principles** Wallenstam Material Topics Stable economy GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 1, 4-7, 22, 27, 30, 36 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 66-67, 73-77, 85-87, 120, 150 Performance 2016 Anti-corruption 10 GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28-29, 32, 35, 40 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 29 corruption 2016 policies and procedures Sustainable materials 9 GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 4, 33 * gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Energy efficiency 8 GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 4, 27-30, 32-33 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 150 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 150 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 150 Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 4, 27-30, 32-33 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 150 Emissions 2016 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 150 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 151 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2, 151 Waste management GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 4, 33 * gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Fair and decent employment 3, 4 GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 4, 28-32, 36, 38-40 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 401: Employ401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 39, 151 ment 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36, 38-39 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Wallenstams Own WOD-1 Sick leave 38-39 Disclosure (WOD) Customer satisfaction GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 4, 6-7, 10, 27, 30, 50-51 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— Wallenstams Own WOD-2 Key conclusions of customer surveys 2, 50-51 Disclosure (WOD) Diversity and gender equality 6 GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28-30, 36, 39-40 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 39-40, 88, 136 and Equal Opportunity 2016 Inclusive business climate 6 GRI 103: Mana103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28-29, 32, 38-40 gement Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components —”— 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach —”— GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 151 discrimination 2016 * This is a new important focus area for Wallenstam. During 2019, strategies ** UN Global Compact Principles and processes for follow-up and reporting will be developed. Principle 3, Labour: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 6, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7, Environment: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8, Environment: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9, Environment: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10, Anti-corruption: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 152 GRI CONTENT INDEX
