2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report 2018 HIGHLIGHT Chairman Message About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability 10 Corporate Profile Management 12 Corporate Governance 26 Integrated Sustainability 14 Stakeholder Value Management Chain Map 28 Materiality Assessment 16 Global Business 18 Business 04 06 08 25 30 38 48 Ethical Customer Safety and Management Satisfaction Environment Cover Story Inquiries This report presents information For more information or suggestions, please contact us about LSIS, which is creating using the following information: a smarter future based on its management philosophy to make people’s lives better and improve Website www.lsis.com sustainability. Tel 82-2-2034-4123 Fax 82-2-2034-4949 Contents 54 62 68 73 Shared Growth Employees Local Community Appendix 74 Economy 75 Safety and Environment 76 Employees 77 Share Growth and Social Contribution 78 GRI Standards Index 80 Third-Party's Assurance Statement 82 UN Global Compact 82 Membership and Awards About This Report Overview LSIS has been publishing an annual sustainability report since 2015 in order to share its economic, environmental, and social performance with stakeholders. In this fifth report on our sustainable development performance in 2018, we have attempted to present our progress and achievements in a balanced and transparent manner. This report will serve as a means for collecting opinions and communicating with stakeholders. Reporting period This report is based primarily on data from January 1 to December 31, 2018, but the results for the first quarter of 2019 are included for some contents. Reporting scope This report provides key information from the materiality assessment, mainly covering domestic business sites but also some overseas sites where relevant. Reporting standards This report is in accordance with the GRI Standards Index and the UN Global Compact. Assurance For the credibility of this report, third-party verification was conducted by Korea Management Registrar. 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Selected as one of the Top 100 Global Innovators by Clarivate Analytics for 7 consecutive years Clarivate Analytics ranked LSIS among the Top 100 Global Innovators for 7 years in a row. LSIS was evaluated as one of the top companies in terms of quality of intellectual properties in terms such as success rate of patent registrations, ratio of patent application in 4 regions worldwide, and citation index. Won a bid to build a High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) conversion system between Donghaean and Singapyeong LSIS was selected as a final bidder for the construction of a HVDC system between Donghaean and Singapyeong. This project is the largest scale of its kind so far in Korea. As part of the project, LSIS signed a 176.5 billion won contract with KAPES, a venture jointly invested and established by Korea Electric Power Corporation and GE Grid Solutions. The establishment of the system is intended to supply power generated from East Coast of the Korean Peninsula to metropolitan areas in a more efficient and stable manner, and is planned to be completed by December, 2021. Launched Modular Scalable PCS, a new ESS product LSIS launched Modular Scalable PCS, a 125~158kW modular Power Electronic Building Block (PEBB) that is a core part of PCS for ESS. The scalability, stability and economic feasibility have been improved by adding smart independent operation function and connecting 16 units in parallel, offering the largest scalability in Korea. 01January 04 April 2018 Completed construction of the solar plant linked with MW-level ESS In partnership with Busan HIGHLIGHT City, LSIS completed construction of a solar plant linked with MW-level Energy Storage System (ESS) and started its commercial operations in Hwamyeong Purification Plant and Busan Plant of LSIS. Hwamyeong Purification Plant is the first solar plant linked with MW-level ESS in Busan City, and is expected to generate 370 million won in profit every year by producing 1,310MWh electricity annually. The solar plant in Busan Plant has a capacity of 910kW photovoltaic power generation and 2.7MWh ESS on the roof of the plant; we expect that the plant will generate 1,140MWh electricity and 330 million won in annual sales. 4 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Won the bid for the Flexible AC 09 September Won the project to establish a Transmission System (FACTS) project for Godeok Substation KRTCS-based urban railways signal from Korea Electric Power system in Seoul LSIS was selected as the final bidder for supplying a Korean Radio based Train Corporation LSIS signed its first contract (12.1 billion won) to supply Control System (KRTCS) developed by LSIS to Sillim static synchronous compensator Light Rail of Seoul. This is the implementation of a (STATCOM), the third generation domestic system in the Korean urban railway control of FACTS. LSIS plans to expand its system market which has been led by overseas market share not only in Korea but companies including those from Europe. Sillim Light also in the global market through Rail will connect 11 stations along a stretch of 7.8km successful execution of the project. in total, and is planned to be completed in 2022. 06 June 08 09August September 12 December Won ESS project from SeAH Group LSIS won Acquired Energy Grid Tie Division a project for the establishment and operation of Parker Hannifin LSIS acquired of ESS for 5 factories of the SeAH Group. The the Energy Grid Tie Division of Parker project is to supply 175 MWh battery and 34MWh Hannifin, a US-based company. Parker Power Conversion System (PCS), which is of the Hannifin is the largest ESS company in North America. largest scale as a single project in Korea. The ESS Through this acquisition, LSIS secured the largest facilities, planned to be installed at places with references in the global industrial ESS market (utility, high energy consumption, are expected C&I) with accumulated supply record of 700MW. to cut about 130 billion won in electricity bill for the next 15 years. 5 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Chairman Message 6 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Distinguished stakeholders, I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude for your continued interest and support extended to LSIS. In 2018, LSIS established and implemented challenging goals in an effort to lay the foundations for the era of growth. As a result, LSIS was able to achieve record performance in its history despite global economic recession. We achieved continued growth in the areas of power and automation with our quality products and technical expertise, and realized significant growth in the area of smart energy. We are making efforts to be a global leader not only in power and automation but also in the smart energy domain based on our achievements. A difficult business environment is expected to continue in 2019. However, LSIS has been making efforts to lay the foundations for moving toward the era of growth since last year under adverse conditions, and we will focus on the following 3 activities to strengthen the foundation for a sustainable future in 2019. First, we aim to increase our competitiveness in the global market. As uncertainties such as reduction in facility investment are expected in the domestic market, we will focus on capturing overseas markets as much as possible. Second, we will strengthen technological competitiveness through digital transformation. Digital transformation is a platform business based on a new concept, which requires innovative thinking at a very fundamental level. We will prepare for the new market to be created in the era of the 4th Industrial Revolution by preemptively responding to the market demands and technological changes and securing technical competitiveness to lead the market. Third, we will improve the efficiency of resources continuously. LSIS achieved the largest ever operating profit as a result of our efforts toward improving the profit structure. We will seek long-term growth by maximizing efficiencies and by managing risks thoroughly throughout the organization regardless of business, research and support groups to achieve more than our potential. Distinguished stakeholders, in addition to pursuing the economic interests of LSIS, we will continue our efforts at sustainability management in order to fulfill our corporate social responsibility, communicate with stakeholders and build trust based on a positive corporate culture. By doing so, we hope we will be able to spearhead the future of smart energy and enhance value for both ourselves and the society. In this journey, we look forward to your unwavering support and encouragement. Thank you. Chairman & CEO Ja-Kyun Koo 7 About LSIS LSIS, a leader in industrial electric power and automation solutions Corporate Profile 10 businesses in Korea since 1974, will lead the future of smart energy with Corporate Governance 12 quality products developed through its technical prowess. Stakeholder Value Chain Map 14 Global Business 16 Business 18 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Corporate Profile Since its establishment in 1974, LSIS has grown into the No. 1 power and automation solutions company in Korea Profile based on quality and innovation, leading Korea’s industrial development. In 2015, the company announced a new misCompany name LSIS Co., Ltd sion known as Futuring Smart Energy, to take another leap Established July 24, 1974 forward with its quality products and technological prowess. CEO Chairman Ja-Kyun Koo, Vice President Yong-sang Park, Vice President Ki-won Nam LSIS will continue its efforts to pioneer the future of smart LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang-si, Head office energy. Gyeonggi-do, Korea Employees 3,371 Organization chart AA(corporate bond), A1 (CP) (rated by Korea Credit rating Investors Service) Chairman Vision Support Financial data summary (consolidated basis) Department Sales KRW 2,485 billion Executive Director Operating Executive Director of Executive Director KRW 205 billion of Business income Business of DT Administration Group Total assets KRW 2,405.8 billion Total liabilities KRW 1,108.4 billion Power Solutions Automation China Business Total equity KRW 1,297.5 billion Business Group Business Group Group Company history 2000-2009 1974-1999 2  000. 06 Opened a plant in Dalian, China 1974. 07 Established Lucky Packing 2000. 08 Power Testing & Technology Institute designated as a certified testing organization 1987. 03 Renamed to Goldstar Industrial Systems 2003. 12 Separated from LG Group 1994. 07 Held an initial public offering (IPO)  005. 03 Renamed to LSIS 2  995. 02 Renamed to LG Industrial Systems 1 2005. 09 Opened a plant to produce electric 1995. 09 Merged with Goldstar Instrument & Electric and power& automation equipment in Wuxi, China Goldstar Electric Machinery 2007. 02 Established LSIS(ME) FZE in Dubai, UAE 1997. 04 Established a subsidiary(production) in Vietnam 2008. 04 Moved the headquarters 1999. 04 Merged with LG Metal (LS Tower in Anyang, Korea) 2009. 10 Established a subsidiary(sales) in the Europe Incorporated LS Mecapion as a subsidiary 10 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Vision and Strategy 1. B oosting Our Market Position as a Power Solutions Provider Management Strategy 2. Leading New Markets through Philosophy Convergence and Combination 3. Expansion of Global Markets 4. Securing Operational Excellence Mission Vision Core Value Collaboration Execution Creativity Integrity 2015-2018  2015. 01 Declared the guiding principles of value-based management 2010-2014 2015. 03 Completed the construction of a R&D Campus 2016. 03 The R&D Campus building earned Korea’s first BEMS certification 2016. 09 Received Presidential Citation for outstanding 2010. 02 Established LS Sauter achievement for FTA 2010. 04 Opened a plant in Busan 2016. 09 Became the first company in Korea in implementing ESS for emergency power supply in the R&D Campus 2010. 04 Spun off Metal Processing Business Unit (present LS Metal) 2017. 03 Listed on the Top 100 Companies in terms of patent 2010. 10 Established Japan Sales Corporation application in Europe  2011. 10 Opened a HVDC plant in Busan 2017. 06 Acknowledged as the Korea’s Best Enterprise 2011. 11 Selected as 500 Fastest Growing for 10 consecutive years Companies by the Fortune Korea 2017. 09 Awarded the Industry, Trade and Energy Minister’s Prize in Strategic Trade CP 2012.  05 Opened an EV relay plant in Cheongju 2017. 11 Received citation of the Minister of SMEs and 2012. 12 Established a subsidiary (sales) in the US Startups in the supplier association category 2013. 05 Signed a contract for HVDC technology transfer and manufacturing with KAPES and GE 2018. 01 Selected as one of the Top 100 Global Innovators 2013. 11 Received the USD 500 Million Export Tower / Awarded for 7 years in a row the grand prize in quality sector at the 39th 2018. 11 Won the Power Demand Management Award in terms National Quality Management Competition of efficiency 2018. 12 Won the Minister's Prize at Korea Technology Awards 2014. 05 Opened an EV relay plant in Cheongju 2018. 12 Acquired the Energy Grid Tie Division of Parker Hannifin (US company) 11 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors (BOD) on a quarterly basis, and is authorized to audit overall acThe LSIS Board of Directors consists of 3 inside directors counting affairs and financial status as needed. and 4 outside directors in accordance with governance rules including Articles of Association and the Board of Outside Director Nomination Committee | This comDirectors Regulations. Within the BOD, 3 subcommittees, mittee is responsible to conduct the nomination process viz. the Audit Committee, Outside Director Nomination in a fair and transparent manner. The committee consists Committee and Internal Transaction Committee, are opof two outside directors and one inside director. erated. Internal Transaction Committee | The committee overCommittees under the BOD sees the internal transactions and is responsible for takAudit Committee | The audit committee, comprised of 4 ing measures to improve the transparency of corporate outside directors, assists the board of directors in its govmanagement through the establishment of the system for ernance and oversight responsibilities. The Audit Comvoluntary compliance with fair transaction. The committee mittee reviews operating results and financial statements consists of 4 outside directors. Members of the board As of March 26, 2019 Type Name Position Career background Date of appointment (Present) Chairman & CEO, LSIS Chairman of the board, 2017.03.17 Koo Ja-Kyun (Former) Professor of Graduate School of International Chairman & CEO (reappointed) and Public Affairs, Korea University Inside (Present) Executive Director of Business and Executive directors Vice President of China Business Group, LSIS 2017.03.17 Park Yong-Sang Vice President & CEO (3) (Former) Managing Director of Production/Technology (newly appointed) Group, LSIS (Present) Senior Executive Vice President, LSIS 2018.03.20 Nam Ki-Won Vice President & CEO (Former) Vice President & CEO, LS Metal (newly appointed) (Present) Professor of electrical engineering, Outside director / Seoul National University 2017.03.17 Moon Seung-Ill Audit Committee member (Former) President of Korea Electrical (newly appointed) Engineering and Science Research Institute (Present) Member, Presidential Council Outside Outside director / on Intellectual Property 2017.03.17 directors Kim Ho-Won Audit Committee member (Former) Commissioner, Korean Intellectual (newly appointed) (4) Property Office Outside director / (Former) Professor of accounting, Chungnam National 2018.03.20 Lee Won-Chang Audit Committee member University (newly appointed) Outside director / (Former) 51st Second Vice Minister of Food, 2019.03.26 Oh Jung-Kyu Audit Committee member Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (newly appointed) BOD and subcommittee meetings in 2018 Remunerations of directors in 2018 Meetings Atten Items Items Category convened -dance resolved reported BOD Total remuneration of the 5 97% 21 14 board of directors in 2018 / Audit Committee 6 95% 7 10 KRW 3.35 billion Outside Director (Total remuneration is limited Nomination 2 100% 2 to KRW 5 billion.) Committee Internal Transac1 100% 2 tion Committee 12 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Shareholder status After LS Group adopted a holding company structure in Category 2016 2017 2018 2008, LS Holdings. is the largest shareholder with 46% ownership, followed by National Pension Service of Korea, the Dividend payout ratio(%)1) 40.5 34.0 29.5 second largest shareholder with 12% ownership as of December 31, 2018. Dividend yield(%)2) 2.01 1.69 2.40 Individual LS Holdings Note 1) Dividend payout ratio: Total dividends / Net profit (separate standards) Note 2) Dividend yield: Dividend per share / Year-end closing price 10% 46% Foreign Communication with shareholders and investors | Share ownership We are communicating with investors at home and abroad 16% (as of Dec. 31, 2018) through regular earnings release meetings, which are held Treasury Institutional shares 4 times a year, in addition to overseas conferences and di26% 2% verse IR events. Category Relations Share In number In perCategory Note type centage LS Holdings The largest Regular Organized by: 13,800,000 46% Feb. 2017 Q4 earnings release NDR* shareholder Samsung Treasury shares 674,973 2.25% Organized by May 2018 Q1 earnings release NDR Institutional More than NH investors NPS 5% of 3,614,347 12.05% Common Organized by ownership Aug. 2018 Q2 earnings release NDR share Kiwoom Others 4,023,036 13.41% Organized by: Foreign Oct. 2018 Q3 earnings release NDR 4,773,362 15.91% Hana Financial investors Individual Ad-hoc Shinhan Investment 3,114,282 10.38% Mar. investors Corporate Day Common Total 30,000,000 100% Samsung Securities share May Corporate Day Shinhan Investment Jun. Corporate Day Jun. Shinhan Investment Mini NDR Shareholder returns (dividends) | LSIS has maintained a higher than market average dividend payout to its shareVisit to Chitose Visit to Chitose Solar Plant Solar Power holders and investors. Jul. in Japan Plant presentation in Japan Dividend status 35.2 Sept. Kiwoom Securities Corporate Day 32.3 Shinhan Investment Nov. Corporate Day 1,200 23.5 Hana Financial Investment Dec. Corporate Day 1,100 Overseas NDR in Hong Kong and Organized by Sept. Total dividends 800 Singapore Shinhan (KRW billion) * Non-Deal Roadshow Dividend per share 2016 2017 2018 (KRW) 13 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Stakeholder LSIS has been creating and sharing value with stakeholders in every facet of our business Value Chain Map activities. Going forward, we will strive to promote even greater value with our stakeholders. Oraganizations Safety & Investment in safety and environment Environment Team Key Communication Channels KRW 6.8 billion •Regular meetings •Company website •Direct communication with the person in charge Employees HR Team New employees (permanent) Key Communication Channels 65 •Communicator Salary and employee training •LinkerS expenses •LSIS Monthly Magazine •Surveys •WeLS KRW 300.3 billion 14 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Local communities Public Relations Team Social contribution activities Key Communication Channels 122 •Meetings with local communities Participants •Direct communication with the (duplicate counting) person in charge •Meetings with the management •Surveys 1,677 Shareholders and investors Treasury Team Dividends and interests Key Communication Channels KRW 50 billion •NDR •Company visits •Company website Suppliers Customers Win-Win Growth Team Purchase of Marketing Team Advertising expenses raw materials and parts Key Communication Channels KRW 1,229.5 billion Key communication channels KRW 8.4 billion •ACE Club •Exhibitions and seminars Seminars •Meetings for shared growth Financial support •Meetings with customers and innovation •Performance sharing meetings •Management seminars KRW 11.4 billion •Distributors meetings •Visit to customers •Customer service centers 87 •TOPS (internet portal for shared growth) •ACE innovation networking 15 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Global LSIS established mid to long-term vision for each overseas market with a view to expanding our global business. We are conducting business focusing on local markets through not only entry Business into overseas markets but also identification of new business opportunities and strengthening the foundations for business. China •Strengthening capabilities in power equipment and system business •E  xpanding our global presence through cooperation in equipment business such as ESS and MCB Moscow Amsterdam CHINA Beijing Dalian Cheongdo Tokyo Shanghai Chengdu Wuxi Dubai Guangzhou Hanoi Bangkok Ho Chi Minh SOUTHEAST ASIA Jakarta Head office Southeast Asia Domestic operations Overseas subsidiaries (production) •Strengthening the fundamental Overseas subsidiaries (sales) competitiveness to conduct business Overseas branches (Sales base, sales channels, product line-up, etc.) Global service centers • Expanding system business in cooperation with Global R&D centers suppliers 16 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix North America • Accelerating growth through expansion of market channels • Stabilizing the ESS PCS business and ramp-up AMERICA Chicago Charlotte Anyang Head Office R&D Campus Cheongju Cheongju plant 1 Head Cheongju plant 2 Office Electronic power R&D center Power Testing & Technology Institute Cheonan Cheonan plant Automation R&D center Busan Busan plant Domestic Subsidiary companies Core Biz Core Biz Core Biz Copper tubes and STS Industrial BAS / IBS and GBS steel pipes electronic equipment systems Yongsan-gu, Seoul Dalseo-gu, Daegu Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do 17 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Business Power Solutions Business 2018 performance in Power Solutions Business (non-consolidated basis) LSIS provides a total solution that allows safe and efficient management of the entire process from power generation to consumption. Our main systems are divided into 2 groups: transformers for adjusting system voltage to a safe value, and circuit breakers designed to maintain safety by isolating circuits in case of abnormal conditions such as overcurrent or short circuit. Recently, High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) Systems, Energy Storage Systems (ESS), Energy Sales Share of Share of overseas sales businesses Management Systems (EMS), and Power Conversion SysKRW 1,567.2 tems (PCS) for ESS have been added to our portfolio. billion 26% 82% Key Power Products Electric Power Transmission High Voltage Direct current (HVDC) PV module ESS* for renewable energy This transmits electricity integration by converting alternating current into direct current. Gas insulated switchgear (GIS) This protects power plants and substations from accidents caused by overload, grounding, and shorted wires. Power Transformer(HVTR) ESS for FR businesses This stably transforms voltage and current through either a step up or step down in voltage. 18 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Plans for • Localize overseas markets with strategic importance Smart Energy | LSIS is developing solar power generation and produce results 2018 and ESS (Energy Storage System) businesses based on our • Expand the scope of markets and products • Diversify business models power solutions technology platform and power electronics technology for automation. Our services are delivered in the Perfor• Conducted M&A for growth in the global market form of individual products, turn-key systems or EPC conmance in • Laid the foundations for KEPCO FACTS market • Won a large-scale ESS project tracts. 2018 • Expand total solutions for power distribution systems Plans for • Place more emphasis on overseas markets with 2019 strategic importance • Develop  new products for the global market Switchgear This monitors electric power systems and manages safety controls using electrical switches, fuses, and / or circuit breakers within an enclosed electrical box. Vacuum Circuit Breaker (VCB) This prevents the loss of lives and equipment by breaking the circuit in Industrial ESS a vacuum when an abnormal current flows through high voltage distribution lines. Distribution Transformer (TR) This transforms AC voltage by using an electromagnetic induction device. Building ESS Air Circuit Breaker (ACB) This prevents the loss of lives and equipment by breaking the circuit when an abnormal current flows in low voltage distribution lines. Molded Case Circuit Breakers (MCCB) Household ESS This interrupts the This interrupts the flow of current with manual or electrical *ESS : As  electricity produced is captured and used at a time of operation. In the case of overload or short supply, the efficient use of energy is promoted. short circuit, power is automatically shut off. 19 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Automation Business CPS solutions LSIS provides a wide range of automation solutions from As a platform that connects reality with virtual reality, it promotes efficient plant operation. single unit machines to process control capabilities for effiIt monitors data generated by field devices cient operation of industrial facilities. Our key product portand collected by automated devices, and the accumulated information is transferred to the folio includes PLC for equipment control, AC Drives for mobusiness information system. tor speed adjustment, Servo for precise equipment control, and HMI for real-time monitoring of equipment. Moreover, Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) we are promoting smart plant solutions that improve operaThis is a universal controller programmed to operate machinery under set orders tional efficiency utilizing information collected through plant and conditions. It has a wide range of automation solutions. applications from large-scale automation equipment in factories / plants to carwash machines, golf ranges, and general use. •S trengthened the capabilities of domestic / Plans for global distributors 2018 • Expanded the scope of product portfolio and applications • Established a business model for smart factories Human Machine Interface (HMI) This allows users to easily check the operative status of different production • Laid the foundations for entry into the high-end market equipment on a touchscreen so that Perfor• Developed a new AC Drive product measures can be taken as necessary. mance in • Developed a business model for smart factories 2018 AC drive (inverter) • Expand dominance in the domestic market This helps conserve energy by changing Plans for • Target overseas markets intensively the frequency of the power supply to 2019 • Expand the development of new products control the speed or torque of a motor. D  ecelerator Connected to the motor shaft, it delivers decreased speed but increased torque 2018 performance Industrial Automation Business by load. It has wide applications for (non-consolidated basis) semiconductors, displays, beverage machinery, and logistics machinery. Motion / Servo This offers precision control through Sales Share of Share of feedback when equipment is moved to overseas sales businesses a new location or operated at the speed KRW 337.9 / torque required by the system. (Motion billion 34% 18% Controller / Servo Drive / Servo Motor) Railway Infrastructure Business LSIS contributes to the safe operation of railway by providing, operating and maintaining railway power and signaling systems. In 2018, LSIS won a project for Sillim Light Rail that applies KRTCS* Level 1 for the first time. Based on this achievement in the domestic market, we will expand our business to overseas markets. * KRTCS: Korean Radio based Train Control System 20 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix High-Voltage Substation System LSIS produces a Power Diagnosis Preventive System (PDPS) that prevents failure and accidents preemptively by monitoring functions and performance of major power equipment including gas insulated switchgear (GIS) and high voltage transformers in the high voltage power systems. 21 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report ESS / Energy Storage System An Energy Storage System stores power in a battery and makes it possible to use the stored power when necessary. It is an advanced power system that improves the usability of new and renewable energy and maximizes the efficiency and stability of power supply. 22 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix DC Component In line with the trend of applying DC high voltage and large capacity in the new and renewable energy sector, LSIS provides optimized DC solutions and puts every efforts into R&D to achieve customer satisfaction and thereby ensure its position as Global No. 1. 23 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report G100 Next generation inverter (G100) G100 is a general purpose drive optimized for use in various industrial areas. The AC Drive, which controls the rotation speed of a motor by changing voltage and frequency of power, makes it possible to manage the motor and save energy. 24 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Core Issues of Sustainability Management Our target for sustainability manageIntegrated Sustainability Management 26 ment is to earn respect through buildMateriality Assessment 28 ing stakeholders’ trust. To this end, we Ethical Management 30 will strive to build a healthy corporate Customer Satisfaction 38 culture and proactively communicate Safety and Environment 48 with our customers, suppliers, shareShared Growth 54 holders / investors, local communities, Employees 62 and employees as we grow and create Local Community 68 value together. 25 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Integrated Sustainability Management Under the goal of earning respect through trust-building with stakeholders, 3 strategic directions have been implemented under stakeholder-specific action plans: Stakeholder Engagement, Sustainability Enhancement, and Integrated Risk Management. LSIS will continue to proactively communicate with stakeholders as we achieve shared growth. Framework Goal Earning respect through trust-building with stakeholders 3 strategic Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Enhancement Integrated Risk Management directions Communication Key stakeholders Customers Suppliers Environmental Employees Shareholders Local organization & Investors communities Action plans Creating Achieving Promoting Nurturing Increasing Supporting by stakeholder customer value shared growth environment creative talent shareholder local with product by establishing management in and improving value through communities responsibility a culture of fair line with global quality of life management through and proactive trade standards integrity and voluntary communication transparent social disclosure contribution Roadmap for Sustainability Management Building Strengthening capability for Expanding to global a consensus implementation operations •Strengthening the infrastructure Integrated •Providing in-house training •Evaluating performance for sustainability management in sustainability •Operating the Council on •Reinforcing implementation overseas plants management Sustainability Management strategies by function •Promoting activities for global initiatives •Assigning teams in charge •Developing a process for •Expanding the scope of Shareholder and defining R&R by incorporating stakeholders’ stakeholders to the global level engagement stakeholder feedbacks and enhancing R&R of each team •Making an organized effort in Sustainability •Strengthening requirements on the environmental monitoring of •Reinforcing green marketing enhancement disclosing environmental data the value chain activities at a global level Integrated risk •Enhancing the integrated •Establishing monitoring •Building a system to identify and management system to manage risks processes to identify key risks manage risks in overseas plants 26 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Implementation system / Council on Sustainability Management Chairman CSO (an executive responsible for sustainability management) Enterprise-wide Council on Sustainability Management Operation of the integrated sustainability management system and council (by Corporate Planning Team) Economic Social Environmental Corporate governance Ethical Management Environmental management, health and safety Innovation activities Compliance management Green products Integrated risk management Employees Customer satisfaction Activities for local communities Quality management Shared growth with suppliers Human rights and labor Responding to UN SDGs LSIS is committed to working toward the sustainable development goals (SDGs) composed of 17 goals and 169 targets presented by the UN. Goal 1 Goal 4 Goal 8 Goal 6, 12, 15 Goal 17 Social contribution Social contribution Talent policy and Safe and environment Shared growth activities by region activities by LS Group business growth management with suppliers Goal 3 Goal 5 Goal 7, 11 Goal 9 Goal 13 Goal 16 Employee welfare Equality policy LSIS’s business and Activities for management Measures for Transparent policy for employees service areas improvement climate change corporate governance 27 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Materiality Assessment Overview LSIS created a pool of 37 topics based on internal and external reviews and opinion from the Council on Sustainable Management, and prioritized 18 topics incorporating stakeholder survey, media & web analysis and opinion of experts. Creating a pool of topics Internal / external reviews 37 (reviewing the agendas Opinions from the Council 2018 pool of topics of major bodies at LSIS on Sustainability 37 개 토픽 and evaluation results Management Pool topics selected 선정 by external organizations) Prioritizing topics through materiality assessment STEP 1 Stakeholder survey STEP 2 Media & Web analysis STEP 3 CSR-level diagnosis September-October 2018 October 2018 November 2018 Online / Offline surveys Big data analytics Tools of external agencies Participants Source Participating teams 868 from major broadcasting 14 Including customers, employees, networks, newspapers, and The Council on Sustainability suppliers, environmental organizations, business magazines Management shareholders, and investors 28 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Materiality assessment matrix The materiality assessment matrix is designed based on the potential impact on business and the level of interest among stakeholders. Please refer to the page indicated in the legend below for details on each key topics. Potential impact on business J I G K P C H A F N L R D M O E Q B Level of interest of stakeholders Category Material Topic Page Category Material Topic Page Ethics & risk A Ethical management 32 Safety and J Energy conservation and climate change 51 environment B Compliance management 35 management K Worksite safety management 52 C Integrated risk management 35 L Eco-friendly products and services 53 Customer D Competitiveness in quality 40 Shared growth M Establishing a culture of fair trade 56 satisfaction with suppliers management E Activities to ensure product reliability 41 N Management of conflict minerals 60 F Technological competitiveness 41 O A culture of shared growth 61 G Intellectual property management 42 Employees P Talents management 65 H Communication with customers 46 H  uman rights and labor-management 67 Q relationship Safety and environment I Worksite safety and health 50 Contribution to R Employee volunteer activities 70 management local community 29 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Ethics Management COMMITMENT Dae-Seok Chae / LSIS has put LSpartnership, the management philosophy Vision Support Department of LS group, into practice and promoted ethical management based on core values of cooperation and integrity for sustainable, shared growth. We provide regular training on ethics to executives and employees as part of our activities to implement ethical management. In addition, we regularly listen to present and potential difficulties faced by contractors and distributors in their transactions with LSIS. We try to prevent unethical activities by running a cyber reporting channel. 30 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix LSIS is committed to fulfill its responsibilities toward customers, partners, shareholders and society through clean and transparent management. We have established the Ethics Committee as the highest decision-making body regarding the implementation of ethics management. Further, the Code of Ethics and Conduct was established as criteria for actions and value judgments among employees. We will continue our efforts to strengthen the culture of ethical management and improve awareness by providing ethical management training not only to our employees but also to contractors. KEY PERFORMANCE & PLANS Plans •Strengthening the promotion of ethics training for 2018 Number of reports 13 case Performance •Posting information on the promotion of ethical management in 2018 for executives and employees Level of satisfaction with •Strengthening ethics training (in addition to cyber education) ethical management Plans •Running a reward system for reporting cases of unethical 3.96 point for 2019 behaviors 31 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Ethical management Ethical management system Goal of ethical management Organizations in charge | The Ethics Committee is the The goal of ethical management at LSIS is to fulfill our corhighest body for implementing ethics management. This porate responsibility to customers, suppliers, shareholders, unit is made up of members of the HR Committee. The Auand society based on the principles of fairness, honesty, and dit Department, an independent internal audit organization, integrity. serves as the Ethics Committee Secretariat. Chairman Ethics committee ShareCustomers Suppliers Society holders Executive Business Audit Executive Director of •Building trust in the •Enhancing the company value Executive Team (Ethics Director of Business company and product and image Director of DT Committee Business Administration •Securing a stable •Establishing a reliable Secretariat) Group foundation for growth foundation for investment Roles of the Ethics Committee Secretariat • Developing and promoting the system to comply with code of ethics, and providing training • Establishing and operating the procedures of reporting unethical cases or potential risks • Making authoritative interpretation in ethical practices and submitting key issues to the Ethics Committee Code of Ethics and Conduct The Code of Ethics and Conduct was established to provide criteria for actions and value judgments among employees. Code of Ethics Fairness Faithfulness Chapter Responsibilities and duties for customers 1. Providing information / Serving customers / Protecting the interests of customers Ethical Chapter Fair competition management 2. Fair competition / Respecting related laws, regulations and business practices Chapter Fair trade 3. Selecting suppliers through a transparent process / Honesty Promoting fairness in transactions and evaluation / Maintaining order in trade / Supporting suppliers Chapter Basic ethics for employees 4. Keeping one’s dignity as an LSIS employee / Reporting with honesty and integrity / Protecting the company’s property / Avoiding the conflict of interests against the company / Preventing sexual harassment at work Chapter Responsibilities for employees 5. Fostering talent / Ensuring fair treatment / Promoting health and safety / Respecting employees’ opinions Transparent Fair Social management competition stewardship Chapter Responsibilities for the nation and society 6. Doing business right / Protecting the interests and rights of shareholders / Protecting the environment / Contributing to the nation and society 32 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Policies and systems in operation Self-reporting program | To promote a healthy corpoReporting hotlines | To eradicate unethical acts within rate culture by eliminating unethical acts, LSIS operates the company, LSIS constantly operates a variety of coma self-reporting program through which employees who munication channels, including phone, post mail, e-mail, might have accepted bribes and / or offers of entertainment and a cyber reporting platform. Suppliers, employees, and can voluntarily report according to defined procedures. customers can avail these channels to report any cases of corruption, irregularities, or unfair business practices by Reporter protection policy | LSIS does not disclose the LSIS employees. Complaints on product quality or inquiries personal information of anyone reporting an unethical act, about products and services are transferred to the customthe reported details, or any other information that could er service center. identify them without their consent. If the reporter is placed in a disadvantageous position due to a disclosure, the comReports received and resolved by channel (unit: case) pany will take responsibility to restore the complainant to the original state and assume liability accordingly. 11 9 7 Reported details and the personal information of reporters are kept strictly confidential and the reporting system is operated in a 0 2 1 secure and safe manner. Self-reporting by those who were 1 0 0 involved in unethical acts is taken into consideration when resolving the case. 5  yber reporting C channel 7 Phone Information on reporters and Mail 1 interested parties is strictly Others protected and an investigation is 2016 2017 2018 conducted to ensure the fair and objective resolution of the case. Reports received and resolved by category (unit: case) If a disadvantage to the reporter is recognized as a result of any Reporting category 2016 2017 2018 information leakage, LSIS will compensate the disadvantage or Unfair trade 1 5 2 take equivalent remedial measures. Corruption and 3 2 3 irregularities Unfair practices 1 Procedures to respond to unethical acts | In accorClaim 2 2 dance with the Code of Ethics and Conduct, a thorough investigation is conducted on unethical acts, and the DisOthers 8 9 6 ciplinary Committee takes disciplinary action against those Total 13 18 13 who violate the Code of Ethics and Conduct. 33 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Implementing ethical management Activities for implementation Strengthening partnership with suppliers / Pledge to practice ethical management | As part of distributors the efforts to raise awareness and promote transparent Sending an official letter for cooperation to supplibusiness process, LSIS employees must biannually take a ers/distributors | Before the Thanksgiving (Chuseok) and written pledge to practice ethical management. Since 2013, Lunar New Year's holidays, LSIS sends an official commuall employees of LSIS and its subsidiaries have joined these nication asking suppliers and distributors for cooperation in efforts. eradicating the practice of giving and receiving gifts, entertainment and money. This announcement is also made to Employee survey | A biannual survey is conducted to evalemployees to encourage them to report any violations and uate the level of employee satisfaction on the company's to further strengthen LSpartnership, the management phiethical management and to check for unfair acts that might losophy of LS Group. have gone unnoticed. The survey results, such as changes in satisfaction level with the ethical management index, sugSurvey for suppliers| LSIS conducts an annual survey of gestions and feedback, are utilized to set directions for plansuppliers and distributors to evaluate the level of satisfacning subsequent ethical management activities. In 2018, tion with the company's ethical management. The collectLSIS employees evaluated the company’s ethical manageed survey results, including changes in satisfaction level, ment index (the full score is 5) at 3.96, and it was pointed out ethical management index, suggestions and feedback, are that education on ethical management cases was required. utilized to set directions for planning subsequent ethical Accordingly, we are planning to collect ethical management management measures. According to the 2018 survey, the cases and add them to the training in 2019. satisfaction levels were 4.23 and 4.06 (full score is 5) respectively for suppliers and distributors, which have remained at Training on ethical management | Training on ethical the similar level as the previous year. management is provided through an introductory course for both non-career and career employees Since 2013, the Training for suppliers | The Win-Win Growth Team ortraining that had been until then conducted only at the comganizes performance-sharing meetings and lectures by pany level is being provided to all members of the LS Group. external experts for the benefit of suppliers to help them From 2017, training materials are also being made available better understand LSpartnership and to build consensus on via the Intranet and starting 2019, cyber training led by the ethical management. HR department is being provided to all employees. Satisfaction level on ethical management (Unit: point) 4.23 4.23 4.19 4.08 4.06 4.01 3.96 3.95 Suppliers Distributors Employees 2016 2017 2018 34 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Compliance Management Integrated Risk Management Since the compliance officer system was introduced in Internal control of financial reporting 2012, activities to promote compliance management have To manage the processes related to the calculation of finanbeen reinforced. These included a proclamation ceremony cial statements, the regulation on internal control based on in 2014, CP (compliance program), voluntary inspections, Act on External Audit of Stock Companies was established classification of legal risks, and training. The head of Legal and enacted in 2019. Accordingly, the CEO reports the operAffairs Group serves as the compliance officer and is spearational status of the internal accounting system to the shareheading these efforts. holders' meeting, the BOD and the Audit Committee, and the Audit Committee reports its evaluation results to the BOD. Training and information sharing activities To raise compliance awareness, the compliance officer orStatement of work & Flow Chart ganizes themed training for employees. Additionally, inforInternal mation on revised laws and regulations and government Enterprise level accounting policy is shared among the related teams. In 2018, 30 sessystem Statement of control sions of compliance training were offered and information Work level sharing activities were conducted 19 times. Internal Activities Details verification system Ad hoc disclosure control Reporting to BOD topics covered Compliance Fair Trade Act, Subcontracting Act, inspections training and education on the act of stealing technologies, and strategic commodities business meeting Risk management categories Sharing Subcontracting Act related to stealing A total of 104 risks have been defined and grouped by catinformation on technologies (revised), one-strike out system egory, division, and section. Among them, 26 key risk items revised laws and related to Subcontracting Act, and Act on regulations Promotion of Information and Communications were selected based on the quality of their management Network (revised), Enforcement Decree on Kim Young-ran Act (known as Anti-graft Law) and evaluation by worksites and the teams in charge. The pool of risks at the corporate level External Category Strategic risk Financial risk Compliance risk Operational risk environment risk Division •Economy •Business plans •Market •Contract / Lawsuit / •Project •Country / Politics / •Growth •Capital balance Trade •Support process Society / Environment •PR / Communication •Asset impairment •Laws / Regulations •Key process •Market condition •Financial statements •Ethics / Misconduct •Accident / Disaster Section •Economy •Business plans •Credit rating •Contract •Project cost •Country •M&A •Raw materials prices •Fair trade •Purchasing / •Politics •Business portfolio •Exchange rate (anti-trust policy) Procurement •Competitors •Social contribution •Liquidity •Other laws •Design / Manufacturing •Customers •Development and •Trade receivables •HR / Labor •Bidding / Winning •Procurement / investment in new •Intangible assets •IP / Privacy protection contracts Suppliers businesses •Tangible assets •Overseas / Export •Project management •External •Brand / Reputation •Assets in stock •Environment / Safety •Corporation stakeholders •Public relations / •Investment assets •Irregularities management •Natural disaster Communication •Asset impairment •Corruption •HR •Investor relations (common) •Ethics / Compliance •Environment / Safety •Tax •Logistics •Accounting fraud •Production / Quality •Sales / Marketing No. of risk items 13 16 22 19 34 35 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Proactive risk Identification Corporate risks are categorized into emergency response, proactive risk control, and internalization of work process depending on management type. In 2016, an approach for proactively identifying and managing risks was devised and applied to key risk items in order to establish an efficient response system. Management type Proactive risk identification Emergency response Checklist organized response according to pre-defined action plan on the occurrence of an event, and recovery 체크리스트 관리 Proactive risk control Teams in charge prepare Risk prevention activities using the checklist and check the status the checklist using it. 리스크 체크리스트 작성, 사전에 점검해야 할 사항을 중심으로 주 관부서 체크 수행 Internalizing work Internalization of work process processes Identifying improvement tasks and Internal accounting conducting activities by incorporating Incorporating evaluation at risk management into daily work the enterprise / operational level Risk management process Risks identified using the proactive approach are evaluated, quantified, and then managed. When a risk exceeds the pre-defined limit, the Emergency Response Committee is convened to monitor conditions and respond at the company level. Through this management process, risks are continuously reviewed and follow-up measures are taken for mitigation. Recognition Evaluation Response Monitoring Follow-ups 36 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Upgrading the internal accounting system In view of the revision of the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies on November 1, 2018, all control items under the internal accounting system were adjusted accordingly. In addition, we established a systematic evaluation and verification system to respond to audits, and optimized the internal accounting system to improve the management of risks at a global level. LSIS internal accounting system Users SSO* Operation management Evaluation management Monitoring Executives Practical / Operation Reference ELC* Reporting of Progress Scoping operation information information inspections results evaluation Domestic Management of Progress users Execution work schedule Account Process Enterprise JobReporting of at the of ELC and control management management -level level exceptions department inspections period and job level Overseas users Management of Designation HR information Setting Reporting Inquiry of Risk of evaluators / and approval material of operation evaluation management delegation to team Managers Evaluation and amounts evaluation status leaders operation Evaluation on Management Management Inquiry of ELC design by business including of qualitative control management and RCM* announcements elements history reconciliation Assessment of Management quantitative and RCM Sample Inquiry of of systems and qualitative risks management evaluation attached files authorities Scoping Interface Parent Scoping Approval Dashboard population settings management management Additional development Interface Disclosure Internal linkage Management Board Company policy HR information Mail system * SSO : Single Sign On * ELC : Entity Level Control * RCM : Risk Control Matrix 37 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction Management COMMITMENT Jeong-Joon Lee In recent years, digital transformation (DT) has become a hot / Director at DP Research Centertopic in the industry. LSIS conducted R&D to enhance efficiency of in charge of DT the internal operation process and improve the value of products (Research Fellow) and solutions for customers in 2018 utilizing DT. In 2019, we will satisfy our customers by incorporating customer demand actively, and making sure that DT-based products and solutions for communication are launched early. In addition, we will proceed the development of Echo Platform where customers can participate. Chan-Soo Lee / In 2018, we focused on marketing activities through which we Marketing Team Leader, Power listened to customers’ opinions from home and abroad, assessed Solution Business demand from the field and provided feedback to customers. We Group participated in more exhibitions in each area to promote LSIS as a brand, and also increased our participation in technical exchanges including seminars. We will continue our journey of providing value to customers and being the best partner by expanding the portfolio of our products and solutions. 38 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Our goal is to be a reliable partner so that customers can buy our products with confidence. Since 2017, we have established and run development processes based on a reliability management system as part of our efforts to improve product quality and reliability. Further, an R&D productivity improvement system was established to maximize performance and efficiency of our R&D projects. In 2019, we will make our best efforts to satisfy our customers by establishing a digital-based development system and strengthening effectiveness of product verification. KEY PERFORMANCE & PLANS R&D investment • Advanced the system for developing and verifying products KRW 123.5 billion Plans • Strengthened customer-oriented diagnosis and evaluation • Fostered talent in quality and proprietary technologies for 2018 • Innovated R&D methodologies •P  romoted participation in exhibitions and seminars at home and abroad •E  stablished a customer environment DB and advanced verification standards Performance • Developed a platform and common core modules No. of IPR (intellectual property in 2018 • Defined enabling technologies and fostered internal experts rights) (Korea / Overseas) •E  xpanded participation in domestic and overseas exhibitions and 3,713 / 5,092 seminars • Improve the performance of R&D cooperation with external entities Plans • Establish Digital Transformation for 2019 • Strengthen effectiveness of product verification • Enhance customer satisfaction through technical exchanges Customer seminars held 87 39 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Customer satisfaction Goal of customer satisfaction Our mission is to be a 'Great Company Prospering for 100 Years with Quality that Creates Customer Satisfaction'. Based on our mission, we seek to meet and exceed our customers’ expectations through continued quality improvement and innovation. Mission and vison for quality management and its focus Customer Approach quality Manufacturer Claim rate Customer Service rate Focus Manufacturing Quality quality characteristics Vision Pass / Fail Specifications “Pride in quality” Statistical control Customer needs Gaining a competitive advantage in the global markets and heralding the era of quality marketing based on zero-defect quality. Development Parts quality Mission quality Inspection “Great Company prospering Claim rate Assurance for 100 years with quality Reliability that creates customer satisfaction” Quality management system The quality management system of LSIS was established by incorporating the requirements of ISO 9001(1993-), ISO14001(1996), K-OHSMS(2008-), and TS16949(2010-), related laws and regulations, customer and market demands, and requirements identified in business operations. Product planning, development, manufacturing, and services have all been identified as key processes for delivering value to customers. Infrastructure such as IT systems and facilities as well as management and support processes have also been added to the system to ensure efficient operations. This system has been applied to all domestic and overseas worksites to improve performance. Quality Management Process Key processes Support process Management Finance / Accounting Safety / Environment Improvement Information (IT) Quality assurance HR / Labor Calibration / Test General Affairs / Legal Affairs Design / Production Installation / Marketing Sales Procurement Development Delivery Service 40 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Power Testing & Technology Institute The Power Testing & Technology (PT&T) Institute was established in 2000 as the first private sector facility equipped with a capacity of 2,000 MVA to test short circuits, high voltage, and reliability. In particular, the Institute established synthetic test equipment for high voltage product (170kV 50kA) and AC 3-level MS electrical life test equipment, contributing significantly to the improvement of product quality and reliability. Front view of PT&T High voltage short-circuit transformer Reinforcing product reliability Complaint handling process | Customer complaints As part of the company's systematic efforts to heighten are managed according to the company's guidelines and a product quality and reliability, a LSIS-700-based developpre-defined process utilizing QIS (Quality Information Sysment process has been implemented since 2017. We seek tem). Complaints received by the Customer Service Center to provide greater value by meeting customer expectations are immediately transferred to the responsible teams for and demands, providing reliable products that meet legal prompt resolution. requirements, and reducing / preventing environmental impact and risks. In addition, we will continue to improve VOC improvement rate (Unit : %) business performance through the efficient and effective 89.4 operation of the management system. 86.1 82.5 Reliability management Advance robust design / reinforcing development process 2016 2017 2018 Product quality & reliability R&D activities As a total solution provider for smart power and automation, Design Evaluation LSIS has been striving to advance its core businesses and secure next-generation growth engines. In particular, we Simulation & Analysis are concentrating resources on R&D in order to proactively Robust Design EMC* Certification respond to rapidly-evolving digital transformations and conFSM* solidate a leadership position in the smart energy and plant Ensuring Reliability markets. To this end, a system to enhance R&D productivity has been established, maximizing business performance and efficiency. LSIS maintains R&D centers in Anyang, Cheongju, Reliability Availability Maintainability Safety and Cheonan, Korea, as well as an additional R&D center at the Wuxi plant in China, which creates synergies between Customer research and production. In addition, we are increasing R&D * EMC : Electromagnetic Compatibility * FSM : Functional Safety Management competitiveness by running an in-house Power Testing & Technology Institute for the first time in the private sector. 41 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report R&D investment | Since LSIS is fully aware that R&D is Development of power distribution solution | With an the key to corporate competitiveness, about 5% of sales is aim to respond to the era of digital transformation, we have invested in R&D activities to develop next-generation prodcommenced the development of a power distribution solution ucts, new businesses, and core technologies. that will Digitalize existing power equipment and strengthen communication function among equipment. The soon to be launched solution will enhance efficiency of power sysR&D investment (Unit : KRW billion) tem operations and improve the reliability of power supply. 116.2 123.5 Development of new Compact AC Drive product (G100) | 114.7 We developed a new product with longer life, improved cost efficiency and better performance in the automation equipment area to consolidate our leadership in the Compact AC 2016 2017 2018 Drive market. R&D investment-sales ratio (Unit : %) Big data and AI-based technologies | To keep pace with 5.1 5.0 5.0 the 4th Industrial Revolution’s new industrial platforms using digital technologies, LSIS has been working to lay the foundations for smart and specialized solutions for power and automation systems. The new solutions will be based 2016 2017 2018 on an IoT and cloud computing platform. In particular, the study of energy efficiency and productivity using big data Key R&D performance in 2018 analysis has confirmed the possibility of enhancing producSuccessful commercialization of 9 PCS products tivity and quality while saving process energy. Based on the based on ESS G1 Platform PCS | The commercialization results, a range of studies are being conducted to structure of 9 PCS products, based on G1 Platform PCS, which won a new business model for smart energy, smart factories, the 2017 Power Electronics Manufacturer of the Year Award and diagnosis. from the Korean Institute of Power Electronics, paved the way to winning the 100 billion ESS system project. Intellectual property strategy The strong portfolio of intellectual properties at LSIS allows us to create both tangible and intangible profits, strengthening our competitiveness in the global market. In an effort to hone technological competitiveness in the midst of the IP portfolio (as of the end of 2018) (unit: case) Category Registration Application Total Patent 2,324 1,239 3,563 Domestic Design 146 4 150 Total 2,470 1,243 3,713 Patent 3,603 1,304 4,907 International Design 180 5 185 Total 3,783 1,309 5,092 42 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix 4th Industrial Revolution, we have been securing IPs in the GIMAC i EX : GIMAC i Ex is a digital power meter to prevent fields of IoT, big data, and ICT convergence and integration various accidents by performing precise measurement and technology. Notably, in 2016 LSIS was ranked for the first power quality analysis and detecting various potential risks time among the Top 100 Patent Applicant Companies by using a high speed data communications network. Various the European Patent Office as a result of our efforts toward types of data can be measured and recognized with color strengthening our international IP portfolio in alignment differentiation, and intuitive usage is possible thanks to butwith our global business strategies. We also take part in eftons with an icon. The UV Molding Hairline Sheet, which is forts for shared growth by transferring IPs to SMEs for free. supposed to be mounted on the front side comes with a sensibility element, improving the standing of the product. Design management LSIS Design Center was established in 2005 as the first de2018 GOOD Design sign center in Korea’s industrial equipment manufacturing G100 : G100 is an AC Drive that controls the rotation speed industry. In view of the increasingly specific and sophisticatof a motor by changing voltage and frequency, which makes ed nature of customer demand, the center ultimately aims it possible to save energy and manage the motor. A Jog Dial to achieve sustainable designs that incorporate customer is applied for precise control of the values set by a user. Fursentiment and user experience at the core of product dether, the product has been designed for easy wiring and insign, moving away from manufacturer-oriented industry. stallation of optional modules. Various design elements that incorporate our own product identity are applied. Design Award 2018 iF Design Award iXP2 : iXP2 is used for communication between a user and DMP i : DMP i can protect a motor perfectly by detecting equipment. It is an industrial HMI (Human Machine Intersignals such as overcurrent that could occur during operaface) that issues orders to various types of equipment and tion of the motor. Depending on user environment, the disprovides acquired data to the user. The panel comes with play unit can be separated and attached to the front side of a ‘slim’ design, and depending on display size, 4 different a panel, making it possible to check equipment status from models are available in the product line-up. It is intended to outside. It can also be mounted on DIN rail or a wall. In secure consistent product identity. addition, the display unit is designed to improve usability by providing the minimum required information and exposing frequently used buttons on the front side. G100 DMP i GIMAC i EX iXP2 43 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Customer information protection protect systems from external threats. Additionally, systems LSIS strictly complies with the domestic Personal Informaare monitored for 24 hours by a private security company. tion Protection Act and GDRP (Europe), CSL (China) and 1) 2) As part of information protection activities, all our employNIS3)(Vietnam) to protect the information of customers at ees are provided with mandatory security training for more home and abroad. DB access history is managed for all systhan once, and continuous change management activities tems where customer information is stored, and DB access are conducted through placement of security posters and control solution has been adopted to make sure that only communications across the company. authorized people can access the DB. A DB encryption solu1) GDPR : General Data Protection Regulation (EU) tion is installed to manage critical information such that in2) CSL : Cyber Security Law (China) formation is collected and stored safely. System vulnerabil3) NIS : Network Information Security (Vietnam) ity inspections are conducted to maintain data integrity and Blocking attacks Blocking access by unauthorized people Technical security area Physical security area Integrated monitoring on Outside boundary Detection of information leakage invasion General area (lobby, etc.) Prevention of information leakage Image detection Integrated Integrated Restricted areas security log (office building) control analysis Access control Controlled PC Server areas Bringing-in and (research N/ taking out of center, DB APP computer W assets room, etc.) Administrative security area Information asset management and evaluation system Personal information management and Security Authorization accident response system experts reviewer Security audits Security authorization Security governance (organization, rules) Security training and change management system Enactment and revision of laws Reporting of Reporting and Investigation and Winning the trial infringement cases prevention response Government Ministry of the Legislative body Reporter / victim Court organization Interior 44 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Customer satisfaction survey Automation | In 2018, customer satisfaction survey was LSIS has conducted regular customer surveys of our cusconducted for automation (online survey for customers ustomers, home and abroad, for major products every year. ing the product / the full score is 10). For automation products, customers were satisfied with the product size and Power Solutions | In 2018, the survey was conducted for ease of manipulation. In case of drive products, the highest 200 customers on 15 items related to power distribution score was obtained in the areas of ease of installation and products, a major offering in the power solutions business. manipulation. For the 2018 survey, LSIS received a score of 70 on average, 6.5 7.0 7.5 which is higher than that of our competitors. We obtained higher scores in all areas, product & price, place & service Easy manipulation Automation and promotion, than other companies. Easy installation product Speed·Memory Special performance Customer survey results for power distribution panel Average products Abnormal appearance Durability 7.58 Price 70 71 68 Size LSIS Service 6.5 7.0 7.5 63 Easy manipulation 60 59 Easy installation 55 Drive Speed·Memory product 53 Special performance 51 Abnormal appearance Average Durability Price 7.53 A Company Product & Distribution Sales Size B Company price & service promotion Service The number of customer seminars held Exhibition Exhibition 15 2 Power Solutions Automation Seminar Business Group Business Group 30 55 Seminar 32 40 45 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report SEMINARS LSIS strives to create additional opportunities to meet with customers by regularly participating in domestic and international exhibitions and seminars to improve customer communications. January 2018 AHR Expo (Chicago, US) The largest HVAC(Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning) exhibition is organized by ASHRAE(American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Con. Engineers). It is held every year in major cities in the US to share industry trends and announce new technologies. LSIS joined this exhibition as part of its strategy of targeting the North American market and presented products and solutions dedicated to automation and power. February PV System EXPO (Tokyo, Japan) As part of World Smart Energy Week, the largest energy exhibition in Asia, the PV System EXPO 2018 was held. LSIS demonstrated its performance in projects conducted in Japan, promoting its image as a company with EPC competence for supporting PV+ESS power production. April HANNOVER MESSE 2018 (Hanover, Germany) At this expo held on the theme of Integrated IndustryCreating Value, LSIS introduced integrated solutions spanning all of its businesses and promoted its brand among participants as a global smart energy company. August CIGRE 2018 (Paris, France) LSIS participated in the 2018 edition of CIGRE Technical Exhibition, which is held biennially, to identify technical trends through exchanges of opinion among major figures from the industry and academia. We utilized the exhibition booth as a venue for networking, and promoted our capabilities in high voltage solutions and ESS. 46 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix September October Roadshow utilizing a 5ton wing body truck (Southern part of Korea) LSIS visited plants, industrial complexes, and government offices around the southern part of Korea to introduce new products, provide consulting services, and host seminars. For these activities, a customized 5ton wing body truck was used.(38 business places, 3 exhibition halls) October Korea Smart Grid Week (COEX, Seoul) At Korea Smart Grid Week, the world’s largest smart grid exhibition, LSIS promoted its advanced business models alongside its smart energy and technical competence as a total solution provider for the global market. October IEC* General Meeting (BEXCO, Busan) LSIS improved the brand image of LS in Korea, which is a powerhouse in terms of international standards, and promoted our technical capabilities in power solutions and automation areas at the IEC General Meeting in Busan, an event of the largest scale of its kind in Asia. * IEC : International Electrotechnical Commission November Bitgaram International Exhibition of Electric Power Technology Expo (BIXPO) 2018 (KDJ Convention Center, Gwangju) LSIS participated in BIXPO 2018, which is a venue for technical exchanges in the power sector organized by KEPCO, and promoted our business and technical expertise in the domains of LS Super-grid, Modular Scalable PCS, All-in-One ESS, and DC Solutions. 47 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Safety and Environment Management COMMITMENT Gi-Seon Kim / We prioritize investments in accident prevention activities and Safety & Environment the environment before everything based on our belief that Team Leader, safety and environmental protection are the top priority for Plant Support all corporate activities and basis for corporate management. Group We established the Safety and Environment Management Policy to achieve an accident-free plant and provided continued safety training to improve safety awareness and enforce strict compliance with laws and regulation on safety and environment. In addition, we are removing potential risk factors in advance through thorough inspections on equipment and facilities. We are making the best efforts to create a safe workplace without any accident by making all of our employees understand and internalize safety, thereby establishing a culture of workplace safety. 48 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix LSIS has been making efforts to achieve an accident and pollution free workplace by running a process-based safety and environment management system. As part of our responses to climate change, we continually promote eco-friendly design to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Further, we have established internal criteria for release of environmental pollutants, which is set at less than 50% of the legal limit. We will continue our efforts to realize an accident-free workplace by organizing an enterprise wide team for safety management, assigning roles and responsibilities regarding safety, assessing risks and making continuous improvement. KEY PERFORMANCE & PLANS Investment in safety •Applied a safety management grade system for each production line and environment •Reduced accident risks and improved vulnerable processes Plans •Operated an eco-friendly green workplace KRW 6.8 billion for 2018 •Supported suppliers in acquiring certification for risk evaluation system •Strengthened emergency response measures •Managed legal and accident risk through domestic and overseas enterprise-wise SHE diagnosis •Established safety management systems for the projects we won Industrial accident rate Performance •Expanded fire-fighting equipment in fire-vulnerable areas and in 2018 0.03 % strengthened the self-defense capabilities of fire brigade •Improved the corporate image by assuming the green company chairman position in Chungcheongdo Province tco2eq •Conduct activities to prevent safety accidents and promote health Plans •Manage enterprise-wide SHE GHG emissions intensity for 2019 •Establish infrastructure for response to fire and disasters 0.32 co eq / KRW million t 2 •Operate an eco-friendly green workplace for sustainable management 49 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Safety and environment SHE management policy Safety and environment management Promoting green plants Since LSIS obtained ISO 14001 in 1996 and OHSAS 18001 •Minimize environmental impacts by the whole process from in 2008, the company undergoes appropriateness check-up product design to disposal to fundamentally prevent pollution. •Apply green production technologies to conserve resources by an external verification agency every year, and internal and energy. verifications are conducted for more than once a year by the •Comply with related international conventions, laws, corporate standards, and requirements. Safety and Environment Department. We aim to establish a •Conduct environmental assessment regularly to analyze Global SHE system meeting global standards by turning to performance and improve the environment management system. ISO 45001. •Provide employees with awareness-raising training and encourage them to engage actively in environmental conservation efforts. Strategy and vision Creating a safe and health workplace In response to the tightening of domestic and international •Consider as the first concern the impact products, work areas, regulations, LSIS is operating a system for safety, health and equipment, processes and technologies have on safety and health environment in order to ensure plants free from accidents, •Set the management standards higher than international pollution and loss. conventions, laws, regulations, and requirements and act on them for continuous improvement. •Use appropriate resources to improve safety and health, and train and encourage employees to join the efforts. Declaration on safety, health and environment •Identify potential risks, make action plans to minimize them, management and implement the plans for improvement. LSIS will proactively implement the followings to establish •Reinforce activities to promote health and prevent accidents thereby enhancing productivity an environmentally-friendly, safe and healthy workplace as a foundation for implementing our management philosophy of Great Value Together. Vision To be a SHE* Company Goals A workplace free from accidents, pollution, and loss Mission Manage a global-level SHE system Nurture and secure Promote a health Establish a safe and Strengthen R&D capabilities global talents organizational culture pleasant green workplace •Develop creative and •Secure global talents •Align employees’ personal •Comply with domestic and innovative products based as a driving force for vision with corporate overseas laws and requirements on customer needs growth vision •Reduce and prevent •Operate an efficient R&D •Nurture global talents •Improve employee environmental impact and risk Strategy process satisfaction and reduce factors •Establish a business turnover rate •Improve capabilities operating system •Development of green to handle and resolve focusing on local talents •Reduce COPQ, making the technologies and reduction of customer issues reduction of COPQ part of resources / energy use everyday business activity * SHE : Safety, Health, Environment 50 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Response to climate change SHE management system Climate change strategy | LSIS is committed to handling climate change based on our portfolio to realize smart grids Safety Health Environment Accident-free Health promotion Green company, and where information from power production to consumption is plants and pleasant and eco-friendly products work environment management and services exchanged in real time. In order to meet the plans of greenhouse gas management, we developed the Guideline for SHE inspection activities | We are conducting various Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and established safety inspections to protect workers’ health and minimize a task force to conduct relevant activities. Based on these the loss of corporate property by checking and removing efforts, we are monitoring potential risks on a regular basis. potential risk factors such as production-related risks and We also disclose company strategy to manage greenhouse elements of a harmful working environment. gas emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Inspection results in 2018 (Unit : case) Verification of GHG emissions | LSIS calculates the amount of emissions on a regular basis for companywide Number of Number of management of GHG emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2). Third ImproveCategory check-ups improveRejects* ment rate party verifications have been conducted for GHG emissions conducted ments made Daily 410 394 96% 16 sources and quantities since 2014 when the Cheongju plant General 262 258 98% 4 was brought under the Energy Target Management System. The reliability of the verification has been well recognized. We Special 197 197 100% are also identifying the expected amount of GHG emissions Safety 43 43 100% for the GIS installed at our clients’ facilities to manage other diagnosis Total 912 892 98% 20 GHG (Scope 3). * Reject: resolution of reasons for improvement, etc. Preliminary SHE inspection | A preliminary SHE inGHG emissions (by source) spection is conducted to ensure compliance with laws and remove risk factors when environmental equipment, risky 2016 2017 2018* Category Unit machinery or fire-fighting equipment are newly installed Scope 1 186,792 250,704 27,212 and operated. Scope 2 tCO2eq 26,646 25,553 32,785 Investment in safety and environment | LSIS endeavors Scope 3 89,098 506,032 563,338 to minimize the impacts on environment, safety and health Total 302,536 782,289 623,335 in the entire product life cycle from production to disposal by * GHG  emissions decreased significantly in 2018, as the new ultra-high voltage developing green products and enhancing processes. To this product (DAIS, etc.) developed in Cheongju plant did away with the use of SF6 gas. end, continuous investment is made to conserve energy and eliminate risks to the environment and safety. Status of energy use | Amounts of electric power and LNG Investment plans used for production processes, cooling and heating are inEstablishment of measures for prevention creasing every year despite continued efforts for decreasing Safety and 1. M  ake the installation environmental analysis of environmental the usage. Facility investment is being made very year with protection devices automation of production facilities and increased activities for Risks mandatory Review and deliberation production of electricity power, and power consumption is in2. R  eplace materials with No Risks less harmful materials creasing after the establishment of Infineon in Cheonan plant or remove risk with Investment automation (2017). The use of fuel was maintained at a similar level as the 3. L  icensing for safety previous year by adjusting cooling and heating temperature and environment Normal operation depending on outside air temperature and setting air ratio. 51 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report sure compliance with legal requirements under the Act on Energy consumption Chemical Control Act. We ensure safe use of chemicals by providing material information and education to those who Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 handle the chemicals. MWh 57,150 57,153 70,317 * MSDS : Material Safety Data Sheet Electricity MWh / KRW 100 million 3.30 3.12 3.60 (generation cost) Energy k㎥ 2,136 2,337 2,733 Hazardous substances | The usage amount of hazardous LNG k㎥ / KRW 100 million substances is identified and managed every year, and new / 0.12 0.13 0.14 (generation cost) changed materials are checked in terms of their hazard potential to determine whether to apply the substance or not. Eco-friendly design to reduce GHG emissions | SF6 We provide special training and hazard information through gas, which is used for our product (Gas Insulated SwitchMSDS to those who handle the hazardous substances and gear), is a representative GHG with a global warming index take all measures to prevent impairment and disease of of 23,900. SF6 has been used for many power equipment employees by supporting engineering improvement and due to its excellent insulation capability. In an effort to mitpersonal protective gears such as local exhaust device. In igate climate change, LSIS developed and produced Solid addition, we are supporting the creation of a pleasant work Insulated Switchgear (SIS) and Dry Air Insulated Switchgear environment by linking measurement of the working envi(DAIS), which do not use SF6. Switchgear using Green Gas ronment with special examination. for Grid (g3 gas) is presently under development. Average industrial accident rate (Unit : %) Pollutant management Air pollutants | Air pollution prevention facilities are being 0.39 0.38 operated for pollutants generated in the production process. 0.25 Air pollutants are managed to ensure that the emission level remains below 50% of the legal limit. Old prevention facilities are being replaced with new facilities gradually accord0.04 0.03 0 ing to the mid to long-term investment plan. Industry average LSIS 2016 2017 2018 Water use and wastewater disposal | Water required for the manufacturing process, human needs and fire suppression is supplied by the respective local governments using Workplace safety management the stream near the plant as sources. Wastewater generatAccident-free plants | In order to establish an accied in the process is stored in separate water collection sysdent-free workplace, LSIS introduced a company-wide safetems and disposed of by third-party contractors. ty and health management system in 2008, and has conducted risk evaluations and improvement activities based on Waste treatment | Recyclable waste is screened and sepredefining roles and responsibilities.. arated from the production process. Depending on the disposal method, waste is treated by third-party contractors. In Working environment | LSIS has applied thorough stan2018, more than 85% of wastes were recycled and among dards to each workplace to create a pleasant working envithem more than 90% were metal (ferrous / non-ferrous). ronment for employees. Twice a year (first half / second half of the year), a third party agency measures all hazardous Chemical substances | An inventory has been established factors in the workplace to create a pleasant working envifor the management of the chemical substances used ronment and promote workers’ health. Based on continuous in LSIS plants. These substances are handled based on measurement and improvement activities, we maintain the management of goods receipts. Before issuing goods relevel of hazardous factors below 50% of legal requirements ceipt, MSDS* is obtained to investigate ingredients and enexcept for noise. 52 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Supporting suppliers | We strive to maintain safety and is reinforced in vulnerable areas. In addition, we provide inhealth conditions equivalent to the parent company by ongospection and repair for fire compartments that have become ing cooperation with in-house suppliers, and support direct a social issue. Regular investment is made to strengthen the and indirect investment toward safety and health. For exdisaster management system. ternal suppliers, an annual Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) consultation is provided and capacity building training Emergency response procedures | LSIS verifies the efis conducted twice a year to help them promote health and fectiveness of the response system by conducting regular safety at workplace. Support activities also include safety drills. As part of these drills, various scenarios that cover inspections and certification of potentially dangerous madifferent accident types are run to respond to emergenchines and equipment on lease. cies in all plants. Drills include fire evacuation and experience-based fire suppression activities. On average, an employee participates in emergency treatment training for more than once. Fire drills are also conducted regularly to promote safety awareness. Green product standards To enhance its position as a green energy company for Futuring Smart Energy, and to actualize sustainability management, LSIS has defined its Green Product Grade Model Safety campaign based on which eco-friendly products are categorized by grade. All LSIS product models are evaluated and clasSafety and health training | To raise safety awareness sified as either Grade 1, 2, or 3 based on the level of their and promote safety culture at LSIS plants, intensive training eco-friendliness. This approach will facilitate the developis offered by position level. Managers are provided offline and ment of customer-oriented green products. online training to deliver messages clearly. Employees using cranes and forklifts at worksites are required to have a license for operation issued and receive the pertinent training. Grade 3 Products to Category Details Frequency Note which technologies with the government’s Introductory course Year-round New employees Green Certification1) Monthly are applied Regular training All employees (offline / online) Basic Manager / Annual Managers / Grade 2 Supervisor training (offline / online) Supervisors Products that meet the Grade 1 criteria Employees handling as well as a green technology2) level set Special training Year-round potentially dangerous by the government machines Crane operator License issuance for Grade 1 Year-round Profestraining operation Products that meet LSIS’s Rules of Responding sional to Environmental Regulations to cope with domestic laws Forklift operator License issuance for on hazardous substances, international environmental Year-round training operation regulations and customer requirements 1) Green Certification: This is a governmental accreditation system to specify Fire prevention system | LSIS has established a suffogreen technologies and businesses according to the Framework Act on Low Carbon Green Growth with the aim of expanding participation of the cation accident prevention system including the installation private sector in the green industry and promoting the growth of technology markets and industries. of equipment for measuring gas concentration levels. We 2)  reen technology: This includes technologies for GHG mitigation, effective G have expanded fire-suppression equipment in areas with energy use, clean manufacturing, clean energy, resource recycling, and eco-friendliness that help conserve and efficiently use energy and fire risks at all plants. In addition, we promoted a disaster resources in the entire process of social and economic activities, thereby minimizing GHG emissions and pollutants. management project under which fire-fighting equipment 53 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Shared Growth with Suppliers COMMITMENT Cheol-Min Park / LSIS has been implementing many policies to facilitate shared CEO, GS Tech growth with suppliers. Our suppliers received various support including coaching on quality from LSIS in 2018. These supports helped improve the management capabilities and quality competitiveness of the suppliers. LSIS continues its efforts to achieve win-win results with our suppliers. We hope that LSIS and suppliers can continue our relationship in pursuit of shared growth. Ki-Bok Kim / LSIS recognizes suppliers as our partners for sustainable Quality / Shared Growth Group, growth, and defines the basic direction for fair trade, compliance, Win-Win Growth support for improving global competitiveness, establishment Team Leader of relationships that enable communication and trust, and strengthening of the culture of shared growth. In line with the basic direction, we are conducting various programs to promote shared growth. In addition, we will continue activities to form partnerships for sustainable shared growth and constructive business relationship with suppliers. We will expand our efforts to make sure that the culture of shared growth spreads and takes root across the entire supply chain including primary activities. 54 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix We promote shared growth with suppliers by putting LSpartnership, the management philosophy of LS Group, into practice. ACE Club suppliers are provided benefits including differentiated payment conditions, productivity improvement activities and domestic and overseas benchmarking to support them secure global competitiveness. In 2018, we established the corporation for Joint Work Welfare Fund for Suppliers to provide welfare benefits to a larger number of suppliers’ employees through stable management of the funds. KEY PERFORMANCE & PLANS Purchasing amount •Strengthened activities to comply with the Fair Trade Act and by ACE Club members Plans Subcontracting Act •Supported suppliers to strengthen their competitiveness KRW 216.9 billion for 2018 •Promoted a culture of shared growth •Systemized activities to prevent violation of laws and ensure compliance Financial support Performance with laws in 2018 •Expanded the scope of communication and diversified channels for suppliers •Achieved ‘Excellent’ grade in the shared growth index KRW 11.4 billion Plans •Expand activities for shared growth with a view to improving performance for 2019 •Conduct activities to increase competitiveness of suppliers Suppliers using the SharedGrowth Payment System 833 55 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Establishing a culture the Subcontracting Dispute Resolution, Bulletin Board for of fair trade Communication, and Cyber Reporting Channel functions. Signing and fulling a contract Training on the Subcontracting Act | To comply with the In compliance with the Fair Trade Act and Subcontracting Subcontracting Act and promote a culture of fair trade, anAct, LSIS has been signing a Basic Subcontracting Contract nual training is provided for employees of LSIS and its supand Subcontracting Fair Trade Agreement with suppliers pliers. In 2018, employees in charge of procurement and on an annual basis. In 2018, we concluded this essential design who work closely with suppliers took part in training contract with 594 subcontractors. The contract is based on organized by the Legal Affairs Group. The scope of employthe Standard Subcontracting Agreement as recommended ees receiving training will be further expanded in the future. by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, reflecting in particular the article for promoting suppliers’ right to fair trade. Post-hoc analysis of the legality of subcontracting In addition, the pledge to implement ethical management is Deals | For self-monitoring of compliance with related laws, included as part of the contract for their compliance. MeanLSIS biannually reviews business transactions with suppliwhile, the Subcontracting Fair Trade Agreement was signed ers who have signed the Subcontracting Fair Trade Agreewith 351 suppliers in 2018 as a reflection of our commitment ment. According to the monitoring for 2018, LS concluded to shared growth. the Subcontracting Basic Contract with 351 suppliers and there was no case of an unfair price decision or addition of Activities to prevent violations unjust special provisions. In cases of changes in design and and promote compliance raw materials prices, prices were adjusted accordingly while 4 action plans for shared growth | The plans consist of: a technological information request was issued upon prior signing contracts through a fair process; agreement with suppliers. Apart from honoring the payment operating an within 60 days of receipt, LSIS set the expiration date for alsigning ensuring a contracts fair supplier internal issuing and ternative payment of bills to be within 60 days of receipt and subcontracting archiving through a fair selection abided by it for all trades. audit documents process process committee These are reflected in company standards such as the rules Difficulties faced by suppliers and cases of quality on domestic procurement management and supplier mandegradation | We are collecting cases of difficulties and agement. In addition, to prevent any violations of subconquality degradation on a quarterly basis in order to identify tracting laws, a monthly internal audit committee is con/ improve difficulties that could arise in the business relavened by the CPO to review the risks of delayed payment tionship with LSIS and address quality degradation issues, to suppliers, examine the evaluation of newly-registered thereby establishing a fair and reasonable business relasuppliers, and check the appropriateness of the supplier tionship. In 2018, 24 cases were reported regarding diffitransaction cancelation process. culties and quality degradation (non-payment of equipment repair costs, other fees, lack of response to the request for Dispute resolution mechanism | LSIS maintains a design modification, unclear inspection criteria, etc.) and inmechanism for the swift resolution of disputes between the vestigation was conducted for those reported cases to idencompany and its suppliers in regards to non-payment or detify the situation and make improvements. layed payment, as well as unfair receipt of goods, returns, price decisions, and reductions. Disputes occurring within Support for suppliers' growth and development 3 years after the completion of a transaction can be subACE Club | ject to the resolution mechanism. In addition, complaints Member selection and support Member selection and from suppliers are collected on a quarterly basis and transsupport The ACE Club was launched in 2008 as a program ferred to the pertinent departments or teams for resoluto select suppliers based on 3 areas: taking swift action tion. TOPS, an internet portal for shared growth, features (Activity); pushing the envelope (Challenge); and achieving 56 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix high performance as superior partners (Excellence). LSIS on examples on taxation and tax laws. In addition, lectures provides guidance on quality, production, and overall busiwere provided on the 4th Industrial Revolution and the curness management based on its existing expertise in order rent state of the manufacturing industry in India, serving as to cooperate with suppliers as partners for shared growth. a forum for discussion on how suppliers can prepare in reA comprehensive evaluation is conducted for membership, sponse to such changes and direction for the future. considering product quality, ontime delivery, cost competitiveness, and advocacy of shared growth. ACE Club memBenchmarking activities for innovation | LSIS is offerbers benefit from preferential payment conditions and activing programs that enable suppliers make benchmarking ities for productivity improvement and benchmarking. visits to leading manufacturers at home and abroad. These visits offer them opportunities to heighten their innovation ACE Club membership (Unit: No. of companies) and global competitiveness. From 2008 to 2017, a total of 17 20 19 288 supplier employees had opportunities to observe the rapidly changing market environment and understand best practices for quality and production management by vis9 ACE Club membership C  ompanies with purchasing iting 34 companies in 12 countries, 3 international exhibiamount of over KRW 10 9 9 billion tions, and 6 domestic companies. In 2018, suppliers made 2016 2017 2018 a benchmarking visit to India and surveyed the Indian market environment. In addition, they explored ways to improve competitiveness as global suppliers by benchmarking small ACE Club purchase amount (Unit: billion) and medium sized companies that went abroad and formed 222.5 224.8 216.9 business relationships with leading companies. In particular, it served as an opportunity for suppliers’ CEOs to expand their management insight, demonstrated ways to respond to 12.8 the rapidly changing business environment, and allowed them Purchasing amount form a consensus on the need for change by learning exam11.1 11.8 Average purchasing ples of Korean small and medium companies that entered amount per member overseas markets to start business under adverse conditions. 2016 2017 2018 CEO Seminars | LSIS conducts annual seminars on corporate management for the CEOs of ACE Club member companies. At these seminars, experts are invited as special lecturers and LSIS executives join in as speakers to share and discuss key management issues. In March 2018, a special lecture was provided on the theme of Tax Management for CEOs of Small and Medium Sized Companies, focusing CEO’s seminar Benchmarking activities for innovation 57 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report ACE Club Innovation Exchanges | In 2017, innovation outcome of innovation. The contest was followed by innovaactivities led by CEOs were directed to programs focused tion discussion where the management and working-level on working-level employees under the ACE Club Innovaemployees discussed ways to promote innovation activities, tion Exchanges. These aimed to disseminate awareness of introduce changes in the methods of work, internalize innobest practices and conduct execution-oriented innovation vation, and establish an innovative environment. activities that create synergies. Annual plans were set by suppliers at the kick-off meeting in February and learning activities were conducted where each supplier defined tasks to make sure that working-level employees identified and implemented new ideas, thereby creating actual outcomes. Along with such activities, they visited an innovative manufacturing company in Japan in April to experience manufacturing site of an advanced company. In May, suppliers and LSIS employees participated in Musim Stream Purification as part of SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION activities. ACE Club Innovation Contest and Discussion SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION activities with suppliers | LSIS has conducted Love Volunteering activities together with its suppliers since 2015 as a way to contribute to local communities and act upon its philosophy of sustainable management. In November, 2018, representatives of ACE Club members and 30 LSIS volunteers visited Yesim House (a vocational facility for the disabled in Cheongju) to join work with the disabled. The volunteers provided training on ACE Club Innovation Exchanges human rights for the disabled and donated goods to Yesim House and other social welfare groups. ACE Club Innovation Exchanges CSR activities with suppliers ACE Club Innovation Contest and Discussion | The results of innovation activities led by ACE Club Innovation Exchanges were shared at the Innovation Contest in NovemACE Club Reflection | The ACE Club Reflection program ber, 2018. At the contest, 3 suppliers were selected as good was launched in 2017 to explore possible improvements to examples among 9 companies for individual competition and the ACE Club by conducting an annual review of its activi8 companies for group competition. The innovation examties and drawing lessons. The activities conducted include ples were shared with the aim to induce competition among CEO seminars, benchmarking at home and abroad, Innovasuppliers, nurture an innovative mindset and encourage the tion Exchanges for capacity-building, CEO communication 58 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix events, and partnership-building SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION suppliers but also to secondary suppliers. In 2019, we also activities. At the Reflection held in December, members replan to provide support funds to make sure that various benflected on their activities over the year and discussed areas efits can be provided to the primary and secondary supplifor improvement and ways to hone their competitiveness. ers in need of financial support. Besides loan support for primary and secondary suppliers, efforts are being made to enhance the cash payment rate and payment conditions for sub-contractors. N E W S LSIS made advance payments to its suppliers before Chuseok. LSIS announced that the KRW 40 billion dollar payment would be made 7 days before Chuseok to relieve suppliers of their ACE Club Reflection financial burden. The payment will be made on the 20th. This measure is intended to support suppliers as the demand for capital increased temporarily due to payment for raw Increasing support materials and bonus before Chuseok. LSIS stated that the for suppliers early payment is part of putting 'greater value together', the management philosophy of LS Group, into action. LS Group will continue to create win-win results within the framework of Financial support and shared-growth payment system shared growth through various kinds of programs. Financial support | LSIS raises funds through a number LSIS has made early payments before national holidays of avenues to help suppliers finance investment into equipincluding Chuseok since 2014 and paid due amounts less than ment including expanding manufacturing facilities for enKRW 100 million in cash. LSIS said “we adopted the sharedhanced productivity. The supports are typically provided by growth payment system for the first time in our industry in means of low interest rate loans. In 2018, KRW 31 billion 2013 to support stabilization of suppliers through improving the was raised, out of which KRW 3.6 billion was in the form of recovery rate of amount receivables”. The company added that direct support, KRW 14.8 billion from combined support and “we are strengthening efforts to induce cooperation and shared growth by making rapid payments to small subcontractors to KRW 12.6 billion from special support. Within these funds, help them secure liquidity”. KRW 11.4 billion won was used to support 63 primary and (Sept. 12, 2018, Released by Electric Power Journal) secondary suppliers, improving their cash flow and financial stability. As part of our efforts to reinforce a culture of shared growth, we provide fund supports not only to primary Shared-growth payment system | LSIS became the first company within the industry to introduce a shared-growth Suppliers with loan support and the amount payment system in August 2013 with the aim of improving (Unit : suppliers(No. of suppliers) / amount(KRW million)) payment conditions for its suppliers. The system allows pri2016 2017 2018 mary, secondary, and tertiary suppliers to access account Category Suppliers Amount Suppliers Amount Suppliers Amount receivable collateral loans using the credit of LSIS. As of Direct 25 3.0 26 2.8 28 2.4 2018, a total of 833 suppliers have joined the system and availed payments worth KRW 929.1 billion. We will continue Combined 25 7.2 26 8.1 22 7.0 to reinforce the system to ensure that suppliers can steadily Special 27 4.2 16 3.0 13 2.0 collect payments and manage concerns over nonpayment Total 77 14.4 68 13.9 63 11.4 of bills, thereby supporting a sound supply chain network. 59 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Support for suppliers’ FTA origin management sysPerformance of the shared-growth payment system (Unit: KRW billion) tem | FTAs are accelerating the pace of change in the export environment. LSIS has been supporting its suppliers 866.1 since 2016 in their efforts to establish an origin management system, secure the integrity of origin certificates and 667.5 minimize post-verification risk. In addition, LSIS supports 527.5 the consignment of FTA origin management system and origin management work to be performed in coordination with customs agents. Support is presently provided for 48 63 suppliers, and activities include the establishment of an or50.6 igin management system, support for consultations on the 38.9 origin management work process, nurturing suppliers’ FTA  ayment from LSIS P to primary suppliers managers and provision of training on FTA origin managePayment from primary ment. As a result, tariff benefits totaling KRW 3.6 billion were to second / tertiary 2016 2017 2018 suppliers achieved as of 2018. In addition, the system helps suppliers effectively manage FTA origin issues, and the system of connections between LSIS and its suppliers allows multi-direcNumber of suppliers that joined the shared-growth tional communication for origin management. payment system (Unit: No. of suppliers) 677 Support for the production management system (NA669 MOS ERP) | LSIS has provided suppliers with an in-house 527 free-of-charge NAMOS ERP production management system linked to its ordering information system. In 2018, support for the stabilization of system operations was provided. 156 The results included enhanced productivity, stabilized qualiPrimary suppliers 157 ty, reduced inventory cost, and higher on-time delivery rates. utilizing the system 115 Secondary and tertiary suppliers benefitting Training support | LSIS has been operating training and from the system 2016 2017 2018 educational programs for its suppliers since 2007 in an effort to enhance their competitiveness. Programs provided in association with the Korea Standards Association focus Response to regulations on conflict minerals | As the on job training. In particular, in 2018 LSIS employees with regulations on the use of conflict minerals, which started in expertise in FTAs and NAMOS participated as lecturers at the US, have spread to advanced countries including Europe, the capacity building program for suppliers. In 2018, a total LSIS established a system to address the issue of conflict of 246 employees from 212 suppliers attended programs on minerals in 2017 to respond to regulations on conflict minquality, production, cost and business management, and we erals and prevent potential risks that could arise with suppliwill continue to provide quality training program incorporaters. In particular, verification of the use and source of conflict ing suppliers’ needs. minerals for parts and raw materials sourced from suppliers is very important for conflict mineral management. AccordTechnology protection | As damage due to the leakage of ingly, we provided presentation and training to secure integSMEs’ trade secrets is on the rise, LSIS introduced the Cerrity of the data on conflict minerals provided by suppliers. tification of Original Documents on Trade Secrets in 2015 LSIS will continue to upgrade our system for conflict mineral to safeguard suppliers’ technologies and trade secrets. This management in cooperation with suppliers, and move closer certification, provided by the Korea Institute of Patent Into sustainable management by not using conflict minerals. formation, serves as a means to confirm the ownership of 60 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix proprietary technologies and business information held by lished a corporation for Joint Workers’ Welfare Fund and SMEs, helping them protect their interests against theft and secured a total of KRW 5.7 billion (KRW 4.9 billion from leakage of technology and information. In 2018, we assisted LSIS, KRW 0.4 billion from members, and KRW 0.4 billion 4 suppliers in certifying 12 cases of technology and trade from the government). The fund has been operational since secrets. We will continue to expand this system to suppliers January, 2019. By running the fund, we support welfare that want protection for their technologies. benefits for members’ employees (children’s school fee, medical examination fee, support for funerals). Going forPurchasing (investment) support | When suppliers reward, we plan to manage the fund stably to provide welfare quire facility investment, LSIS offers to support them with benefits to more suppliers’ employees. its expertise in the purchase process from the selection of vendors to price analysis so that they can make purchases New Year’s Greeting Gathering and Performance under competitive conditions. Sharing Meeting We held New Year’s Greeting Gathering and Performance Training provided for suppliers (Unit: No. of suppliers) Sharing Meeting to reaffirm our commitment to the pur261 suit of shared growth through LSpartnership, where perfor212 mance is achieved in cooperation with suppliers. Business direction and purchasing policy of LSIS were shared in Jan172 uary, and Performance Sharing meetings were held subsequently to share performance and the policy for shared growth. Shared Growth Innovation Meeting 2016 2017 2018 As an activity to support suppliers and ensure quality of part, the Shared-Growth Innovation Meeting has been held every Training for suppliers’ employees (Unit: No. of people) month since 2014. The meeting is organized by head of the 424 Quality / Shared Growth Group, and attended by major suppliers to review monthly quality status and share examples of improvement and subcontracting issues. This meeting serves as a regular communication channel between LSIS 246 and suppliers. In particular, the purchasing policy, shared 196 growth policy and policy on safety and environment were shared in 2018. 2016 2017 2018 Communication with Suppliers and Promoting Shared Growth Establishment and Management of the ‘Joint Workers’ Welfare Fund’ for Suppliers New Year’s Greeting Gathering and Performance Sharing Meeting To improve the welfare of suppliers’ employees, we estab61 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Employees COMMITMENT Sang-Tae Park / We believe that people are the driving force for a successful HR Team Leader, HR / business. LSIS is making an effort to secure and nurture Management talents. In particular, we run training programs to enable Support Group our employees grow into key people for sustainable growth, and strengthen communication between the management and employees to share the importance and direction of organizational change. We will continue to conduct various activities for sustainable development of the company by improving our employees’ capabilities. 62 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix LSIS is supporting the improvement of lives by enabling our employees strike the right balance between work and life. LSIS provides its employees with Vacation Weeks, programs and events for employees’ families and daycare centers. We are making a continuous effort to secure and nurture talents. In 2019, we established ‘Global Growth’ as the direction to strengthen global competency through improvement of the HR system and nurturing global talents as a global company. KEY PERFORMANCE & PLANS New employees in 2018 (permanent position) 65 Plans •Balance work and life •Further promote communication with employees for 2018 •Improve the system for HR innovation •Introduced work and life balance through the expansion of flexible Training expense per working hours Performance employee •Expanded communication with employees through various channels in 2018 •Improved HR system focusing on job and capabilities to secure the KRW 2.01 million flexibility of utilizing human resources •Strengthen global competency by nurturing global talents Plans •Improve HR system as a global company for 2019 •Increase opportunities for communication on institutional change with employees Labor union membership rate 32.4 % 63 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Family Fun Event on Children’s Day Daycare centers Go Camp Family Happiness Camp Happy Time with Daddy Dream Camp Work & Life Balance LSIS provides its employees with Vacation Weeks, programs activities such as sports day, finding hidden treasures, and and events for employees’ families and daycare centers to cooking. help employees strike the right balance between work and life for better quality of life. Dream Camp | Our Dream Camp aims to help children think about their ambitions and how to make them come Vacation Weeks | Vacation Weeks is a system that allows true. This camp for children of LSIS employees features proemployees to take a vacation in addition to their summer grams to help them reflect on their good and bad habits and vacation within the limits of their paid leaves in accordance explore ways to realize their dreams. with relevant laws and collective bargaining agreements. This is intended to allow employees take a refreshing break Go Camp | This annual camp held in July is for elementary if necessary to increase work efficiency. LSIS employees can / middle school children of employees. It aims to develop take a 3 to 5day vacation to refresh themselves (Vacation emotional stability and logical thinking. A variety of activities Weeks) in addition to their summer vacation. besides playing go are conducted to help them further develop strategic thinking and teamwork. Family programs | Families are key to quality of life. Under the motto of ‘happy families mean happy employees’, Smart Working, Happy Life! | “Smart Working, Happy LSIS is operating a variety of programs for employees and Life!” is an annual event for celebrating employees protheir families. moted to manager positions. It includes the participation of family members and LSIS executives. The event started in Family Happiness Camp | The Family Happiness Camp 2011 and has become a venue where executives ask new program is designed to encourage communication among managers to live up to their responsibilities, express their family members by providing an opportunity for them to gratitude to family members for their support, and share the contemplate what makes a family happy. They learn how to company vision. communicate with each other, express themselves, and discuss what they can do for family happiness. Family Fun Event on Children’s Day | This Children’s Day celebration serves as an opportunity for the children Happy Time with Daddy | We prepared an opportunity of employees to better understand the importance of family for dads and children to be closer by conducting pleasant and develop a sense of pride in their parents’ company. 64 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Daycare centers | LSIS operates daycare centers at workin Thailand, Indonesia, and Russia. We established a Globsites to promote work-life balance for employees. The LS al Talent Map to identify and nurture talents required in the Daycare Center was opened in Anyang in March, 2015 for mid to long-term with an aim to expand our overseas maremployees at LSIS headquarters and the Anyang R&D Camket and sales through our employees acquiring global compus. LSIS joined a consortium to construct a daycare center petitiveness. in the Cheongju industrial complex. It has been in operation since March, 2014. Third-party daycare institutions are comRecruitment channels and processes missioned to operate the centers to ensure that employees’ LSIS strives to secure human resources through a variety children remain well taken care of in a secure environment. of channels, including biannual open recruitment of career and non-career track employees and a global recruitment Securing and nurturing talent program that targets Korean college graduates in North HR philosophy America and China along with R&D experts from other countries. Moreover, a year-round recruitment program is being operated to attract researchers in new business areas. Widespread efforts are made to identify needed reTECHNOLOGY DREAM Understanding sources through on-campus recruitment, employee recomHaving a vision of technologies for the future of mendations, and professional search firms. smart energy To recruit good human resources, we consider an appliIMAGINEER for cant’s interest in and passion for the area he / she wants to work the most. Additionally, we use document review to GLOBAL PRIDE evaluate the applicant’s basic skills and growth potential. In Global Taking pride competitive addition to quantitative evaluation such as job competency in the work -ness and company test and English proficiency test, we use a standardized interview process to ensure objectivity of evaluation. PARTNERSHIP Working together for better results Recruitment process STEP1 Job application To proactively respond to shifting business paradigms and STEP2 An evaluation is conducted based on the achieve our G365 vision, LSIS proclaimed Imagineers for the Paper screening company’s recruitment criteria. Future of Smart Energy as an HR philosophy in 2016. ImagApplicants’ knowledge of and interest in ineer, a word coined by blending ‘imagine’ with ‘engineer’, the area are assessed considering their STEP3 major and targeted job positions. describes people who take pride in their work and company Personality and Applicants are required to make a (Pride), have a vision for the future of smart energy (Vision) aptitude test presentation and be interviewed in foreign languages (including English), based on advanced technology (Technology) and a global depending on job positions. outlook (Global Outlook), and work together for better reSTEP4 sults (Partnership). For securing talent in line with LSIS Interview at the HR philosophy and LSpartneship working level Status of global talents STEP5 We established the direction of ‘Global Growth’ and have exInterview by executives plored opportunities to expand our overseas business from For ensuring candidates are in good STEP6 various angles. As of end of 2018, about 1,000 employees are Medical examination health to perform their jobs working at 8 production and sales corporations in NetherSTEP7 Announcement of successful lands, China, Vietnam and India and 12 overseas branches 65 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report starting work to induce a sense of affiliation among them. Career development programs for prospective employees After joining the company, group-wide and company-wide Program Description introductory training programs are provided so that they can learn the basics required of LSIS employees. Mentoring Corporate It provides support to excellent students throughout funded their master’s or doctorate courses, allowing them programs and on-the-job training also help them strengthscholarships build expertise before joining LSIS en their common competencies and job skills. In addition, LSIS pays a visit to outstanding university labs in Lab Tour after completion of the first year of work at LSIS, employees electronics to promote communication with schools. are offered the Future Camp program to allow them look Summer It allows future employees to experience LSIS and internship understand its vision by conducting tasks and workback on the past year and envision the future of LSIS. program ing with its employees. Job seekers are invited to LSIS to participate in the Timing Programs Period LS Job Fair company overview presentation, mock interviews, Before and lunch with LSIS employees Before joining the Visit to the Smart Grid and HVDC 3 days being Center company assigned to Programs to help new hires adjust to the company departGroup-wide introductory training 3 weeks ments ~Feb. A variety of programs are currently in place to help new Company-wide introductory training 1 week hires adjust to the company. On the day successful appliMentoring 4 months After Jul. cants are announced, they receive a congratulatory mesassigning On boarding Package 1 week to departsage and a flower basket. In addition, new hires are provided ments 1 year Future Camp 3 days with a chance to tour the Jeju HVDC Smart Center before Training system Organizational Customer / Global Position level Job development suppliers Purchasing Executive Executive seminars Power solutions R&D Foreign languages New executives (6 programs) Team leader SW (17 programs) Global Lounge Program On-boarding for employees returning from capacity-building Coaching LCP(Leadership Challenge Prg) Intervention Assimilation W / s, PI, Organizational diagnosis Senior New team leaders Nurturing locally hired employees Overseas dispatch UT-Austin Manager Introductory program for career employees (LSIS / Group) / Plant on-boarding New team leader External language support based targets set through a consensual process Understanding different cultures (US / China / Middle East / Iran / Vietnam) LS MBA LS T-MBA WR GBT HW (5 programs) Automation PLC overseas subsidiaries (China, Vietnam) into key leaders Capacity building (9 programs) Design (13 programs) for Senior Managers HMI (to be developed) (2 programs) Team building program Manager In company Drive English Global communication Manager (2 programs) Common (4 programs) (newly promoted Control managers) Production (7 programs) (5 programs) Daily News Quality Briefing Reliability (7 programs) Strengthening innovation capability Capacity building for Associate Managers (to be developed) SPC (3 programs) Associate Intensive Manager for office workers (English / QMS (6 programs) Chinese) LS Future camp Mentoring Introductory program for non FMEA (2 programs) -career employees (LSIS) Introductory program for non Support (8 programs) Suppliers -career employees (LS Group) (8 programs) Sales (5 programs) Production Strengthening supervisor / innovation Production supervisor capability Common (13 programs) Production capacity-building for plant worker workers 66 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Development of human resources Respecting human rights and guaranteeing basic laLSIS has been providing superb facilities and well-organized bor rights | LSIS maintains a system to prevent all forms training programs to enhance employees’ competitiveness. of discrimination with regard to gender, race, religion, or Training programs are divided into position-specific proplace of origin. To this end, policies to promote diversity grams, global programs, organizational development proare being implemented to foster an environment in which grams and job-specific programs to support the developemployees are given equal opportunities to reach their full ment of employees’ capabilities. In particular, we installed potentials. We strictly abide by all related domestic and ina global lounge at headquarters and Cheongju plant so that ternational laws. There has never been a case of violation employees can improve their language skills as well as carelated to these issues. We will remain committed to impacity to adjust to other cultures. In addition, we provide proving this system of respecting human rights. In addition, training for customers in the power solution and automation annual negotiations over wage and collective agreements market as well as students to conduct customer support are conducted between the management and labor repreand social contribution in parallel. sentatives in order to improve working conditions. Freedom of association is guaranteed such that employees are never Evaluation and compensation | LSIS believes that fair disadvantaged for their labor union activities. evaluation and compensation are the foundations of sustainable development. In our performance evaluation system, Labor union memberships | According to the collective targets are set at the group, division, team and employee agreements and labor rules, 100% of production workers level in order to achieve the company’s management goals. have joined the labor union, and 32.4% of LSIS employees Teams’ ratings based on the evaluation results are linked to are union members as of the end of 2018. individual ratings, and the results are used for determining bonuses, salaries, promotions, and career development. Operational process Labor union membership (Unit : persons) Appraiser Interview Appraisee Consensus on plans Category Job group 2016 2017 2018 Setting plans Applying for a OrganizaOffice worker 2,233 2,081 2,043 Consensus Setting tional Non-union consensual process on individual (Team) member Production Interview and plans plans 79 78 78 target advisor / Others consensus Male 849 854 854 Union Production member worker Female 167 167 164 Modification / Interim check Progress check Monitoring Check and and Self-check support Adding and evaluation Union membership rate (Unit : %) adjusting plans 32.4 Evaluation 32.1 30.5 Self-evaluation Evaluation Agreement Selfby on Interview evaluation superior results Evaluation by superior 2016 2017 2018 67 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Local Community Contribution COMMITMENT Seong-Rak Jang / The reason why people trust and love LSIS is that LSIS has been Director of Anyang Suri Welfare conducting various SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION activities and been Center for the recognized as a reliable partner for the local community. Disabled Our philosophy is to be a reliable partner that enables the dreams of the future generation. We hope to continue our SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION activities incorporating various demands from the local community. 68 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix LSIS has been faithfully conducting activities continuously taking into consideration issues such as social conflicts and the challenges faced by vulnerable groups. Based on the 3 principles of Partnership, Initiative and Sustainability, community-based activities are being implemented and donations are provided to low-income families in areas such as Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan, and Busan where plants are located. In 2019, we plan to start ‘Let’s Start Together with LSIS’, a sponsorship program for children, in addition to conducting community-based customized support programs. KEY PERFORMANCE & PLANS Employees who participated in volunteer activities •Expand the scope of contribution activities 1,677 Plans •Expand SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION activities that meet the needs of local communities (double counting included) for 2018 •Encourage employees to practice the philosophy of sharing in their daily lives •Improved the awareness of ‘Let's Make Green with LSIS’ campaign Performance •Strengthened customized support for vulnerable groups Total amount of annual donation in 2018 •Promote SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION activities in areas such as Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan and Busan where plants are located KRW 5,932 million •Strengthen activities of the SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Council, which is Plans composed of local residents, academia and the government for 2019 •Secure customized support programs at the community level Social contribution •Start ‘Let's Start Together with LSIS’, a campaign to support children activities worth KRW 53 million 69 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Social contribution activities Activities at the LS Group level Philosophy | The LSpartnership, management philosophy LS Dream Science Class | The LS Dream Science Class of LS Group, means to create greater value moving together is an LS Group program that was initiated in 2013 to support as a trusted partner. It includes the meaning of social conelementary school students in cooperation with the Child tribution. Fund and the National Academy of Engineering of Korea. Our social contribution philosophy is to be a reliable partner Science classes are provided to elementary school students that supports the underprivileged and future generations, in 9 areas where our plants are located. During summer focusing on creating higher value through sharing and covacations, cultural and art experience classes, and science operation between volunteers and beneficiaries. Social conclasses are provided to 5th and 6th graders of elementary tribution activities of LSIS are aligned with activities of other schools across the nation every week. The program provides affiliates at the LS group level. them with opportunities to learn scientific principles in an easy and fun way, fueling their interest in science and in education in general. College students majoring in science and LS Group’s philosophy LSIS’s philosophy of social contribution of social contribution engineering and volunteer LSIS employees provide science lessons and serve as teachers and mentors after undergoA reliable partner to support Providing support to ease ing the relevant training program. LSIS participates in LS the underprivileged and future social conflicts and help generation the vulnerable Dream Science Program by providing volunteer teachers for science classes from Cheongju, Anyang and Busan areas •Create greater value through •Partnership: Participation and providing an opportunity for students to visit our plants. sharing and cooperating to ease social conflicts and based on the philosophy of help the vulnerable LSpartnership •Initiative: Sincere and •Devise and run programs voluntary activities in line with the LS Group’s •Continuity: Continuous philosophy to create synsocial contribution activities ergies Implementation structure | LSIS has been developing and operating its own programs rather than simply following programs being pursued at the Group level. Our Public LS Dream Science Class Relations Team leads these company-wide activities. At the plant level, the HR Support (Support Innovation) Team and LS Dream Village / LS Dream School | The LS overseas LinkersS (a representative body for office workers) are convolunteer group is composed of 20 college students selected ducting activities tailored to specific regional needs. through an open application process, in addition to employees of LS Group subsidiaries, and experts from the NGOs cohosting the program. Participants undergo a 2 month Chairman training and prepare for their volunteer activities before departure. LS Group has been operating this program biannuPublic Relations Team ally since 2007 with the aim of providing support for children in developing countries and improving their educational environment. From 2013, the LS Dream School project, which Cheongju plant Cheonan plant Busan plant LinkerS* selects 2 old schools every year to establish new buildings, has been implemented in association with overseas vol* LinkerS: It is a representative body for office workers at LSIS to lead the unteer activities. Under this project, the first and second efforts for open culture and social contribution. It is comprised of 17 employees. 70 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix schools were constructed in 2013, and 2 new schools have Seasonal support | From 2014, we have donated winter been constructed every year to open 11 schools by 2018. clothes to low-income households in winter, lunchboxes during the Chuseok holidays, and cooling equipment in summer. For the Lunar New Year, a ddeokkuk (a traditional holiday dish) sharing event is held for the elderly living alone in cooperation with local senior welfare service centers. The program of outings and cultural events for the disabled living at home that began in Anyang will be expanded to other worksites. Overseas volunteer group LS Dream Orchestra | LS Dream Orchestra was launched in June, 2012 for children and young people from underprivileged families. It is modelled after El Sistema, a Venezuelan program for social uplift through classic music. This year, the orchestra held its 5th performance. This program is evaluated as a social contribution activity that nourishes the Winter clothes whole personality and supports emotional development of children, empowering them to live a rich life. LSIS will make Environmental cleanup programs | ‘Let’s Make Green its utmost efforts to make sure that orchestra members can with LSIS’ is a campaign to preserve ecosystems in cities develop their passion for music and find their talents as well and protect the environment in cooperation with local comlearn cooperation and develop a spirit that seeks challengmunities and civic groups As part of these efforts, LSIS es, to be healthy citizens of the world. employees, members of International Environmental Action Association, and local residents visited Anyang Stream in Gyeonggido and Musim Stream in Chungcheongbukdo to throw EM (effective microorganisms) soil balls into the stream, collect waste and remove invasive plants disturbing the ecosystem. LS Dream Orchestra regular concert Community-based social contribution activities LSIS has been faithfully conducting activities that help us contribute to forging a better society. Based on the 3 principles of Partnership, Initiative and Continuity, community-based and seasonal support programs including doThrowing EM soil ball tations to low-income households are in place in Anyang, Cheongju, Cheonan, Busan where LSIS plants are located. 71 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Regional-specific contribution activities Anyang Cheonan Cheongju Busan Anyang Cheongju Cheonan Busan In Anyang, a variety of activities are Employees at the Cheongju plant The Cheonan plant conducts diThe Busan plant has been conductperformed in cooperation with Anytake part in efforts to communicate verse sharing activities in an effort ing various activities by identifying ang Senior Welfare Service Center and share with the local communito promote interaction with the local tasks for implementation based on and Suri Welfare Center for the ties. The regular activities include community. In coordination with the LSIS’s CSR model, including volunDisabled. Since 2014, winter clothes the Green & Clean Day and protecCheonan Hope Sharing Volunteer teer work and social contribution have been donated to low-income tion of local cultural assets such Center, LSIS distributes free meals activities. Welfare facilities and meal elderly in winter and cool mats are as Sangdang Fortress. In addition, monthly to the homeless and others giveaways are provided as part of the donated to the elderly living alone volunteer employees regularly visit in need. In addition, the Green & efforts to contribute to local commuwho are exposed to heat waves in Yesim House and Cheongju Senior Clean Day for environmental cleannities. The plant is also managing the summer. In addition, themeCare Center for volunteer activities. up and blood donation events are environmental cleanup programs based activities such as lunchbox organized on a regular basis. Apart such as Green & Clean Day and the gifts for the Chuseok holidays and from these regular activities, various One Company One Stream camsports events for Senior Welfare sharing events are being planned to paign, along with free plant tours for Service Centers are being conductimprove livelihoods of the understudents and local residents. ed. privileged. In addition, the Green & Clean Day for environmental cleanup and blood donation events are organized on a regular basis. Major activities Major activities Major activities Gomduri Gymnasium volunteer Free meal events at the Cheonan Meal giveaways, activity, Yesim House volunteer activity, Hope Sharing Volunteer Center, Rice Group volunteer activities at senior Support of agricultural products under purchase from a local village under centers and welfare facilities the 1 Company 1 Village program, the 1 Company 1 Village program, Fortress keepers Coin collection campaign 72 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Appendix Economy 74 Safety and Environment 75 Employees 76 Share Growth and Social Contribution 77 GRI Standard(Core) Index 78 Third-Party's Assurance Statement 80 UN Global Compact 82 Membership and Awards 82 73 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Economy Consolidated Summarized statement of financial position (Unit: KRW million) Item 2016 2017 2018 Assets 2,261,806 2,255,821 2,405,836 Current assets 1,417,503 1,416,121 1,536,084 Non-current asset 844,302 839,700 869,751 Liabilities 1,195,739 1,107,681 1,108,364 Current liabilities 680,590 649,818 700,173 Non-current liabilities 515,150 457,864 408,191 Equity 1,066,066 1,148,140 1,297,471 Total equity attributable to stockholders of the company 1,064,582 1,145,723 1,294,510 Non-controlling interest 1,485 2,417 2,962 Total liabilities and equity 2,261,806 2,255,821 2,405,836 Summarized statement of comprehensive income (Unit: KRW million) Item 2016 2017 2018 Sales 2,213,616 2,343,745 2,484,978 Operating income 124,424 158,442 205,048 Income from continuing operations before tax 101,984 138,489 177,790 Net income 80,748 106,005 132,235 Total comprehensive income for the current term 80,693 105,534 128,026 Summarized statement of cash flows (Unit: KRW million) Item 2016 2017 2018 Cash flows from operating activities 242,227 144,598 204,655 Cash flows from investing activities (101,968) (163,772) 67,346 Cash flows from financing activities (87,330) (54,074) (80,570) Net increase / decrease in cash and cash equivalents 52,930 (73,247) 191,431 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 286,081 340,137 261,507 Effect sof exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,125 (5,383) 2,692 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 340,137 261,507 455,629 Government subsidies (Unit: KRW million) Item 2016 2017 2018 Machinery 11 7 560 Office equipment 3 41 30 Building 246 225 205 Development cost 1,873 1,678 1,548 74 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Safety and Environment Safety and environment index Sector Item Unit 2016 2017 2018 Investment Green product development KRW million 3,118 9,052 5,879 in safety and environment Process improvement 147 191 271 Investment in environmental and safety facilities 566 822 405 Maintenance of environmental and safety facilities 219 488 274 Green Purchasing of green products 381 399 351 purchasing Environment Dust emissions kg 1,076 824 677 Water consumption k㎥ 233 212 175 Wastewater discharge ㎥ 172 45 22 Waste discharge General ton 3,671 4,251 4,250 Designated 92 99 106 Waste recycling rate ton 259 278 279 GHG emissions Scope 1 tCO2eq 186,792 250,704 27,212 (by source) Scope 2 26,646 25,553 32,785 Scope 3 89,098 506,032 563,338 subtotal 302,536 782,289 623,335 GHG intensity tCO2eq / KRW million 0.17 0.43 0.32 Energy Electricity consumption MWh 57,150 57,153 70,317 toe 13,145 13,135 16,173 Electricity intensity MWh / KRW billion 0.33 0.31 0.36 LNG consumption k㎥ 2,136 2,337 2,733 toe 2,227 2,432 2,850 LNG intensity k㎥ / KRW billion 0.012 0.013 0.014 Safety Industrial accident rate % 0.04 0.03 Training hours (cumulative) hour 92,468 90,446 91,325 Trainees (cumulative) person 37,439 19,027 19,458 Raw Steel ton 11,277 12,181 7,908 materials Nonferrous metal 3,566 3,884 3,512 Resin 587 700 626 Production cost KRW billion 1,732.5 1,832.0 1,954.4 * GHG emission data may differ from the national statistics due to differences in aggregate range. 75 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Employees HR index (as of the end of 2018) Sector Item Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note Total Executive 20 20 18 employees Permanent employee 3,292 3,168 3,128 Responsible person, Temporary employee 243 214 225 Temporary employees included Total 3,555 3,402 3,371 Employees Anyang 1,135 1,030 1,011 by region Cheongju 1,537 1,525 1,511 Cheonan 550 509 488 Busan Person 187 182 186 Others 146 156 175 Total 3,555 3,402 3,371 Employees 20s 357 272 210 by age (permanent 30s 1,112 1,027 997 employees) 40s 1,216 1,179 1,150 50s and older 607 690 771 Total 3,292 3,168 3,128 Newly hired (permanent) 101 41 65 Retirement rate (permanent) % 2.69 3.25 3.43 Female employees (permanent) Person 454 418 420 Percentage of female employees (permanent and temporary) % 12.8 10.4 12.5 Female managers Person 33 36 43 Manager level and higher Percentage of female managers % 1.0 1.1 1.4 Permanent employee Employees with disabilities Person 45 50 50 Permanent employee Percentage of employees with disabilities % 1.4 1.6 1.6 Foreign employees working at Foreign employees (permanent and temporary) Person 15 12 12 domestic sites KRW 1,000 / Training expenses 2,109 1,652 2,017 person 1PD: 8 hours of offline group Training hours PD / person 10 7 7 training; and one month for online training KRW million / Welfare benefit expenses 14.1 16.5 16.0 person Employees who used childbirth leave 19 13 10 Person Employees returned from Employees who used parental leave 19 14 19 parental leave Rate of return to work after parental leave % 100 100 100 Retirement pension program (Unit : KRW million) Index 2016 2017 2018 Note Amount* 182,152 183,483 180,120 Defined benefit (DB) Subscribers 3,293 3,252 3,062 Defined contribution Amount (DC) Subscribers 6 92 239 * Management amount is based on the year-end balance of the pension fund management company. 76 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Shared Growth and Social Contribution Shared growth Index Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note Ethics index of suppliers 4.19 4.23 4.23 Point Ethics index of distributors 4.01 4.08 4.06 Supplier training on the Sessions Session 1 subcontracting laws Signing of the Shared Agreements Case 350 337 351 Growth Agreement Financial support to Fund raised KRW billion 23.8 23.8 31.0 suppliers Fund provided KRW billion 14.4 13.9 11.4 Suppliers supported Company 77 68 63 Shared-Growth Total amount of KRW billion 564.4 718.2 929.1 Payment System credit issued Supplier training support Participants Person 424 196 246 Technology sharing for Suppliers benefitted Company 15 Offering patent rights for free suppliers Technology protection for Support cases Case 44 11 12 Certification of Original suppliers Document of Trade Secrets Technology development New product development 1 1 support for suppliers projects Case Technological 66 cooperation tasks KRW billion 4.4 ACE CLUB Membership Company 20 19 17 (Supplier Association) ACE CLUB innovation Suppliers supported Company 20 19 17 2016 : Innovation Competition, capacity support 2017 : Innovation Exchanges, 2018 : Innovation Competition, Working-level innovation meeting Employees supported Person 20 19 17 Performance sharing Participating suppliers Company 470 279 248 meetings with suppliers Communication activities for suppliers Session 3 3 3 2016 : CPO Talk Concert 2017 : CLO Talk Concert 2018 : C LO Talk Concert, Donggamdonghaeng (meaning the same feeling, the same way) Purchase by region (Unit : %) Index 2016 2017 2018 Asia (excluding the Middle East) 94 70 68 Europe 5 23 25 Americas 1 5 5 Middle East 1 1 2 Other (Oceania, Africa) 0.02 Total 100 100 100 Social contribution activities Index Unit 2016 2017 2018 Note Donation 958 494 5,932 Accounting amount KRW million Cost 43 50 53 Activities Case 156 119 122 Participants Person 1,385 1,590 1,677 Based on volunteer activities 77 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report GRI Standard(Core) Index Topic Disclosure Page Ommissions / Comments Organizational 102-1 Name of the organization 10 profile 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services 18-24 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 10, 17 102-4 Location of worksites 16-17 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 12-13 102-6 Markets served 16-17 102-7 Scale of the organization 10-11 102-8 Employee Information 10, 76 102-9 Supply chain 14-17 102-10 Significant changes in the organization and supply chain 10, 14-17 Acquisition Energy Grid Tie Division of Parker Hannifin, a US-based company 102-11 Principles and approaches in preventive measures 35-37 102-12 External initiatives 27, 82 102-13 Membership 82 Strategy 102-14 Statement by the top decision-maker 7 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Value, principles, standards, and code 32-35 Governance 102-18 Governance 12-13 Stakeholder 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups 14-15 engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement 67 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 14-15 102-43 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 14-15 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 28-29 Report profile 102-45 Companies included in the organization’s consolidated financial statement 16-17 102-46 Report details and the scope of topics 28-29 102-47 A list of key topics 28-29 102-48 Restatement of information No modification 102-49 Changes in the report No modification 102-50 Reporting period 3 102-51 Date of the latest report 3 102-52 Reporting period 3 102-53 Contact information 2 102-54 Reporting in line with GRI Standards GRI Index 3 102-55 GRI Index 78-79 102-56 Third-party assurance 80-81 Management 31, 39, 49, 55, 103 Management approach approach 63, 69 Economy Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 13-15 performance 201-3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 76 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 74 Purchasing 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 14-15, 77 procedures Anticorruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related 205-1 32-35 to corruption and the significant risks identified 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 32-35 No anti-corruption cases substances during the 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken reporting period Environment Raw material 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 75 301-2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials No use of recycled raw materials Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 75 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 52, 75 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 52, 75 Water 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 75 Water supply Water supplied from the local 303-2 Water resources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 52, 75 governments 78 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix Topic Disclosure Page Ommissions / Comments Emission 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 51, 75 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 51, 75 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions(Scope 3) 51, 75 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 75 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions intensity 51 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 52, 75 Waste water 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination 52, 75 and waste 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 52, 75 No spill of hazardous substances 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills during the reporting period Entirely disposed of 360-4 Transportation of wasted deem hazardous by third-party contractors Entirely disposed of 306-5 Water bodies significantly affected by the organization’s discharge of water and runoff by third-party contractors Compliance No violation to environmental laws and 307-1 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations regulations during the reporting period Society Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 76 turnover by age group, gender and region 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 76 Labor / Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 67 relations Occupational 403-1 Percentage of workers in the management-worker health and safety committee 75 health and safety 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, 52, 75 by region and gender 404-3 Workers with high incidence of high risk of diseases related to 52-53 their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 52-53 with trade unions Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 76 education (by gender, and by employee category) 404-2 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and 66 assist them in managing career ending 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 66 career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and equal 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 76 opportunity Freedom of 407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and No cases of infringement association and collective bargaining may be violated collective bargaining or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 67 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents or forced or 56, 67 compulsory labor compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Investment 412-2 Total number of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant 67 to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Local communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 72 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Public policy 415-1 None Total value of political contributions Customer health 416-1 Percentage of significant products and services categories 53 and safety for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes None concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes (by case result) Marketing and 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concernNone labeling ing marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer None privacy and losses of customer data Compliance 419-1 The number of cases of and monetary value of significant fines for non-comNo cases of violation during the pliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products reporting period and services 79 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report Third Party’s Assurance Statement To the Readers of 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report: Foreword Labor / Management Relations: 402-1 Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter “KMR”) Occupational Health and Safety: has been requested by of LSIS Co., Ltd (hereinafter “LSIS”) 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4 to verify the contents of its 2018-2019 Sustainability Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Report(hereinafter “the Report”). LSIS is responsible for Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1 the collection and presentation of information included in Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance 407-1 engagement on specific data and information in the Child Labor: 408-1 assurance scope stipulated below. Forced or Compulsory Labor: 409-1 Human Rights Assessment: 412-2 Scope and standard Local Communities: 413-1 LSIS describes its efforts and achievements of the Public Policy: 415-1 corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. Customer Health and Safety: 416-1, 416-2 KMR performed a type2, moderate level of assurance Marketing and Labeling: 417-3 using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from KMR Global Customer Privacy: 418-1 Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR’s Socioeconomic Compliance: 419-1 assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and This Report excludes data sand information of joint Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the Standards indices as below, where professional judgment organization, i.e. LSIS, among report boundaries. of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. Our approach The team checked whether the Report has been prepared In order to verify the contents of the Report within in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with which covers the followings. the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: •GRI Standards Reporting Principles •Universal Standards • Reviewed overall report •Topic Specific Standards • Reviewed materiality test process and methodology Management approach of Topic Specific Standards • Reviewed sustainability management strategies Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-3, 201-4 and targets Procurement Practices: 204-1 • Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities Anti-Corruption: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 • Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report Materials: 301-1, 301-2 Energy: 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 Our conclusion Water: 303-1, 303-2 Based on the results we have obtained from material Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 reviews and interviews, we had several discussions Effluents and Waste: 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5 with LSIS on the revision of the Report. We reviewed Environmental Compliance: 307-1 the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our Employment: 401-1, 401-3 recommendations for improvement and our revisions 80 About LSIS Core Issues of Sustainability Management Appendix have been reflected. When reviewing the results of The assurance team could not find any evidence that the assurance, the assurance team could not find any LSIS’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with were inappropriately recorded in the Report. the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our We could not find any evidence the Report was not attention that causes us to believe that the data included prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. standards. Inclusivity Recommendation for improvement Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing We hope the Report is actively used as a communication and achieving an accountable and strategic response to tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following sustainability for continuous improvements. LSIS is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in •LSIS successfully identified key topics for 2018 through order to make a commitment to be responsible for the the properly developed materiality assessment process stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any and faithfully included them in the sustainability report. critical stakeholder LSIS left out during this procedure. It is advised to systematically manage plans and performance based on its sustainability strategies and Materiality report results with consistency, enhancing comparability, Materiality is determining the relevance and significance one of the principles of sustainability reporting quality. of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, Our independence actions, and performance of an organization or its With the exception of providing third party assurance stakeholders. services, KMR is not involved in any other LSIS’s business - LSIS is determining the materiality of issues found operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid out through stakeholder communication channels any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out July,9th, 2019 in this process. CEO Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. 81 2018-2019 LSIS Sustainability Report UN Global Compact The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Page LSIS policies Human 1. B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Ethical LSIS Code rights management of Ethics and 2. Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p.30~37 Conduct for Labor 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Employee p.67 Employees collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. B  usinesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environ 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Safety and LSIS -ment Environment Environmental 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Management policies 9. B  usinesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly p.48~53 technologies. Anti 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Ethical LSIS Code of -corruption and bribery. management Ethics and Conduct p.30~37 for Employees Membership and Awards Membership Domestic Overseas Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea International Trade Association, Federation of Korean Industries, UN Global Compact, Korea Electrical Manufacturers Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korean Standards Association, KoreaMechatro Link, Japan Economic Association, Korea Electric Association, Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Korea Electrical Ether CAT Tenchnology Contractors Association, International Contractors Association of Korea, Korea Listed Companies Association, Group, CIRED, Korea Engineering and Consulting Association, Korea New & Renewable Energy, Korea Fire Safety Institute, CAN in Automation Construction Association of Korea, Korea Customs Association, Korea Invention Promotion Association, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, ,ODVA Korea, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korean Association for ECOS, Korean Information & Communication Contractors Association, Korea Railway Association, Korea Railway Signal Engineering Association, Korea Mech. Const. Contractors Association, Korea Fire Facility Association, Korea Electric Engineers Association, Korea Products Safety Association, Korea Smart Manufacturing Industry Association, Korean Institute of Power Electronics, Korea Institute of Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, Korean Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Software Technology Association, Korea Intellectual Property Association, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Korea Association of Standards & Testing Organizations, Green Company, Environmental Preservation Association, etc. Awards Category Date Title Organized / Hosted by Awards Company 2018. 01. Top 100 Global Innovators Clarivate Analytics Top 100 Global Innovators Award of merit for safety of power equipment Ministry of Industry, Individual 2018. 06. Minister’s Citation (Jin-Yong Kang, General Manager) Trade and Energy Award of merit for electrical safety Ministry of Industry, Individual 2018. 06. Minister’s Citation (Bok-Ha Hwang, General Manager) Trade and Energy Award of merit for the development of electrical Ministry of Industry, Individual 2018. 10. Minister’s Citation industry (Senior Manager Gyeong-Ho Kim) Trade and Energy Korean awardee in the Company 2018. 10. IDC Digital Transformation (DX) Award IDC Korea operation model master area Company 2018. 11. 10th Power Demand Management Award Korea Electric Power Corporation Best prize Company 2018. 12. 2018 Korea Technology Award Ministry of Industry, Trade and Energy Minister’s award Company 2018. 12. 2018 Industry Award Korea Industry Award Korea Best prize 82 General publication management Chie Strategy Officer : Young-Shik Shin Corporate Planning Team : Sang-Soo Lee, Yu-Seok Hong, Yeon-Jeong Kim Contributors to report preparation Young-Min Kang, Byung-su Ku, Ji-Young Ku, Do-Yup Kwon, Yong-Jik Kwon, Ki-Bok Kim, Ki-Seon Kim, Deok-Hyeon Kim, Won-Ki Kim, In-Kyoung Kim, Ju-Hye Kim, Chul-Gyun Kim, Taek-Yoon Kim, Chil-Bong Na, Tea-Hoon Nam, Hee-Tack Roh, Hyung-Tack Myung, Dong-Ick Moon, Sang-Tae Park, Jae-Hyun Park, Jang-Cheol Seo, Kyoo-Keun Seon, Seok-Ki Son, Bong-Soo Shin, Ha-Na Yu, Joong-Hyeon Yoon, Tae-Kyun Yun, Sang-Kweon Lee, Su-Ho Lee, Woo-Je Lee, Jung-Eun Lee, Chan-Soo Lee, Hye-Won Lee, Dong-Hoon Jang, Hyung-Jun Jeon, Hwan Jeong, Dae-Seok Chae, Myoung-Guen Choi, Si-Ho Choi, Jong-sopb Choi, Sang-Hee Hong, Sang-Won Hwang Date of Publication 2019. July Publisher Ja-Kyun Koo Publishing Company LSIS Co., Ltd Design intoGraphic +82-2-583-7688
