DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2018 CONTENTS FOREWORD 4 WHAT WE PROMISED IN 2018 – AND WHAT WE ACHIEVED 6 ABOUT DLG 8 HOW WE WORK WITH CSR AT DLG 12 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 20 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 38 PEOPLE AT DLG 34 • DIVERSITY 36 • WORKING ENVIRONMENT 44 Sustainability and good farming practices are deeply rooted in our business FOREWORD Welcome to the DLG Group’s CSR Report for 2018 As one of the largest agricultural companies in Europe, DLG plays an important role as both purchaser and supplier of feed, feed compounds, crops and other inputs to the first stage of food production. Together with our energy business, this gives us a central position in the Danish and European agricultural and food cluster. We wish to take the lead and set the course for the industry. This means that, as a company, we hold and take social and environmental responsibility, just as traditions for sustainability and good farming practices are deeply rooted in our business. DLG is convinced that a company’s work with social responsibility must be measured by its concrete actions. We have therefore endorsed the UN Global Compact, which is an international initiative with ten principles focused on corporate sustainability. As part of the Global Compact, DLG is working to implement the principles concerning human rights, labour rights, environmental issues and anti-corruption in the day-to-day operations of the Group. We are committed to actively communicating the Group's CSR activities and results in an annual progress report – a Communication on Progress (COP). This is our COP, in which we publish our goals and initiatives for social responsibility. We also describe how we wish to develop in the course of the next year. We are pleased and proud to confirm our continued support for the UN Global Compact. 4 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG’S EXECUTIVE BOARD COO COO CEO CFO Niels Søren Rasmussen Ole Christensen Kristian Hundebøll Lars Sørensen DLG Group CSR Report 2018 5 WHAT WE PROMISED IN 2018 – AND WHAT WE ACHIEVED RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ≈ • Transport optimisation by reducing the movement factor, and optimisation of tonnes/load and km/ tonne. √ • All business units to scale back their primary energy resource by 2%. Each business unit must specify its primary energy resource and draw up an action plan to achieve the goal ≈ • Systematic dissemination of LEAN principles and tools to support resource efficiency 6 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 PEOPLE AT DLG ≈ • Sustained work to make DLG a diverse and inclusive workplace through education, information and RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY follow-up CHAIN MANAGEMENT ≈ • Continued efforts to have at •√ Continuously disseminate least one woman on the list of DLG’s Code of Conduct among candidates in all recruitments for employees and elected officers managerial and specialist positions •√ Implement a platform for effective ≈ • Election of a woman to the Board sharing of internal policies and best of Directors by no later than 2020 practices across the Group ≈ • Increase the proportion of female •≈ Standardise internal business managers at all levels, ensuring processes/procedures to achieve a an internal pipeline to the top better overview and an enhanced management levels control environment √ • Increase transport safety •≈ Be systematically aware of business partners and offers within the √ • Strengthen knowledge and use of trading area, which may indicate personal protective equipment activities in conflict with current legislation √ • Manage the workplace evaluation action plans achieved in 2017 •√ Anchor DLG's Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) with all strategic √ • Systematisation of inspection procurement officers at DLG rounds •≈ Objective for minimum 25% of ÷ • Increase the focus on preventive DLG's significant suppliers to sign work, including the registration of SCoC near-misses DLG Group CSR Report 2018 7 ABOUT DLG DLG IS A COOPERATIVE – OWNED BY DANISH FARMERS 26,000 Owners elect 6,400 Number of employees distributed on 18 countries 89 Members of the Board of Representatives, of whom 18 employee representa18 Members of the tives, nominate Group Management 12 Members of the 3 Board of Directors, of Members of whom 3 elected by the Executive Board the employees The Executive Board nominates WE WORK TO: • Procure agricultural products of • Working for the benefit of farm• Support members with an exoptimum quality for our members ers by ensuring members the best tensive array of services and tools possible production economy • Process and sell members’ comthrough both national and intermercial crops national activities 8 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG'S CORE BUSINESS 49 BILLION DKK IN REVENUE (2017) AGRICULTURAL VITAMINS & MINERALS ENERGY & SERVICE PRODUCTS 65% 10% 25% DLG Group CSR Report 2018 9 GLOBAL MARKET CROP PRODUCTION ENERGY & SERVICE VEGETABLE PRODUCE AND CROPS ANIMAL NUTRITION PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS KASPER RASMUSSEN 10 DLG Group CSR Report 2017 ABOUT DLG The DLG Group is one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies, and is a cooperative owned by Danish farmers. Within 15 years, we have evolved from a Danish cooperative into an international Group with companies in more than 18 countries and revenue of almost DKK 49 billion in 2017. Today, the DLG Group has 6,400 employees, of whom 3,600 in Germany, which is the Group’s largest market. As a Group, we have many different roles. DLG supplies farmers with feed from its own production facilities, together with seed, fertiliser, agricultural lime, crop protection and fuel for day-to-day operations. The DLG Group is also one of Europe’s largest exporters of malting barley, seed grain, feed and milling grain, and rapeseed. Via the Group's affiliated companies and subsidiaries, DLG is also involved in the processing of vegetable crops, such as rapeseed oil. DLG Group CSR Report 2018 11 HOW WE WORK WITH CSR AT DLG 12 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 13 DLG’S CSR POLICY At DLG, we believe that our CSR initiatives produce the best results We always endeavour to ensure the when we focus on the areas that create the most value for our key sta­ highest quality and safety in our agkeholders: customers and owners, employees and suppliers – and for ricultural products and foodstuffs proDLG as a business. duction, from farm to fork. DLG supports the UN Global DLG is committed to observing the We are ambitious in ensuring responCompact ten principles for corporate sustainasible value chain management and DLG adopted the UN Global Combility in the UN Global Compact, and protecting the Group's reputation. pact in 2012. Since then, DLG has fully supports the UN Guiding Principfocused on creating the internal frales on Business and Human Rights, We seek to reduce DLG's energy conmework necessary to create value and the UK Modern Slavery Act. As sumption, minimise our emissions to from working with the ten principles part of this initiative, DLG is working the environment, use resources effiof the Global Compact. These printo implement the principles concerciently and generally reduce our enciples can be found in the descripning human rights, employee rights, vironmental impact. tion of the various CSR areas in this the environment and anti-corruption report. in the day-to-day operations of the We do not accept corruption in any Group. We comply with all relevant form, including – but not limited to In 2014, DLG's Group Management legislation and regulations in the – bribery, extortion, facilitation payadopted a Group-wide CSR Policy, countries in which we operate. We ments or nepotism. which was renewed in 2018 after a are dedicated to an open dialogue new risk assessment. The policy is baon CSR issues with our stakeholders. We seek to ensure diversity in the sed on the Global Compact, the UN workplace, to maintain safe working Global Goals for Sustainable DevelopIn 2018, we drew up new Group-wide conditions and a sound working enment, DLG's core values and our fundapolicies concerning human rights, vironment, and to create good develmental approach to social responsibiliefficient use of resources and the opment opportunities for our emploty, which is that our initiatives must be gender composition of the Board of yees and business partners. strategic, significant and practical. Directors. It will be a key task in the coming years to further implement We respect internationally recognised DLG is committed to observing the policies in our business and dayhuman rights, and continuously assess the ten principles for corporate to-day practice. our business to identify instances that can adversely affect these rights. sustainability in the UN Global As a consequence of our commitCompact, and fully supports the ment to working strategically with UN Guiding Principles on Business CSR, DLG does not consider donatiand Human Rights. ons to be part of our CSR work. 14 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN 10 GLOBAL COMPACT AT DLG The company should support and respect The company should eliminate discrimina1 the protection of internationally declared human rights – an integrated element of 6 tion with respect to work and employment conditions – an integrated element of DLG’s human rights policy, DLG’s Supplier DLG’s human rights policy, DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct and our internal DLG Code Code of Conduct, our diversity programme, of Conduct. our policy concerning the gender composition of the Board of Directors, and our internal The company should ensure that it does DLG Code of Conduct. 2 not contribute to violations of human rights – an integrated element of DLG’s The company should support a precautiohuman rights policy, DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct and our internal DLG Code of 7 nary approach to environmental challenges – an integrated element of our resource Conduct. efficiency policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. The company should uphold the right to 3 organise and effectively recognise the The company should take the initiative to right to collective bargaining – an integrated element of DLG's human rights policy, 8 promote greater environmental responsibility – an integrated element of our resourDLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct and our ce efficiency policy and Supplier Code of own occupational health and safety work. Conduct. The company should support the eliminatiThe company should encourage the 4 on of all types of forced labour – an integrated element of DLG's human rights 9 development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies – an policy and DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct. integrated element of our resource efficiency policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. The company should support the effective 5 removal of all types of child labour – an The company should fight all forms of integrated element of DLG's human rights policy and DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 10 corruption, including extortion and bribery – an integrated element of DLG's anti-corruption programme, our compliance programme, and our internal DLG Code of Conduct DLG Group CSR Report 2018 15 DLG AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS As part of the review of DLG’s CSR Policy in 2018, we have incorporated the UN Sustainable Development Goals in our sustainability efforts. Five of the 17 goals are particularly relevant for the DLG Group, and they will be further integrated into our business during the coming years. Goal 2: Zero hunger Goal 12: Responsible DLG initiative: We support high levels consumption and production 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION of supply reliability, food security and DLG initiative: We ensure responsible sustainable agricultural production and sustainable production of raw materials that are part of our producDECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Goal 8: Decent work and tion. Our production and logistics economic growth are resource-efficient. Our products DLG initiative: We ensure decent support high quality, sustainability, working conditions throughout our health and animal welfare in livestock value chain, as well as employment in production peripheral areas Goal 13: Climate action DLG initiative: Our constant aim is resource-efficient production and logistics, minimising our environmental and climate footprint, and developing 13 CLIMATE ACTION climate-friendly livestock feed solutiZERO HUNGER ons 15 LIFE ON LAND Goal 15: Rural life DLG initiative: We are a farmer-owned cooperative and are rooted in rural life. We create employment in the peripheral areas of the countries in which we produce. We work for decent conditions for our suppliers 2 8 Scope and reporting principles RISK ASSESSMENT The report has been drawn up by considering a number of the business areas that we consider to be the most VERY IMPORTANT significant for our business, for our stakeholders and for our industry, on the Responsible supply basis of the Global Compact principles chain management and the risk assessment performed. IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Resource efficiency In 2019, we will continue to work on developing uniform accounting policies for CSR data to be used in the report, including data concerning energy, employees and supply chain management, etc. We will continue to develop new KPIs and policies that ensure full compliance with the more stringent requirements laid down in the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report covers DLG’s business, which in principle means DLG a.m.b.a. Responsible business opein its entirety, as well as majority-owned rations and anti-corruption IMPORTANT Diversity subsidiaries. Associated companies in which DLG does not have a controlling Strong farmer-owned interest are not included in the report. cooperative Human rights Working environment Companies that are in and health particular focus in this report • DLG a.m.b.a IMPORTANT VERY IMPORTANT • DLG Service a/s IMPORTANCE TO DLG • Vilofoss Group • HaGe Kiel • Svenska Foder AB • Team AG DLG Group CSR Report 2018 17 DLG’S CSR ORGANISATION The managerial responsibility for DLG's work with social responsibility is anchored in the Group's Executive Board. A CSR coordinator has been appointed, who is responsible for coordinating cross-disciplinary activities, internal and external communication, and Global Compact reporting. The work of preparing goals, action plans and reporting was assigned to a number of cross-disciplinary working groups in 2018. The groups consist of representatives from all parts of the Group, subject to the management responsibility of DLG’s Group Management. The Executive Steering Committee is responsible for implementing the cross-disciplinary and sector-specific CSR initiatives in practice. The individual business units are responsible for implementing the CSR goals in concrete action plans. 18 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS? WRITE TO: INFORMATION@DLG.DK DLG Group CSR Report 2018 19 20 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY DLG Group CSR Report 2018 21 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND THE PREVENTION OF FRAUD In 2015, DLG introduced an ambitious employees took the e-learning couanti-corruption policy. In the followrse in anti-corruption, and we have DLG’S POSITION ing years, we have made a targeted updated our internal procedures to effort to implement and monitor counter the risk of fraud. We have ON CORRUPTION compliance with this policy. also implemented a Group-wide platform, SILO, for the effective sharing In the DLG Group, we do not accept Corruption is not acceptable at DLG. of internal policies and best practices corruption in any of its forms, includIt is not part of our way of doing buacross the Group. ing, but not limited to, bribery, siness, and we take the view that our extortion, facilitation payments or employees should neither practice nor In 2019, we will continue to strengthen nepotism, in any of the Group’s busiaccept corruption. This position is unour set-up in this area. Work is also ness activities or relations. derlined by our adoption of the UN continuing to standardise internal buGlobal Compact, which encourages siness processes/procedures in order DLG employees do not offer, procompanies to ‘work against corruption to achieve a better overview and an vide or receive gifts or payments in all its forms, including extortion and enhanced control environment. Finalthat may be considered to be bribes. bribery’. ly, we will be systematically aware of We do not offer, provide or receive business partners and offers within the personal gifts, services, travel, enDLG's anti-corruption policy descritrading area, which may indicate activitertainment or other benefits of sigbes the DLG Group's position on ties in conflict with current legislation. nificant value to or from DLG’s supcorruption and how corruption is avopliers or business partners. ided in the DLG Group, while proviDLG’s core values ding comprehensive guidelines for DLG’s core values are to be trustWe are aware of potential conflicts how DLG employees should act with worthy, value-creating and ambitious. of interest in our business, and exrespect to corruption. The policy We wish to take the lead and show pect our employees to ensure that also describes how DLG employees the way. Integrity is important and we their personal interests are not in should act in situations where doubt must be reliable. We therefore seek conflict with the interests of the DLG may arise as to whether the purpose to live by our values by running a reGroup. can be characterised as bribery or sponsible and sound company at all corruption. times. The DLG Group has adopted DLG does not accept any form of ambitious standards for good ethical insider trading. In 2018, we continued to dissemiconduct and business activities. nate this policy, and in particular, we performed risk assessments and Everything that we say and do – whamonitored compliance. Even more tever our markets – must be based on 22 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 GOALS FOR 2019 accountability and respect for colle• To be systematically aware of, • To continue to incorporate proce­ agues, customers, suppliers and buand expand the risk assessment dures that support DLG's anti-cor­ siness partners. DLG complies with of business partners and offers ruption policy all applicable acts, regulations and within the trading area, which provisions in the countries in which may indicate activities in conflict • To anchor DLG’s Supplier Code of we operate. No employee or owner with current legislation Conduct (SCoC) with all strategic within DLG may assist third parties in procurement officers at DLG unlawful activities. • To conduct quarterly assessments of our business partners. Here, • The objective for a minimum of the social responsibility of our 25% of DLG's significant suppliers partners is a key element of the to sign the SCoC assessment • To deploy SCoC to direct procure­ • To work on formalised manage­ ment. 80% of the procurement ment reporting of internal volume, or better, must be subject controls and risk management, to the adopted ethical standards to ensure that our controls are performed in the right quality and on time • To promote DLG Denmark's im­ plemented system for monitoring of controls, so that this is also anchored in foreign subsidiaries DLG Group CSR Report 2018 23 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT As a responsible agricultural and yet the process is ongoing and will and indigenous peoples. In 2018, Profood Group, at DLG we wish to have be continued in 2019. The goal is Terra soya accounted for over 70% of tight control of our value chains. This still that, before the end of 2019, our Svenska Foder’s total soya purchases. concerns strengthening the Group's SCoC must have been incorporated The largest supplier to Svenska Foder control of the risks associated with by all of the Group’s procurement ofdelivers 100% GMOand salmonelworking with an increasingly more ficers, and that at least 25% of DLG’s la-free soya. complex and international supply principal suppliers have accepted and chain. signed the SCoC. Together with a number of food producers, such as Arla, Danish Crown The foundation for the work is the Sourcing of raw materials and the Danish Agriculture & Food Group’s “Supplier Code of Conduct” DLG a.m.b.a.’s policy for purchase of Council, DLG is committed to only (SCoC), which governs the requireraw materials is that at least 90% of buying sustainably produced soya ments we make of all our suppliers. our suppliers must have a certified meal that fulfils a large number of The principles of the Global Compact quality management system in place production requirements, including and the UN Global Goals for Sustainwhich covers the raw materials that requirements related to environmenable Development are in particular DLG purchases. As high a proportal sustainability, use of child labour focus when raw materials are sourced tion as possible must be certified in and the use of pesticides in producfrom other parts of the world. They accordance with GMP (Good Mantion. are therefore an important aspect of ufacturing Practice). In 2018, more our SCoC. than 90% of our suppliers had a cerConcerning all of our purchases of tified quality management system, soya, we also require suppliers to The DLG Group's Supplier Code while 75% of the raw materials were comply with our own charter and Supof Conduct GMP-certified. plier Code of Conduct, which has a This describes the requirements we number of elements, with adherence make of our suppliers. The requireSvenska Foder, the Group’s Swedish to the Global Compact as one of the ments stem from our CSR Policy and agricultural products supplier, also requirements. Again in 2018, we were the sustainability criteria in the UN has procurement focused on fulfillin continuous critical dialogue with Global Compact. The goal in 2018 ing the requirements set by the Proour suppliers concerning responsibilwas to implement and control comTerra certification system. This is a ity and sustainability in soya producpliance with the new SCoC by the non-GMO standard and includes agtion, just as we participate in the pubprincipal suppliers within the individricultural practices, use of chemicals, lic debate on this subject. ual business areas of the DLG Group. energy consumption, working condiThe goal has partly been achieved, tions and respect for local residents With imports of 1.7 million tonnes, 24 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG AND SOYA Denmark receives approximately DLG accounts for around half of DenResponsible relationships with neig0.5% of total global soya production. mark's purchase of soya meal. Most of hbouring regions, environmental reWe are a small operator in the world the soya meal is used for pig feed. At sponsibility, good farming practices market, and we as a country canapproximately 15-20%, soya is a key and long-term economic planning are not influence how the soya in South ingredient in feed production, and at the heart of our dialogue with supAmerica is produced. In recognition accounts for a large share of DLG’s pliers. Observance of human rights of this fact, under the European Feed overall production. and the Global Compact’s criteria are Manufacturers' Federation (FEFAC), another key aspect of the requireDLG participated actively in the deThrough our SCoC, our Charter for ments we make of our suppliers. velopment of common guidelines for Soya Suppliers, and a series of visits sustainable soya imports. Today, the DLG'S CHARTER FOR to soya producers and suppliers in guidelines are the highest standard Argentina and Brazil, we have sought by which European soya importers assess the South American soya suppliinsight into, an understanding of and direct dialogue with stakeholders SOYA SUPPLIERS ers. The FEFAC guidelines have had concerning a wide range of CSR-rela• The supplier must be a member a significant positive effect in South ted parameters. of the Global Compact America, since they have made European soya importers’ expectations in In our “Supplier Code of Conduct” • The supplier does not accept terms of sustainable soya production we set a large number of stringent child labour clear to suppliers. requirements, e.g. concerning deforestation, correct handling of pe• The supplier must recognise the We are also involved in a large numsticides, good agricultural practices, employees’ right to organise ber of research projects which, in the labour rights, local population and longer term, can make it possible to health. Suppliers must sign an agree• Raw materials from rainforest cultivate alternative protein crops loment that they will comply with these areas felled after 24 July 2006 cally in Europe. The most promising requirements before they may deliver are not accepted alternative is faba beans, concerning to us – and thereby also to Danish farwhich DLG is involved in the NORFAB mers. After many years’ cooperation • The supplier must have a policy project. with our suppliers, our experience is to ensure that the use of pestithat through good and constructive cides takes place in accordance dialogue we can ensure that soya prowith local legislation and the duction takes place on an appropriate Stockholm and Rotterdam Conbasis. ventions Palm oil Procurement of vitamins and in the raw materials, the designation Like soya meal, DLG purchases palm minerals of particularly critical steps in prooil for use in feed production. In DLG’s vitamin and mineral actividuction and processing, and also in order to be better informed about ties are gathered under the Vilofoss packaging, and the subsequent esdevelopments within the palm oil brand. Only raw materials approved tablishment of control points in the industry in Southeast Asia, in 2012 in the EU are purchased for the proproduction cycle. DLG became a member of the Roundduction of vitamins and minerals. This table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). means that, in this respect, DLG’s Each of the approximately 200 raw RSPO brings together interest orsuppliers have a “gate­keeper” funcmaterials used in vitamins and minerals ganisations from various sectors of tion if the product comes from a third is approved according to a fixed prothe palm oil industry with the aim of country. With regard to quality mancedure: assessment of familiarity with developing and implementing global agement, we follow up with analytical the company, the product informastandards for sustainable palm oil. controls by using the HACCP system tion and the nutritional characterisin the areas where we see the greattics of the raw material in question, its The most important principles behind est risks. safety for humans and animals, and the certification include transparwhether the raw material can be used ency, employees’ rights, use of the HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control in the production facility (e.g. with rebest available cultivation methods, Points) is a system for quality assurgard to dust and odours). protection of nature and the enviance of food products throughout ronment, and long-term economic the production chain. The system planning. We will continue to support builds on the identification of microRSPO in 2019. biological, chemical and physical risks NORFAB New faba bean varieties will replace some of the spring barley in crop • This acronym stands for faba rotation. This will give better crop beans in northern regions. rotation, because faba beans fix ni• Budget of DKK 46.4 million, of trogen. New faba bean varieties will which DKK 27.5 million from give 10-20 hkg higher yields than Innovation Fund Denmark. today’s level of 50 hkg per hectare. • Duration: five years. In addition, the total yield of protein must be significantly increased, and • Participants from Denmark: a number of properties are being Aarhus University and the Uniinvestigated to make the varieties versity of Copenhagen, DLG, suitable for both organic and conSejet Planteforædling and Norventional cultivation. dic Seed. 26 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 CHINESE SOYA On 4-12 October 2018, DLG carried out a series of verification visits to the Group's Chinese suppliers of organic soya. DLG employees audited the suppliers’ production from start to finish, with review of the Group's strict requirements regarding sustainability, employee conditions, traceability, cleaning procedures and hygiene. DLG Group CSR Report 2018 27 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 28 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 29 GOALS FOR Resource efficiency is a prerequisite the results. In Denmark and Sweden, for sustainability and competitivethe movement factor was reduced by ness. DLG is a major player in a highly 0.16% and 0.003% respectively, while 2019 competitive market. This makes it important to be as resource-efficient as possible, in order to increase DLG's competitiveness and sustainability. in Germany it increased by 6.96% due to extraordinary movement of older quantities of cereals. Nonetheless, the generally good results show that • To qualify the Group's carbon Energy is one of DLG’s most importhe agricultural sector’s continued footprint through data collection, tant resources within all production development towards ever larger registration of energy consumpti­ and logistics. In 2018, we created machine capacity, together with the on and model calculations and adopted our policy on resource sound cooperation with our customefficiency. In 2019, it will be rolled ers on the correct location of stocks • To reduce the Group’s movement out in the Group, with explicit focus and increased on-site storage of factor, as well as consistent op­ on measuring the Group's carbon crops, are measures that it is worthtimisation of transport (tonnes/ footprint. In order to contribute to while to take. We maintain the ambiload and km/tonnes) the most sustainable development tion to reduce the movement factor possible, DLG seeks to be effective in 2019. • All business units to scale back and innovative in leveraging techtheir primary energy resource by nology and in our use of resources. The Group increased km/tonne by 2%. Each business unit must spe­ Within the DLG Group we therefore 4.7 km (equivalent to an increase of cify its primary energy resource focus strongly on being as energy ef5.6%). At Group level, tonnes/load and draw up an action plan to ficient as possible, while maintaining was increased by 0.8%, which is satisachieve the goal our profitability. This creates value factory. The Group maintains the amfor both the environment and for our bition to optimise our transport. • To systematically implement customers. LEAN principles and LEAN tools Fuel consumption at Group level Movement factor Reduction of fuel consumption reOur goal in 2018 was to reduce the mains the primary focus of the trans• To continue to train the Group's Group's movement factor and to foport area. In 2018, we continued to drivers in climate-friendly driving cus on optimising tonnes/load and shift our transport flows towards lortechniques km/tonne. While this represented a ries with greater capacity and better major challenge in 2017, due to a late fuel efficiency. DLG is currently reand wet harvest, the opposite applacing the old cars in the fleet with plied to 2018, due to the extensive newer models. This will reduce fuel drought in northern Europe. consumption and particle emissions. We are also working to install new, At Group level, we reduced the movelighter tanks on the tanker vehicles. ment factor by 0.8%, which nonetheAs a consequence, the tanker vehiless conceals a significant spread in cles will be able to carry more goods, 30 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 without exceeding weight limits. The energy consumption category. The LEAN result will be a higher number of 2% goal was achieved in 2018. LEAN is a critically important method tonnes per load. It was possible to to increase resource efficiency, and reduce fuel consumption/km signifIn Denmark, we reduced energy conwe are committed to deploying these icantly in 2018. In Denmark, we resumption by 2,400,000 kwh/year, tools in our production, logistics duced consumption by 0.8%, while thanks to 15 energy efficiency proand transport, including in the form our German subsidiaries reduced jects. These include new machines of LEAN agents and training. Once consumption by 5.4%. This results in at the Skave factory and better planagain in 2018, a major effort was an overall Group-wide reduction of ning at the Aarhus factory. Through made throughout the Group, with 0.02 litres per km, equivalent to a refive new projects, we expect to reLEAN agents working continuously to duction of 1.5%. duce consumption by an additional achieve more efficient use of resourc1,000,000 kwh in 2019. Our German es. The German subsidiary HaGe in Last year, the lorries required companies also made a major effort particular has worked systematically 430,000 litres of diesel and transin 2018. with LEAN and reduction of waste. ported 165,000 tonnes of feed, which This is achieved through weekly corresponds to almost 4,500 loads in All relevant business units in the LEAN meetings for management and one year. In addition, diesel-fuelled Group continue to draw up action a number of projects in production. machines are used in production. We plans to increase their energy effialso focus on more environmentally ciency. We will also prioritise switchClose to 100% of the employees of friendly driving, while continuing to ing to LED or other resource-saving our Swedish subsidiary Svenska Fodtrain our drivers in climate-friendly lighting, in order to save resources. er have been trained in LEAN, and 20 driving techniques. The Group used have been trained as LEAN agents. 3.7 million litres of diesel in 2018, LEAN processes are continuously becompared to 3.6 million litres in 2017. ing implemented in order to increase resource efficiency. Reduced consumption of In 2019, we will continue to deploy primary energy resources LEAN principles among all employProduction of agricultural products ees in the Group, to ensure focus on (feed, etc.) is a core area for DLG and efficient use of resources. requires large amounts of energy. It therefore makes good commercial sense to seek to be as energy-efficient as possible, as this benefits both the environment and our customers. The overall energy goal for DLG’s production in 2018 was to implement concrete projects that correspond to savings in the individual business units of 2% per year for the specific DLG Group CSR Report 2018 31 SUSTAINABLE BIOGAS Olive pomace, also known as olive pulp, is a residual product traditionally spread on fields in Spain, but which is now being put to good use in Danish biogas plants. After DLG began to import olive pomace in 2018, this residual product is now creating sustainable energy in Danish biogas plants and the natural gas grid. More and more farmers are establishing biogas plants, since new legislation means that in future half of all slurry must be treated in biogas plants. Significant new investments in biogas plants, typically in the range of DKK 45-50 million, can be expected in the near future. DLG delivers a range of biogas-related products for biogas production – also now including olive pulp. Straw pellets, as well as pelleted grass seed husks and sunflower shells, etc. make the product easier to handle and thereby more degradable in biogas plants. 32 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG Group CSR Report 2017 33 PEOPLE AT DLG 34 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 35 DIVERSITY At DLG we endeavour to be a workaccordance with Section 99 of the At DLG we endeavour to be a place that values diversity, since we Danish Financial Statements Act, are workplace that values diversity, know that this creates results, and independently obliged to account since we know that this creates thereby value for our owners. for the under-represented gender. In better solutions and results, both cases, they have set target figand thereby value for our We are therefore dedicated to creures and a timeframe. For both comowners. ating an inclusive culture and strucpanies, the Boards of Directors exclutures that do not unintentionally sively consist of men and the target inhibit certain groups. Decisions configure has not been achieved. This is cerning recruitment, hiring, training, because the owners have not considElect a female development and evaluation of our ered it necessary to replace the curmember of DLG’s Group Board of employees must always adhere to rent Board of Directors. Directors by no later than 2020 the principle of equal opportunities, The Group has the goal to have one with focus on competences and poDLG is a cooperative company owner-elected female member of the tential. Our strategy is to create an (A.M.B.A.) owned by almost 26,000 Board of Directors by no later than environment in which individual emDanish farmers, 1,200 of whom are the 2020 election. The first step in this ployees are respected and rewarded women, corresponding to 4.6%. The regard is to increase the ratio of ownfor their efforts, irrespective of their company’s highest authority is the er-elected female members of the age, gender, ethnic background, sexBoard of Representatives. The Board Board of Representatives to match the ual orientation or disability. We also of Representatives consists of 79 ratio of women among self-employed value diversity in the form of different owner-elected representatives, and farmers (approximately 8%). personal qualities, educational back12 employee-elected representagrounds and ways of thinking. tives. Members of the Board of RepGiven that the DLG Board of Directors resentatives are elected for two years derives from the Board of RepresentStatutory statement concerning at a time, and DLG’s Board of Direcatives, a major information campaign gender under-representation, in tors are elected from among them. has been conducted over the years to accordance with Section 99b of The company’s Board of Directors increase the recruitment base, in orthe Danish Financial Statements consists of a total of 12 members, of der to be able to select more female Act which three are employee representowners for DLG’s Board of RepresentThis report covers target figures and atives. After the election in May 2018, atives and, subsequently, the Board of policies for the DLG Group’s Board the gender distribution is 11 men and Directors. In 2018, in recognition that of Directors and Executive Board. 1 woman (elected by the employees). recruitment requires further efforts, Vitfoss and DLG Service are the two The Board of Directors is elected for DLG’s Board of Directors adopted a of the Group’s subsidiaries which, in two years at a time. policy and action plan for the under36 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 GOALS FOR DIVERSITY represented gender on the Board of • To conduct recruitment and in­ • To continue our endeavours to Directors. Concrete initiatives in the formation initiatives to elect one have at least one of each sex coming year include: owner-elected female member of on the list of candidates for all the Board of Directors in the 2020 recruitment for managerial and • At the annual local accounting mee­ election specialist positions tings, the female members are invited to join and become members of the • To increase the ratio of female • To strengthen our focus on DLG Board of Representatives. managers, including by focusing diversity in teams and the uncon­ on our talent identification and scious bias in recruitment. We will • DLG’s Board members undertake development. We will do this by also explore how we can ensure to perform outreach recruitment creating a transparent process greater diversity within DLG by efforts towards potential female and ensuring that our manag­ also contributing experience from board members. ers have good opportunities to other sectors exchange ideas in the selection • Experimental ERFA (exchange of processes and in conjunction with • To continue our focus on educa­ experiences) meetings are held for employee development inter­ tion at DLG, and also increase female owners in DLG’s retail regions, views. Across the Group, we will efforts in countries other than where go-home meetings discuss also share our experience and Denmark, e.g. by drawing on the work of the Board of Representadisseminate the most effective experience from the Danish certi­ tives and current topics with the parefforts to other countries fication and training of sales staff ticipation of female board members. DLG’s board members become coordinators in the ERFA groups. • The Board has an annual point on the agenda for ‘Women in the Board of Representatives and the Board’ – to adopt initiatives and follow development. • DLG’s HR department will be in dialogue with agricultural colleges with the aim of introducing students, especially women, to the concept of owner-election at DLG. DLG Group CSR Report 2018 37 Diversity strategy Gender diversity DLG has adopted a diversity strategy The gender distribution at managewhereby we apply a broader diversity ment level is characterised by how 43% perspective that extends beyond genwe have many job functions which der. This strategy describes our overall are traditionally male occupations vision for diversity and is based on four and for which the recruitment pool elements: therefore primarily consists of men. If we solely consider the gender dis1. We will establish an inclusive tribution among white collar workers, workplace by supporting a culthe gender balance is more even than 29% ture that promotes collaboration the gender balance for all employees. and fairness, and that gives indiCompared to 2017, in 2018 the per26% vidual employees the opportucentage share of female managers in nity to make a contribution and all four of the countries mentioned develop their full potential. increased significantly, and in Sweden and Germany the percentage even 2. We will recruit and hire from a doubled in just one year. diverse and qualified group of potential applicants, to ensure a high-performing workforce. 3. We must have managers who can lead in a diverse environment and create an inclusive culture. 4. We take responsibility by measuring and following up on emFEMALE MANAGERS FEMALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES ployees’ perspectives on diversity and culture at the workplace, to ensure compliance with the strategy. DENMARK 38 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 FEMALE MANAGERS 29% FEMALE EMPLOYEES 45% FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES SWEDEN 52% FEMALE MANAGERS 11% FEMALE EMPLOYEES 26% FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES 41% GERMANY FEMALE MANAGERS 17% FEMALE EMPLOYEES 28% FRANCE FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES 38% DLG Group CSR Report 2018 39 AS PART OF MY DAILY WORK, I WORK WITH COLLEAGUES OF VARIOUS GENDERS, ETHNIC ORIGINS AND BACKGROUNDS 4 DENMARK 3,8 3,7 SWEDEN 3,7 4,3 FRANCE 4,2 4,1 GERMANY 4 0 1 2 3 4 5 IN OUR ORGANISATION, ALL EMPLOYEES HAVE THE SAME OPPORTUNITIES FOR DEVELOPMENT, IRRESPECTIVE OF GENDER, AGE AND BACKGROUND 4,2 DENMARK 3,9 4,2 SWEDEN 3,6 4,1 FRANCE 3,8 4 GERMANY 3,9 0 1 2 3 4 5 2017 2018 40 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 The above figures are from the anvised and challenged in conjunction One example of cooperation with nual employee satisfaction survey with both recruitment and promoeducational institutions and acathat is conducted in Q4 each year. tion, in order to reveal any bias and demics is DLG’s plant propagatiCompared to 2017, slightly fewer emensure good diversity in the team. on activity, Sejet Planteforædling, ployees experienced diversity in the which has hired a business PhD employee mix in 2018, while fewer A sustained approach to making who, during the next three years, employees experienced equal develDLG a diverse and inclusive will focus on the Genomic Selectiopment opportunities for everyone. workplace through education, on method. The project is supporThis will be one of the focus areas information and follow-up ted by Innovation Fund Denmark in both the central and local evaluaWe promote our diversity policy on and will run for three years in cotion of the 2018 employee satisfacthe website and in job advertisements: operation with Aarhus University. tion survey, and diversity and equal opportunities for all employees will “DLG is a diverse Group in which therefore remain a focus area in 2019. employees are united by the shared continue to create value and contribvalues of trustworthiness, ambition ute knowledge in encounters with Due to the upcoming opening of the and value creation. We therefore encustomers and the market. new head office in Fredericia, during courage everyone to apply, regardthe past year we welcomed more less of ethnic origin, gender, age, The first initiative was to upgrade the new employees in Denmark than sexuality, disability or religion.” sales force’s professional skills, and usual. During the first ten months of we introduced compulsory profes2018, more than 230 new employees At DLG, we wish to create diversity in sional certification within animal nustarted work at DLG and subsidiaries the workforce by appointing employtrition. In 2018, we initiated equivain Denmark, compared to around ees with different backgrounds in lent certification for crops, and more 160 employees in the whole of 2017. terms of education and professional than 30 of our sales representatives Selected functions and teams have experience. We are increasingly reachieved this certification. Professionalready moved to Fredericia, so that cruiting graduate employees to unal certification generally applies for we have had to recruit many new emdertake various specialist functions, three years, after which new certificaployees. This has enabled us to focus and we focus on being able to attract tion is required. Certification ensures on diversity in the individual teams graduates with academic qualificathe ongoing development of the prowith regard to such factors as age, tions within relevant disciplines. fessional knowledge and skills of our level of education, gender, etc. sales force. DLG’s sales organisation is critical to One means to achieve this has been DLG’s success and ability to succeed In 2018, we also strengthened our continued training for DLG’s new with its “Leading the Way” stratesales force’s commercial expertise managers in recruitment bias, which gy. In recent years, due to the major by launching the biggest training inis the unconscious deselection of structural changes in agriculture and itiative in DLG’s history: DLG’s Sales suitable candidates based on ethnic the industry in general, DLG has upAcademy. origin, gender, age, appearance, etc. graded the competences of the sales At the same time, managers are adforce in order to ensure that we can DLG Group CSR Report 2018 41 DLG’s Sales Academy matches the ence from our trainee programme, One important aspect of the traiacademy diploma subject “Sales Psywe set up an international Commodning programmes offered at DLG is chology and Basic Sales”, and 10 ECTS ity Trading trainee programme withmerit training, whereby employees credits are earned by passing the in the DLG Group, under which four without formal education, but with exam. However, the course is tailored trainees from Denmark, Germany and many years’ experience in the field to DLG, and during the coming year, the Baltic states are also completing a in question, have the opportunity all of our around 140 sales representwo-year programme. The aim of the to become a skilled freight driver, tative will take the course (comprising programme is to attract young talent or skilled warehousing and logistics 4 training days and 3 supervisor days), while also developing highly specialoperator or industry process operain which they will work on applying the ised competences in the commercial tor. The merit training programmes tools and knowledge acquired to their area, combined with solid knowledge contribute new expertise to DLG, own customer cases. The course ends of the Group and an international while the employees achieve docuwith an oral examination based on the perspective on the business. mentation of their skills and can geemployee’s own project assignment. nerally broaden their competences. In overall terms, at DLG we have for In recent years, between 8 and 11 many years traditionally given high employees per year have completed At DLG, we are proud to have many priority to employee training; for exa merit training programme. employees with a long length of serample, during the past year alone, vice with the Group. We are also aware more than 500 employees have atachieve greater gender diversity, that diversity in the age mix creates tended over 50 different courses and since these positions have traditionaldynamic impetus and thereby value for programmes. Employees are familiar ly been dominated by men. As a concustomers, colleagues and owners, so with our extensive catalogue of both sequence, in our German company, that we also focus on attracting youngprofessional and personal courses, HaGe, in 2017, 15 out of 33 new aper candidates to DLG. One path to while the development of employees pointments to commercial positions recruiting younger employees and emis discussed annually at the individual and two out of five new appointments ployees from other sectors is our twodevelopment interview with the emto management positions were womyear Sales Trainee programme, which ployee’s immediate manager, where en. Furthermore, in our Swedish subhas been running in Denmark since a development plan for the coming sidiary, Svenska Foder, today 41% of 2014. We currently have four trainees year is determined and the employee the sales representatives are women. in the first year and four trainees in the is put forward for relevant courses or In Denmark we have strong focus on second year of the programme. training programmes. appointing more women to commercial positions in the future, since toOur trainees come from all over the Continued efforts to have at day only 7% of our sales representcountry and from different professional least one of each sex on the list atives are women. We can also see areas. During the two-year programme of candidates on all recruitment that, in 2018, we appointed 93 new they will receive thorough training in for managerial and specialist employees to management and spesales, product knowledge and knowlpositions cialist positions, of whom 40% are edge of DLG and the market in which In connection with recruitment for women and 60% are men. we operate. managerial and commercial poIn 2018, based on the good experisitions, the DLG Group wishes to 42 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 Increase the ratio of female In DLG’s German company, HaGe, managers at all levels, thereby during the past year, we reviewed ensuring an internal pipeline to salary levels (average) by gender the top managerial levels, e.g. for all employees. This has shown by using a structured process that the difference in favour of for talent identification and male employees is minimal (bedevelopment low 3%). Zooming in on the saOne of the conditions for ensuring lary level of employees with less a good pipeline to management, than 20 years’ length of service at with a balanced gender distribution HaGe, the pay gap is completely of candidates, is that immediate erased. managers evaluate employees according to the same parameters, irrespective of gender. Every year, each employee attends a development interview with his or her immediate manager, at which the employee is assessed on the basis of two parameters: Readiness for new challenges and Performance. In 2018, 16% of female employees and 14% of male employees were assessed as performing at a high level while also being ready for new challenges. The aforementioned indicates that managers at DLG assess the development potential equally, regardless of gender. The next step towards ensuring a balanced gender distribution of the candidates in the pipeline to senior management is that the underlying management layer also has a good gender balance. DLG Group CSR Report 2018 43 WORKING ENVIRONMENT At DLG, we have almost 6,400 emPersonal protective equipment The mapping is considered by the loployees, who all contribute to runIn connection with our focus areas cal health and safety groups and comning a successful and effective busifor 2018, we have ensured that promittees (in which employee-elected ness. Reliable, value-creating and tective equipment is available and representatives play a key role), and ambitious employees are DLG's most that there are procedures for its use. in the preparation and prioritisation important resource, and they are the When the equipment was issued, the of action points. In this respect, 1,100 basis for our continued positive delevel of dust was mapped. In addiaction points were considered and velopment. In addition to ordinary tion, notifications were established are now being executed. personnel policies, we work with for drivers who are required to load cross-sectoral policies for social regoods which impose stricter protecNear-misses sponsibility and governance. tive equipment requirements. As a We have increased the number of consequence of an accident in the registered near-misses significantly A good and safe working environindustry, health and safety in confrom the previous years. At DLG, we ment is vital to ensuring that developjunction with the filling of silos at our take a positive view of the increase in ment is possible. At DLG, the workcustomers is being mapped. This the number of registered near-missing environment is about preventing work will continue in 2019. es. We are convinced that by more work-related injuries and illness, while systematically registering and learnat the same time creating a social enInspection rounds ing from near-misses we will be able vironment that promotes employees’ Inspection rounds are an important to prevent many occupational accijob satisfaction and motivation on a aspect of preventive work. An inspecdents. In mid-2016, we developed an day-to-day basis. tion round is a way of monitoring and online system for the registration of controlling the working environment near-misses that is available to everyWorking in agriculture and production conditions, and may e.g. lead to the one on the intranet. One new aspect is associated with greater risks than registration of near-misses and/or is that we set a target of 100 regisother types of work. It is therefore vithe establishment of an action plan. trations in 2018, but with 65 registal for DLG to always maintain a safe At DLG, our policy is that all locatrations achieved, this is an area that and healthy working environment tions where employees are present requires greater efforts. for our employees. We do this with must be inspected by a health and preventive activities and informasafety representative at least once a Occupational accidents tion campaigns related to the safety, year. At DLG, we have approximately DLG works continuously to improve health and working environment of 165 locations in Denmark that must the working environment for our emour employees. be inspected once a year. We had ployees. in order to comply with the achieved 81% by the end of 2018. authorities’ regulations in this area. To 44 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 GOALS FOR 2019 a great extent, the day-to-day work is • To have extra focus on the day• To work with ergonomics to undertaken by a skilled occupational to-day working environment and ensure that employees work work and safety organisation. well-being during the change appropriately and prevent process of locating our head repetitive strain injuries As part of our working environment office in Fredericia initiatives, we managed to signifi• To establish a system for the cantly reduce the number of occupa• To make changes to the management of safety data tional accidents in 2018 compared to occupational health and safety sheets and workplace instructions 2017. At the same time, the duration organisation of the resulting periods of sick leave • To re-evaluate the structure and declined. In 2018, we registered 23 • To give greater priority to Groupfrequency of the execution of occupational accidents in Denmark wide occupational health and inspection rounds, which are with days of absence, compared to safety cooperation currently performed annually 26 in 2017. The total number of accidents in our German subsidiaries has • To implement action points in • To register at least 100 nearalso declined, from a total of 124 in the action plans identified in misses 2017 to 103 in 2018. We will endeavworkplace evaluations, inspection our to maintain the positive developrounds and registration of nearment by giving priority to Group-wide misses occupational health and safety cooperation, including joint organisation, policies, registrations and sharing of best practices across country and company boundaries. DLG Group CSR Report 2018 45 Ongoing working environment a consequence of this “promotion”, initiatives the occupational health and safety The employee satisfaction survey work has become more visible to the from 2018 again showed robust satismanagement team. faction and engagement on the part of the Group's employees. In addiWe can see from the type of occution, the employees state that they pational accidents, and the dialogue have an appropriate framework to be in the health and safety committees, able to handle their tasks on a good that focusing on the safety of our and secure basis. This indicates that transport operations and better use the general working environment of of personal protective equipment will the DLG Group is satisfactory. With have the greatest effect. Workplace extra focus on the coordinating work, evaluations, inspection rounds and in the coming years we will be able near-misses are also recurring topics. to inspire each other and generally This will, for example, be handled in increase the level of satisfaction. workplace evaluation action plans, for which purpose a new IT tool has Combining DLG’s new head office and been procured. regional office entails many changes, as well as well-being and occupational health and safety-related tasks for the organisation. We will therefore have extra focus on the day-to-day working environment and well-being during the change process that DLG is implementing by locating our head office in Fredericia. This also requires changes to the occupational health and safety organisation, so as to reflect the situation after moving DLG’s head office to Fredericia. Occupational health and safety initiatives are monitored closely by DLG's management team, especially in the Production & Logistics department, where the development is reviewed at monthly meetings, including with regard to occupational accidents. As 46 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 47 130 VILOFOSS ACCIDENTS WITH AT LEAST ONE DAY OF ABSENCE SVENSKA FODER 2 2 DLG 23 HAGE 43 TEAM 48 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 60 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 49 The DLG Group is one of Europe's largest agricultural companies. We create value for our owners and customers as the farmer's preferred partner. We will set the direction among Europe's leading agricultural companies. We will be an indispensable element of the world's most important business. The Group is bound together by our core values. We are trustworthy, value-creating and ambitious in everything we do. DLG a.m.b.a. • Vesterbrogade 4A •DK-1620 Copenhagen V • www.dlg.dk • CVR no. 24 24 69 30 B19012
