TO: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT FEBRUARY 2019 GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS UNLOCKING HUMAN POTENTIAL ENABLING SUCCESS FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL LETTER FROM THE CEO: MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS / FEBRUARY 2019 FSI has continued to establish ethical recruitment initiatives in new sectors in the GCC and also in the United Kingdom. FSI is also developing a strong alliance of business and other stakeholders in the UK, US and the GCC to help increase the demand for workers deployed under the protection of a FairLabour model. FSI has signed a partnership agreement with a GCC group of companies for the delivery of facilities management and security services in the region in 2019. This will mark significant progress in our strategy to scale up our FairLabour services in this important market. We have been in discussions with the States of Jersey in the Channel Islands and are likely to be providing personnel from both Nepal and Kenya to work on temporary permits in the hospitality and agriculture industries. This is an exciting new market for FSI that has been opened up directly because of our FairLabour model. Once the Jersey project has been successful we may see this leading to the provision of personnel on temporary work permits from multiple source countries into the wider UK. FSI has partnered with Global Agricultural Holdings to provide innovative technological agriculture solutions combined with FairLabour to enhance food security and ethical job creation in new markets in the GCC, Nepal and other markets. FSI working in partnership with Ethical Innovations has managed to secure support for the establishment of a Not-forProfit organisation called the FairLabour Alliance which will provide actionable advice for businesses who are committed to addressing exploitation and debt bondage in their labour supply chains. In 2019, we will increase the engagement of impact investment partners to scale-up FSI’s ethical recruitment capability across the GCC and within US Federal Labour Supply Chains. FSI continues to invest in establishing source country training initiatives to provide high quality skills training to candidates keen to access employment with FairLabour employers. Furthermore I am pleased to confirm that the FSI Worldwide Group reaffirms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to continue to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy and ethos of our company. A key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the submission of a Communication on Progress that sets out FSI’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. FSI commits to do this annually and thereby record our involvement and improvements in attaining and maintaining the Ten Principles transparently. FSI is also committed in sharing this information with its stakeholders using its primary channels of communications. Yours sincerely Tristan Forster Founder and CEO FSI Worldwide Group FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 2 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL LETTER FROM THE CEO: INTRODUCTION FSI Worldwide (FSI) is an award-winning Global Workforce Solutions Company. It was founded in 2006 in response to widely corrupt and illegal recruitment practices to provide an ethically sound and commercially sustainable recruitment and management solution for former military personnel migrating for work from South Asia into the post-conflict environments of Iraq and Afghanistan. It has since broadened the scope of the business to include all categories of migrant workers from multiple source countries into various sectors including construction, manufacturing, agriculture, facilities management, hospitality and catering. FSI used its indepth understanding of both the exploitation faced by workers which include, but are not limited to; fraudulent documentation, extortionate demands for payment and deception ahead of worker value and effectiveness, and the challenges faced by recruitment companies and employers in delivering ethical recruitment to develop its own ethical FairLabour recruitment model. This pioneering FairLabour model brings together a complex set of processes and infrastructure in both source countries and destination countries, which cut out the risk of external agents corrupting the recruitment process, ensuring all continues » FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 3 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL personnel are protected from paying fees and free from exploitation, whilst enabling FSI to recruit, train, mobilise, and manage workers to a very high ethical and quality standard. FSI has recruitment and training operations to multiple source countries. To date, it has helped over 10,000 vulnerable people move from conditions of modern day slavery into decent work, an achievement that was recognised with the UN Business Leaders’ Award in 2013. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 4 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL INTRODUCTION Illustration demonstrating FSI’s unique and wholly owned ethical staffing system: SELECTION DEMOBILISATION VETTING FSI’s unique and wholly owned ethical staffing system SCREENING MANAGEMENT guarantees full control of the entire recruitment process from recruitment through to demobilisation. MOBILISATION MEDICAL & TRAVEL TRAINING FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 5 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL CONTENTS: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENTAL ANTI-CORRUPTION FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 6 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI was founded on the ethos that investing in people and protecting vulnerable migrant workforces from exploitation is an imperative both from a human rights perspective and a business one. The core values of FSI’s FairLabour recruitment model wholly commits it to respecting and promoting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which aligns its practice with the Global Compact principles. Its world class services provide businesses with the highest standards and enhance business productivity, whilst more widely creating a value for ethical recruitment. In stark contrast to FSI’s pioneering Declaration of Human Rights and are FairLabour model is the widespread more specifically based on: Posters from the series that form part of FSI's Code of practice of debt bondage, which blights • The UN’s Guiding Principles, Conduct and Guiding Principles. the lives of migrant workers the world • ILO Operational Principles and over by forcing them into punitive Guidelines, financial arrangements with agents and • ILO Convention 181, deploying workers without any relevant • Dhaka Principles, experience or skills training. • Palermo Protocol, • The Verité Framework for Ethical The ILO estimates that there are 21 Recruitment. million people globally in forced labour, • The IOM IRIS Principles however it is recognised that many more than this suffer from debt bondage and FSI’s vision and values take from all of the associated exploitation, which it calls the above and systematic adherence is modern day slavery. applied to its Code of Conduct in all of its operations, procedures, processes and FSI’s guiding principles and Code of practice. FSI places great importance Conduct encompass The Universal on integrity, honesty, transparency and FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 7 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL accountability, taking responsibility IMPLEMENTATION to ensure both the protection of those recruited by FSI and respect in all FSI operates a robust mechanism of employee engagement. FSI invests compliance and transparency. All of its in due diligence of partners, clients work is built around its Code of Conduct and suppliers before briefing them and Guiding Principles, which are published extensively on its guiding principles on its website and posted publicly in all of and Code of Conduct and informs its offices. It ensures worker protection them of the need to comply to its high through its vertically integrated FairLabour ethical standards. Additionally, FSI model, which means it self performs the integrates internal and external audit whole process of recruitment under its own mechanisms to ensure compliance. license and infrastructure, therefore cutting FSI looks to working transparently out corruption and exploitation from third with clients in both conception and party agents. execution of projects, understanding that this promotes both effectiveness and All FSI personnel and new recruits, value. FSI is passionate about providing whether for internal employment or on satisfying employment with dignity to external contracts receive comprehensive the people that it recruits and manages, training on FSI’s Code of Conduct and its whilst being committed to supporting its guiding principles. Recruits also receive clients and colleagues. comprehensive orientation training prior FSI’s leadership role in ethical to deployment, including an overview of recruitment requires it to regularly any third party employer policies that are and proactively review and develop its relevant to their welfare and protection. This policies, processes and implementation, induction training covers job site country ensuring full compliance of human rights briefs, working hours, and grievance across the organisation at all times. reporting tools, such as, Safecall; an FSI employs a range of mechanisms independently operated toll free number to safeguard adherence to its Code of anyone can call anonymously to log a Conduct; including internal and external breach of policy. Clients are required to audits, use of an independent violation display Safecall posters, so workers can reporting hotline service called Safecall, readily access this service when needed. through rights training for recruits and clients and the use of state-of-the-art lie Training on FSI’s Code of Conduct is detection technology. FSI is committed refreshed annually for existing employees to ensuring its high ethical standards ensuring that adoption of these policies are are upheld across the business from the incorporated throughout FSI’s operations grassroots all the way to its executive at all levels. The Staff Handbook given leadership. to all employees, outlines the grievance reporting process, encouraging vigilance FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 8 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL and reporting of policy violations. All • Training and certifications THE FSI MODEL employees sign a non-extraction form at the • Work country orientation to the start of their employment. A non-extraction employer, the work site and the job form is a statement that the FSI employee • Workforce leadership and understands that no payment is to be taken management including dispute from candidates and clearly states that the resolution employee will be terminated if this happens, • Welfare provision to workers’ which has proven to be very effective. dependants in origin countries Internal policies are regularly reviewed and • Welfare provision to workers in work enhanced as part of internal and external countries audits, so that FSI is always working to the • Payroll highest ethical standards. Each department • HR processes including annual is individually and collectively responsible reviews, remedial training and for the day-to-day implementation and disciplinary interviews compliance of FSI’s FairLabour model with • Leave management including travel any deviation taken very seriously. • Consultancy to employers • Replacement of workers FSI’s approach to client engagement is unique; it includes comprehensive due Ideally, clients chose all or most of the diligence on all its clients and suppliers services listed above and FSI embeds its before engaging contractually, including staff at the work site to wholly support the an initial assessment of working and living delivery of the project, which means FSI is conditions, health and safety protocols, directly responsible for the duty of care of and welfare provisions. Workers receive workers and compliance of ethical practice the salary they expect, contracts are not throughout the supply chain. The market duplicated or revoked, work hours and leave is fiercely competitive however, so not all allowance is as contracted and agreed by of FSI’s contracts engage on a full turnkey the worker and accommodation meets an service, despite this, standards remain acceptable standard. Clients are offered an imperative and are monitored through training where required. Transparency robust asymmetric auditing methods, and regular auditing ensures breaches which are dynamic in nature and cannot be of compliance are spotted and resolved planned for by target organisations. without delay. FSI will only work with clients and partners that respect and FSI has developed a FairLabour tech embrace ethical recruitment principles. platform; which is in a beta testing phase, Additionally, FSI management visits each but designed to cut out agents and fixers job site regularly, on a 3 to 6 month basis to whose malign influence is responsible for make sure standards are maintained and a significant portion of the exploitation of to provide workers with an additional forum vulnerable workers. FSI recognises that to which they can raise any issues and technology alone will not solve the problems concerns. associated with debt bondage and that it needs to be combined with education to Some clients want a very basic recruitment change corporate culture, governance and service without additional management corrupt political practice. services, but much of FSI’s work is based MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES on a blended turnkey recruitment service. The FSI turnkey service is a bespoke The FairLabour recruitment model opportunity for clients, who don’t have the has been fundamental in changing infrastructure, a mechanism to outsource the lives of thousands of people the management of recruits to FSI. The worldwide seeking employment and service is matched specifically to client/ better conditions for their families and partner needs, but will consist of all or communities. Clients are immediately some of the add-on services listed here: impressed by the difference in attitude • Training in the source country displayed by hard working and loyal • Air and ground movement between staff, and the benefits of FSI’s approach the origin country and the work site are immediately apparent. On the • Visas, medicals and other government international stage FSI is a regular requirements in the work country contributor and speaker at conferences, • Non-employment insurance including those hosted by the ILO and View the interactive version of this model: www.fsi-worldwide.com/about-us/approach • Accommodation UN. • Feeding and other life support • Provision of equipment and clothing • Provision of medical services FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 9 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL FSI was recognised at the World and IOM is conducting an audit this year Economic Forum in Davos in January through its IRIS programme. Additionally, 2013 with the UN GIFT Award for the U.S. Department of State conducts leading international industries in the detailed audits of FSI’s operations on fight against human trafficking and behalf of its prime contractors annually exploitation of workers. In 2017 FSI and has always found that its standards received a honourable mention by exceed their recommendations. the Thomson Reuters Foundation at its Stop Slavery Awards. Additionally, A prime example of FSI’s high standards acclaim has been received from the US is the ILO Fair Project, part of the ‘Work Department of State, the UK Foreign and in Freedom‘ programme, which created a Commonwealth Office, the UK Ministry of safe pipeline for female migrant workers Defence, the UN, the ILO, and the IOM. from Nepal into the apparel sector in Jordan. Compliance of ILO’s Labour FSI continually boasts an impressive Standards throughout the process is a record of high standards with minimal requisite for all partnering organisations, complaints against the company from of which FSI is now the only one. either recruits, employees or clients. If a complaint is made against FSI or any FSI has developed an unparalleled of its staff being in breach of its Code of reputation for the successful provision Conduct, the allegations are investigated of the highest quality ‘FairLabour’ Posters from the series that form part of FSI's Code of thoroughly and any issues are addressed workforce solutions. Leading by Conduct and Guiding Principles. promptly and seriously with a positive example, it regularly consults on why outcome. FSI is clear about its zero ethical recruitment practices are tolerance policy with concerns to important and how they can be adopted corruption and exploitation. to end widespread debt bondage. FSI recruits are chaperoned to their destinations from source countries, unless they are seasoned recruits, well versed in FSI policy, in which case they know to report issues experienced whilst deploying. FSI takes every precaution to diminish risk. All suppliers it works with for services such as the provision of air transportation, insurance and accommodation, are inducted on FSI’s Code of Conduct. All service providers such as medical clinics, tailoring services, hotels and travel agencies are required to sign formal contracts, incorporating FSI’s ethical recruitment principles, including a clause of contract withdrawal in the event the service provider is in breach of FSI’s standards. In the case of a breach of contract, where possible a corrective action plan will be employed, or otherwise the contract will be terminated. FSI operates entirely transparently and opens itself up for external evaluation and scrutiny to identify any gaps in its training, processes and practice. When FSI is audited, its service providers are also audited as a part of the process, so as to ensure the whole supply chain is free of corruption and exploitation. Verité conducted an audit of FSI’s Nepal operations in 2017/2018 resulting in it being awarded the highest standard FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 10 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL LABOUR PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI adheres strictly to the ILO’s Operational Principles and Guidelines, and to Convention 181, operating to best practice standards stipulated by the Athens Ethical Principles, the Dhaka Principles, Palermo and Luxor protocols, and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Additionally, FSI adheres with the U.S. Trafficking in Persons regulations, the Federal Acquisition Regulations. It is also compliant with UK legislation: the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Bribery Act of 2012. FSI delivers specifically recruited leverages its services to work against workers matched and sourced to the these risks and to offer business an needs of both the client and the job, alternative route to what could otherwise safeguarding workers from being be argued as ‘the only choice’. FSI exposed to risk in jobs they are not consults with businesses to identify, qualified for and ensuring a happy and map and quantify these risks, often in productive workforce. Workers are complex supply chains, offering them selected on merit through a transparent solutions to mitigate and eradicate recruitment process where they are exploitation. security screened, ability tested and IMPLEMENTATION participate in compulsory statutory medical tests, without the charge of fees The FSI staff handbook is translated and with no bias or nepotism. Medical into all the languages of its employees/ clinics carrying out tests in the source recruits and accompanied with training countries are vetted for discrepancies to ensure comprehensive understanding by having workers medical tests of FSI’s Code of Conduct. Policies repeated in the destination countries. concerning equal opportunities, antiFSI’s dual testing process obliges the harassment and bullying, whistleblowing, source country clinics to take financial health and safety, stress at work, responsibility for the costs of participants social responsibilities and grievance who fail the tests in destination mechanisms are all covered in the countries, which is a costly deterrent handbook. against malpractice. Misconduct is taken extremely seriously and would result in action against the source country medical clinic. The context in which FSI works is high risk of slavery and debt bondage. FSI FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 11 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL FSI’s Code of Conduct contains the following provisions, specifically in relation to forced labour: • We do not charge any fees or costs of • We ensure employment contracts recruitment to the candidate in whole are understood and translated into or in part, including costs associated native languages where required. with travel and visa processing. FSI ensure that employees receive • We ensure that workers are not copies of their employment contracts subject to any form of forced labour prior to deployment. Contract and have the freedom to terminate substitution (the replacement of their contracts. an original contract or any of its • We do not withhold identity provisions with those that are less documents such as passports. favourable) is strictly prohibited. Where it is necessary to take • We ensure all employees receive documents from workers (for visa pre-deployment orientation covering processing or similar), or if the topics such as the terms and worker requests we hold them for conditions of work, their rights and safe keeping, a signed receipt is given responsibilities, living conditions to the worker and they may request and grievance mechanisms. the document back at any time as • We ensure that workers are paid in well as a photocopy of the document. full on time every month and that • We ensure workers’ freedom of clear and transparent information movement is not unreasonably is provided to workers regarding restricted. days worked, rates of pay, etc. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES promotes, governs and oversees the implementation of the International Code As a pioneer of FairLabour, FSI is of Conduct and promotes the responsible making a major contribution to ending provision of private security services. debt bondage. FSI is shaping opinion, demonstrating valuable leadership and FSI is in partnership with the Circus offering workable solutions. To date Kathmandu Foundation (CKF), FSI’s efforts have protected over 10,000 supporting it launch the film Even migrant workers and their families from When I Fall on children trafficked into debt bondage. circuses. It is also half way through a year long series of outreach education FSI allocates significant resources and workshops on human trafficking, debt capacity to engage collaboratively with bondage and fair recruitment, which a broad range of stakeholders, such as are being carried out in rural locations the ILO, IOM, the UN, Humanity United, across Nepal at particular risk of human Verité, Open Society Foundations, trafficking and migrant exploitation. governments and business to share best These outreach events have proven very practice and expertise. Tristan Forster, successful thus far with large numbers FSI’s CEO was invited to speak on a panel in attendance and audiences proactively at a conference organised by the Qatar engaging in Q&A sessions. Chamber of Commerce, the ILO and IHRB in Doha on ‘Labour Law Reforms in Qatar: Challenges and Opportunities for Business’ in October 2018. Followed by a presentation at the World CEO Forum event in Dubai. The event was a meeting of industry innovators, thought leaders, internationally recognised CEO’s of over 50 leading organisations of the region and government brought together to discuss emerging regional and global trends, to share knowledge and best practice. Then in November he spoke on a panel on ‘Human Trafficking’ at ICoCA’s annual general assembly in Geneva. ICoCA is the association that FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 12 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI’s work doesn’t put it at the forefront of environmental challenges. Despite this, FSI promotes an environmentally responsible approach to its business employing environmentally friendly technologies where applicable. FSI is in the process of engaging with suspicions of anyone undertaking any an organisation that measures carbon activity that may cause serious harm to emissions, so it can offset its carbon the environment. footprint. FSI’s environmental impacts FSI is committed to review its actions and are largely secondary through the continuously develop its working practice work of its clients, and suppliers, so to achieve a diminished negative impact FSI consciously looks to work with on the environment. Its office’s operate companies that operate responsibly with environmental responsibility at when purchasing products and services their core such as, conserving water, to mitigate harm to the environment. recycling waste, switching off monitors and printers at night and using energy Environmental Principles are not at the more efficiently. forefront of FSI’s operational policies, due to its core business not having a MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES direct impact on the environment. Any impact FSI has on the environment is FSI continues to have a clean record in largely secondary, through the work terms of issues involving environmental of its clients. FSI consciously looks misconduct. General waste and energy to work with companies that operate consumption in its offices is being responsibly. FSI also uses suppliers reduced, paper and plastics recycled that are environmentally conscious, and a responsible and environmentally when purchasing products and services conscious culture encouraged. to ensure minimum harm to the environment. IMPLEMENTATION Environmental policies are incorporated in FSI’s Code of Conduct and staff handbook, including a section on employee obligation to report FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 13 FSI WORLDWIDE / COP / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT / FEB 2019 CONFIDENTIAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS FSI’s policy on corruption references global legislation, such as the UN Convention against Corruption, the OECD anti-bribery convention, the Dhaka Principles, the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). FSI is also committed to abiding with all source country legislation of the jurisdictions where it operates, such as employment law and regulations on minimum salary standards. FSI’s policy covers zero tolerance on facilitation fees and payments, bribes, involvement in any political campaigning and gifts, including hospitality and expenses. All FSI clients and suppliers are contractually obligated to also observe the laws and regulations of source and destination countries. FSI operates a transparent zero FSI largely works where corruption is tolerance policy to bribery and endemic and widely accepted, which corruption. We are specialists in means traditional auditing processes identifying and mitigating labour end up being largely nugatory, with supply chain risks and developing bribes bypassing the process. FSI practical solutions to achieve ethically however, has found asymmetric compliant supply chains. We understand auditing an effective tool to both the challenges faced by employees, mitigate and expose non-compliance, employers, government and other as it is carried out on projects without stakeholders, and our approach is notice and often undercover, although based on constructive collaboration to FSI employees and partners are aware the benefit of all parties, but without it takes place which works as an flexibility where corruption is concerned. important deterrent. FSI was founded on the principles that The FSI accounting department is endemic corruption and exploitation in routinely scrutinised via monthly supply chains needed to be tackled and trading meetings, quarterly board it has remained committed to fighting meetings and yearly audits carried unethical and corrupt practices. FSI’s out by external auditors. The Board, vertically integrated FairLabour Model the CEO and divisional heads have full mitigates corruption risks and allows for visibility of the accounts. prompt decisive disciplinary action in the MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES rare instances it may occur. FSI has passed all of its audits since its IMPLEMENTATION inception without issue. FSI’s staff handbook is clear on its zero FSI’s reputation amongst clients and tolerance policy to corruption, bribery broadly across the migrant recruitment and any kind of facilitation fees. It also sector, is one of integrity, transparency, clearly outlines the procedure to follow accountability and quality. FSI has a to whistleblow suspected misconduct. clean legal track record. The Safecall free hotline call service is a tool for workers to whistleblow. Any sort of misconduct by an employee will result in their dismissal and will be dealt with without delay. FSI reserves the right to suspend and/or terminate contracts with business partners who fail on compliance of its Code of Conduct. FSI WORLDWIDE / GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE 14 CONTACT US FSI Worldwide Limited Dubai office: PO Box 213541, Dubai, UAE. T: +971 (0)4 454 1328 (Dubai) E: info@fsi-worldwide.com GLOBAL WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS BUILT ON INTEGRITY & EXCELLENCE
