CSR Report | 2018 Introduction Corporate Social Responsibility is an integral part of Gorrissen Federspiel’s business activities, and for many years we have been involved in CSR initiatives in a number of different respects. In 2018, we joined the United Nations Global Compact, and this is our first Communication on Progress (COP). We look forward to giving our clients, employees, business partners and other stakeholders an insight into our latest CSR work. Our approach We base our CSR activities on our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles as well as on our five corporate values: quality, team spirit, ethics, value creation and vision. Our values are an expression of what we stand for and of what we consider important – both professionally and personally. They show who we are and reflect in how we cooperate with our stakeholders. Our vision Gorrissen Federspiel has a clear vision: We aim to be the preferred workplace of the future and to continue to be the first choice for clients who are facing challenging transactions and cases. To maintain the trust of our stakeholders and to achieve our vision, we take our social responsibility seriously. This means that CSR forms an integral part of our day-to-day work – both internally and externally. This is reflected in the way we run our firm, in the actions we take and in the causes we support. Our work Among other things, we engage with social responsibility by committing ourselves to making positive contributions to the community. We do so primarily by offering pro bono services and contributing our knowledge and competences to projects that we consider have a beneficial social impact. We participate in a number of different initiatives, but the two main areas of our pro bono efforts are young people and the rule of law. In this report, we provide an insight into our contribution to both of these areas in Denmark and abroad. Our progress Our approach to CSR is to bring particular focus to the areas where we can have a positive impact and create value. It is about being aware of our strengths in order to be able to make a significant and measurable difference. We highlight examples of our CSR progress in this report. We hope you enjoy reading our first COP. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or comments. Martin André Dittmer Camilla C. Collet Managing Partner Partner mad@gorrissenfederspiel.com ccc@gorrissenfederspiel.com Facts | 2018 467 261 employees lawyers 42 % 14 % 10 % female lawyers female partners maternity, paternity (excl. partners) or parental leave 91 % 2.5 % job satisfaction sickness absence survey per employee 5 16 lawyers educational leave law students The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles We are proud to implement the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles in our CSR initiatives and we provide examples below. We monitor the initiatives to ensure their continued effective contribution to CSR. The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles Gorrissen Federspiel’s CSR initiatives Human Rights (principles 1-2) Pro Bono, including focus on young people and rule of law • Human Practice Foundation • Grieving Children, Teens and Young Adults • Legal aid organisations AdvokatKODEKS Labour (principles 3-6) Employee satisfaction Diversity and anti-discrimination The Diversity Council Work life and gender diversity International perspective Lead the Future AdvokatKODEKS Environment (principles 7-9) In the canteen and in workspaces Waste management Energy and carbon emissions Certification Anti-Corruption (principle 10) Our corporate values – ethics Zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribery Whistleblower scheme AdvokatKODEKS Gorrissen Federspiel | CSR Report Editor Maria Glud Andersen, Gorrissen Federspiel Layout Denise Hennig, Gorrissen Federspiel Photos Nicky Bonne, Steen Knarberg, Bax Lindhardt, Jens Markus Lindhe, Henrik Woer, Gorrissen Federspiel Cover A detail of the painting ”The Bull” by Kasper Eistrup Print Knudtzon Graphic Gorrissen Federspiel Private Limited Partnership Axeltorv 2 1609 Copenhagen V Denmark +45 33 41 41 41 Silkeborgvej 2 8000 Aarhus C Denmark +45 86 20 75 00 contact@gorrissenfederspiel.com www.gorrissenfederspiel.com VAT 38 05 24 97 March, 2019 Content 8 Workplace 14 Education 22 Pro Bono 28 Community 36 Environment 40 Ethics Main features of our CSR Policies People/Human Resources We assess present and future employees based on their skills and abilities regardless of culture, gender, ethnicity, religion, age, social background, skin colour or sexual orientation. Our People/ HR Policy accounts for our bespoke career development and for our encouraging employees to have an international perspective. It is imperative for Gorrissen Federspiel that our lawyers observe all the social responsibility requirements that apply to them, including as regards ethics and pro bono work. Pro Bono Ethics, Anti-Corruption and Through our Pro Bono Policy, we support Human Rights internationally recognised human rights. A high ethical standard is one of our core The two main areas of our pro bono efforts values. We pursue a zero-tolerance policy are the education of young people and the as regards corruption and bribery. Our rule of law. We contribute to the educaemployees may report knowledge of, or tion and development of young people in suspicions of, any serious offences through Denmark and abroad, and we contribute to our whistleblower scheme. making justice accessible to all. We distance ourselves from any kind of human rights violation, however small the risk, and abide by Danish law, including human rights legislation. However, owing Environment and the Climate to the low risk of human rights violations The cornerstone of our Environmental involved in our business model, which Policy is that we strive to operate in a includes our operations being located manner that, to the highest extent possible, in Denmark, we do not have a separate takes environmental issues into account, Human Rights Policy. while at the same time meeting our clients’ requirements. We work continuously to promote sustainability in our Copenhagen and Aarhus offices. 6 Our business model, services and commitments Gorrissen Federspiel, a private limited partnership, is one of the leading law firms in Denmark and has strong international ties. We offer legal services in Danish and EU business law and have 27 practice areas. More than half of our approximately 467 employees are lawyers; each with the high-level education and qualifications that our clients demand. Compliance and CSR is one of our 27 practice areas. We offer highly specialised advice regarding businesses’ engagement with strategic compliance and social responsibility. We also regularly share our knowledge on corporate compliance through publications, newsletters, best practice guides and white papers. Having joined the UN Global Compact, we are committed to implementing the ten principles into our strategies and operations. We have appointed a CSR committee that is responsible for the development and implementation of our CSR policies, including those in the areas of People/Human Resources, Pro Bono, Environment and Ethics. The policies are available at all levels in the organisation in order to ensure their broad support. Gorrissen Federspiel’s CSR Committee Our CSR committee comprises individuals with interests and abilities specific to the CSR field. They meet regularly to discuss issues and to implement initiatives that promote social responsibility in our offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus. The committee’s members are the following: Camilla C. Collet Søren Fogh Partner Partner Jan Hellmund Jensen Sara Jursic Partner Head of HR 7 8 Workplace Education Pro Bono Community Environment Ethics 9 Ethics Quality Team spirit Our values Vision Value creation ” Quality is the foundation of our advice. We always take the time and care necessary ” Team spirit means in particular that we support each to ensure that this is palpable. It is the other and collaborate when professional pride that strengthens our solving assignments. This carefully prepared, sustainable and valuevalue is decisive for us in adding solutions for our clients. obtaining the best results. | Hans Nikolaj Amsinck Boie, assistant attorney, | Mikkel Dyregaard, IP & Digital Business IT employee ” Our firm has a unique history of approaching advocacy, and we strive for the highest levels of professionalism, ethical standards and decency. This means, among other things, that our work must be able to bear scrutiny and that we treat our colleagues in the same professional manner as we treat our clients. Long-standing relationships mean more than quick profits. I have always been proud of the firm’s code of ethics, and as a partner in the firm, I have the utmost consideration for this set of values. | Kenneth Hvelplund Pedersen, partner, Dispute Resolution ” The lawyer must not only be a problem ” To me, vision means being willing to engage with people, opinions and ideas that are different from solver when something what you are used to. Having outlook means goes wrong, but must meeting the world with an open mind and being also be a valuereceptive to new inputs. This approach provides a adding partner in greater understanding of the surrounding world ongoing dialogue and an increased readiness for change. In this and cooperation. regard, I have found that outlook is particularly | Merete Larsen, partner, helpful in cases with international aspects. Real Estate | Caroline Boysen, attorney, Corporate/Mergers & Acquisitions 10 Workplace Gorrissen Federspiel ranks among the leading law firms in Denmark and our market position is the result of constant dedication to quality by our talented employees. We have made it one of our strategic priorities to field the best teams and are constantly striving to recruit, retain and support the most talented individuals. We aim to create an attractive workplace where we focus on employee wellbeing, diversity and team spirit to help our employees prosper and thrive. Our corporate values Gorrissen Federspiel’s five corporate values are an essential part of our culture. They describe what we stand for, and what we consider important – both professionally and personally. They show who we are and reflect in how we cooperate with clients and colleagues. Implementation of our values It is important that our employees share our corporate values and are willing to engage with them as an integral part of their day-to-day work. Owing to their importance, we raise the values as early as the job interview and new employees participate in a workshop where they discuss what the values mean to them. In addition, we encourage employees to consider how they can uphold each value in daily working life. The investment is effective because we see that our values have been, and are, well-integrated among employees. Employee satisfaction Each year we conduct an employee satisfaction survey at Gorrissen Federspiel in order to measure general job satisfaction. The survey is made up of two parts: the first part relates to the professional working environment and the second part relates to the mental and physical environment. In 2018, we once again obtained an impressive response rate. At 91 %, we achieved an improvement on the 89 % obtained in 2017. We are very pleased that the majority of our employees are willing to take the time to share their perspectives, helping us to identify in which areas we should aim to improve. Based on the responses, we develop a plan of action to focus on relevant areas and to continue to ensure a high level of satisfaction. The 2018 job satisfaction survey revealed that we have made progress in the areas identified as focus areas during the last couple of years. This means that the sur11 vey not only pinpoints areas, where there is room for improvement, but it can also be used as a tool to measure whether our improvement efforts are effective. Diversity and anti-discrimination Everyone with a talent can perfect their skills at Gorrissen Federspiel. We assess future employees based on their qualifications and do not take culture, gender, ethnicity, religion, age, social background, skin colour or sexual orientation into consideration. We distance ourselves from any kind of human rights violation, however small the risk, and are aware that diversity and equal opportunities for everyone are essential to our continued success. We welcome lawyers with foreign qualifications as well. In our Shipping practice area, for instance, our team includes common law solicitors owing to the frequent use of English law in the sector. The Diversity Council Not only do we promote diversity in the workplace, we also work to promote diversity in society. In 2017, Gorrissen Federspiel joined, as a founding partner, a new strategic initiative called The Danish Diversity Council – now The Diversity Council (DC). For more information about this initiative, see page 31. Health and wellbeing A sustainable investment. We care for our employees’ physical and mental health. By investing in our employees’ wellbeing, we enable them to perform at their full potential and so provide the highest level of service to our clients. In 2018, we introduced several initiatives to improve employee wellbeing, and wellbeing continues to be a focus in 2019. More movement at work At the beginning of the year, our working environment committee considered how to incorporate more movement into working life. One of the 2018 initiatives was to offer all employees a fitness tracker to emphasise the importance of movement at work. “Take the stairs, raise your desk so you work standing up occasionally and go get water several times a day. By incorporating these small activities into the workday, your chances of reaching the recommended 10,000 daily steps get higher”, it said on the accompanying note. To complement the offer of a fitness tracker, health researcher and guest speaker, Bente Klarlund, paid us a visit and inspired us by talking about the importance of physical activity and taught us how to integrate movement into our working life. 12 ” It is my wish to create a sense of togetherness and to bring  out the best in all of us. I also wish to offer our employees the best possible working environment. One way to achieve this is by offering more individual tailor-made career paths, flexible (or reduced) working hours and the opportunity to work from home. | Martin André Dittmer, Managing Partner Stronger together In 2019, we will launch the “Stronger Together” concept. One of the initiatives we will implement in this connection is the KOMPIS method, which is an application platform based on leading neurophysiological stress research. The method makes use of micro-breaks in the workday to recharge physical and mental batteries, boost focus and increase concentration capacity. Sports and healthy food At Gorrissen Federspiel, we encourage participation in sports. We have teams for football, squash and basketball. Some of our practice areas also have running clubs, and each year Gorrissen Federspiel participates in the national DHL Relay Race for companies. Our kitchen staff prepare a healthy, varied and balanced diet on a daily basis with an emphasis on organic food, vegetables and fish. Work life and gender diversity At Gorrissen Federspiel we have a simple goal which is that our young talents should have the opportunity for long successful careers, regardless of gender. Women make up half the talent pool of Gorrissen Federspiel. We wish to avoid that talented women either check out when they train as lawyers at the beginning of their careers, or fall behind in their careers due to maternity leave or to scaling down after returning from leave. To overcome this risk, we strive as an organisation to motivate and retain talents of both genders to ensure that Gorrissen Federspiel remains an attractive workplace for everybody. Our initiatives include individual tailor-made career paths, flexible (or reduced) working hours and the opportunity to work from home. ” Stress can be an issue and is a risk that lawyers face. We aim to reduce this risk by openly discussing and addressing issues We have developed a common  early on. To this end together with a business language for stress – it is all psychologist, we have conducted workshops on well-being and stress in all of our practice about de-tabooing the issue. areas. | Sara Jursic, Head of HR 13 14 Workplace Education Pro Bono Community Environment Ethics 15 8 qualified as lawyers in 2018 12 women men ” The most rewarding aspect of acting as a  mentor is witnessing the professional and personal development of younger co-workers. Newly employed assistant attorneys tend to be unsure and insecure about their role and their responsibilities in the firm. Something as simple as receiving an email at night. Should I reply at once or is it okay to wait until the next morning? That is why I believe it is important for the mentors to be young attorneys. I remember my first day at the office and can easily relate to the challenges facing a new assistant attorney. | Vibeke Huus Rosenquist, attorney in IP & Digital Business. Employed with Gorrissen Federspiel since 2011 10 16 lawyers work or study abroad law students 16 Education We strive to support our employees’ careers through bespoke career development. By investing in the ongoing professional and personal development of each employee, we ensure a sustainable working environment. Our employees are our greatest asset, and their dedication and talents ensure that we can provide our clients with long-lasting legal solutions. Mentor programme Our law students and assistant attorneys benefit from Gorrissen Federspiel’s mentor programme. This means that they are paired with a mentor, who is an assistant attorney or an attorney, respectively. As mentors, assistant attorneys can help law students to prioritise assignments and to provide guidance regarding the specialisations and development offered by the firm. Mentors can also assist when it comes to challenges outside the office. “I go to my mentor if I am uncertain about something, or when I prepare a work schedule for the coming semester. He acts as a coordinator and helps me find the best solutions. Since my mentor is responsible for me, it is good to involve him when making decisions, so that he can guide me. He is also a great support if there are any issues of a personal or academic nature, which are affecting my daily life and potentially my working hours: for instance, during exams or other student activities, when I need to take time off from the office. It gives me a great sense of security having an attorney who knows me well, says Christine Kjærsgaard, law student and employed with Gorrissen Federspiel since 2016. Attorneys who act as mentors show assistant attorneys the ropes and guide them through the assistant attorney programme. Together with the partners in each practice area, mentors plan assistant attorneys’ training during the first 18 months of the programme. Mentors also help assistant attorneys settle in, both at work and socially. Finally, yet importantly, mentors support assistant attorneys by ensuring that they are on a continuous learning curve, and that they gain the maximum benefit from the programme. 17 Tailor-made professional expertise At Gorrissen Federspiel, we recognise that our employees are talents who may not all share the same career dreams and ambitions. Accordingly, the aim is that each employee receives bespoke career development. There are many paths to a good and exciting work life, and we want it to be possible for all employees – depending on their life situation – to plan a career path that is best suited to them. We wish to create a culture where each employee and his or her manager have a trusting relationship and there is an instinctive focus on job satisfaction, development and career, not only in the annual appraisals but also throughout the year. Counsellor model We have established a counsellor model, similar to the mentor programme, under which all lawyers are assigned to a partner or a senior attorney – a “counsellor”, who has the day-to-day responsibility for continual dialogue and for performance feedback. Our corporate values constitute the basis for the feedback since there must be a clear correlation between our values and the professional and personal development of each lawyer. Both the counsellor and the lawyer are responsible for ensuring a fruitful working relationship and for the lawyer’s continuous career development. We work with our internal “10 key items that describe the role of the counsellor” and our “10 key items that describe the role of the lawyer”. Training We support the professional and personal development of our lawyers through in-house courses. Some courses are mandatory and include project management, presentation and negotiation skills, but we also offer tailor-made courses to meet development needs. For instance, in their first or second year, our attorneys attend courses that focus on verbal communication and on body language to build relationships and trust in day-to-day work. The emphasis is on enabling our employees to use these skills in their working life, including in court hearings, client meetings, negotiations, interviews and daily task management. 18 International perspective An international perspective has always been part of Gorrissen Federspiel’s DNA. One of the firm’s founders, Per Federspiel, started the tradition of sending the firm’s young lawyers abroad to work for a period of time. We still maintain this tradition by regularly sending our attorneys, assistant attorneys and law students abroad to work or study. We also boost our international perspective by having foreign-qualified lawyers as integrated members of our teams. We are able to offer secondments to acclaimed international law firms in the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada, among others. For law students, if they take a semester abroad as part of their studies, we often support them with travel grants. We consider that international experience adds perspective and invests our lawyers with an ability to offer our international clients advice and services of unmatched quality. Andrew Poole, dispute resolution consultant Andrew Poole is a consultant in our Dispute Resolution practice area. He qualified as an English solicitor and has worked in London and Paris. For over a decade, he has focused mainly on international arbitration and assists the team in related cases. “Gorrissen Federspiel is one of the few places in Denmark where one can practice international arbitration at a high level, owing to the firm’s experience and partners’ profiles. This attracted me, alongside its enviable regard towards employees. While working, I am able to contribute my common-law knowledge to find answers to clients’ questions, as well as learn from the Danish perspective to develop as a lawyer.” 19 Preben Jakobsen, stationed in New York Preben Jakobsen, who is an attorney in our Restructuring & Insolvency practice area, spent three months in New York on secondment to the law firm Holland & Knight. “I worked on an array of interesting cases in close collaboration with a group of keenly committed and highly competent American lawyers. I was involved in the restructuring of various companies, for instance a classic American casino, an airline and last but not least a company operating a number of different American dating sites. I also joined my colleagues in the bankruptcy courts a couple of times. It was fascinating to learn firsthand how insolvency and restructuring matters are handled in the American legal system. I learnt a great deal during my stay in New York, and there is no doubt that it helped strengthen my international profile and gave me valuable experience. My wife and our son Hans Christian went with me to New York, and Hans Christian was just about eight months old when we left. Apart from cutting his first tooth in NYC, he also got a lot of “God bless that beautiful child” from all the people he charmed along the way. On the whole, we met a lot of friendly and very welcoming people in this absolutely amazing city.” Preben’s son overlooking the NYC skyline from their 55 th floor apartment 20 Leadership training We regularly encourage attorneys to attend training in managerial and business leadership. For instance, the Diversity Council (see page 31 for information on this strategic corporate alliance) set up the Advanced Leadership Program in cooperation with The Financial Times/IE Business School Corporate Learning Alliance. It is a masterclass course where each participant has a cross-industry mentor, who is available to discuss career development. The lawyers whom we select for this program are all candidates with high potential. It is our hope that they – while receiving optimum professional development – will be perceived as role models and ambassadors in strengthening and maintaining our pool of talented lawyers. Five of our talented female lawyers graduated from the Advanced Leadership Program in November 2018. In 2019, we will again select five talented female lawyers to participate in the Advanced Leadership Program. At the same time, four of our male attorneys will participate in a High Performance Leadership course at Copenhagen Business School. 21 22 Workplace Education Pro Bono Community Environment Ethics 23 24 Pro Bono Children and youth are the foundation of our future society. Gorrissen Federspiel puts accordingly great focus on contributing to the education and development of young people in Denmark and abroad. We also focus on securing the rule of law and contributing to access to justice. We are involved in pro bono work in many different contexts and encourage our lawyers to play an active role in pro bono projects. Human Practice Foundation In 2016, Gorrissen Federspiel partnered up with the Human Practice Foundation to build a new school in Dumkot, a small mountain town in the Dolakha province in north-east Nepal. Nepal is one of the world’s poorest countries, where access to education is not guaranteed. The catastrophic earthquake in 2015 only worsened the situation. The Human Practice Foundation is a visionary charitable organisation founded by Pernille Kruse Madsen, who qualified as an attorney at our law firm. The foundation primarily works with school and entrepreneurial projects, aiming to enable the local community to make its way out of poverty. As part of our partnership, our employees are able to apply for leave to travel to Nepal to teach English or to assist in other ways. Line Gritt Boel Jensen Line Gritt Boel Jensen took seven months’ leave of absence from her work as an attorney at Gorrissen Federspiel to do voluntary work for the Human Practice Foundation in Nepal. Line helped the organisation become an INGO (International NonGovernmental Organisation) in order for the organisation to gain full control of the aid work carried out in the region, which has suffered significant natural disasters and poverty. “I helped plan and prepare an extensive project description for the foundation for the years to come, including budgets, and contracts with local suppliers, schools, authorities, etc. The work resulted in approval by the ministries, which means that the foundation is now an INGO that can work directly with projects in Nepal,” Line explains. In addition to this, Line worked closely with the foundation’s different schools, e.g. by setting up new libraries, computer rooms and science labs, and by teaching English. “If you consider doing voluntary work, then go for it. It is incredibly rewarding, on both a personal and a professional level. Take the leap – you will definitely not regret it,” says Line. 25 ” If you are considering doing voluntary work, then go for  it. It is incredibly rewarding, on both a personal and a professional level. | Line Gritt Boel Jensen, attorney “We were very pleased to have Line with us and appreciated her efforts,” says Simon Gessø Hansen, who is Head of Projects at the Human Practice Foundation. From the beginning of 2019, our assistant attorney, Lene Machon Poulsen, will be stationed one day every second week at the Human Practice Foundation in the Danish city Nivå assisting with a new project initiated by the organisation. Grieving Children, Teens and Young Adults We cooperate with the Danish Counselling and Research Centre for Grieving Children, Teens and Young Adults to support individuals who are affected by the serious illness or death of an immediate family member. The cooperation involves a free telephone service on legal advice for the organisation’s users and their families. The advice relates to issues of family law, such as probate and related areas. ”From my point of view, it is very important that children and young people in bereaved and grieving families are especially well looked after and taken care of. Gorrissen Federspiel and I have chosen to become corporate ambassadors and to support the huge effort made by the Danish Centre for Grieving Children, Teens and Young Adults (Børn, Unge & Sorg), which is aimed at people who are experiencing illness or death in their immediate family. It is our hope that through our cooperation with Børn, Unge & Sorg we are able to help many families in bereavement,” says Marie-Louise Moltke-Leth, senior legal counsel at Gorrissen Federspiel. 26 Legal aid organisations Several of our law students and assistant attorneys work as volunteers at legal aid organisations, where they provide oral advice and write letters on behalf of clients. They contribute to providing everyone with information on rights and obligations as well as on fair legal treatment. “Since August 2016, I have worked as a volunteer at the Legal Aid Office in Gellerupparken. We advise private individuals on all kinds of issues, whether big or small, and the office offers assistance in a variety of areas. I mainly work on matters relating to consumer and employment law. It is important for me to help citizens who do not have the resources to handle such issues themselves or the financial ability to obtain assistance elsewhere,” says Christine Refsgaard, law student at Gorrissen Federspiel and employed with Gellerupparkens Retshjælp, Aarhus. Positions of trust and legal aid More than 20 of our partners hold positions of trust and we provide legal aid to more than ten different organisations. Examples include: – Michael Steen Jensen is on the board of Louis Petersens Børnegård. – Lasse Søndergaard Christensen has provided legal aid to Red Barnet. – Søren Høgh Thomsen has provided legal aid to Børneulykkesfonden. 27 28 Workplace Education Pro Bono Community Environment Ethics 29 30 Community At Gorrissen Federspiel, we take our social responsibility seriously and we do so by making our knowledge and resources available to others in various contexts. We support professional initiatives and focus on collaborative work locally and nationally. Initiatives promoting diversity We promote diversity in our workplace and also play an active role in different initiatives outside our offices that aim to promote diversity. The Diversity Council In 2017, Gorrissen Federspiel joined, as a founding partner, a new strategic initiative, namely The Diversity Council (DC). The aim of this initiative is to boost the number of female talents at the top level of management in Danish companies. We decided to join this partnership because one of our focus areas is how we can get better at motivating and maintaining talents of both genders. Within the DC context, we have chosen three strategic focus areas: 1) Securing a talent pipeline, 2) Inclusive management and 3) The preferred workplace of the future. #leadthefuture In spring 2018, DC and the former Danish Minister for Gender Equality, Karen Ellemann, launched the campaign “Lead the Future” which focuses on role models for young women at Danish higher education institutions. Like our fellow partner companies, we selected three female role models from our firm: partner Camilla C. Collet, partner Charlotte Louise Thorsen and attorney Gitte Dehn Lansner. On the campaign’s website, www.leadthefuture.dk, all three of them have shared their personal stories about their choice of career and their views on work-life balance. These stories aim to serve as inspiration for young women. As part of Gitte Dehn Lansner’s involvement in “Lead the Future”, she participated in the Danish television debate programme “Adam og Eva”. In the programme, the concept of motherhood was debated, and Gitte spoke about how she, as a career woman with four children, adapted to the demands of everyday life. 31 Debate on gender diversity In November 2018, Gorrissen Federspiel hosted a debate on gender diversity in top-level management, attended by, among others, the Minister for Gender Equality, Eva Kjer Hansen. She said: “Diversity at management level is about us becoming better at tapping into the entire talent pool and about businesses gaining advantages from increasing diversity at management level. Gorrissen Federspiel is aware of that, and they have started working on it. Figures indicate that there is plenty to be done. I look forward to participating in the debate, and I encourage all young talents, regardless of gender, to consider a career in management . She refers to the gender distribution at Gorrissen Federspiel, where there are seven female partners out of 49 partners, and the board of directors consists of five men and one woman. For the entire firm, the distribution is 45 % male and 55 % female. 32 Sunburst Innovation Programme At Gorrissen Federspiel, we want to support the potential in the Danish startup environment, and in 2018 we therefore established a programme which offers free advice worth up to DKK 150,000, access to template documents and other benefits. Every start-up with a business plan was able to apply, and the selection panel consisted of experienced professionals from Gorrissen Federspiel and from other market leading companies. We are delighted that many start-ups were interested in the programme, with 50 companies applying. In early 2019, we will announce the companies which have been selected for further participation. We look forward to supporting them and to following their development. We aim to repeat the success of the first year and will welcome applications once again later in 2019. Lasse Søndergaard Christensen, partner ”Denmark is fizzing with energy and good ideas, and we want to support the entrepreneurial culture and spirit with our innovation programme. Today, development is moving at a fast pace, particularly within the technology-­d riven business areas. Good ideas which turn into strong business concepts are scalable and form the backbone of future Danish and international business successes,” says Lasse Søndergaard Christensen in connection with the launch of the programme. 33 Lotte Eskesen, partner at our office in Aarhus. Until autumn 2018, Lotte was chair of the board of the Association of Danish Law Firms. 34 We share knowledge A number of our lawyers are part-time lecturers at Danish universities, business schools and other academic institutions. Many lawyers also hold positions of trust or do pro bono work (see page 22). Whether we lecture, conduct cases on a pro bono basis, contribute to the legislative process or actively participate in the public debate, we share our legal knowledge and know-how. As a firm, we are proud of our lawyers’ knowledge and public spirit. We regard this as an important aspect of modern advocacy. Rule of law As lawyers, we have a particular role and duty in a society ruled by law. Accordingly, it is important that we are involved in society as a whole while focusing on areas where lawyers have an influence or play a role. To this end, Gorrissen Federspiel focuses on collaborative work locally and nationally ­t hrough the Danish Bar and Law Society, the Association of Danish Law Firms, and local bar associations in Copenhagen and Aarhus, and internationally through the International Bar Association and other similar organisations, as well as by assisting various legal aid organisations. ” As lawyers, we must seek political influence and  help set the agenda within all areas that relate to our role as legal experts because we have the professional and practical insights. It is our objective to be business partners who are useful to society, and who create value in many respects. | Lotte Eskesen, partner 35 36 Workplace Education Pro Bono Community Environment Ethics 37 Certification Environmental consciousness in the form of sustainability and reducing environmental impact was a highly prioritised area of focus in the construction of our new Copenhagen offices. Due to this environmental consciousness, the developer of the building was awarded the DGNB silver certificate. 38 Environment As a provider of legal services and consultancy, we operate in a low risk industry in terms of the environment. However, we recognise that the manner in which we operate, including in terms of waste and energy management, may have an environmental impact. Our firm aims to operate in a manner that, to the highest extent possible, takes environmental issues into account, while at the same time ensuring that we are able to provide the services sought by our clients. We work continuously to promote sustainability in our Copenhagen and Aarhus offices. In the canteen and in workspaces Our canteen staff serve healthy meals to our employees every work day. They attach importance to using sustainable materials and products that benefit both people and the environment. Materials such as disposable tableware and plastic packaging have largely been phased out. Our goal is to increase the amount of organic food and the use of sustainable products in our canteens. We use eco-friendly products for cleaning our workspaces and pursue environment-safe work procedures. Waste management We aim to minimise the amount of waste by focusing on recycling, particularly in relation to paper and electronic waste. We cooperate with suppliers who are recognised for their expertise in eco-friendly and sustainable recycling. Before moving into our new Copenhagen offices in 2017, we made it a requirement that a bio-waste disposal unit was installed in the kitchen. The disposal unit contributes to reduced CO2 emissions and therefore invests in a greener future both for our company and for the environment in general. Energy and carbon emissions A large part of the energy we use is renewable, and we aim to shift in the near future to 100 % renewable energy use. We also focused particularly on eco-friendly and sustainable choices in relation to the fittings of our new Copenhagen offices. For instance, our LED table lamps save energy with integrated timers, and our LED ceiling lights throughout the building switch off when no one is in the vicinity or if there is sufficient daylight. 39 40 Workplace Education Pro Bono Community Environment Ethics 41 ”As former chair of the Association of Danish  Law Firms (Danske Advokater), it gives me considerable contentment to have played a part in the launch of advokatKODEKS, which is an initiative that all Danish law firms can join. As lawyers, we represent a group of professionals with a strong understanding of our own values; a group which can be regarded from the outside as privileged. Therefore, society often places high expectations on us. AdvokatKODEKS was launched because we want to be an open and responsible industry that welcomes society’s expectations and requirements. | Lotte Eskesen, partner 42 Ethics One of our core values is a high ethical standard, and we strive to act ethically in every aspect of our work. Zero tolerance approach to corruption and bribery As regards corruption and bribery, we pursue a zero-tolerance policy, and we constantly work to prevent any type of corruption. Gorrissen Federspiel’s employees are expected to comply with all governing legislation and regulation, including applicable anti-corruption rules. Any suspected breach of anti-­corruption rules must be reported as soon as possible to the immediate superior of the employee. Owing to our practices and legal requirements, the risk of corruption in our firm and in the legal business in general is very low. Whistleblower scheme Gorrissen Federspiel’s employees may report knowledge of, or suspicions of, a serious offence through our whistleblower scheme. All reporting is submitted through an online portal, and we treat every report with complete anonymity. The aim of the scheme is to encourage and enable our employees to raise serious concerns internally so that we can address and take action on inappropriate behavior. If our employees are suspicious of a serious offence that may negatively affect an individual’s life or health, or the firm, including any breach of the Money Laundering Act, we encourage them to use our whistleblower scheme. The scheme can be seen as a supplement to the existing communications procedures within Gorrissen Federspiel, including the continuous and open dialogue between every employee and his or her manager. AdvokatKODEKS We adhere to the code of conduct issued by the Association of Danish Law Firms (in Danish: advokatKODEKS), which aims to improve the practice of law in terms of openness, social responsibility, ethics, client and employee focus as well as versatility and diversity. 43 Gorrissen Federspiel Axeltorv 2 1609 Copenhagen V Denmark T +45 33 41 41 41 Silkeborgvej 2 8000 Aarhus C Denmark T +45 86 20 75 00 www.gorrissenfederspiel.com
