EnviroScience, Inc. 2018 Communication on Progress New York, New York Date: January 2019 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Table of Contents CEO STATEMENT ON THE 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS................................... II ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT .............................................................. 1 CORE VALUES ......................................................................................................................... 2 LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS .................................................................................................. 2 ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION, LEADERSHIP, AND SERVICE ............................................ 4 ENVIRONMENT ........................................................................................................................ 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION.................................................................................................................. 6 i 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress CEO Statement on the 2018 Communication on Progress Dear Friends and Stakeholders, As EnviroScience, Inc. turns 30 in 2019, we are pleased to prepare and present our fifth annual progress report recapping continued efforts and gains in our elective support and membership of the United Nations Global Compact. The opportunity to present this report allows us to review our most recent progress, reflect upon our values, and prepare for our future growth. We continue evaluating our own practices and explore ways to improve them. This report reviews areas of change in support of the Global Compact’s ten principles and provides a detailed account of our actions to support these areas over the past 12 months. EnviroScience communicates our philanthropy and commitment to sustainability through our Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC). This staff-lead initiative is internally well respected and is the mechanism driving the distribution of our time and talents to our surrounding community. Additionally, the committee is integral in aligning our internal and external values and messages. The United Nations Global Compact provides a platform for EnviroScience to determine how we can best manage our practices and evaluate how they align with other progressive thinking and socially conscious world citizens by using their business practices to improve the global social, economic, and environmental conditions of the world. The Compact’s ten principles are used to guide our company’s priorities, with the environment being the greatest overall concern for our staff. The 2018 report details our areas of improved practices and support for both the environment and the underserved local communities. Thank you, Martin A. Hilovsky, Founder and Chairman EnviroScience, Inc. ii 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress About the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact provides guidelines and universally accepted principles by which members can review, define, and plan for long range strategic goals. EnviroScience is embracing the opportunity to review, redefine, and grow our policies and procedures as they relate to the Global Compact. Presented are the United Nations’ ten defining principles of the Global Compact. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress Core Values During 2018 EnviroScience went through a strategic planning process. One product of the planning was the development of Core Values. The core values of respect, safety, client advocacy, quality work, accountability, and team work are essential to the success of EnviroScience’s staff and future. These values align with the defining principals of the UN Global Compact. EnviroScience Employees • Have a passion for excellence and strong work ethic. • Own our actions and our work; we embrace accountability. • Commit to continuous improvement, challenging the status quo. • Act ethically, treat people with respect, and communicate properly. EnviroScience Team Members • Help others maximize their effectiveness and achieve their goals. • Effectively share opportunities and are open to others’ ideas. • Celebrate the successes and learn from the mistakes of others. EnviroScience Employees as Advocates for our Clients • Are responsive to our clients' needs on a proactive basis. • Deliver on our commitments every time. • Constantly seek ways to help our clients succeed. EnviroScience Leaders • Identify and develop the talents of our people. • Recruit and retain exceptional individuals and encourage creative solutions. • Share profits fairly among our people and shareholders. • Remember that family comes first. EnviroScience Employees as Citizens • Give of our time and talent to better our communities. • Are continuous stewards of our Nation’s natural resources. Labor and Human Rights Ensuring best labor practices and maintaining respect for human rights are the cornerstone of EnviroScience’s culture. Safety Health and safety must come first, no matter how urgent the job. A safe and healthy work environment for all employees and contractors is essential to the success of our business, as well as our families and communities. On-the-job safety is just as important as at-home safety, and vice versa. We believe that all incidents are preventable through the application of proper training, planning, knowledge, and resources to identify and control risks to health and safety. As an integral part of our labor practices our organization has always provided ample training on worker safety protocols Safety First During Aquatic Surveys Requiring HAZWOPER. and we empower each employee to recognize problems and 2 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress call for a “Stop Work” whenever safety risks occur. This practice ensures the safety of all our staff and others on a job site. Safety is our number one concern, and EnviroScience continues to lead our industry in on-site job safety. Employee and Labor Rights EnviroScience is an equal opportunity employer and makes every effort to reach minority candidates when posting open positions. Despite our involvement and efforts to uplift underserved populations during our 30 years of operation, we have not witnessed a significant increase in minority applicants. EnviroScience therefore commits to taking a more active role in cultivating and supporting job training for prospective minority employees and students. This effort will include developing teaming opportunities, whether in the community (job assistance programs, mentorship programs) or within local schools (in-school scientific “field trips”), that will help address the lack of diversity in the socio-economic and racial demographic of applicants. We highlight under the Environment and Education Section our gains in 2018 and share our 2019 initiatives. Salaries are based on experience and expertise. All full-time staff are offered an extremely competitive and a generous benefits package. Family comes first in the lives of our leadership and staff. EnviroScience works with our employees to help meet the ever-changing and dynamic needs of families today. EnviroScience not only cares about the children of our staff, but those across the world as well, finding the use of child labor abhorrent and intolerable. EnviroScience ensures all products purchased do not originate from companies known to use sweatshop or child laborers. Any form of labor violation is intolerable and grounds for dismissal at EnviroScience. Likewise, EnviroScience maintains a zero-tolerance policy on abusive and habitual disrespect for associates and/or the environment, which is at the core of our identity. As an organization, EnviroScience is a non-union workplace, but maintains no policies (written or oral) against the formation of such a group. Top executives maintain an “open door” policy, encouraging communication between employees and upper management, as well as an ethics committee to which employees may report a situation or possible concern. By choice, the staff at EnviroScience work hard to enhance the lives of the disabled, underserved, and homeless. Staff regularly collect toiletries, clean seasonally appropriate clothing, food, towels, shoes, and boots for street distribution directly to the local homeless populations. Science supplies for teacher classrooms, food, hats, gloves, mittens, and school supplies are donated throughout the year for the Knights of Columbus, Community Boards, and various other staff-involved charities for the local children in need. This year we added a depository space that is organized by donation type to streamline the donation process. Locally, our staff also participate in the Annual Polar Bear Jump, Annual Food Bank Operation which raises money for the Akron-Canton Regional Food Bank, Orange. camps for kids with cancer, and the local Ronald McDonald House. We support the Akron-Canton Regional Food Bank with two potlucks annually where the proceeds are donated on their “Double Dollar Days” to match our donations. Additionally, we participate in the Food Bank’s Operation Orange, a 24-hour event open to the public which helps package food into portion sizes for individuals and families. North Coast Community Housing 3 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress supports safe and stable housing for those suffering with physical, mental and cogitative disabilities. We continue to support their missions in Summit County, by collecting household needs, cleaning supplies, doubling the gift card each resident receives at Christmas, and responding to other needs and requests the agency may have. Environmental Education, Leadership, and Service EnviroScience has always recognized the importance of education and we pride ourselves on having a business where 90% our staff are degreed scientists. We consider education to be the cornerstone to all basic human rights and a means to ending the cycle of poverty. We believe in supporting our region’s school science programs in multiple ways. Our staff is working to create a “Lab in a Bag” by collecting and using the various materials sponsored by Not-for-Profits with an environmental mission. The materials sourced are collected, a laboratory day lesson plan is written, and a point of contact is assigned to help ensure the educators understanding of the lab. The topics most requested are those that meet Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS). Our scientists participate in science fairs for elementary and high schools, as well as hosting high school interns. We sponsor college students, a graduate level lecture series, college interns, and we frequently mentor others looking for career guidance and advice. The company has opened our labs for use by high school and college students working on their independent studies and have donated equipment and raw materials for these same studies. In 2018 we began a partnership designed to help create a sustainable green initiative through education, mentorship, and employment. Glenville is a neighborhood in Cleveland, Ohio and one of the most historic (and underserved) areas in the region. We led the formation of a team which includes the neighborhood Famicos Community Development Center, Western Reserve Land Conservancy, Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Holden Arboretum, Student Corps., residents, and the neighborhood elementary and junior high schools. In Phase 1 of the program we identified two plots of vacant and uncared for land behind the elementary school that the students use to walk to school Phase 1 of Glenville Community Living from the neighborhood. A series of classes were held to Lab, aka ‘School Path’. teach arboretum skills such as proper tree planting, watering and long-term grooming and care. Four previously girdled trees were removed, and six natives were planted by the students after their classes. An old existing path in the lot across the street was cleared and fresh gravel was laid along the entire path. The few plants in the front of the previous path were removed and given to neighbors for their yards. 145 native plants, shrubs, and trees were planted on both sides of the path. The trees lining the students newly revived path were cleared or groomed allowing the school to be seen from the street. Two dumpsters of trash and debris were removed from the lots and new and improved lighting was requested from the City of Cleveland. The path is now visible, safe, inviting, and has created a living lab for the schools located in its vicinity. An open tilled area was left for students to plant milkweed and other species which attracts pollinators. Staff from EnviroScience have committed to providing the teachers with the supplies and educational support necessary to help them and their students sustain the pollinator garden. Students will learn the botany, soil ecology, and urban ecosystem 4 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress processes that occur in these restored habitats. The students will help remove weeds, propagate more native plants, and create signs for the plants to aid in interpretation for all who take that path. EnviroScience staff are supporting the process of grant writing and identifying local support for their science training and classrooms. EnviroScience CRC continues our support of the Cleveland Museum of Natural History’s Women in Science series, Sustainability Conferences, and various green outreach programs. We have developed a long-term relationship with government and not for profit regional leaders to develop an educational training program emphasizing green infrastructure and associated career paths. Currently, CMNH is building a one-year pilot program with Women in Science Event at Cleveland EnviroScience support for invasive species groundcover Museum of natural History. control. Finally, EnviroScience continues to lead the way in what is now a 19-year tradition of holding semi-annual “river clean-ups.” EnviroScience and our teaming partners have hosted and participated in cleaning the Little Cuyahoga River just downstream of the City of Akron, removing more than 75 tons of trash over the years before it is able to wash down and enter the Cuyahoga Valley National Park. We continue to grow participation in this cleanup by inviting many of the local elementary, high school, and college students from schools where EnviroScience staff have built relationships with the science departments. The site location we have hosted all these years, and in 2018, has become one of the most used areas for living and commerce in a once nearly abandoned region of the city and we believe that our semi-annual efforts have helped revitalize this area. Environment EnviroScience is an environmental/ecological consulting company, celebrating 30 years of improving surface water quality in water quality. This year marks 50 years since the burning of the Cuyahoga River, a seminal event that sparked the modern environmental movement and directly led to passage of the Clean Water Act in 1972. Ohio has led the Nation in the use of biological criteria in surface water quality standards, and the forward thinking of founder Martin Hilovsky and President Jamie Krejsa has allowed EnviroScience to transfer this experience to other states and regions. Our award-winning stream and wetland restoration work helps to improve the overall water quality and aquatic habitats for native flora and fauna throughout the United States. As an environmental company, our job is to help enhance and restore damaged and failing ecosystems. In 2018, EnviroScience restored 8,876 linear feet of stream, 66.87 acres riparian habitat, and 4.08 acres of wetland. According to the EPA’s Reducing Urban Heat Islands Compendium of Strategies Trees and Vegetation, these types of restoration projects will help reduce peak air temperatures with a process referred to as evapotranspiration. While the nature of our work continues to enhance the environment, we are always mindful of the carbon we generate. We have considerable floor space among our four locations, all of which are climate controlled and filled with computers, servers, televisions, microscopes, freezers, fish tanks, and 5 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress incubators. EnviroScience continually reviews this situation and considers all feasible methods to reduce our carbon footprint. In 2019 we are hoping to begin a solar installation at our corporate headquarters in Stow, Ohio. During 2018 we put particular emphasis on pollinators, as our headquarters sits behind the City’s Community Garden. ES staff were invited to take a bee training course. Once completed by enough staff, our Health and Safety Officer worked with staff to select a safe location, and a bee hive was purchased and installed. Our bees got off to a fast start, remain healthy, and at the time of this report, packed away for winter. The staff has planted a couple of acres of milkweed and other pollinator beds in the City of Stow. One bed is near the hive in the Community Garden, and the other is a newly restored Wildflower Preserve we planted as a gift to the park Spreading Milkweed Seed for City of Stow Wildflower Preserve and visitors. Pollinator Garden. We continue to review and evaluate our own best management practices and find additional areas for improvement. Our fleet of vehicles is one of our largest source of greenhouse gasses. To mitigate this, we purchase the most fuel-efficient cars possible that still meet our needs. The fleet includes several hybrids, and we evaluate the feasibility of hybrid vehicles whenever we purchase a new vehicle. We maintain tire pressure and automotive performance to maximize mileage. In 2018, our fleet drove an estimated 791,691 miles in the course of our work. While this is an increase from the previous year due to project locations, as an organization we still carpool when possible and take mass transit or rail as available. Our work requires use of large trucks and boats as well as computers, all of which are large consumers of energy and fuel. To help offset the carbon required to complete our jobs, we continue to implement practices to reduce our carbon footprints. One way we have mitigated the carbon footprint from our fleet is by encouraging employees to bike to work whenever possible. In 2017, we became a “Silver Bicycle Friendly Business” through the League of American Bicyclists and our riders logged 10,649 miles in 2018. We hope to achieve “Gold” status in the coming years. To continue this effort, we installed bike racks, fixing stations, hold annual bike safety training and potlucks to celebrate “The Flash” – New National Bike to Work Day. In 2018 we purchased the FLASH, our office Office Community bike which anyone may check out for a quick ride on the Stow-Kent bike Bicycle. path located within a few hundred feet of the office. Anti-Corruption EnviroScience maintains its zero-tolerance policy for corrupt and unscrupulous activities and makes it clear that this type of behavior is grounds for immediate dismissal. Although most of our revenue is generated representing corporate clients, we pride ourselves in working equally well for various state and federal agencies, including USEPA. We provide high quality, science driven, biomonitoring and agency coordination services, with a team of recognized ethical experts from 6 2018 EnviroScience, Inc. Annual Communication on Progress a broad range of biological and ecological backgrounds. The company has an ethics committee and has a secure email box to allow for anonymous reporting of ethical issues or concerns a staff member may have. Our principle executives keep an “open door” policy and are always available and willing to stop and meet with a staff who has concerns of any variety. We proudly display our United Nations Global Compact Membership on our website. EnviroScience uses our annual Communication on Progress as our sustainability report. Currently, we have not yet modified our contract language to incorporate the ten principles. However, we are pleased to see that several of the companies we do business with are including such changes. 7
