1 EMPOWERING DEVICE AS A SERVICE EVERYWHERE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 PLANET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 ABOUT HEMMERSBACH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Environmental Management System . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Our Business Principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Conservation of Energy and Raw Materials. . . . . . . . . . .21 Our Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Hemmersbach Rhino Force . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Certificates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Greater Kruger Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Our Sustainability Journey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 Zambezi Black Rhino Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Elephant Relocation to Rifa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 PEOPLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11 Hemmersbach Cryovault . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Recruitment and Colleague Education . . . . . . . . . . . . .13 Stakeholder Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14 COMMUNITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Sustainable Supply Chain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15 Hemmersbach Kids’ Family Poland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31 Work Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16 Hemmersbach Kids’ Family India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Teambuilding Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Marara Recycling Project Chirundu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Karl Pisec Primary School in Marongora . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Rutendo Primary & Secondary School in Chirundu . . . . . 39 CONTRIBUTION TO THE UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 3 The world is in constant change and we are facing various challenges such as climate change, poverty, hunger and the extinction of species. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that businesses do not only focus on profits. Effort needs to be done to target societal and environmental grievances for future generations. This is our second Communication on Progress (COP) and after the implementation of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 10 Principles, we were able to move a step further and to actively work on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) within our operations and non-operations. We believe that it is our obligation not to focus just on our core business for ensuring global sustainability. Our heritage for the planet are our Direct Actions where we fight injustice where authorities fail. We use our own money, knowledge and manpower to make a difference. Besides our Hemmersbach Rhino Force, whose operations has continuously increased in the last year, we inaugurated our second direct action: Hemmersbach Kids’ Family. Kids’ Family focuses on the most important part from our society and future: children. Ralph Koczwara CEO Hemmersbach I am proud what we together as Hemmersbach achieved in the past years to become a August 2019 better corporate citizen and I am looking forward to the future. 4 ABOUT HEMMERSBACH Hemmersbach empowers IT industry leaders to offer Device as a Service (DaaS) everywhere. We are acting as supplier for IT system integrators and manufacturers globally – we are their delivery engine. With our 20+ years of experience, our global reach, can-do attitude, 40+ subsidiaries worldwide and more than 4000 colleagues in more than 190 countries, we are the ones who can get it done. OUR COMPANY 5 190+ Countries 40+ Country Authorized partners for low volume countries covered subsidiaries It took us 20 years to build Hemmersbach as it is today. We used That’s how we made it to the very top: not only do most of our blood, sweat and tears to get there. Transition by transition, processes run automatically but our operations are controlled ticket by ticket, invoice by invoice. Our vast hands on experience centrally through our software, and we have set our own delivery and our can do attitude made us become the problem solvers standards. All of these factors raise the benchmark in the IT that we are today. service industry. Today, we are more than 4000 permanent colleagues in more We only cross the finish line when a project has been completed than 40 subsidiaries. We are able to cover 190+ countries and successfully and the customer is enthused. That’s our main have authorised partner for low volume countries. mission. What sets us apart? We differentiate ourselves through our unrivalled indirect business model and the fact that our customers are no end customers but global market leaders. OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES 6 INDIRECT SALES ONE SERVICE PAY PER USER, ONLY PROCESS GLOBALLY NOT PER HOUR CONVICTION CONVICTION CONVICTION All providers with global reach act as Avoidance and automation of tickets Time & material providers benefit if they competitors of the major IT vendors and tasks is the only way to survive walk slowly because they can bill more hours SOLUTION SOLUTION Hemmersbach signs contracts with end For 20 years we have been building our SOLUTION customers exclusively on behalf of the own global workflow systems based on Hemmersbach as a managed leaders in the IT industry autonomic technologies service provider is paid for the outcome BENEFIT BENEFIT BENEFIT No sales or channel partner conflicts. Highest possible grade of automation Complexity and productivity risk We only work for the leading manufacwhich guarantees cost and quality is with Hemmersbach turers and outsourcers in the IT industry improvement OUR SERVICES 7 RENT VS. BUY The IT industry is changing and subscription models are the future. Examples are data center: pay per use; streaming: pay per month or software subscriptions. Our contribution is Device as a Service (DaaS): One price per device per month for hardware, software and service. DaaS offers a simplified, cost-effective way to put the right tools in the right hands. A solution that combines hardware, software, lifecycle and financing into a single contract with a pay-per-user certainty. DaaS allows faster innovation. Our customers can focus on their business rather than managing end user related infrastructure. With this agility, they can quickly scale down or boost up resources as they need them, tailored to their specifications. OUR SERVICE MODULES 8 We are offering six service modules 1 SOURCE Product selection, image compatibility lab, tailorable to the demands of our customers. procurement, ﬁnancing and storage 2 CONTRACT & BILL Local end user contracting, invoicing in 40+ countries, tax and customs optimization 3 CONFIGURE Image and application pre-installation, custom system settings, labelling and tagging, integration and packaging 4 DEPLOY Logistics and transport, installation and setup, data migration 5 MAINTAIN Field Service, IT-bars / lockers, staff augmentation, technical contact center, insurance contract 6 RECOVER Device de-installation, data sanitation, recycling and remarketing DEVICES WE PROVIDE 9 WORKPLACE MOBILE DIGITAL SIGNAGE DATACENTER CERTIFICATES 10 Our commitment to provide excellent services for our customers As a global IT service provider it is of the utmost importance are verified by several ISO Certificates. to handle all data and information confidentially. To ensure the security of received information throughout the whole company For over 20 years, the ISO 9001 standard has been an invaluable and our supply chain, we work in accordance to the ISO 27001 asset for Hemmersbach. This globally recognised certification which is a systematic approach to manage sensitive company supports us to meet regulatory requirements while achieving information. operational excellence in our service delivery through our Quality Management System (QMS). In general terms, the ISO 27001 standard serves to establish, implement and continuously develop a functioning Information Our goal is to constantly improve our processes, benefit from Security Management System (ISMS). Through individual technological developments and satisfy our customers’ needs. analysis, we determine which measures are to be implemented Yearly measurable goals as well as internal and external audits within the different levels and layers of our company. ensure compliance on all levels and create a solid foundation for continuous improvements. Furthermore, a significant component of the ISMS is to raise awareness among our colleagues in the form of reoccurring trainings as well as internal audits. We are also ISO 14001 certificated, which means we have an established and working Environmental Management System (EMS). OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 11 Our commitment to transparency, fairness and integrity We invest our resources, time and skills to create a positive enables us to strengthen our operations and business in the impact in the communities where we live and operate. long term, while also contributing to the creation of impactful sustainability. We believe that our responsibility as corporate citizen exceeds our own business operations and therefore we direct our endeavors towards the triple bottom line. The triple bottom line focuses on the welfare of our stakeholder and concerns with the impact on the public. We also seek to remain profitable and competitive while considering our workforce, the planet as well as social issues. The present Communication on Progress is divided into the sections People, Planet and Community. People focusses on our own colleagues as they are an integral part of our daily operations. Conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner is a main part of Hemmersbach. We are committed to a full range of actions in this area: from the usage of new technologies, recycling and protecting the environment in regions where we do not operate. This can be found under Planet. 12 PEOPLE We at Hemmersbach believe that our colleagues are our most valuable resource. Our goal to provide a work environment where everyone has the same opportunities to develop and succeed. We are proud to be a diverse company with influences from all over the world. OVERVIEW 13 As the IT sector is predominantly male, we are promoting gender Open and direct communication increases our efficiency and diversity within the whole company. We are proud that our helps us make quick decisions together. female quota is 5 % above the German average in the sector Within the last year, we registered a colleague growth of 28.6 %. Our company culture is very open-minded: All colleagues and In order to develop further and keep up our sustainable grow, supervisors communicate on a first-name basis. For this reason, we set high value on offering our colleagues opportunities to there is no room for inhibition and hesitation. develop themselves, personally as well as professionally. 4000+ 40+ 800 Age Breakdown Total numbers Subsidiaries of colleagues 700 600 500 400 28,6 % 28,2 % 300 200 Growth of Women in colleagues management 100 position 0 <24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 >60 RECRUITMENT AND COLLEAGUE EDUCATION 14 We never stand still. You can count on excellent challenges We have incorporated a new feedbacktool, which makes the to help you advance in your career or acquire more skills with feedback process between supervisor and colleague more learning opportunities at all times. transparent and easier for both parties. Besides the regular feedback and categorization elements, the tool helps to create Additionally, we put great emphasis on growth, in particular personalized development plans. Personal goals for each on professional growth across all hierarchal levels. We are colleague are tracked and documented using the 70-20-10 convinced that the decisive factor for high quality IT services is methodology. based on our colleagues’ professional development, which is why it is our intention to nurture their potential. Our newly launched online learning platform “Hemmersbach Global Campus” helps us to do so. The Global Campus is our center for personal and professional learning and development. Besides classical trainings, we offer boot camps, extended onboarding, academies and further internal performance centers. Our e-learning courses are The 70-20-10 model is invaluable for maximizing the effectiveness constantly being developed and extended to meet the needs of training. 70 % of the knowledge is imparted through job-related of everyone, and a personality test helps to tailor courses to experiences and challenges. 20 % comes from feedback, coaching, each individual. Further, as a supervisor one can request a mentoring and exchange between colleagues. The last 10 % are from 360-degree feedback to explore areas of personal improvement. classical trainings and self-study. STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT 15 Stakeholder Management is one of the most important factors for successful project delivery and business operations. We depend on stakeholders to respond to the inputs and outputs Identification of our service delivery. & Classification An open dialogue with our stakeholders gives us the essential benefit of understanding needs and expectations. The more we Review Status and Dialogue engage and communicate in an adequate way, the greater are Efficiency the chances are that we uncover potential risks. Furthermore, interacting with stakeholders helps us prioritize critical issues, Stakeholder provide insights on upcoming opportunities and makes it Management possible to influence the way they feel about their commitment Process and corporate spirit. Analyze Interests, Our annual Stakeholder Management Process consists of Take Actions Needs & the following steps and ensures that we capture the voice of Concerns customer, adapt changes and manage considerable risks. Manage Expectations and Risks SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 16 A sustainable supply chain and maintaining its resilience are key factors for our business. In order to gather feedback from all of our active partners worldwide, we sent out an online questionnaire, which gave us the chance to evaluate our supply chain according to its degree of diversity. Alongside others, we asked our partners how many minorities and women are employed and if the company is considered to be a small 60,66 % 39,34 % company under the definition of the EU. of our partners are of our partners have an active small business sustainable business approach All of our Service Providers and their Sub-Service Providers have to comply with our dedicated Service Provider Code of Conduct. In order to verify compliance with our Code and applicable laws in the corresponding countries, we reserve the right to audit our Service Providers as necessary. Thus, we try to ensure that we control our processes and ensure the same quality across the whole supply chain. Those audits can either be on demand or based on our yearly audit schedule. So far, none of our Service Providers has had any major non-conformances that could lead to the end of the business relationship. After the audit we are supporting them in 70+ % 23,00 % have been our partners for women quota of our implementing the corrective actions and close the topics only longer than 3 years partners when the measures taken were effective. WORK SAFETY 17 Work safety is an indispensable element of our daily operations and incorporated in our policies. With our health and safety practices we strive to create work environments that enable us to work injury-free. Our work safety actions are based on three pillars: – Creation of awareness: Detailed documentation on our specially designed SharePoint and the mandatory online training courses for all colleagues are available. Those trainings include for example ergonomic aspects and the proper usage of tools. – Live trainings: Fire protection assistant and first aider trainings to ensure adequate support and guidance for all colleagues. – Risk assessments and documentation: Risk assessments and site visits, also on project basis, allows us to identify potential issues and to install countermeasures. In case of an accident we will accurately investigate the root cause and define whether we need to implement or adjust preventive actions. TEAMBUILDING EVENTS 18 We are a Team! Open and honest communication and providing support work best if we understand each other’s strengths and weaknesses. Multiple teambuilding and sports events throughout the year help build and improve communication, planning and problem-solving skills. 19 PLANET In order to make a difference to the environment, we focus our efforts on two areas. On the one hand, we want to ensure that we minimize our harm to our planet while conducting our daily business. On the other hand, we realized that this is not enough and that we have an obligation to preserve the planet for future generations with our direct actions, such as the Hemmersbach Rhino Force. OVERVIEW 20 9,83 % 39,75 % 13,3 % of all the energy used in 2018 at our HQ increase of own generated energy from decreased in page count is from our own photovoltaic energy 2016-2018 at our HQ in 2018 1200 t 4% 80,00 % of CO2 have been climate reduction of CO2 / car achieved in 2018 of the vans were replaced compensated in Germany. with eco friendly cars in 2018 100 Elephants 42 48 % were saved from culling suspects arrested for poaching by our decrease in overall poaching numbers in Limpopo and and relocated in 12 moves Rhino Force Squads within 4 months Mpumalanga in the first 6 months 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 21 We at Hemmersbach are committed to minimize the adverse We realize that each colleague has an individual responsibility to environmental impacts of our activities and services. Our support our environmental efforts at Hemmersbach. Therefore, environmental policy establishes the foundation for us to build we foster on raising awareness about our objectives and targets. our Environmental Management System (EMS), which has been To do so, we started an environmental initiative in 2019, where ISO 14001 certified since 2015. To ensure the sustainable use we want to use the local input from our colleagues to base of resources, everyone shall judge the environmental impact environmental actions. of new activities and processes in advance to make use of We are also currently setting up an eco-balance that will enable environmental friendly technology where reasonable. us to calculate our carbon footprint and carbon handprint. Once Our goals are to provide services that are environmentally sound, set up, the information will be available for all colleagues. This ensure the responsible use of resources while conducting our will be in line with our environmental goals, which we currently business and develop our responsibility as good corporate citizen. define every year after taking into account our risk analysis as well as our environmental aspects. To accomplish this, we will: Meet or exceed applicable government requirements Proactively focus on reducing environmental risks Ensure conservation of energy and raw material Endeavour to partially compensate our environmental impact through cross-border projects Strive to continually improve our EMS and performance Through the integration of our objectives into our strategic decision-making, business planning and governance processes, we strive to accomplish this high level of performance. CONSERVATION OF ENERGY AND RAW MATERIALS 22 Besides the use of modern energy-saving technologies, our focus lies on renewable energies in our headquarters. 47,6 % of our purchased electricity is from renewable energy sources and we were able to generate 10 % our energy used in 2018 from our solar panels. The monitoring of our environmental indicators motivates us to constantly progress not only on a local level and in the future also on a global level for every Hemmersbach subsidiary. One of our daily jobs is to drive to the end-user to perform our services. Without being mobile, we simply cannot do our jobs. We are aware of the harm CO2 is doing and are constantly evaluating alternatives such as e-cars. However, as we are currently not in the position to do so, we offset our car carbon footprint wherever possible. In Germany and 10 other European countries we are compensating 100% of our fleet carbon dioxide emissions.This means in figures that we have offset 1200 TO of CO2 in 2018 in Germany. Additionally, we were also able to reduce the CO2 emissions per car by 4 %, reduced our van fleet by 80 %, and replaced them with more ecologically sound cars. Compared to 2017, we increased the amount of cars with AdBlue Technology from 14 % to 51 %. We know that there is still room left for improvement and this is our fuel to move constantly forward and be innovative. HEMMERSBACH RHINO FORCE 23 Hemmersbach Rhino Force is our Direct Action conservation organization dedicated to protecting one of the most endangered species on Earth. Our teams use innovative tactics and technologies to preserve the genes of African rhino species, prevent the killing of rhinos, and uncover and combat all other illegal activities in the Southern African bush. All activities are fully self-financed to ensure complete independence and full focus on conducting the required measures on the ground. GREATER KRUGER PROJECT 24 Our Greater Kruger Project consists of elite squads operating in the region along with a base camp and a sniffer dog unit. Our squads patrol the perimeter and surrounding roads of the game parks and nature reserves using military grade surveillance equipment to assist with the effective detection and detainment of unauthorized personnel entering the reserves and to prevent poaching syndicates entering the park. Additionally, the South African police service call on our squads to perform forensic autopsies of carcasses found in order to retrieve the bullets, DNA and any other evidence . ZAMBEZI BLACK RHINO PROJECT 25 The challenge here is completely different. The lower Zambezi Valley was once home for the black rhinos. Today, not a single black rhino can be found there as they have either been poached or translocated to safe areas due to the poaching. Our main goal is to make this land safe again so that the rhinos can be securely re-introduced. The existing wildlife in the area is also under threat from intense poaching by people crossing the border of the Zambezi River; therefore, by aiming to create a safe space for rhinos we are also protecting the species currently inhabiting this area. To be more effective we have leased the former hunting area Rifa and stopped all hunting activities there. Rifa is 800km² in size and equivalent to one third of the entire Hurungwe area. Vital elements to our operations are the boat squads as well as the plane squads. Zimbabwe is currently facing the dry season and our Rhino Force team has started a challenging project. To ensure water supply for all current and future wildlife in our concession we bring water into the area by drilling boreholes across the territory. After getting permission from the authorities, a partner company equipped with 4x4 rigs for the drill, sent out diviners and searched for water. Springs have already been opened successfully. ELEPHANT RELOCATION TO RIFA 26 For over two decades the Sango Widlife conservancy has been a model for protection against poachers and the sustainable use of wildlife populations. The success of Sango anti-poaching is displayed by its excessive elephant population. The elephants destroyed one third of the forest and thus threatened the habitat of many other animals. We decided to save their lives and protect them from culling: Hemmersbach Rhino Force financed one of the largest wildlife relocations in Zimbabwe’s country history. This took place from the 9th of September until the end of October 2018. The relocation of 100 elephants has been conducted in cooperation with the Zimbabwean Parks & Wildlife Management Authority and the Sango Wildlife Conservancy. This project covered a distance of almost 700 km and the elephants have been relocated by family in 12 individual moves. The new home is our Rifa Area. HEMMERSBACH CRYOVAULT 27 Current wildlife conservation attempts must be continuously adapted and changed as experience and knowledge are gained. We need to ensure that the current conservation strategies remain relevant and are sustainable on a long-term basis. The inclusion of genetic resource banks, as a long-term conservation strategy, becomes all the more relevant as more wildlife species face premature extinction. The occurrence of hunting and poaching wildlife populations provide opportunities to collect information (data) and biomaterial (gametes, tissues, organs, etc.). Ongoing improvements in biomaterial processing and cryopreservation techniques have made it possible to store viable wildlife gametes, DNA and tissue indefinitely. The Hemmersbach Rhino Force Cryovault project and facility is laid out as a long term pilot study to explore the possibilities of rhino genetic rescue by focusing on gamete retrieval. This project will serve as a starting point in an attempt to secure viable biomaterial from various wildlife species, as and when the opportunities arise. The main objective is to establish a scientifically driven and viable genetic reservoir with corresponding reference database for rhino and other endangered and threatened African wildlife species. The activities are largely based on available sampling 28 opportunities that take place under two different conditions: 1. Post mortem: Deceased animals will be sampled when for example a. Poached: collaboration with anti-poaching units b. Culled / Slaughter: collaboration with wildlife abattoirs for fresh post mortem collection and vets responsible for problem animal culling. c. Hunt: collaboration with professional hunters and being on site for sample recovery after hunt 2. Live sampling: During capture/anesthesia events semen collection or oocyte aspiration may be attempted during for example a. Rhino dehorning or ear notching and microchip procedures b. Captive animal enclosure translocation or relocation c. Elephant capture for collaring or relocation d. Leopard trapping for relocation Our CRYOVAULT team was able to collect more than 200 samples in total from four rhino bulls within a short time period. These samples are now safely stored in our biobank. In order to get the sperm, the bulls were sedated and stimulated. After that, the samples were checked in our laboratory. All usable, uncontaminated samples were prepared for the deep freezer. 29 COMMUNITY We realize that we have a responsibility as a company in order to make a significant change in communities where help is needed urgently. OVERVIEW 30 Kids’ Family India: Marara Recycling Project: We help orphaned and abandoned children in Bangalore by We created sustainable framework conditions in order to be able providing them with safety with care, nutrition, education and to grow from within. Self-organization and independence of the medical assistance. We offer them better opportunities to start ladies are key elements of the project. their future life. 3 150 GOAL 7500 625 % orphanages are children in is to build a village collected bags increased supported total of equal chance per month efficiency Kids’ Family Poland: The project in Poland is to guarantee safety and care for children who need it. 6 3 GOAL childrens home step approach to a cover whole lower supported better future Silesia by 2020 Besides the Hemmersbach Rhino Force, we decided to start a 31 second Direct Action: “Hemmersbach Kids’ Family” which helps the most innocent amongst us: children. Currently, we have projects in Poland and India where we support and help kids in need. As childhood is a unique period of rapid physical and psychological development, children are more affected by impacts from their environment than adults. Their physical, mental and emotional health and well-being especially during their first periods of their lives can be permanently affected for better or worse. Therefore, we made it our mission to give these children a new and safe home and to ensure that they receive the necessities they need. On the long run, we want them to have the most important thing in life: the comfort of a family, the Hemmersbach family. HEMMERSBACH KIDS’ FAMILY POLAND 32 The aim of Hemmersbach Kids’ Family project in Poland is to guarantee safety and care for children who need it. We support foster care centres, provide necessary equipment, ensure better education opportunities and facilitate access to psychological care. FOSTER CARE CENTRES IN POLAND There are 1,168 children’s homes in Poland, included in the institutional foster care. Approximately 20,000 children live there. Children’s homes are to meet the essential needs, in particular emotional, developmental, health, livelihood and social needs. Unfortunately, they lack funds for investments in maintenance and renovation of buildings, provision of additional specialist psychological assistance, purchase of electronic equipment or support to develop children’s interests.1 1 Social Assistance, child and family services in 2016, Central Statistical Office, Warsaw, 2017 MOTIVATION TOWARDS AID FOR CHILDREN 33 Children brought up in foster care are the weakest social group in Poland. Improving their situation has become a goal for us. Kids’ Family helps foster care centres in creating places where children will find comfort, safety and family atmosphere. Moreover, we implement programs that help children to increase their skills, gain professional qualifications and find their way on the labour market as adults. All these activities are aimed not only to provide immediate assistance, but above all to provide support that will FRAGILE, INNOCENT AND YET enable them to find their place in society in the long run. Thanks to PAINFULLY EXPERIENCED this support they will have a good and happy future. 80 % of the children placed in the centres have parents who have not managed or have not wanted to fulfil their child-rearing responsibilities properly. Most children are placed in foster care due to serious family problems. The main reasons for placing children in foster care institutions are alcoholism of parents, physical and mental abuse, diseases, helplessness in matters related to children’s care and upbringing, and non-resourcefulness. Children from socially marginalized families are often born in poorer health or their physical, emotional, social and intellectual development is slower due to neglect and abuse. Without care from outside the family and psychological support, their chances of graduation, getting a job and succeeding in their adult life are low. As adults, they copy the behaviour they saw at home.2 2 Biuro Analiz Sejmowych JUST THE BEGINNING 3 STEPS TO A BETTER FUTURE 34 The project began at the end of 2018, when the children’s home We implement our activities as 3 steps of support. These include in Bierutów, Poland was supplied with new household appliances improving living conditions, facilitating access to psychological and necessary everyday products. Currently, six children’s services, and introducing educational programs. These areas homes located in Lower Silesia: in Bierutów, Milicz, Oława, have been identified as the most important aspects that will Oborniki Śląskie, Szklarska Poręba and Wałbrzych are supported. help achieve the goal to give children a better future. This region has the highest number of foster care centres recorded (151 centres, which accounts for 13.4 % of all centres Improving living conditions in Poland)3. In addition, the Polish branch of Hemmersbach has Children’s home as a substitute for a real home should be a cosy its headquarters in the capital of Lower Silesia. An important and friendly space, which creates conditions for free learning, concept of the project is to provide non-material assistance fun and detachment from everyday worries. Kids’ Family carries one that responds to the individual needs of each centre. In out modernizations and house renovations. We equip them order to do so we visit children’s homes, assess the situation and with the necessary household appliances, solid furniture and conduct a needs analysis. We plan to expand our activities to the electronic equipment, such as PCs and laptops. whole territory of Lower Silesia by the end of 2020, and want to cover all children’s homes in the country that need help in the following years. 3 Social Assistance, child and family services in 2016, Central Statistical Office, Warsaw, 2017 Education and development of children 35 Education and development of interests lead to the acquisition of skills that will make it easier for children to start an adult and independent life. The most numerous group living in children’s homes are children and teenagers of the age between 7 – 17 years. Using Hemmersbach capabilities, Kids’ Family is organizing educational programs and provides teaching aids. There are the special programs planned for three different age group: 7 – 13 years: language courses, sports camps, interests’ development. 14 – 17 years: language courses and visits to the Hemmersbach branches, education programs as an introduction to the new profession: Access to psychological support for example computer repairing or software development, e-learning concept with benefits for the best. Psychological care gives children the opportunity to regain faith and self-confidence, acquire social skills and cope with their 18 + years: emotions. Nevertheless, access to the specialist equipment or paid academies during summer holiday, sponsoring vocational qualified therapists can be difficult. Kids’ Family is providing EEG skill training, jobs at Hemmersbach and mentoring programs. biofeedback devices which are a non-invasive method of direct brain function training along with the support of the further therapies. It helps to improve children’s mental health and combat problems such as anxiety, depression, eating disorders, PTSD and many others. We are going to provide access to the biofeedback devices to all children who need such therapy. HEMMERSBACH KIDS’ FAMILY INDIA 36 OVERPOPULATION AND Integrating crucial topics like contraception within their STREET CHILDREN PROBLEMS IN INDIA education especially for the girls and young women is There are 1.4 billion people living in India, which makes indispensable. it the second most populous country in the world. Major Addressing the overpopulation problem and raising awareness overpopulation, social inequalities and difficult access to are key factors in giving children a chance for a better future education are the direct reasons why the vast majority of people because children are everyone’s business and our future. live in extreme poverty. Children are tragically affected by poverty. As many as 18 million children across India earn their living on the streets to survive, and more than half of them live and sleep on the streets without a home. Homeless children are on their own. They lack parental control, care and emotional support from their families. Within our Kids’ Family project in India, it is our main mission to help orphans in Bangalore by providing them with safety and care, nutrition, quality education and medical assistance. Bangalore is the third largest city in India. It is home to more than 8.5 million people and, like other Indian agglomerations, is facing a growing problem of poverty and homelessness. There are hundreds of orphanages in the area, and millions of children still live in terrible conditions. OUR START POINT: IMPROVING LIVING CONDITIONS EDUCATION IS THE CRUX 37 The Kids’ Family currently takes care of 3 orphanages in Investing in children’s education is an investment in the Bangalore housing 150 children in total. Data on the quality of society. Especially in India, the problem of the overpopulation life, health and education of children in orphanages is difficult to is nowadays as critical as ever before. One major reason of access, so the first step we had to take was to get to know their overpopulation is the lack of education within their younger situation on the ground and set priorities. The most pressing years since many of the kids do not have the privilege of going problems are those related to basic needs. We have therefore to a school. Through learning, they acquire skills that will allow started our work by ensuring weekly food supplies. We are them to become independent. renovating and modernising buildings, including the provision of The main reason for not having or not finishing early childhood new bedding and equipment, to ensure that the children in the education is the lack of money within the families. When it institutions have a decent standard of living. comes to girls, religious considerations and cultural pressures also play an important role. As a result, the educational gap between girls and boys is quite high, particularly in rural areas. Offering girls a safe environment and protection is therefore a big part of our mission. Implementing Thai-Chi-Courses and SelfDefence-Classes in order to protect themselves and to achieve gender equality and empowering all women and girls. Overall, only 75 % of boys and 60 % of girls receive primary education. We are aiming to eliminate inequalities in education, namely to ensure due rights and equal treatment irrespective of gender. In order to achieve this, we are covering the costs of educating children and equipping orphanages with computers and electronic supplies. OUR GOAL: BUILDING A VILLAGE OF EQUAL CHANCES 38 Our main, long-term goal, which we plan to achieve by the end Creating the right conditions: of 2020, is to build a self-sufficient centre for 500 children. It raising the standard of living, providing food, access to clean will include residential houses, a school, a sports and recreation water and medical care complex and medical assistance. We want to create a place Taking care of safety: that gives children a roof over their heads, proper care and a protecting children, preventing discrimination and exploitation sense of security. A place where we will ensure the protection of children’s rights and development through: Empowering girls: supporting girls in enforcing their rights, educating them about their health, learning self-defence Equal access to education: to enable the acquisition of skills for a better future, and to increase awareness and critical thinking skills Taking care of the environment: growing our own fruit and vegetables, using solar energy, recycling, and avoiding plastics Kids’ Family helps children by providing them with the resources they need to live and by protecting their rights. But that’s not all we want to give them a chance for a better life, support and a sense of security they’ve never experienced. We want to give them the comfort of having a family. MARARA RECYCLING PROJECT CHIRUNDU 39 During the operations of our Hemmersbach Rhino Force in At the beginning they were collecting an average of 1200 bags per Zimbabwe we had 7 elephants dying within 3 months. Cause months, now they are collecting 7500 bags per month. investigation revealed that they died because of eating rubbish in First, the “Marara Ladies” had a hard time and had to fight to earn the area around the Chirundu Township. All waste and rubbish has respect for their work within the community. But that did not held been thrown away on the spot without being collected or recycled the women off. They kept spreading the word about the importance and is therefore a thread for the free-range animals. of recycling waste and are now orzanizing themselves through This terrible result lead to the founding of the Marara Recycling building their own business for separating and selling the waste. Project. With this project, we want to combine two essential The success of the project has been recognized also outside the needs of the region: protection of species and an improvement region. The minister of Environment and Tourism visited the project of living conditions of the local population to ensure long-term in February this year and the first lady of Zimbabwe in April. sustainability. We decided to help one group of residents that were outsiders in the local community: Twelve resident women, mostly single mothers who lost their husbands due to HIV or wealth-related reasons, who are caring for about 45 children including orphans. They were equipped with everything they need in order to clean up their town, improve the living conditions of the area and protecting the wildlife from ingesting and dying from the waste. In return, for every collected bag they receive a voucher for the local grocery store they can use for the needs of the children and their family. KARL PISEC PRIMARY SCHOOL RUTENDO PRIMARY & SECONDARY 40 IN MARONGORA SCHOOL IN CHIRUNDU We believe that education is the key to changing the world for the The situation at the Rutendo Primary & Secondary School in better. Therefore, we are happy to support the Karl Pisec Primary Chirundu was very poor. More than 500 children visit this school, School in Marongora during the past with the following actions: with 1 classroom for 70 children. This together with the bad condition of the building lead to a very bad learning environment. Installation of fencing to prevent baboons from entering the classroom, defecating and messing them up So far, the classroom floors were repaired and we will install a ceiling to protect the children from the heat. In order to prevent Repair and renovation of sanitary equipment cholera and improve water supply, we started to build flush Replacement and repair of broken water pipes toilets with hand wash basins as well as sanitation and health to enable running water (WASH) facilities at the school. Beforehand, they had only 5 toilets for 500 children. Cleaning of the building rubble around the area We will also here secure the windows so that the baboons are not Donation of available curriculum books so that the able to enter the classrooms. 55 children can attend school 41 CONTRIBUTION TO THE UNGC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Sustainable development is more than just a phrase, for us The selection is based on the possibilities we – as an IT Service it is an obligation to work hard towards the achievement of Provider – have and where we can make the biggest difference. measurable goals. Over the past year, we have focused on Why each of these goals are relevant to the work we do, how we integrating the SDGs into our business model. We therefore contribute to achieve these goals and what has already been have identified SDGs that accommodate best with our accomplished, is outlined in the next section. strategies and agendas. Well skilled and trained colleagues is one of the most powerful assets a company in the 42 service sector can have. This is one of the main reasons we are putting massive efforts on HR learning and development. With the release of our Global Campus, we created a center for personal professional learning, which can be tailored to the specific needs. We believe that we can continue our growth only together with the best colleagues. Besides having trained colleagues, we also want to make quality education possible within our Direct Actions to contribute to the SDG 4 as profound education and training is the only way to create sustainable development. One of the main pillars of the Hemmersbach Kids’ Family is ensuring education to the children as foundation for an independent life. Our Hemmersbach Rhino Force does not only focus on animal protection and anti-poaching, we believe that we also have a responsibility towards the communities where we operate. In order to prevent poaching in future generations, education and a solid training is vital. We actively support schools and projects in South Africa and Zimbabwe. Equal opportunities are an essential part of our DNA and anchored in our corporate 43 principles. We have a zero tolerance for any type of discrimination and any form of harassment. For us, qualification, quality of work and team spirit are decisive, not any other factor in our practices. As the IT sector is predominantly male, we are proud that our female quota is 5 % above the German average in the sector. Creating a decent work environment is an integral component for us. Every colleague has the right to a safe and healthy workplace while we meet or exceed all regulatory requirements. Risk assessments are conducted and strong focus is set on the prevention of accidents and occupational sicknesses. Additionally, we support participation in sport activities and offer healthy food choices where we have own operated cafeterias. Sustainable economic growth requires conditions from functioning systems and societies that allow people living a decent life without harming the environment. Unfortunately, this is not given everywhere. Our Marara Recycling project counterbalances those grievances in Chirundu township. We created sustainable framework conditions in order to be able to grow from within. Self-organization and independence of the ladies are key elements of the project. The increasing productivity of the members as well as the changed position within the community demonstrates the success of the project. Hemmersbach applies innovative thinking to this day, believing that in the future, only 44 selected global suppliers will render IT services using autonomic technology. We started developing workflow systems based on technology 16 years ago. Up to now, we are using 700 automated steps for technical and process automation. Our Service Delivery Code (SDC) is our open, agile and learning system for excellent service delivery. The SDC ensures that all projects are brought to the same standard of excellence. The aim of the SDC is to become the leading standard for service delivery, with the highest possible degree of automation. We also empower IT industry leaders to offer Device as a Service (DaaS) everywhere. DaaS offers a simplified, cost-effective way to put the right tools in the right hands and allows to innovate faster as our customers can focus on their business rather than managing end user related infrastructure. Fundamental rights and policies are a core element of our global DNA. Our centralized approach ensures that we strive to reduce inequalities for everyone. We actively promote a corporate culture full of diversity and do not tolerate any form of discrimination. We aim to promote inclusion for all people also throughout our supply chain with the incorporation of universal policies and long-term partnerships with small businesses. With the implementation of the ISO 14001 standards, we have committed ourselves to 45 minimizing the impact of our operations on the environment. We use different approaches to manage our environmental responsibilities: communication, analyses, audits and monitoring. Our environmental goals are redefined regularly and we try to surpass them wherever possible. We promote energy efficiency and shift towards less GHG-intensive energy sources and technologies wherever possible. To reduce our carbon footprint in our operations we also cooperate with our partners, suppliers and customers. We also have included our requirements in our Code of Conduct for all our partners. Our Hemmersbach Rhino Force is a direct action conservation organization protecting one of the most endangered species on earth. We fight to halt biodiversity loss. Our squads are operating in South Africa and Zimbabwe. The teams use innovative tactics and technologies to preserve rhino genes, to prevent killing of rhinos and to expose and combat all other illegal activities in the bush of Southern Africa. Hemmersbach GmbH & Co. KG | Sulzbacher Str. 9 | 90489 Nuremberg Tel: +49 911 52-798-0 info@hemmersbach.com
