COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017-2019 Dalberg has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC” or “The Global Compact”) since 2007 and endorses the 10 universally accepted principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Our commitment to the Global Compact’s principles is exemplified most strongly through our client engagements, publications and internal initiatives, including: • Partnership with United Nations Compact: Dalberg has worked with the UNGC on a variety of engagements over the past 15 years. Our 2013 report, Architects of a Better World, laid out a framework to engage the private sector in supporting the post-2015 development agenda. Previously, Dalberg supported the UNGC to identify and establish transformational partnerships between the United Nations and businesses and identify best practices for such cooperation. We have also authored several reports for the UNGC. • Promotion of human rights: We have helped our clients – including large private foundations and governmental agencies – to mobilize humanitarian aid efforts, advocate for human rights and protect vulnerable populations. In 2019, Dalberg Advisors’ Global Managing Partner signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge alongside 600+ global CEOs, building on the commitment outlined at our 2019 Global Retreat, which had a theme of diversity and inclusion. • Labor: We offer benefits exceeding or comparable to other leading professional services firms in our respective countries of operation. Further, we conduct annual anti-harassment training for new hires and new Associate Partners, and periodic all-staff refreshers. We are also conducting leadership, manager, and HR anti-harassment training in 2019. Additionally, we also work with a range of actors to identify opportunities to address global youth unemployment. • Environmental sustainability: We work with a range of actors to develop environmentally friendly solutions, including conserving wildlife, reducing plastic waste, ensuring better energy access, and promoting access to “off-grid” societies – a concept that Dalberg is helping to define further. • Anti-corruption and promotion of good governance: We have fought corruption by strengthening good governance within United Nations agencies, corporate CSR efforts, and citizen engagement, providing robust frameworks that ensure transparency. As a firm dedicated to addressing the world’s most pressing challenges, the principles mainstreamed by the Global Compact are the same as those guiding Dalberg’s development efforts and internal policies. Going forward, we will continue to promote these principles and the UNGC in our communications, but more importantly, through our international development activities. Madji Sock, Global Operating Partner, 25 May 2019 Firm Description Established in 2001, Dalberg is a global group working to build a more inclusive and sustainable world where all people, everywhere, can reach their fullest potential. Today’s complex global challenges require new solutions. Each of Dalberg’s businesses approach problems differently, but all of our businesses work together to create impact at scale: Dalberg Advisors is a strategy advisory firm that combines the best of private sector strategy skills and rigorous analytical capabilities with deep knowledge and networks across emerging and frontier markets. We work collaboratively across the public, private and philanthropic sectors to fuel inclusive growth and help clients achieve their goals focused on global development. Dalberg Capital and our Investment Advisory team help our clients develop investment strategies to deploy their capital with impact. Our services range from one-off transaction advisory, to ongoing impact investment advisory, to fund structuring to eco-system and knowledge building. Dalberg Data Insights builds bridges between private data and important social problems. We create tools to interpret data and uncover solutions in international development, humanitarian action, and social impact. Dalberg Design engages people, communities and organizations to foster creative solutions to enhance economic opportunity and human potential. We combine the best skills in human-centered design, rapid prototyping and systems thinking to accelerate positive change in underserved communities around the world. Dalberg Research provides research and analysis that offers clients actionable solutions to their problems. We are a full-service research agency answering questions about markets, consumers and lifestyles across more than 20 African countries via quantitative and qualitative studies. We specialize in the inventory, collection, and analysis of primary research data for businesses, NGOs, governments and other institutions. Dalberg is not a finished product. We are constantly evolving internally and externally to achieve our mission. We are always looking for creative ways to combine what we know with what doesn’t yet exist. Dalberg Pioneer Businesses exemplify our entrepreneurial spirit, bringing together emerging businesses, ideas, and initiatives. We offer our clients a broad set of service lines and expertise areas to serve their needs. Our service lines describe our functional skills (what we do best) – including Strategy, Evaluation, Human-Centered Design, Analytics, Investment Advisory, Implementation, Research, Organizational Effectiveness, Policy and Advocacy, and Talent and Leadership; while our expertise areas describe our content (what we know best), including: • Agriculture & Food Security – Helping organizations identify, design and implement solutions that benefit agricultural market participants and increase food security • Cities – Working with cities to set purposeful goals, diagnose obstacles, collaborate through global networks and partnerships, experiment with potential solutions, and adapt to change • Conflict & Humanitarian Assistance – Helping organizations to effectively address the unique development challenges faced by conflict-affected and post-conflict countries UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 2 • Digital Practice – Harnessing the power of information and communication technologies to foster innovation, improve quality, expand access and drive accountability • Education & Employment – Expanding global access to high-quality employment and education at all levels by understanding market needs and effective approaches to learning, strengthening public systems and facilitating public-private partnerships • Energy Access – Working with public and private sector organizations to transform markets, make sound supply-side choices, access financing, and enhance energy access • Environment – Innovating at the intersection of human and natural systems to meet the growing demand for food, freshwater, energy, and other resources that advance human development, while protecting the ability of our ecosystems to support this growth in the long run • Financial Inclusion – Partnering with financial institutions, foundations, development institutions, and governments to develop innovative strategies for providing high-quality, appropriate financial services to underserved individuals and businesses • Gender – Developing strategies and designing programs that enable organizations to leverage resources toward greater gender equity • Health & Nutrition – Identifying, designing and implementing solutions that improve health across the globe • Inclusive Business – Working with businesses to develop inclusive customer bases, suppliers, employees, and distribution channels • Infrastructure – Supporting governments, private investors and institutions to develop inclusive and sustainable infrastructure in emerging markets • Water & Sanitation – Improving private sector-based and sustainable approaches in rural water supply, sanitation, and hygiene products Dalberg brings global perspectives firmly rooted in local realities. We have 17 offices, located in Abu Dhabi, Addis Ababa, Copenhagen, Dakar, Dar es Salaam, Geneva, Johannesburg, Kigali, Lagos, London, Mumbai, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, San Francisco, Singapore and Washington, D.C. We also have full-time teams based in Abidjan, Conakry, Hong Kong, Mexico City and Paris. We have served clients in more than 90 countries across Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and North and South America. The diversity and gender balance of Dalberg staff reflects our ethos of equality and inclusion. Our people are unified only by their commitment to the Dalberg mission, their top-tier education and professional experience, and their first-hand experience living and working in frontier and emerging markets. In all other respects, they reflect the diversity of the countries in which we work and the clients we serve: • 50% female and 50% male global workforce, balanced relatively equally across all levels • 50 nationalities • Over 90 languages spoken Dalberg has an extensive track record of success and innovation across the public, nonprofit and corporate sectors. During the last 18 years, Dalberg has successfully completed more than 2,300 engagements for more than 500 leading multilateral institutions, international agencies, UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 3 foundations, NGOs, governments and global corporations operating or investing in frontier and emerging markets. We have worked with a large spectrum of UN organizations – including UNICEF, UNDP, UNCDF, UNHCR, UN Women, and WHO. We act at the forefront of development innovation, working extensively with leading social innovators, such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation and MasterCard Foundation, and a broad range of international organizations, including the Global Fund, Human Rights Watch, and the World Wildlife Fund. We advise a broad range of private sector clients, including 10 Fortune 200 Global companies, and have partnered with dozens more. We have advised emerging and frontier market country governments and regional and international development finance institutions, including the World Bank, International Finance Corporation (IFC), African Development Bank (AfDB), Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). Dalberg’s Global Compact COP will be available on the UNGC website and will be referenced on our own website, www.dalberg.com. For any questions or comments, please contact: Jasmin Cooke Madji Sock Global Director of Operations Global Operating Partner jasmin.cooke@dalberg.com madji.sock@dalberg.com T: +1 (202) 659-6570 T: +221 (33) 869 64 54 UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 4 Human Rights • Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg strongly espouses the ethos of diversity and inclusion. In 2019, Dalberg Advisors’ Global Managing Partner signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion pledge (the world's largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace) alongside 600+ global CEOs. This is built on our long-standing commitment to diversity and inclusion, which was also the theme of our 2019 Global Retreat. Dalberg seeks to bring this lens to every project we undertake with clients. Dalberg’s work in the international development sector requires us to be highly conscious in our choice of clients, subcontractors and partners. Dalberg seeks to work only with clients of the utmost integrity, who are globally respected, and who are seeking outcomes that improve the condition of people in emerging and frontier market countries. As such, every partner overseeing business development and project implementation activities takes personal responsibility to ensure that our clients are not involved in any human rights abuses. Internally at Dalberg, we are also constantly striving to improve and evolve our own organization to reflect the kind of change we wish to see in the world. For example, in April 2019 Dalberg created a new Global Inclusion Advisor (GIA) role to institutionalize the staff-led momentum to help Dalberg employees bring their authentic selves to work. This is intended to help embed an inclusion mindset in Dalberg’s culture, encourage our people to increase awareness and empathy and create a space for inclusive practices with one another. Further, in 2018, Dalberg launched Making Her Story at Dalberg, an initiative that helps Dalberg apply a gender lens internally and externally, and guides policies and governance, external engagement, mentorship, allyship, and more. Additionally, our GLAD staff group, a full-firm resource that champions and promotes Dalberg’s vision of LGBTQ diversity and acceptance started in 2014 by a group of LGBTQ staff and allies, held an annual event to share ‘journeys of acceptance’ and is instituting a reverse mentorship program to educate senior leadership. IMPLEMENTATION In the past two years, Dalberg has engaged with a variety of actors under our dedicated Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance practice. We also delved into human rights from the perspective of equal gender rights, protection of vulnerable groups, and advocacy. For example: • Dalberg conducted a mapping of the humanitarian landscape in East Africa. Dalberg was engaged by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) to assess the humanitarian ecosystem in Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania and identify potential opportunities for action for BMGF, including potential priority investment areas and promising local partners. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 5 • Dalberg developed a strategy for a leading organization promoting free expression. Dalberg created an expansion strategy for PEN America (which works at the intersection of literature and human rights to protect free expression in the United States and worldwide) to maximize its impact and sustainability in the years ahead. • Dalberg developed a strategy to strengthen the field of women’s economic empowerment globally. Dalberg was engaged by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) to assess the ecosystem of current efforts on women’s economic empowerment and identify potential opportunities for action for BMGF in strengthening the ecosystem, including potential priority investment areas and promising partners. • Dalberg evaluated barriers to accessing reproductive health services in Latin America. Dalberg was engaged to better understand the barriers that impede women from accessing reproductive health services in Latin America to guide a client’s investments. • Dalberg helped a key player in the US gender equality space develop a strategy to combat harmful gender norms. Dalberg supported the founder of a new organization in developing a framework to conceptualize what gender norms are and why they matter, conduct a landscape analysis of actors working in this space, and conduct a literature review of best practices to inform the organization’s strategy. • Dalberg developed a strategy for a non-profit supporting vulnerable children. Dalberg worked with Whole Child International (WCI), a non-profit focused on reforming orphanages and early childhood education centers in developing countries. Dalberg was asked to create its next five-year strategy and implementation plan, which aims to improve outcomes for vulnerable children. • Dalberg developed an advocacy strategy for the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery (GFEMS). Dalberg was engaged to better understand the stakeholders working to end modern slavery and then build an advocacy strategy and guidebook. Dalberg supported the Fund in understanding how to most effectively share learnings, evidence and insights (such as innovative methodologies, new models, and tools) with a range of organizations working in the space. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past two years, we hosted events, wrote articles in prominent development publications, authored reports, and launched new public data sets, reinforcing our support for universal human rights: • Dalberg facilitated a workshop on access to energy for displaced populations. Dalberg was engaged by a Fortune 100 oil and gas company to plan, deliver, and facilitate a workshop to frame the opportunity for improving access to energy for displaced populations affected by humanitarian crises. • Dalberg hosted a workshop that designed principles to narrow the digital gender gap. There will be an expected 480 million smartphone women users in India by 2030. To help UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 6 address women’s specific digital needs, our Mumbai office hosted “Smartphone Solutions that Work for Her”, a three-day lab that culminated in an open workshop in April 2019. • Dalberg launched a public data set and tool to enable better design for financial health in India in collaboration with The Centre for Social Behaviour Change at Ashoka University and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The Aspiring Indians project, the India chapter of The Human Account, which spans across six countries in Asia and Africa, uses a unique multimethod research approach, incorporating human-centered design, cognitive psychology, behavioral science, and large-scale, survey-based methods to understand low-income consumers in a comprehensive way. • Dalberg helped catalyze private sector investment in tech for women and children, working with UNICEF’s Innovation Lab. Dalberg conducted market research on innovative tech solutions to address the pressing needs of urban women and children in Jakarta, Nairobi and Mexico City, with the research helping to drive private sector investment in social impact tech. • Dalberg conducted a study on women and girls’ financial inclusion in The Gambia. Dalberg was engaged by UNCDF and the Central Bank of The Gambia to conduct a PoWER (Participation of Women in the Economy Realized) Assessment to gather qualitative and quantitative data on women and girls’ access to and use of financial services to inform future policy and programs. • Dalberg Data Insights authored an opinion piece proposing a digital constitution. The Managing Partner of Dalberg Data Insights co-authored an opinion piece in a Belgian news outlet proposing a digital constitution for Europe to promote individual freedom, digital rights, and online data privacy, building on the initial steps taken by the EU General Data Protection Regulation. Labor • Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS While the nature of Dalberg’s professional services work does not necessitate staff union membership, our corporate policies provide for a system whereby employee concerns and grievances can be addressed via elected staff representatives. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 7 We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced, compulsory or child labor and support the ILO conventions. In addition, as a matter of principle and reputation, we seek to ensure that these practices do not take place in our client, partner and sub-contractor organizations. Finally, as an international consulting firm, Dalberg actively seeks to recruit a team that reflects the gender and ethnic diversity of our clients and their beneficiaries. Our corporate policies ensure staff members are recruited based on their ability to do the job. No distinction, exclusion or preference is given on any other grounds. IMPLEMENTATION Dalberg’s corporate policies are posted prominently on our internal knowledge management system and are accessible by all staff. Our policies are accompanied by an open discussion forum that communicates directly with Dalberg’s Executive Director, Coordination Committee, and Dalberg Advisors Global Managing Partner, Global Operating Partner, and the Chair of the People and Values Committee. Our People and Values Committee ensures adherence to our global values and oversees all people matters. Its mandate includes setting all human resource related policies and overseeing the performance review process. We conduct annual anti-harassment training for new hires and new Associate Partners, and periodic all-staff refreshers. We are also conducting leadership, manager, and HR team antiharassment training in 2019. Further, we recently launched our 2018-2021 diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) roadmap in the Americas region. This aims to: ensure that all employees can bring their full selves to work and that no aspect of demographic identity determines success; increase representation of marginalized groups across all levels, and advance equity and inclusion through deployment of our financial and human resources and in our client-facing work. Dalberg also has created a global mental health task force which is helping to set the norm internally that “it is OK to not be OK.” The task force is also launching various initiatives such as compiling a list of global and local mental health support services, conducting health insurance policy coverage analysis, and holding sensitization training to destigmatize, build resilience, and cultivate allyship. For confidential employee grievances and concerns, we have an established ombudsperson system. The ombudspeople are nominated by staff globally and retain the position for a period of at least one year. These representatives have direct access to Dalberg senior management and a responsibility to bring up issues of concern to staff. In addition, Dalberg seeks to be a leading employer by recognizing the importance of maintaining an enjoyable and supportive working environment and providing social benefits. Each of our offices aims to provide benefits like health, dental, pension, and parental leave at levels exceeding or comparable to other leading professional services firms in their respective countries of operation. Further, in 2018 Dalberg reviewed and refreshed its employee contracts around the world to be LGBTQ-inclusive. We promote teamwork and individual professional development through regular office-level retreats, a global retreat every 16-24 months, regular global and office-level skills training sessions, quarterly staff Pulse surveys, 360-degree feedback reviews and individual staff professional development plans. Dalberg also encourages staff-led initiatives supporting entrepreneurs and youth in our local communities. For example, Dalberg Nairobi launched an initiative to support the start-up community, dubbed “Start-up Saturdays.” This is a platform that aims to support promising startups in the city in identifying and helping to overcome key challenges in their operations, particularly UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 8 in catering to the different customer types they encounter in the course of their business. Dalberg Dakar is exploring options to create a new “Dalberg Academy” to equip students with real-world job skills, working together with local universities and high schools. Moreover, in the past two years Dalberg has worked with several clients on labor and employment practices. We also work with a range of actors to identify opportunities to promote youth employment. For example: • Dalberg identified intervention points to help combat youth unemployment in Ethiopia. Dalberg was engaged by the MasterCard Foundation to perform labor market segmentation in Ethiopia, to both understand the reliability of labor data and identify effective points for intervention in tackling youth unemployment. • Dalberg supported smallholder coffee farmers. Dalberg supported the Sustainable Coffee Challenge and USAID to author a guidebook on coffee “renovation and rehabilitation” best practices; helping small coffee farmers who grow over 90% of the world's coffee to enhance productivity. The guidebook is a rich resource for companies, governments, investors, and service providers. • Dalberg explored issues related to quality of work. The Ford Foundation engaged Dalberg to conduct a synthesis of its strategic exploration of issues related to quality work. Dalberg reviewed all knowledge products created during the five-year exploration process and conducted interviews with the foundation’s grantees to assess the emerging insights and best practices related to quality work issues. • Dalberg supported women’s inclusion in agriculture. As part of its gender equality strategy, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation engaged Dalberg to identify and assess highpotential models for women’s market inclusion (WMI) in agriculture. Dalberg conducted a landscape assessment of WMI models and estimated the potential market size, and subsequently developed a gender equality strategy focused on WMI; identifying the key constraints to women’s market inclusion in agriculture in Nigeria, Tanzania, Ethiopia, and India. • Dalberg researched services for youth in Senegal’s peanut valley region. Dalberg was contracted by the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) to assess the demand for financial and non-financial services from young people in two regions of Senegal’s peanut valley region using human-centered design (HCD) methodology, with the purpose of supporting rural economic activities and curbing the rural-to-urban migration. • Dalberg promoted youth employment in South Africa. Dalberg supported Yellowwoods Investment to identify solutions to key challenges affecting South Africa's townships (periurban areas including informal settlements) including youth unemployment and unemployed tradesmen who work in the informal construction sector in townships. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 9 MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past two years, Dalberg has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving contravention of ILO conventions or the Global Compact labor principles. Additionally, Dalberg’s efforts to build and maintain a diverse staff and a supportive, nondiscriminative corporate environment are apparent in our staff statistics: • 50% female and 50% male global workforce, balanced relatively equally across all levels • 50 nationalities • More than 90 languages spoken In addition, we have written reports and articles in prominent development publications and convened public forums, reinforcing our commitment to fair labor practices and equal opportunity: • Dalberg launched a Pan-African youth employment peer learning network. To address the lack of coordination amongst youth employment organizations in Africa, Dalberg collaborated with the Umsizi Fund to bring together some of the most demand-driven youth employment organizations into a peer learning network. • Dalberg developed a report on peer-to-peer business networks helping small and growing businesses. Dalberg helped author Networking works: Peer-to-peer business networks help Small and Growing Businesses (SGBs) grow revenues and create jobs. This report helps better understand the role and impact of business network organizations in helping SGBs grow, and the business case for funding them. • Dalberg organized a public-private round table on youth employment in Nigeria. The African Development Bank, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Labor and Employment, engaged Dalberg Advisors to support the design and implementation of a high-profile public-private roundtable on youth employment and skills enhancement. The aim of this was to encourage policy dialogue and generate investments to create jobs and promote skills development. • Dalberg Advisor’s Global Managing Partner was invited to join the Presidential Youth Advisory Group at the African Development Bank to support the President of the Bank and his team in the creation of jobs and other opportunities for youth across Africa. • The Dalberg-supported DigiFarm platform won a Fast Company 2018 World-Changing Idea Award. Dalberg supported Mercy Corps and partners including Safaricom in the creation of DigiFarm. The Dalberg team worked to understand the needs and behaviors of smallholder farmers, develop a minimum viable product, and identify and provide strategy support for partner service-providers that complement Safaricom’s offering to meet farmers’ needs. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 10 • Dalberg published a five-part series report on understanding Indian sanitation workers. The report, published in in The Wire, explores the situation of sanitation workers in India; their different personas, the challenges they face, and the techno-social-financial-policy solutions that are essential to overcoming those challenges. Environment • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg is committed to fostering and promoting a clean environment and meeting environmental challenges through a wide range of efforts to monitor and reduce the carbon footprint of our individual staff and the firm as a whole. At the start of 2019 Dalberg committed to a new global green initiative to reduce our carbon footprint and increase environmental sustainability as a firm. Wherever possible, Dalberg raises awareness among our staff and guides them to the most environmentally friendly choices and vendors. Our travel policies, posted on our internal knowledge management system and available to all staff, advise use of the most environmentally sound methods of travel. In addition, members of our dedicated Energy Access and Environment practices foster internal and external dialogue on environmental challenges through monthly calls and email updates, blog posts and articles. IMPLEMENTATION In the last two years, Dalberg has worked with a wide range of clients to develop environmentallyconscious strategies, build knowledge around environmental markets, and promote the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. For example: • Dalberg Design supported local fishing communities in Indonesia. Dalberg Design collaborated with the UK Space Agency, Inmarsat and a consortium of partners to understand the behaviors and needs of fishing communities, rapidly prototype new ideas and solutions, and define and design new features and services to improve the lives of fishing communities and promote inclusive and sustainable fishing practices. • Dalberg designed a strategy to reduce the carbon footprint in Western Europe. Dalberg was commissioned by the Climate Planet Foundation to design a three-year strategy to reach millions of young adults across Western Europe in a scalable and financially sustainable way, encouraging them to make behavioral changes that reduce their carbon footprint. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 11 • Dalberg assessed the off-grid solar industry in East Africa. Dalberg was engaged by an industry transformation actor to help identify potential areas of additionality in the East African solar industry in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda for the client to participate in. • Dalberg developed a strategy for a sanitation innovation hub in India. Dalberg aimed to help develop a thriving sanitation ecosystem in Telangana, India by accelerating the growth of sanitation businesses and acting as a capacity building and knowledge dissemination hub for stakeholders in the sanitation ecosystem. • Dalberg supported the Clean Cooking for Africa Project. Dalberg was hired to perform an econometric and impact analysis on the demand for liquid petroleum gas (LPG) across Kenya, Ghana and Cameroon until 2030, producing a demand and impact report per country. Dalberg Research conducted on the ground surveys to inform this analysis in Cameroon. • Dalberg developed city-led initiatives to stop plastic leakage into the Mediterranean. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) France engaged Dalberg to identify French sources of plastic leakage into the Mediterranean and support the development of city-led initiatives to stop this leakage. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past two years, Dalberg has authored reports and contributed to major conversations on environmental issues: • Dalberg established a pan-India climate change collaborative. Dalberg successfully organized and hosted the second convening of the India Climate Collaborative, which saw some of India's largest foundations pledge to collaborate on climate change issues. • Dalberg conducted a study on cleaner cooking in urban Kenya with LPG and bio-ethanol. Commissioned by the Climate and Development Knowledge Network, Dalberg assessed bio-ethanol and LPG across economic, health, and environmental criteria to understand the impact potential of replacing traditional fuels. The study provides an impact evidence base for bio-ethanol and LPG, and shares policy recommendations to promote the adoption of bio-ethanol (given its lesser prominence compared to LPG to date) as a cooking fuel in Kenya. • Dalberg organised the Happy Cities Summit: Amaravati 2018. Dalberg organized a global summit on urban innovation focused on: citizen-centric governance, liveable communities, a clean and healthy environment, and vibrant economies. 1,500+ attendees (including 120 delegates from 15+ countries), 40+ speakers and city leaders, and 12 start-ups from 7 countries participated in the summit. • Dalberg provided training on energy solutions and entrepreneurship. Dalberg delivered training to trainers working with entrepreneurs. The content focused on energy solutions in Indonesia, Egypt, Oman and Trinidad & Tobago. It also included entrepreneurship training; focusing on innovative tools such as design thinking and theories of change. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 12 • Dalberg co-authored the 2018 Off-Grid Solar Market Trends Report, estimating that the offgrid solar sector has provided improved electricity to 360 million people. In this report released by the World Bank Group’s Lighting Global Program, Dalberg and GOGLA found that the global off-grid solar industry has taken a leap in the past year to help developing countries reach their energy access goals. • Dalberg authored a report for the World Wildlife Fund, Vanishing vaquita: Saving the world’s most endangered marine mammal. This 2017 report found that the vaquita porpoise could become extinct without immediate action to curb illegal fishing and wildlife trafficking. • Dalberg hosted two events on off-grid societies and decentralized energy solutions during the World Economic Forum (WEF) on Africa. These events, part of an ongoing series celebrating 10 years of Dalberg on the continent, were a chance to shape discussions on solutions for off-grid societies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Dalberg observes and supports the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We seek to support governments, UN agencies and civil society to realize a more transparent global economy. As a firm, we have strict corporate policies to avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption both in home office countries and in the field. Where there are concerns, Dalberg includes specific provisions in our contractual arrangements with clients prohibiting any such behavior. IMPLEMENTATION Our primary contribution to a transparent global economy comes in the form of our client work. In the last two years, we have worked with a wide range of clients on governance issues. For example: • Dalberg identified potential innovations in judiciary reform in India. Dalberg analyzed the Indian judiciary system to understand the key issues that impede its effectiveness and identified innovative solutions that can help address these challenges. • Dalberg conducted an evaluation of the UNHCR Resettlement Innovation Project. Working in collaboration with the UNHCR Resettlement Service, Dalberg undertook an end-to-end evaluation of existing systems and developed targeted recommendations to improve the process across five criteria: efficiency, effectiveness, integrity, quality, and refugee experience. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 13 • Dalberg developed a theory of change framework to support the Women’s Impact Fund. Dalberg was appointed by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation (SPF) to conduct an initial market assessment and theory of change for the Women’s Impact Fund, a USD 100 million impact investment fund that aims to increase positive gender outcomes in Asia. As a result of this project, the Fund has a clear vision, mission, outcomes, and activities that align to close current market gaps. • Dalberg worked with Avasara Leadership Academy and developed a monitoring, evaluation and learning (MEL) plan. Dalberg conducted targeted interviews with students, parents, and community members; led a theory of change workshop, and created case study/narrative templates that communicate MEL findings in a compelling way. This MEL plan will help Avasara Academy measure its impact, especially in qualitative areas such as confidence and grit, on its students while they are in school and after they graduate. • Dalberg developed a capacity development framework for the Gavi Alliance. Dalberg and Gavi Alliance members collaborated to develop clear terminology related to capacity development, theory of change, and a set of modules to improve management of capacity development interventions – and developed a high-level implementation guide to revise existing tools and processes. • Dalberg shared recommendations to enhance resource allocation at the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). A previous Dalberg assessment uncovered the need to better understand the effectiveness and efficiency of the budget that IDB allocates to making its loans and technical cooperations successful. To address this, IDB engaged Dalberg to review and improve its budget for project preparation and supervision. The review produced an overall assessment of the budget and its processes, with identified areas for improvement intended to improve the quality and performance of projects. MEASURE OF OUTCOMES In the past two years, Dalberg has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving corruption or bribery. In addition, we maintain transparent financial records via an annual audit with accredited accounting firms in each of our countries of operation. • Dalberg hosted a workshop on privacy in financial services. Dalberg, in collaboration with CGAP and Dvara Research, brought together fintechs, catalytic funders, banks, policy makers, investors and foundations to brainstorm on how to better protect consumer data and privacy. The Dalberg Mumbai team put together an interactive exhibit on how we might better design consent and other privacy-related matters. • Dalberg developed a new ranking of the world’s most responsible sovereign wealth and government pension funds. The initiative, developed in partnership with the Global Development Incubator and the Fletcher School at Tufts University, analysed over 120 funds comprising $20 trillion in assets, ultimately identifying 25 sovereign wealth funds (SWF) and government pension funds (GPF) that set a global standard for leadership. The initiative provides the first comprehensive analysis of how the world’s largest long-term investors are developing sophisticated new strategies to manage social, governance and environmental risks. UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 2019 14
