SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 TOWARD SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP CONTENTS About Bufab 1 Message from the CEO 2 Business model 4 Strategy 7 Focus areas 9 Long-term, systematic sustainability work 10 Sustainable global business 14 Responsible growth 18 People and relationships 20 Sustainability risks 24 About the Sustainability Report This is Bufab’s third Sustainability Report. The first report was published on 28 April 2017. The Sustainability Report comprises all companies in the Group unless otherwise stated. See page 43 in Bufab’s 2018 Annual Report for a complete list of our subsidiaries. The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act’s sustainability reporting requirements. Bufab’s business model is presented on page 4 and a risk description on page 24. See pages 10–11 and 14–16 for environmental disclosures, pages 20–23 for social issues and employees, page 20 for human rights, and page 11 for anti-corruption. The auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report can be found inside the back cover. Bufab supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. This Sustainability Report is Bufab’s Communication on Progress for 2018. The report also applies GRI 103: Management Approach 2016. If you have any questions or comments about the Sustainability Report, contact Jörgen Rosengren, CEO, Bufab, +46 (0)370-69 69 00, jorgen.rosengren@bufab.com ABOUT BUFAB THIS IS BUFAB Bufab is a trading company that offers full-service solutions for sourcing, quality assurance and logistics for C-Parts. Bufab’s customer offering aims to 2018 IN BRIEF improve productivity in the customers’ value chain for C-Parts, thus reducing their total costs and ensuring an end-to-end sustainable value chain. Bufab • Strong growth and stable margins has a diversified customer base in many countries and sectors within the • Increased market share manufacturing industry. Bufab was founded in 1977 in Småland, Sweden and over time has devel• Continued work on Leadership strategy oped into an international Group with operations in 27 countries. Bufab has • Acquisition of Rudhäll Group approximately 1,200 employees worldwide, who work with sales, sourcing, quality and logistics. The head office is based in Värnamo. As a complement to its trading activities, Bufab also manufactures particularly technically demanding C-Parts in-house at five facilities in Sweden and one in the UK. EXAMPLES OF Sustainability is integrated in every aspect of Bufab’s operations – from our guiding principles for conducting business to how risks are assessed. Bufab ­SUSTAINABILITY strives to have a leading employer brand and works to promote well-being and security, with a strong focus on safety for its employees, suppliers and others affected by the company’s operations. We believe that these initiatives ACTIONS IN 2018 further strengthen the organisation and form the foundation for recruitment of • A  nti-corruption training for all Managcompetencies. ing ­Directors and Group ­management Bufab’s sustainability practices are mainly governed by the company’s Code of Conduct and its policies for employees, the environment, quality and • S  ustainability policy for purchasing anti-corruption among others. Bufab is a signatory and active contributor to ­logistics ­services the UN Global Compact and has incorporated its principles into the internal • C  ontinued broad training around Best Practice. ­sustainability issues within the­ ­framework of the Bufab Academy • Roll out regional sourcing structures in the ­subsidiaries EMPLOYEES PER REGION, 2018 • Silver medal in EcoVadis rating with a score amongst the top 7 percent Sweden, 28% of ­companies in our industry United Kingdom, 18% • Big investments to make Best Bufab Other Western Europe, 28% Practice even more accessible by further digitalization of processes Eastern Europe, 13% and systems Asia, 12% Other, 1% BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ONE MORE STEP TOWARD SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP ” In 2018, we continued our systematic work on sustainability throughout the company. In 2018, Bufab had another achieves favorable business terms without compromising our successful year. Most imporresponsibility for the environmental and social sustainability. More tantly, we achieved solid sales generally, efficient logistics, ethically responsible relationships growth, to a large extent driven both within and outside the company, zero tolerance of corruption, by increased market share in respect for the central role of our employees, the view that everyalmost every single market. one has equal value and the principle of freedom with responsiMany of our c­ ustomers are bilities are cornerstones of our sustainability efforts. We base this getting more help from Bufab on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, of which we are a to reduce their complexity, signatory since 2011. The work is structured into four focus areas: their supplier bases, their risk • Long-term, systematic sustainability efforts and their total cost. They do this so they can get better control of • Responsible growth their supply chain, also from a sustainability perspective. • Sustainable global business That shows how central sustainability is to Bufab’s business • People and relationships model. Our customers are experts on their core business, and generally have good control of sustainability aspects when Our ambition is to be the leading player in our industry by 2020. it comes to their A and B components. But when it comes to That also means being the best supplier from a sustainability perC-Parts, they have too many suppliers, too many parts, and too spective. This is not an easy thing to do, since supplying C-Parts much complexity to manage it well. It is not their core business. is a very demanding sustainability challenge. We have tens of That’s why they turn to a Supply Chain Partner like Bufab to thousands of customers and thousands of suppliers worldwide, manage C-Parts for them. For us, on the other hand, C-Parts are and annually manage billions of components with more than our core business. We are therefore able to secure the quality and 140,000 different specifications. So we do not say that we are perlogistics of C-Parts sourced from our supplier base, and can work fect. ­Instead, we promise our customers and other stakeholders with that supplier base over time to improve its sustainability. that sustainability is a top priority for Bufab. And we promise that In 2018, we continued our systematic work on sustainability with Bufab as their Supply Chain Partner, our customers’ C-Parts throughout the company. In many areas, we made good progress. ­supply chain will get more sustainable every year. In others we need to speed up. An important step we took during In this report, you can read about our efforts in the year 2018, the year was to select EcoVadis, a third-party assessment partner, and also about our plans for becoming the sustainability leader in to measure the year-to-year progress of our sustainability work, our industry. and to present the measurement externally in this report. This brings additional structure and discipline to our activities. As you can see, our scores are good, but not yet good enough. The ambition, over time, is to get to the “gold” level, meaning a performance Värnamo, March 2019 exceeding 95% of industry peers. Such an ambition requires systematic, long-term work across Jörgen Rosengren many areas. For example, this means a sourcing strategy that President and CEO 2 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 BUSINESS MODEL Bufab is a trading company that offers full-service solutions for sourcing, quality assurance and logistics for C-Parts. BUSINESS MODEL Our customers make stringent demands on sustainability in the full responsibility for our customers’ handling of C-Parts, which supply chain, and they choose suppliers based on an overall lowers their overall cost and gives them time and energy to focus assessment of both direct and indirect costs. Bufab’s ambition on their core business. is to meet market demands in terms of quality and responsible Demands on suppliers of C-Parts are increasing and only those production – the costs of any defects in C Part quality and delivery who can deliver at top global level will survive the current consoliprecision can be substantial. dation phase in the market. We see these increasing demands as a challenge and are aiming to be the market leader in sustainabilSuppliers ity by 2020. We have built up a global network of suppliers and source a total of 140,000 unique parts, mainly from Asia and Europe, that are Non-financial value creation stored in our own warehouses in some 30 different locations all Because sourcing, quality assurance and logistics of C-Parts are over the world for fast and reliable delivery. C-Parts equivalent to the actual core of Bufab’s business model, we are in a better posiapproximately 45 percent of the purchase value are sourced in tion to manage the sustainability issues related to C-Parts than our Asia, 10 percent in Sweden and the remaining 45 percent from customers. The ability to scale operations provides a competitive the rest of Europe. As a complement to its trading activities, Bufab advantage and possibility to set higher demands and still stay also manufactures particularly technically demanding C-Parts competitive. Thanks to our large network and cutting-edge exper­in-house at five facilities in Sweden and one in the UK. tise, we are in a better position to demand and ensure that suppliers meet our requirements for environmental considera­tion, health A changing market and safety, human rights and other social conditions in ­production Our customers are driven by the need to reduce their costs and contained in our Code of Conduct. We also add customer value increase productivity through more efficient management of through our local presence together with our coordinated and C-Parts that meet the market’s high demands on price and quality, efficient transportation, where we can achieve higher positive and on consideration for people and the environment. Bufab takes environmental and social impact than if our customers conducted their own sourcing. Global network of suppliers Over 140,000 C-Parts Lower total cost Secured quality Reliable delivery Less complexity In-house Saved time production Increased sustainability Customer satisfaction 4 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Customers Bufab’s customer base is diversified and comprises approximately 13,000 customers in a range of different industries. The customers are geographically diverse, and can be found in the Nordic region, the rest of Europe, Asia and the US. They also vary in size, which contributes to different sourcing behaviours and needs. We therefore offer flexible solutions at local level, and global solutions to national and international customers. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5 BUSINESS MODEL WHAT ARE C-PARTS? In the manufacturing industry, the components used in manufacSustainability can be a particularly challenging issue for turing operations are classified as A-Parts, B-Parts and C-Parts. C-Parts. There are many parts, with unique specifications and C-Parts often represent a large share of all part numbers in a list quality requirements, they are ordered from a large number of of materials. C-Parts typically have a low unit cost, wide product suppliers from all over the world, and every part has a low value. variation, large volumes and many suppliers in the segment. As a result, it is often difficult for an individual customer to guarC-Parts are unique in that only a small part of the total cost of antee sustainable and ethical handling across the entire supply the component is derived from the purchase price, often as little chain. That’s where Bufab comes in. as 20 percent. The remaining 80 percent of the total costs are indirect costs, in the form of costs for logistics, sourcing, storage and quality assurance. A/B-Parts Few parts High value Low complexity Core business C-Parts Many parts Low value Value High complexity Non-core Number of parts Customer sustainability focus Bufab sustainability focus Good overall control Bufab improves quality and sustainability for those products customers focus on least – products they lack the resources to manage efficiently. C-Parts have the lowest value of customers’ components, but are the most numerous. C-Parts are components such as fasteners in metal or plastic (screws, bolts, nuts, rivets, cotters, washers, etc.), other small metal, rubber or plastic parts, such as wires, springs and electronic fasteners. 6 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGY Our vision is to be the leading player in our industry. In 2018 we took further steps in that direction. STRATEGY Over the past six years, our growth strategy has enabled us to Quality and customer needs first strengthen our customer relationships, develop a market-leading Due to a systematic stakeholder dialogue, we are aware of what quality management system and build up an integrated quality-­ our customers are looking for. Customers expect good service, assurance system in the organisation. We have also completed products that do what they promise and on-time delivery. They seven acquisitions, launched our vision to be the leading player also require us to have a safe and sustainable supply chain, that in our industry by 2020. In 2018, we took further steps in that we disclose the use of conflict minerals, use a Supplier Code of direction. Conduct and that we are certified according to ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015. We have also noted a growing demand for sysBufab Best Practice tematic working methods for occupational health and safety and Bufab Best Practice (BBP) is our Group-wide management are therefore actively working to implement the ISO 45001:2018 system. The system is based on the standards ISO 9001:2015, guidelines into the BBP. 14001:2015 and 26000:2010, and the concept that we should Customers are our most important stakeholder group and learn from each other’s experiences by sharing best practice, their requirements determine our governance and continuous problem-solving and smart ways of working across the Group. improvements. This helps us to develop the operations and meet the market’s Bufab’s customer offering, Global Parts Productivity™, aims growing demands. With BBP, we have created a platform for to improve productivity in the customer value chain for C-Parts. sustainable growth and a world-class supplier base, which are We help our customers reduce their overall costs, free up capital, the prerequisites for achieving our vision. achieve consistent quality and stable deliveries. Sustainability is also an important aspect when acquiring new We are “the Solutionists”. That means that we take total responsubsidiaries. We only acquire subsidiaries with a similar view of sibility for our customers’ handling of C-Parts – small components the values that are fundamental to our own approach. In addition, at the bottom of the value chain. In doing so, we are also taking a acquired companies can often make valuable contributions to BBP. global responsibility – by coordinating sourcing and transportation. In 2018, we continued to invest heavily in “Digital Bufab,” a Helping our customers to improve sustainability in the supply project that will make our processes and systems more digital. As chain of C-Parts is an increasingly important part of our value part of that process, we developed and implemented new systems proposition. Furthermore, we can see that most of our competfor logistics solutions and partner integration (customer and itors have not come as far in their sustainability efforts, which supplier EDI). We have strengthened our supplier management represents a competitive advantage for Bufab as awareness and processes and in the first quarter of 2019, we will be implementing demands grow. a new supplier management module in all of our companies. We also developed a support system for our sales process, which is scheduled for roll-out in 2019, with integrated decision support that takes commercial, technical and sustainability aspects into account when choosing a solution for our customers. STRATEGY Quality and Customer First! World’s Best Preferred Partner Win-Win Supplier base Growth Acquistions digital Bufab Best Practice Bufabs strategy to reach market leadership 2020 is based on three focus areas: to develop a world-leading supplier base, Sustainability Local Presence Global Teamwork become a priority partner for customers and continue with value-adding acquisitions. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 8 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FOCUS AREAS Bufab has identified four focus areas for the company’s sustainability. The focus areas give us different perspectives on how we can achieve our vision. FOCUS AREAS FOR STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS LONG-TERM, SYSTEMATIC SUSTAINABILITY WORK Bufab’s sustainability agenda is governed by our Code of C ­ onduct and our policies for employees, the environment, quality and SUSTAINABLE anti-corruption. We also have a Code of Conduct for our suppliers. LONG-TERM, GLOBAL Bufab is a participant of the UN Global Compact and follows its SYSTEMATIC BUSINESS principles. Bufab’s aim is that all subsidaries will gradually transfer SUSTAINABILITY WORK to the Bufab Best Practice (BBP) management system. Supported by ISO 9001, 14001 and 26000, we will create an industry-leading Best Practice for sustainability governance. Read more on page 10. SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS PEOPLE AND Bufab’s largest impact on sustainability is in relation to our global RELATIONSHIPS network of 3,000 suppliers. Suppliers are chosen, assessed and RESPONSIBLE developed using Bufab’s global supplier process. Bufab promotes GROWTH environmental responsibility by encouraging our suppliers, contractors and customers to adopt international environmental principles. Read more on page 14. PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS By providing clear values and a strong leadership, we want to be the most attractive employer in the C-Parts industry. The Bufab Academy offers a toolkit to develop the skills we need to meet the rising demands in the market. Our approximately 1,200 employees are independent, systematic problem solvers who can play an active role in our environmental efforts and we believe that greater diversity will strengthen Bufab. Read more on page 20. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH Bufab has the ambition to grow. Growth is important to offer favourable returns to our owners, which are an important stakeholder group. However, responsible growth also benefits our other stakeholders: our employees, society at large and our suppliers. And most importantly, we achieve responsible growth for Bufab by improving sustainability in our customers’ sourcing, logistics and quality assurance of C-Parts. Read more on page 18. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 FOCUS AREA – LONG-TERM, SYSTEMATIC SUSTAINABILITY WORK With our Bufab Best Practice management system, Code of Conduct and ­policies, we are striving to create the best internal processes in our industry by 2020. LONG-TERM, SYSTEMATIC SUSTAINABILITY WORK Material sustainability issues opportunities to make a difference and build a stronger Bufab, To be as efficient as possible in our sustainability efforts, we have ready to meet the future. to focus on the right issues. In order to identify where our operaOur aim is to comply with the ISO 14001:2015 standard globally. tions have the greatest impact and the factors that are significant By applying ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and being guided for the company and its continued success, we performed a by ISO 26000:2010, we will create a leading Best Practice for materiality analysis in 2016 that resulted in six material sustainasustainability governance in the supply chain for C-Parts. Using bility areas. The assessment was conducted in collaboration with systematic sustainability governance, we can establish proceBufab’s key stakeholders, using both qualitative and quantitative dures for continuous improvements and achieve the requirements review methods and a benchmark of information needs. In 2017, of external audits. At present, 29 of Bufab’s subsidiaries have economic performance and market presence were added to the achieved local accreditation for their quality management accordlist, two key areas for our continued growth. In 2018, our materiing to ISO 9001:2015 and 13 companies have certified its systemality analysis was audited for the first time and confirmed that our atic environmental performance according to ISO 14001:2015, as previous materiality aspects are still the most important areas for well as one IATF 16949 certification. us to work with. Governing documents for sustainability Our material sustainability issues are: Bufab’s sustainability efforts are based on our Code of Conduct and • Anti-corruption Group-wide policies. Bufab’s policies apply to all companies in the • Procurement practices Group and compliance is regulated in the instructions for all Manag• Supplier sustainability assessments • Emissions from transport activities • Training and education • Diversity and non-discrimination • Economic performance Activities 2018 Results • Market presence • Perform audits of subsidiaries to ensure that Implemented BBP has been implemented according to plan. Bufab Best Practice Our Bufab Best Practice (BBP) management system provides the • Roll out regional sourcing structures in the Implemented platform for our internal processes. By integrating ISO 26000:2010 subsidiaries. and gradually increasing the scope for sustainability aspects, the • Continuous monitoring of our performance sustainability governance structure is strengthened in our material Implemented indicators. areas at subsidiary level. In 2017, it was decided that all subsidiaries will use BBP and we are working actively to implement this in Ongoing, will • Information about Bufab’s anti-corruption all subsidiaries. At the same time, BBP is a flexible management continue in efforts to employees, customers and suppliers. 2019 system that accounts for local conditions and may therefore, if necessary, be complemented with local instructions. However, im• Anti-corruption training for all Managing Implemented plementation will not be immediate in newly acquired companies. ­Directors and Group management. Our overall policies on the other hand – including endorsement of • Renewed external audit of sustainability Implemented the Global Compact – apply to all companies in the Group. efforts. (EcoVadis) The Best Practice Board, comprising Bufab’s CEO and some members of Group management, meets regularly and reviews the BBP status and action plans. During the year, the Best Practice Board focused on the implementation of a comprehensive Planned activities 2019 audit programme based on BBP in which the Group’s 23 largest companies participated. All auditors audited a site in a new region • Intensified use of digital analysis service for sustainability in order to maintain an objective and impartial mindset. This ­performance (EcoVadis) approach provided a fresh pair of eyes and received very positive • Creation of local sustainability plans in all large subsidiaries feedback. The results helped to further develop the operations, raise awareness and became a starting point for local and • Implementation of external performance indicators regional improvement programmes. This is a key step in continuously developing the operations and optimising the systematised • Continued information about Bufab’s sustainability efforts, working method. Through this, we are taking advantage of our ­­including anti-corruption to employees, customers and suppliers. 10 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FOCUS AREA – LONG-TERM, SYSTEMATIC SUSTAINABILITY WORK ing Directors. Each year, the Managing Directors submit a report on Bufab encourages all its business partners to make continucompliance with the policies in their subsidiary’s operations. Policy ous improvements in areas covered by the Code of Conduct. The compliance is also an integrated part in the internal and external Code of Conduct consists of business principles, principles of audit programs connected to the ISO certificates and BBP. human rights and social justice (including freedom of association Bufab’s policies include an anti-corruption policy, environmenand collective agreements where applicable), principles related to tal policy, HR policy, quality policy and a whistle-blower policy. To the environment (such as the precautionary principle), quality and support implementation and compliance, if necessary policies are regulatory compliance. complemented by a policy handbook. Anti-corruption Bufab’s Code of Conduct A prerequisite for sound business with both customers and A key part of our sustainability efforts is to establish and maintain suppliers is our zero tolerance of corruption. An important part suitable processes for identifying suppliers that conform to the of Bufab’s anti-corruption efforts is our business system, which is requirements of our Code of Conduct and policies. Bufab’s Code available to all employees. Bufab’s approach to ethical business of Conduct is based on the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Prinis described in the company’s Code of Conduct and anti-corrupciples and Rights at Work, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational tion policy. In 2018, all key management employees underwent Enterprises and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The anti-corruption training. In turn, the same information has been Code of Conduct is available at www.bufab.com. communicated to employees in all subsidiaries, as well as to Bufab has signed the UN Global Compact and incorporated customers and suppliers. ISO 26000:2010 – Guidance on social responsibility. Within the framework of Bufab Best Practice, we have a systematic procedure for assessing and evaluating risk, which also covers the risk of corruption. ECOVADIS Sustainability is clearly becoming increasingly important for investors and corporate customers, and quite often is a key buying factor. Many partners that Bufab speaks to request an independent review of sustainability management processes. In 2018, to further improve and systematise Bufab’s sustainability efforts, we intensified our work with EcoVadis – an independent Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) tool used by companies worldwide. In 2019 we will deepen our cooperation with Ecovadis even further. Another important goal with EcoVadis is the rating of Bufab’s CSR results and being able to compare them with the results of peer companies. Bufab has received a silver medal every year since 2014, which means that our sustainability performance has ranked among the top 30 percent of all companies in our industry. The goal is to be one of the top 5 percent of companies, which would earn us a gold medal. In the 2018 global rating, Bufab was one of the top 7 percent of companies in our industry. ” External evaluations by E ­analysts provide us with a clear­ framework for continuous i­mprovements that ­encourages us to become even better.” ­ coVadis’s Pim Kamminga, CSR Developer, Bufab BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 BUFAB’S VALUES We are entrepreneurs – with big hearts To succeed in business, you have to have a big heart – and that is exactly what we have. Despite our size, we have succeeded in keeping the feeling of a family business. We work together and treat each other with respect. We are responsive to the needs of our customers and find creative solutions for them. Our passion is finding solutions – we are entrepreneurs. We always deliver – as a team We provide professional, cost-efficient, sustainable business and manage our customers’ resources as responsibly as if they were our own. We believe in personal initiative to drive the business forward, and teamwork for success. Always considering what is best for our customer. We are a responsible partner We want to help our customers with their C-Parts requirements, which involves taking complete responsibility for sourcing, logistics and quality. Our goal of becoming a market leader means that we want to create added value for customers, suppliers and employees and to always guarantee quality, a customer focus and sustainability. We are a responsible player. 12 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS As a global company with a large number of parts, suppliers and customers all over the world, we are in an ideal position to make a difference from a sustainability perspective. SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS We want to develop a world-class supplier base by 2020. To do The aim of partnerships is to achieve higher productivity and qualso, we are striving to consolidate our sourcing to the suppliers that ity, but also to create opportunities for focusing on the suppliers’ conform to our ambitious price, quality and sustainability standsustainability aspects. ards. We are also endeavouring to reduce our climate impact from Our global supplier management organisation works continutransport, ensure that our components do not contain conflict ously to build and improve the necessary infrastructure, centred minerals and continuously improve our quality. around our Supplier Management database. This includes several Bufab’s greatest impact on sustainability is through our global important tools, such as supplier self-assessment tools, capability network of 3,000 suppliers. The suppliers are selected, assessed audit tools and scorecards. We also work with nudging as a tool and developed using Bufab’s global supplier process, driven by to benefit both business and our ability to increase our positive our global sourcing organisation. The suppliers are regularly sortimpact. We use a range of incentive models to further reward the ed into categories, of which the highest is ‘Preferred Suppliers,’ selection of suppliers who perform well in our assessments. comprising those suppliers who meet our stringent requirements During the spring, we recruited a global Sourcing Director in a wide range of areas, including sustainability. We continuously to Group management, is to build the world’s best commercial assess our suppliers in all categories and in 2018, we raised our and sustainable supplier base by 2020. She reviewed our global demands in all categories and assessed many of our suppliers practices and organisation, and initiated an ambitious recruitment again. This led to a slight decline in the percentage of transactions programme that will conclude in the first six months of 2019. She with “Preferred Suppliers” in 2018. also introduced several important improvements in our processes Some close supplier relationships, with suppliers from whom and tools, aimed at strengthening the organisation and building up Bufab makes continuous purchases, develop into a partnership. stronger supplier relationships. Despite our continued efforts with BUFAB’S SOURCING ENVIRONMENT Sweden 10% 60/100 Rest of Europe 45% Asia 45% 2017: 50/100 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT SUPPLIER CATEGORIES 60/100 We classify our suppliers into the following categories: • Preferred: Has signed both a sourcing agreement and Bufab’s Supplier Code of Conduct. This group also includes our strategic partners. 2017: 50/100 • Approved: Has signed Bufab’s Supplier Code of Conduct. • Potential: Suppliers that are yet to undergo our approval process. Average industry score • Blocked: Suppliers we do not work with, or that are being phased out. Bufab score EcoVadis material issues assessment score. 14 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS consolidation in 2018, we are not satisfied with the rate of progress. The fact that Bufab has a broad customer base and good relaIf we want to meet our 2020 objectives, these efforts will have to tionships with both large and small customers across a range of accelerate as we move forward. industries and market segments and with a geographic spread is also significant from a risk perspective. Supply chain sustainability Adopting and following our Supplier Code of Conduct has been a Supplier audits requirement for all major and new suppliers since 2016. The Code An important part of Bufab’s sustainability efforts is to perform of Conduct also helps us to assess possible suppliers. The proaudits of our suppliers. Our auditing program governs these efportion of sourcing from suppliers that have signed our Supplier forts. The audit is conducted by in-house auditors in collaboration Code of Conduct is therefore continuously growing. with external partners. A supplier audit examines conditions for With greater know-how throughout the supply process and employees and sustainability, training, health and safety, accident larger sourcing volumes, Bufab can control C-Parts suppliers reporting, work with safety inspections, child labour, environfrom a sustainability perspective more easily than our customers. mental issues, waste and emissions, control of conflict minerals In efforts to develop our supplier relationships, we prioritise our and compliance with REACH and RoHS. The basis of our Code largest suppliers where we see that this work has the greatest of Conduct derives from the principles of the UN Declaration on impact. Suppliers that do not initially conform to our requirements Human Rights, the ILO’s fundamental conventions on human rights are rejected. at work, the Rio Declaration and the UN Convention against CorAdopting a long-term approach and having good relationships ruption. Our auditors also inspect capacity and productivity. If they can reduce risk in the supply chain – closer relationships benefit identify instances of non-compliance, the supplier is responsible both price and lead times, which impact profit, efficiency and for creating an action plan that gets reviewed. This process is customer satisfaction. During supplier audits, we gather inforbetter than disqualifying suppliers. But we also encourage extra mation about a supplier’s capacity and abilities in our supplier audits initiated by customers or internal stakeholders. management system, and can thereby filter suppliers and reduce Despite a continued major focus on auditing in 2018, the the level of risk in our production. For a minor percentage of our number of audits performed was not high enough to achieve our sourcing, we have a “designated” supplier instead, meaning that ambitions for 2020. We have therefore revised the plan and added our customer has selected and assessed the supplier and is also more resources, and this will be a priority area in 2019. responsible for sustainability aspects in the supplier relationship. Activities 2018 Planned activities 2019 • Continued consolidation of our best suppliers, Ongoing, • Continued consolidation of our best suppliers, commercially commercially and from a sustainability will continue and from a sustainability perspective ­perspective in 2019 • Full implementation of the “Bufab Supplier Management Process” • Monitoring suppliers in relation to conflict minerals Implemented – Systematic management of the supplier base Ongoing, • Continued increased quality and intensity in our – Increased quality and intensity of audits will continue supplier audit programme for supplier audits in 2019 – Enhanced support for efforts to ensure the exclusion • Implementation of the Bufab Supplier Ongoing, of conflict minerals ­Management Process, including deeper will continue – Deepened partnerships with key suppliers ­partnership with key suppliers in 2019 • Significant investment in expanding sourcing organisation Ongoing, • Implementation of an improved supplier ­worldwide, including Asian sourcing offices will continue ­database in 2019 • Sustainability policy for purchasing logistics Implemented services BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS Conflict minerals Express deliveries by air, and sometimes even truck, are used if Conflict minerals include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, which there is a risk of delays, or for last-minute orders. But we always are extracted in the Democratic Republic of Congo and other endeavour to reduce the negative environmental impact of our surrounding countries. The trading of minerals extracted in these transport by minimising the use of air and express freight using a countries can be used to finance armed groups in conflict zones high degree of filling. and violations of human rights. Despite the efforts to minimise transports, transportation All suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct guarantee emission is one of Bufabs material aspects. As a result of this, that the components they deliver to us do not contain minerals in 2017, we introduced logistics and measurement tools for these from conflict zones. Upon request, the suppliers must be able to factors that were used in 2018. This led to better decision-­making identify and report the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold in and monitoring, but we are still not satisfied and subsequently their products. tightened our policy framework in 2018 in this area. We also have Bufab conducted a risk assessment and identified around a continous work to develop our reporting framework and indica250 suppliers who deliver components containing minerals that tors in this area. Our goal is to develop a true and fair account of could have been extracted in conflict zones. To control this, Bufab the emissions through the use of standardized approaches and uses the Conflict Mineral Reporting Template developed by the principles. This work will continue during 2019. Responsible Mining Initiative. Reporting obligations apply to most Passenger transport accounts for a minor percentage of our carof the relevant suppliers. In 2019, we plan to launch a new system bon dioxide emissions from transport. Nonetheless, this is an area to ensure that all relevant suppliers submit regular reports of their in which we try to take advantage of video conferencing/Skype use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. wherever possible to further minimise our passenger transport. If a supplier is suspected of using minerals from a conflict zone, we block the supplier and initiate an investigation. If our suspiQuality assurance cions are confirmed, the supplier will be phased out in accordBeing a supplier to demanding customers all over the world requires ance with the applicable procedures. a comprehensive quality management programme. At Bufab, quality is fully integrated with the Bufab Best Practice management system Transport which is based on the ISO 9001:2015 quality management system Bufab helps to minimise environmental impact by consolidating standard. As a part of our work for continuous improvements we the transport of C-Parts from suppliers to customers, compared have implemented a process for so-called Red Flags. This process with customers that purchase their own C-Parts. High fill rates and helps us identify and correct potential deviation at an early stage strategically controlled deliveries reduces transport emissions that otherwise would risk creating negative consequences to our significantly. customers. Identified Red Flags are reported to top management on Deliveries from suppliers and regional warehouses mainly take an ongoing basis, which also ensures that analysis and measures place by boat or truck, while deliveries to customers take place by are sufficient to prevent repetition. The measures taken often mean truck due to the short distances. that we update our Best Practice in order to implement the measures throughout the Group. 16 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FOCUS AREA – SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL BUSINESS SPYRIDON THOMAS, GLOBAL CATEGORY & PROTEX PROGRAM DIRECTOR, SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC Schneider Electric is one of the leading brands in energy Why do you use EcoVadis as a sustainability management and automation. Bufab is a strategic supplier for ­requirement towards your suppliers? Schneider Electric supplying Fastener’s and other fabricated Schneider Electric expects that their strategic suppliers will components in all regions and in more than 80 manufacturing equally embark on the sustainability journey. EcoVadis is plants. Beyond the supply of the products Bufab is providing providing an easy to use CSR scorecard reducing risk, foster supply chain & logistic solutions. transparency & drive innovation among our strategic suppliers with the incentive to continually improve. Why is sustainability important for Schneider Electric? Schneider Electric has launched its sustainability approach How well does Bufab live up to your requirements? in 2002 by creating a dedicated department for the Group, Bufab is integrated from the Offer Creation process up to the signing up to the 10 Principles of the Global Compact as End of Life of a product range being in a true partnership well as aligns to the United Nations 17 Sustainable Develwhich is evolving not only in terms of growth but also in terms opment Goals. Schneider is committed to accomplish this of sustainability with their commitment towards corporate sothrough our core business and five sustainability megatrends: cial responsibility. Bufab is also offering the ability to undertake Climate, C ­ ircular Economy, Ethics, Health & Safety and the supply chain execution for tail spend which is one major Development. advantage supporting us in our efforts to massively reduce our supply base and simplify the interactions with the plants. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 FOCUS AREA – RESPONSIBLE GROWTH We grow both organically and through acquisitions. Growth generates returns for our owners. But responsible growth is also important for increasing sustainability and our contribution to other stakeholders: employees, society at large, suppliers and customers. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH With Bufab Best Practice, we have created a platform for sustainpractices and fair competition. This is an integral part of Bufab able growth. It forms the basis of our work for responsible growth, Best Practice and it is a matter of course for us to ensure regulatory both for acquisitions, our own production and in collaborations compliance in all countries in which we operate. with our suppliers. Bufab aims to grow 10 percent annually, both Paying taxes in the countries where we operate is about more organically and through acquisitions. Growth is important for than complying with the law. It is about showing that our business generating high returns for our owners, who are a key stakeholdprovides governments with an opportunity to generate revenues, er group. However, responsible growth also benefits our other support economic growth and enhance social development. Our stakeholders. Our employees benefit through salary, pension and tax strategy is integrated in our CEO-instructions and transfer other benefits, as well as opportunities for personal development pricing documents and supports our global strategy. This together offered by an employer that encourages personal freedom and with our audit program makes sure that we comply with the tax responsibility. Communities in the countries where we operate laws wherever we operate and that enough value stays within the benefit from the growth for example through direct and indirect tax country. revenue. Our suppliers, which are chosen for their ability to conWe do not have any operations in tax havens, instead we add tribute to responsible growth can grow on their own. And finally, local economic value. We continually strive for an open dialogue and perhaps most importantly, our customers’ sustainability will be with governments. This can be challenging in regions where we improved in sourcing, logistics and quality assurance of C-Parts. have small operations, but in order to ensure compliance without stressing our organization, we use external consultants when Good business practices necessary. Due to Bufab’s global customers and supplier network, the comThis approach helps us to comply with the rules and regulations pany makes a positive contribution in every country in which it in the countries in which we operate. And in turn contributes to operates, and supports development by ensuring good business share prosperity and generate social value wherever we operate. Economic value generated and distributed TAX AND PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENT In recent years, Bufab’s growth has led to an increase in the SEK million creation of economic value for its stakeholders – suppliers, 250 employees and shareholders. SEK million 2018 2017 2016 200 Revenue – net sales 3,786 3,201 2,847 150 Other revenue 50 32 32 100 Total value generated 3,836 3,233 2,879 Operating expenses –2,776 –2,342 –2,071 50 Salaries and remuneration to employees, excl. social –491 –407 –367 0 security contributions 2016 2017 2018 Social security contributions –160 –137 –126 and pensions Costs, banks –29 –26 –21 Dividends –85 –76 –65 Tax –74 –65 –88 Total value distributed –3,615 –3,053 –2,738 Economic value retained 221 180 141 18 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FOCUS AREA – RESPONSIBLE GROWTH Acquisitions Customers When we acquire a company, we devote a great deal of time and Responsible growth for Bufab often occurs when we take over a energy to evaluating the company’s supplier base and sustainabillarger share of C-Parts handling from a customer. As part of this ity efforts to ensure they conform to our requirements. If we identify work, low-standard suppliers are often replaced by better alterinstances of non-compliance in the acquisition process in relation natives, inefficient logistics by efficient logistics, which improves to corruption, environmental impact or lack of supply chain control, both delivery precision and quality. The overall productivity of our we do not acquire the company, or acquire it only if we can guarcustomers increases. At the same time, customers acquire better antee that the non-compliance can be permanently addressed. control over their total sustainability performance. The latter is an We encourage our new subsidiaries to connect to our Bufab increasingly important reason for why customers choose to grow Best Practice management system. with Bufab. Suppliers Communication Our operations create jobs both within Bufab, and for our supWe believe it is important to be clear about what we expect from pliers. Our large purchasing volumes make it possible for us to our suppliers, acquisition candidates and employees. With our impose demands on our suppliers in regard to the social and ecosustainability report, website, customer presentations and internal nomic conditions for their employees. We want everyone working communication, we are spreading knowledge about our sustainain ­Bufab’s supply chain to be treated fairly and have a safe and bility efforts and the values they create. healthy workplace, and we work hard to ensure this happens. Bufab’s Supplier Code of Conduct is an important tool for this work. Activities 2018 Results Planned activities 2019 Ongoing, will • Continued focus on sustainable growth • Continued focus on growth continue in 2019 • Examine structures for mutual reporting on VAT and sickness • Integration of completed acquisitions Implemented absence rates in all jurisdictions BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 FOCUS AREA – PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS With clear values and strong leadership, Bufab wants to be the most attractive em-ployer in the C-Parts industry. PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS Through the integration of ISO 26000:2010 in Bufab Best Practice GENDER DISTRIBUTION IN GOVERNANCE BODIES (BBP) we ensure consistency with relevant declarations and Men Women conventions by the United Nations and its constituents. This forms the structure in our management system regarding human and BOARD OF DIRECTORS labour rights as well as corruption, fair competition and consumer 2018 71% 29% concerns. 71% 29% 2017 As an example, ISO 26000 core subject ‘Labour practices’ 2016 75% 25% is strongly based on ILO conventions. The same counts for the Human Rights issue ‘Fundamental principles and rights at work’. GROUP MANAGEMENT Other examples of ILO Conventions and recommendations (in 2018 71% 29% total around 70) that are included within ISO 26000 are: • Human Resources Development Convention 2017 83% 17% • Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines 2016 83% 17% • Forced Labour Convention • Freedom of Association MANAGEMENT AND KEY EMPLOYEES • Minimum Wage Recommendation 2018 85% 15% • Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation 2017 85% 15% • Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention 2016 85% 15% • Code of Practice on HIV/AIDS No human rights violations have been reported during 2018. sibility. We have an open attitude towards our employees, as well Corporate culture and recruitment as to new methods and solutions. Freedom requires the ability With our approximately 1,200 employees and 41 subsidiaries to prioritise, but as we work close to management, support and worldwide, Bufab possesses valuable entrepreneurial capital. Our guidance is always at hand. subsidiaries and their management teams are highly independent Bufab can offer major development opportunities, both globally and take a large degree of individual responsibility. For acquisiand locally, and we prefer to recruit internally. People who are tions, we have a long-term commitment to implementation of the driven by an opportunity to make a difference enjoy working for newly acquired company to nurture the entrepreneurship we have us. As part of this process, it’s a policy in Bufab that all employees acquired. should have an annual performance review with their line manager When we recruit new employees, we look for committed and to monitor their expectations and performance. flexible team-players irrespective of position. They should be able Interviews with Bufab’s employees show that many would to handle and appreciate a large degree of freedom with responappreciate greater workplace diversity, in terms of age, gender and cultural background. This is something we are working on, for example, in our leadership training courses. Local involvement is important for us because it creates deeper Planned activities 2018 Results relationships with the local community. Accordingly, we often • Continued broad training around sustainabilemploy people who come from, or have long been active, in the ity issues within the framework of the Bufab Implemented region where the subsidiary is based. Most local employees have Academy extensive networks, which promotes Bufab’s local development. • Anti-corruption training course Implemented Ongoing, will • Active efforts to influence diversity issues and Planned activities 2019 continue in other HR performance indicators 2019 • Development of new strategy and action plan for the Bufab Academy Not • Development of new concepts for broad training implemented • Development of resource and competency plans, including succession management, for all regions and global functions • Continued broad training around sustainability issues within the framework of the Bufab Implemented • Implementation of central performance indicators in HR Academy 20 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 THE BUFAB EMPLOYEE: THE SOLUTIONIST At Bufab we do not see problems, we see solutions. Our reliability forms the basis for the long-term, trusting customer relationships that the company’s 40-year growth is founded on. Quality is always our first priority. Our Swedish heritage stands for honesty, transparency and strong ethics. We are dedicated – our goal is to be our customers’ longterm partner. We take pride in finding the best solution for our customers. Our partnerships are based on good relations all around the world. Our customers know that we deliver with passion and care.Bufab comes from the entrepreneurial heart of Sweden. We believe in being close and flexible. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 FOCUS AREA – PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS NAOMI ZHU SALES MANAGER, CHINA Naomi is a valued employee who has been working for Bufab issues. I really like Bufab’s workshops for managers where Group for the past 7 years. She advanced to sales manager sustainability issues are an integrated part of the training. at our Shanghai office in 2017 and supports three teams of This is especially important for the Chinese-based part of the co-workers with a focus on C-Parts management. business as our market is still developing its understanding of issues related to sustainability. The Bufab Best Practice is also Tell us about your role and why you chose to work at Bufab an important tool for me that I use on a daily basis to manage I have been working in the C-Parts management for the our operations. past 13 years. It is a very interesting industry that offers a challenging environment where you need to be clever and What differentiates Bufab from its competitors? quick on your feet, but also sociable and seamless. Bufab Many of our global competitors try to position themselves is a great company to work for because they offer a work as sustainable. But Bufab have gone further than others to environment with room for creative thinking and great potential integrate sustainability into our core business. to contribute and grow within your role. For me, the most We find that some of our customers are still struggling to appealing aspect is the freedom to look at what you have and understand the value of being more sustainable. I understand independently coordinate and find the necessary resources their perspective, as a business it can be tempting to opt for to act. Bufab has a very open platform with opportunities for the cheapest alternative. But I think we have to adopt a more everyone to contribute. I am confident I will be working at long-term way of thinking than our competitors. Our customers Bufab for the foreseeable future. need a solution that fits their demands, which short-term solutions often fail to deliver. Additionally, the market is changing How does Bufab work with sustainability to ensure rapidly, and we are seeing that customers who left us are ­continuous improvements? choosing coming back. I think that is largely due to Bufab’s A lot has happened since I first joined Bufab. Today we have business model and our focus on helping customers meet the our Bufab Best Practice, our internal sustainability framework, market’s quality and sustainability requirements. internal audits and workshops addressing sustainability 22 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FOCUS AREA – PEOPLE AND RELATIONSHIPS Bufab’s local management teams and key employees comprise encourage and create opportunities for exchanging experience a total of 79 people (71), of whom only 41 percent (45) are from through various forms of networking, cooperation, audits, internal Sweden. A total of 24 nationalities are represented in this group. exchanges and employments. We also apply a systematised working method through Bufab Best Practice and strive to increase The Bufab Academy diversity across the entire Group. We believe that this is the key to The Bufab Academy was launched in 2014 and provides training both employee satisfaction and a well-functioning company. in sales, leadership, purchasing and technology. It plays a key role in our endeavour to become the most attractive employer Whistle-blower function in our industry and creates the right conditions for a developing It is important that all employees feel they are able to report any workplace. Within the framework of the Bufab Academy, our emsuspected irregularities that arise at Bufab. Bufab’s whistle-blower ployees completed a total of 3,384 (3,342) training hours in 2018. function, which has been available to all employees since 2016, During the year, we continued to strengthen the Bufab Academy offers anonymity through a third-party process. The number of with sustainability elements in several training courses. suspected irregularities reported via the whistle-blower function Our introduction programme is an important feature of the is at a low, relatively stable level. We continue our efforts through Bufab Academy. This introduction programme is for all employees various channels to increase the reporting frequency, in order to who, as part of their work, will require knowledge about the entire avoid incidents going unreported. Suspected irregularities are Group, such as salespeople, strategic purchasers and others. A investigated by either a third party or by Bufab. If the investigation total of 44 employees (45) completed the introduction programme is carried out by Bufab, the investigation is closely monitored during the year. by a third party. Action is taken based on the conclusions of the Through Bufab Academy, Managing Directors of all our investigation. subsidaries have also gained access to a toolkit to support their All employees who undergo Bufab’s introduction or leadership operational leadership and during the year, all regional managers programmes are informed about the whistle-blower function and and Managing Directors were offered training in sustainability. the third-party process. In addition, all regional managers were inThis was also a recurring topic at Bufab’s Managing Directors’ formed about the function and tasked with spreading the informaConference in 2018, with an extra focus on social sustainability. tion in their own organisations. To further actualise the topic, it was All of Bufab’s supplier auditors undergo an ambitious training also highlighted at the Managing Directors’ Conference in 2018. course in social sustainability, and it is our policy to provide employees with adequate safety training when the commence their employment. Employees as a resource LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS As an international Group, we are strongly focused on targets and achievements related to roles and functions, and we invest heavily in the development of our employees in order to motivate, inspire and spur them to continuously improve in their roles. We 50/100 2017: 40/100 TRAINING, HOURS ETHICS 4,000 3,000 2,000 50/100 2017: 50/100 1,000 Average industry score 0 Bufab score 2016 2017 2018 Introduction programme Bufab Academy EcoVadis material issues assessment score. BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Bufab’s objective is to identify risks, prevent risks from occurring and limit any damage arising from these risks. This applies to sustainability risks, operational risks and financial risks. Bufab’s risk management is based on Bufab Best Practice, read more on page 7 and 10. SUSTAINABILITY RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk description Risk management SUPPLIER BASE Suppliers’ sustainability efforts Suppliers’ sustainability efforts (Social aspects, environBufab has a Supplier Code of Conduct. If Bufab’s Bufab performs continuous audits of new and ment and human rights) suppliers do not comply with the Code of Conduct, the existing suppliers to ensure they conform to the suppliers’ employees and the surrounding environment requirements of our Code of Conduct. We also may be adversely impacted. endeavour to consolidate our supplier base and The most common instances of non-compliance in increase the proportion of Preferred Suppliers. our supplier audits are related to health and safety, ­Additionally, BBP creates transparancy and strucand waste management. The risk of human rights violature to counteract human rights abuses. tions, and of forced and child labour, is not considered Read more on pages 14–16. material because of our controlled supply chains. Conflict minerals Conflict minerals There is a risk that some components provided by BuBufab requests that suppliers using tin, tantalum, fab may contain minerals extracted in a conflict zone. tungsten and gold in their products submit reports Trade in conflict minerals is used to finance armed using the Conflict Mineral Reporting Template. conflicts. The use of minerals and their extraction is con-­ tinuously monitored. Read more on page 16. ENVIRONMENT Transport Transport Our freight transport, mainly from Asia, contributes to Bufab endeavours to work with fewer and larger carbon dioxide emissions with a negative environmentransport suppliers. Wherever possible, we use tal impact. maritime transport and our goal is to increase the fill rate of our deliveries to the highest degree possible. Read more on page 16. In-house production In-house production Six of Bufab’s subsidiaries conduct in-house producThe manufacturing companies continuously monition. At the end of 2018, the manufac-turing companies tor energy consumption and emissions. were licensable under the Swedish Environmental Bufab Lann and Bumax are certified according Code. to the ISO 14001:2015, ISO 9001:2015 and IATF 16949:2016 standards. APEX is certified according to the ISO 9001:2015 standard. Rudhäll AB is certified according to the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standard. Evjo is certified according to ISO 14001 and IATF 16949 (comparable to 9001, automative industry) standards. Hallborn is certified according to ISO 9001 standards. EMPLOYEES Our employees’ networks and relationships with It is important that we can develop and motivate customers and suppliers are a prerequisite for Bufab’s our employees in order to benefit from their expercontinued success. If we lost several key employees, tise and relationships. With the Bufab Academy Bufab’s relationships and financial position could be and other competency development programmes, affected. we create the conditions for an attractive and stimulating workplace. Read more on pages 20–23. ANTI-CORRUPTION Bufab has more than 3,000 suppliers and over 13,000 Bufab’s business relationships must be sound customers. The inherent risk of corruption may be and transparent. To raise competency in this area, higher in some business relationships, particularly in our introduction programme includes an anti-corvulnerable markets. This risk is not considered materiruption training course. Bufab has conducted an al. Corruption cases could impact Bufab’s reputation anti-corruption risk assessment of all subsidiaries. and financial position, and lead to legal consequences. Read more on page 11. 24 BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders in Bufab AB (publ), corporate identity number 556685-6240 Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2018 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Värnamo, 20 March 2019 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Fredrik Göransson Authorised Public Accountant BUFAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Box 2266 SE-331 02 Värnamo, Sweden. Visiting address: Stenfalksvägen 1, Värnamo, Sweden Solberg Tel. +46 370 69 69 00 www.bufab.com
