Unilever Global Compact Advanced COP 2019 Self-Assessment Implementing the Ten Principles into Strategies & Operations GC Scope or Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Reference Principle Advanced Level More to GRI Standards Scope: Criterion 1: The Our commitment to responsible business is embedded into our business Our strategy 102-14 Implementing COP describes agenda through our purpose and vision, articulated in our Code of Business Our vision 102-15 the Ten mainstreaming Principles and Code Policies and carried out through the Unilever Principles into into corporate Sustainable Living Plan (USLP), which is our blueprint for sustainable Our sustainability 102-18 Strategies & functions and growth. governance 102-20 Operations business units. Our Code of Business Principles and Code Policies are mandatory for all Consumers and employees and others working for Unilever, including our board of directors, and apply to all Unilever companies, subsidiaries and sustainability organisations over which Unilever has management control. Code of Business We are integrating sustainability into our brands and innovation processes Principles and Code to help drive business growth. Policies To assess product and purpose, we developed a methodology to help us Advancing human determine how, and to what extent, each brand delivers against the two rights in our own criteria. These are called our Sustainable Living Brands. 28 of our top 40 operations brands are now Sustainable Living brands, including recent B Corp acquisitions, Seventh Generation and Pukka Herbs. It enables brands to Advancing human generate a systematic view of their progress across social and rights with suppliers & environmental factors. In 2018, we analysed our top brands using this business partners methodology. Our analysis revealed that in 2018 our Sustainable Living brands grew 69% faster than the rest of our business and delivered 75% of Responsible Sourcing Unilever’s turnover growth. Policy June 2019 1 We believe that if we want to effect change at scale, we will achieve this by Responsible Business making large, successful, category-defining brands recognisably sustainable Partner Policy and purposeful. We are working with our customers, and suppliers, engaging employees and forging new partnerships. We have developed a simple four-point framework to help capture the ways in which sustainability contributes to our business success – more growth, lower cost, less risk, more trust. In 2018 our USLP Steering Team (USLP ST) included 11 Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE) members, including our Chief Marketing & Communications Officer (chair); Chief Financial Officer; Chief R&D Officer; Chief Supply Chain Officer; Chief HR Officer; Chief Legal Officer; three Divisional Presidents and two Regional Presidents, and is responsible for approving new USLP targets and monitoring progress. The Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) monitors USLP progress as one of its allocated focus risks. The USLP ST and CRC benefit from the insights of the USLP Advisory Council – a group of external specialists who guide and critique our sustainability strategy. In 2018, we invited six new members to join the Council from not-for-profit organisations, impact investors and academia. The USLP spans our entire portfolio of brands, all countries in which we sell our products and applies across our whole value chain – from the sourcing of raw materials to our factories and the way consumers use our products. To embed sustainability into every stage of the lifecycle of our products, we’re working with our suppliers to support responsible approaches to sourcing raw materials. Criterion 2: The The USLP is our detailed blueprint to achieve sustainable growth, while Sustainable Living COP describes delivering our purpose. Our aim is to create transformational change across Report 2018 value chain our value chain – from our operations, to our sourcing, to the way implementation. consumers use and dispose of our products. Our Value Chain Through our Responsible Sourcing Policy (RSP) and our Responsible Transformational Business Partner Policy (RBPP) we work with farmers and suppliers to drive change June 2019 2 social and environmental standards in our supply chain. The policies embody our commitment to conduct business with integrity, openness and respect for universal human rights and core labour principles advocating a beyond compliance approach to both our supply and distribution channels. We believe that as a business we have a responsibility to our consumers and to the communities in which we have a presence. Around the world, we invest in local economies and develop people’s skills inside and outside of Unilever. We are continually looking for new ideas and ways to influence our wider value chain. We know that collaboration with others holds the key to tackling many sustainability challenges and our transformational change initiatives aim to help bring about the systems change needed to address some of the most complex social and environmental problems. Through our business and brands, we run a range of programmes and use our scale, influence and resources to make a real difference to issues such as taking action on climate change and halting deforestation, creating more opportunities for women and enhancing livelihoods, promoting health & well-being, championing sustainable agriculture and improving food security. June 2019 3 Human Rights Management Policies & Procedures GC Principle Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Reference Advanced Level More to GRI Standards In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Principle 1: Criterion 3: The Human Rights Report 406-1 (2011), we base our human rights commitment and policy on the Businesses COP describes 2015 International Bill of Human Rights (consisting, in addition to the Universal 407-1 should support robust Declaration of Human Rights, of the International Covenant on Civil and Human Rights 414-1 and respect the commitments, Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Progress Report 2017 protection of strategies or 414-2 Cultural Rights) and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in internationally policies in the the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Human Rights Supplier proclaimed area of human Principles and Rights at Work. We also support the OECD Guidelines for Audit Update 2018 human rights. rights. Multinational Enterprises. Our approach is to uphold and promote human rights in three ways: Unilever Human Rights Policy Statement Principle 2: • In our operations by upholding our values and standards. Businesses • In our relationships with our suppliers and other business Unilever Code of should make partners. Principles: Our sure that they • By working through external initiatives, such as the UN Global Respect, Dignity and are not Compact. Fair Treatment Code complicit inhuman rights A key requirement of the UN Guiding Principles is for businesses to have a Policy abuses policy statement that addresses their responsibility to respect human rights. Our Human Rights Policy Statement provides clarity on our Unilever Responsible commitment to respect universal principles, our due diligence processes Sourcing Policy and our governance. Responsible Business We were the first company to adopt and use the UN Guiding Principles Partner Policy Reporting Framework to produce a comprehensive, standalone Human Rights report, published in June 2015, fulfilling our commitment to report Advancing human publicly on our implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business rights in our own and Human Rights. In the report we focus on our ‘salient’ human rights operations issues that is, those that are at risk of the most severe negative impacts June 2019 4 through our activities or business relationships. This approach is in line Advancing human with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. rights with suppliers & In 2018, we started a review of our salient human rights issues, carrying business partners out internal and external consultations with rights-holders and their Enhancing Livelihoods representatives. In 2018, we held an initial consultation in London which we are following up with regional consultations. Our first regional Modern Slavery consultation was held in Kenya with a wider Africa focus. In 2019 we are Transparency continuing with consultations in Asia, the Americas and Europe. Statement 2019 We describe our progress in our second Human Rights Report, published in December 2017. In 2018 we published detailed analysis of the latest findings from our human rights supplier audits. We are committed to ensuring that all our employees work in an environment that promotes diversity, trust, human rights and equal opportunities, and is free from discrimination or victimisation. Our Respect, Dignity and Fair Treatment Code Policy sets out what we and our employees must do to ensure this, and forms part of the framework of policies supporting our Code of Business Principles. Criterion 4: The Our Responsible Sourcing Policy sets out our expectations with regards to COP describes the respect for the human rights, including labour rights, of the workers in effective our extended supply chain. We will only work with suppliers who management implement our Responsible Sourcing Policy. They must agree to ensure systems to transparency, to remedy any shortcomings, and to drive continuous integrate the improvement. We continue to build the awareness and knowledge of our human rights employees and workers on human rights, including labour rights, principles encouraging them to speak up, without retribution, about any concerns they may have, including through our grievance channels. We are committed to continue increasing the capacity of our management to effectively identify and respond to concerns. As part of the USLP we have set ambitious targets on advancing human rights, fair compensation, improving employee health, nutrition and wellbeing, and reducing workplace injuries and accidents. June 2019 5 Criterion 5: The We recognise that we must take steps to identify and address any actual COP describes or potential adverse impacts with which we may be involved whether effective directly or indirectly through our own activities or our business monitoring and relationships including with our non-supplier business partners who must evaluation align with our Responsible Business Partner Policy. We manage these risks mechanisms of by integrating the responses to our due diligence into our policies and human rights internal systems, acting on the findings, tracking our actions, and integration. communicating with our stakeholders about how we address impacts. We undertake impact assessments for high risk commodities/countries/interactions and take proactive steps to identify activities that may contribute to negative human rights impacts. We work with external monitoring systems to enable suppliers to demonstrate compliance with our standards. These include Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) and in 2018 we introduced the use of EcoVadis assessments to evaluate indirect procurement suppliers. Our UK Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2019 gives specific information relating to our work to eradicate forced labour from global supply chains. Recognising temporary workers as potentially vulnerable to poor working conditions, we carried out a survey to monitor the numbers, roles and terms and conditions of temporary workers in our operations. The realisation of the right to Freedom of Association in addition to the provision of grievance mechanisms in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights is vital to effectively evaluate our progress. For more information of how we are both integrating human rights principles and monitoring this work see both our Human Rights Report and our work on understanding our human rights impacts (links in next column). June 2019 6 Labour Management Policies & Procedures GC Principle Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Reference to Advanced Level More GRI Standards Principle 3: Criterion 6: The Millions of people work in our operations and extended supply chain, Responsible Sourcing 406-1 Businesses COP describes helping us create the products used two and a half billion people everyday. Policy 407-1 should uphold robust For us, fairness in the workplace is about respecting, and advancing, their Responsible Business the freedom of commitments, human rights – everywhere we operate, and in everything we do. 409-1 Partner Policy association and strategies or We prohibit discrimination and we are committed to safe and healthy the effective policies in the Unilever Human Rights working conditions, the right to freedom of association and collective recognition of area of labour Policy Statement bargaining, and to effective information and consultation procedures. We the right to Human Rights Report expect our partners to adhere to business principles consistent with our collective 2015 own, and implement this through our Responsible Sourcing Policy and bargaining. Responsible Business Partner Policy. Human Rights Our Respect, Dignity & Fair Treatment Code Policy sets out our Progress Report 2017 Principle 4: The commitment to human rights within our own operations, specifically our Human Rights Supplier elimination of commitment to ensuring a working environment that promotes diversity, Audit Update 2018 all forms of where there is mutual trust, respect for human rights and equal forced and opportunity, and no unlawful discrimination or victimisation. Fairness in the compulsory Workplace Our Code of Business Principles states that “We will not use any form of labour. Advancing human forced, compulsory, trafficked or child labour”. Our internal Social Impact Hub gives guidance on issues including child, migrant and contract labour rights in our own and the eradication of forced labour including modern day slavery. operations Principle 5: The effective Since 2015 we have worked closely with the Fair Wage Network to develop Advancing human abolition of a Framework for Fair Compensation. The Framework outlines how the rights with suppliers & child labour. various existing elements of our compensation packages deliver fair business partners compensation to our employees and is supported by a methodology to Advancing diversity & monitor our employees’ rewards against relevant Living Wage inclusion Principle 6: The benchmarks. elimination of Business integrity In 2017 we increased our ambition on the Framework’s living wage discrimination element by advancing our target from 2020 to 2018. We reached our June 2019 7 in respect of ambition that employees should have sufficient guaranteed fixed earnings Working with others employment to earn a living wage by 2018 for all but 611 of our employees in 16 on human rights and occupation countries. We have a longstanding commitment to equal pay for equal work, which forms another principle of our Fair Compensation Framework. Our compensation structures are intended to be gender neutral, with any pay differences between employees in similar jobs fairly reflecting levels of individual performance and skill. Our most recent analysis highlights that there is more work to do to continue improving our gender balance, and related gender pay gaps, at various levels and in various countries throughout the business. In 2018 we published our second Gender Pay Gap Report in line with the UK Government’s Gender Pay Gap regulations. We continue to focus on the eradication of forced labour in global supply chains and have made progress on the removal of worker recruitment fees through the Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment and the Consumer Goods Forum. In 2018 we rolled out our new internal policy for the Sustainable Employment of Temporary Workers and Land Rights, as well as a new Global Paternity Leave Standard. In 2018 we developed new guidance to tackle poor working conditions in the trucking industry and we worked with UN Women to develop a Global Women’s Safety Framework in Rural Spaces. We work with trade unions at both a local and global level to improve working conditions (see criterion 7). We regularly engage with expert organisations such as Shift and the Institute for Human Rights and Business, and with trade unions and civil society organisations, such as Oxfam, on human rights including labour rights. We support the Children’s Rights and Business Principles developed by UNICEF, Save the Children and the UN Global Compact. We are members of industry organisations such as the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), Aim Progress and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, where we use our membership to work with other businesses to scale up solutions to human rights issues. Unilever is a member of the Institute for Human Rights and Business Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment where we are committed to the Employers June 2019 8 Pays Principle – that no worker should pay for a job and we were instrumental in the CGF resolution on forced labour and subsequent Three Priority Industry Principles. Criterion 7: The We know that labour rights abuses exist in the sectors and markets in COP describes which we operate – and at times, in our own value chain. These abuses are effective unacceptable. We have identified our eight most salient human rights management issues including labour rights risks such as freedom of association, forced systems to labour, harassment, discrimination and fair wages. We report on progress integrate the in our second Human Rights Report published in December 2017, in our labour principles Sustainable Living Report 2018 and in our Human Rights 2018 Supplier Audit Update. We have a longstanding commitment to Freedom of Association, and we engage with both local and global trade unions through both formal and informal consultations. Formal consultations are in addition to the day-toLinks as per above in day interactions our leadership teams have with union representatives in Criterion 6 the factories, and regional and global consultations we have with trade union executives. We have established a global forum with the International Union of Food workers (IUF) and IndustriALL on labour rights. We have signed a joint Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Unilever, the IUF and IndustriALL Global Union, recognising the IUF and IndustriALL Global Union as the internationally representative bodies of unionised workers within our worldwide operations. The MOU underlines our commitment to ensure that throughout our operations workers can freely exercise their rights to union membership and collective bargaining Governance of our human rights strategy is led from the top by our CEO and the Unilever Leadership Executive, with oversight provided by the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Unilever Board of Directors. We continue to embed human rights and implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights throughout our operations. We work to align and expand our internal policy framework with the Principles and integrate them into pre-existing policies and codes, driving labour rights improvements. For example, in 2018 we rolled out new internal policies on June 2019 9 the Sustainable Employment of Temporary Workers and Land Rights as well as a new Global Paternity Leave Standard. Our dialogue with suppliers and business partners is critical, where they feel able to raise issues so that we can work together to share best practices and respond to challenges as they emerge. For example, to keep the lines of communication open, our procurement managers work directly with suppliers to help identify risks and remediate gaps in policies and practices. Effective grievance mechanisms, as described in the UN Guiding Principles, are critical in ensuring that human rights, including labour rights, are respected. We have developed a single integrated channel to ensure that our employees can raise grievances, issues and concerns as simply as possible. We have also further developed and strengthened our tools to analyse and resolve the grievances and breaches we receive. Criterion 8: The Since 2012, we have provided a web-based reporting process for both COP describes employees and suppliers, in addition to existing telephone and email effective reporting systems. Employees can also report concerns to their line monitoring and manager, local Business Integrity Officer or a member of their local evaluation Business Integrity Committee. Alternatively, they can use our confidential mechanisms of external ‘Unilever Code Support Line’ (whistleblowing line) via telephone labour principles or internet. Business Integrity training and communications materials integration provide details of available options. All reported breaches of the Code of Business Principles are monitored and dealt with by our local business leaders at country level. External whistleblowing We continue to align our own factories with our Responsible Sourcing reporting site: Policy, using independent, external on-site audits determined from a riskBusiness Integrity – based perspective. This ensures that all internal sourcing units are held to It’s How We Work the same standard as external suppliers. Unilever Code Support We are seeking to improve our analytical capabilities to make sure any Line internal trends, hot spots and root causes are rapidly identified and remediated through the introduction of appropriate controls. June 2019 10 We are committed to transparency, acknowledging that many challenges remain which must be resolved. In the Salient Issues section of our Human Rights report, we discuss the complexities present in both our operations and our extended supply chain. We have continued to expand our Framework for Women’s Safety and created global Land Rights Principles and Implementation Guidance which we will use to monitor our work to address potential human rights issues. Our second Human Rights Progress Report published in December 2017 and our Sustainable Living Report 2018 explain our progress against each of our salient human rights issues in both our own operations and extended supply chain and the actions we are taking to remedy any issues. Environmental Management Policies & Procedures Reference to Criteria for GC Where To Find Out Unilever Approach GRI GC Principle Advanced Level More Standards Principle 7: Criterion 9: The Our Code of Business Principles states that we are committed to making Unilever 102-11 Businesses COP describes continuous improvements in the management of our environmental Environmental Policy should support robust impact and to the longer-term goal of developing a sustainable business. 301-1 a precautionary commitments, Our environmental approach to strategies or Furthermore, our Code states we will work in partnership with others to 305-1 management system environmental policies in the promote environmental care, increase understanding of environmental challenges. area of issues and disseminate good practice. Reducing 303-1 environmental environmental impact Part of our Vision is to grow our business whilst decoupling our 308-1 stewardship environmental impact from our growth. We consider the reduction of our greenhouse gas (GHG), water and waste impacts across our value chain, 308-2 June 2019 11 Principle 8: from sourcing our raw materials to within our own manufacturing and How we’re becoming Businesses operations and consumer use. We also aim to source our agricultural raw carbon positive in our should materials sustainably. operations undertake initiatives to By 2030 our goal is to halve the environmental footprint of the making and Eco-efficiency in our promote use of our products as we grow our business. This covers our entire value chain, from the sourcing of our raw materials and our own manufacturing, operations greater environmental through to consumer use and disposal. Our eco-efficiency responsibility. performance In 2015 we set an ambition to become ‘carbon positive’ in our operations by 2030 which includes sourcing 100% of our energy across our operations from renewable sources. Two of our greenhouse gas reduction targets are PwC's Independent Principle 9: approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative and in 2018 we began Limited Assurance Businesses modelling climate change scenarios to understand the potential impacts Report 2018 should on our supply of agricultural ingredients. encourage the Unilever Basis of development Another goal is to halve the waste associated with the disposal of our Preparation 2018 and diffusion of products by 2020. In January 2017, we committed to ensuring that 100% of environmentally our plastic packaging will be reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. Responsible Sourcing friendly Our longstanding aim has been to develop a closed loop system; one that Policy technologies. would allow us to continue to provide the price and convenience of sachets to consumers while tackling the environmental issues associated Protecting our forests with their use. In 2018 we opened the world’s first pilot plant using the CreaSolv® Recycling technology in Indonesia. We co-developed this Global climate action technology for recycling polymers from sachet waste that can be repeatedly reused. In 2019 we also announced a Loop™ waste-free Responsible Business shopping and delivery pilot project in the US and France that helps Partner Policy customers return and refill products. Rethinking plastic We’re also aiming to halve the water associated with the consumer use of packaging – towards a or products by 2020. To tackle water scarcity in 2018 we launched water circular economy saving products including Domestos Flush Less toilet spray in South Africa and our Day2 dry wash spray for clothes which prolongs time between Water-smart products washes, saving 60 litres of water per bottle. Our Love Beauty and Planet for water-stressed range launched in the US and Europe uses fast-rinse technology in its living conditioners, which require less water for rinsing. June 2019 12 We are founding members of the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Greenhouse gases Supply Chain Leadership Collaboration. CDP aims to increase companies’ disclosure of their GHG management plans and impacts, and to encourage Water use them to put reduction plans in place. CDP’s supplier programme has a global reach and involves businesses collaborating through their supply Waste & packaging chains. We are part of the Natural Capital Coalition and we working to advance work in this area, through the WBCSD and Natural Capital Project amongst others. We are promoting the involvement of suppliers of both agricultural and non-agricultural based raw materials in the CDP programme. This represents a global standard approach for disclosure of GHG management plans and performance. We believe that involvement in the CDP programme is of intrinsic value to our suppliers and we encourage their participation. Criterion 10: The Our environmental management system (EMS) underpins our environment COP describes strategy. All Unilever companies must comply with the Unilever standards effective for occupational safety and health and environmental care (SHE), as well as management our Consumer Safety Policy. Our environmental policy outlines our systems to individual and shared responsibilities to the environment and is integrate the implemented through the commitments within the environmental pillars environmental of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. principles Each Unilever organisation must establish a formal SHE Framework Standard for Environmental Care, based on the ISO 14001 management systems standard. Our EMS is designed to achieve continuous improvement. Lifecycle assessment (LCA) is one of a number of techniques we use to help us understand the impacts of our products on the environment. We conduct LCAs on our existing products and ingredients to help identify improvement opportunities, to improve data quality and relevance to our studies. June 2019 13 We require all suppliers to comply with our Responsible Sourcing Policy, which mandates suppliers to conduct their business in a manner which embraces sustainability and reduces environmental impact. Our mandatory requirement is that suppliers are environmentally compliant with all necessary legal permits, but the policy expects them to proceed towards best practice. We are willing to apply more stringent criteria than those required by law when we believe this to be appropriate. Within our own operations, our World Class Manufacturing (WCM) programme provides tools, techniques and awareness to integrate sustainability through continual improvement and investing in new equipment and technology. We share best practice with those people responsible for reducing the environmental impact of our manufacturing operations. Our central Best Practice Portal has over 360 replicable examples of environmental improvements. Our Clean Technology Fund helps turn our employees’ sustainable business ideas into reality at our factories. In 2018, we invested €40 million in energy, CO2 and water saving projects through our Clean Technology Fund. Together the projects will reduce our global CO2 emissions by 4.0%, global energy use by 3.4% and water use by 3.3%. Criterion 11: The We use a number of metrics to assess our environmental impacts across COP describes the value chain covering greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water, waste effective and sustainable sourcing. monitoring and evaluation Eco-efficiency data is used to track performance, set targets and identify mechanisms for the best opportunities to drive reductions in each of our key indicators. environmental Many of our manufacturing sites also make use of real-time eco-efficiency stewardship data. This is collected through automated systems – known as measurement, monitoring and targeting (MM&T) systems. This helps our manufacturing sites to better track their performance and identify reduction opportunities. We now have more than 80,000 data reading June 2019 14 points across the manufacturing network. By the end of 2018, over 80% of our production volume was covered by the MM&T programme. We collect financial information through our Environmental Performance Reporting system for all manufacturing sites and by each energy and water type, which enables us to measure the economic benefits of our ecoefficiency programme. Since 2008 we have avoided costs of more than €900 million through improving water and energy efficiency at our factories, using less material and producing less waste. Regular environmental audits help our sites to achieve continuous improvement. We use a mixture of internal and external audits. Of our sites, 100% receive a regular audit (at least every three years) to assess the robustness of the implementation of our Environmental Care Framework Standard. More than 75% of our sites are audited every year, whether that is via internal or external parties, and in 2018, around 40% of them were also certified by ISO 14001. At least once a year, all operating units conduct a review of their environmental business risks and their compliance with corporate policies. They also conduct a continuous self-assessment of their operating controls. These exercises are summarised in a Positive Assurance letter that is sent to our Corporate Risk Committee each year. A selection of our environmental metrics are independently assured by PwC. June 2019 15 Anti-Corruption Management Policies & Procedures GC Principle Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Reference Advanced Level More to GRI Standards Principle 10: Criterion 12: The Unilever has a global zero tolerance approach to all forms of corruption. Code of Business 102-16 Businesses COP describes This policy extends to all our employees, board members, third parties, Principles and Code should work robust new acquisitions and joint ventures, irrespective of financial values Policies 102-17 against commitments, involved. We elaborate our commitment in multiple Code of Business Our values & 205-3 corruption in all strategies or Principles (CoBP) Code Policies including (i) Avoiding Conflicts of Interest, its forms, policies in the (ii) Anti-Bribery, Gifts & Hospitality (G&H), (iii) Anti Money Laundering, principles including area of antiAccurate Records, Reporting and Accounting; (iv) Protecting Unilever’s Business integrity extortion and corruption Physical and Financial Assets and Intellectual Property, (v) Contact with bribery. Government, Regulators and Non-Governmental Organisations; and (vi) Unilever Code Support Political Activities and Political Donations. All were updated in 2016 and Line (whistleblowing give clear instructions on mandated behaviours. In 2018, we launched a line) new company-wide platform for online disclosure of G&H and conflict of interest to enhance recording practices and oversight. Annual Report and Accounts 2018, p16 Our Code Policies go beyond complying with applicable laws and regulations and are mandatory in all jurisdictions to set consistently high Responsible Sourcing standards. Periodic mandatory training on all relevant Code Policies is Policy provided to managers and additional higher risk teams and we offer other bespoke training and awareness raising events for specific business Advancing human activities and functions. In order to enhance capabilities and standards, in rights in our own 2018 we reviewed some of our guidance and resources, refreshed our operations country risk profiles, and launched an Anti-Corruption Community of Advancing human Practice for all staff involved in advisory and case resolution. rights with suppliers & In 2018 we also rolled out new principles for recruiting employees from business partners the public sector to ensure the right balance is struck between the benefit from such recruitment and avoiding potential conflicts of interest with previous employers (revolving doors). June 2019 16 The Code Policies are also distilled into a ‘Winning with Integrity’ booklet Our Responsible for non-managers, translated into multiple languages. Sourcing Policy in action Countering corruption continued to be a focus area in 2018 and 2019 and we continued to deploy mandated interactive training across the business Responsible Business to all employees on topics such as Anti-bribery; Gifts and Hospitality; Partner Policy Conflicts of Interest; Anti-Money Laundering; and Accurate Records, Reporting and Accounting. Unilever is committed to working with others who share our values and seek to operate to the same standards as we do. We perform due diligence on all our suppliers and business partners, and we extend our zerotolerance approach to them through mandatory compliance with our Responsible Sourcing Policy and Responsible Business Partner Policy. Criterion 13: The Our CoBP framework is built on the pillars of “Prevent – Detect – Respond” COP describes to ensure we have a continuous ability to develop our compliance effective programme based on learnings (e.g. from CoBP cases, self-assessments management and audits). We also actively monitor regulatory developments and systems to participate in conferences to share, learn and adopt best practices. integrate the anti-corruption The Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary (CLO) is responsible for the principle strategy implementation of the full compliance programme. The Business Integrity (BI) team is part of Unilever’s legal function, giving Unilever dedicated expert resource to embed a compliance culture and make Unilever more agile in identifying and mitigating compliance risks. The BI organisation features five dedicated regional BI Directors who oversee BI work in North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia & Russia/Africa/Middle East: reporting to the Chief Business Integrity Officer (CBIO), they are supported by a team of BI Officers across the globe, including dedicated team members in geographic “hot spots” to drive operational excellence. In 2018 we also hired a Global Anti-Corruption Counsel to provide specific subject matter expertise to the business and lead the different enhancements to our compliance framework. The Global Code and Policy Committee (GCPC) oversees compliance globally including related policies and standards, and reports to the June 2019 17 Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE) and to the Audit & Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board of Directors. The GCPC is chaired by the CLO. We partner with Maplecroft for detailed indices of compliance risk by country (recently updated in 2018) and we have historically partnered with PwC to review our third-party compliance programme for external validation and recommendations to build into our 2017-2020 Roadmap. Further, Unilever’s risk assessment methodology builds on UN Global Compact, OECD, Transparency International and external advisor PwC’s best practice. Unilever is a founding signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to help drive global efforts to combat bribery. Realising UNGC Principle 10 (regarding corruption in all its forms) is a core focus for us. As part of our culture of continuous improvement we periodically benchmark through peer groups and formally through Transparency International UK’s annual anti-corruption benchmark – their deep-dives series and their Business Integrity Forum. Unilever leaders make a visible commitment to fighting corruption in all its forms, through active participation in government consultations and key fora such as the UNGC and its Business for the Rule of Law Steering Committee (B4ROL), the World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (WEF PACI), the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), successive B20 task forces and the Institute of Business Ethics. These efforts result in public policy transformation and resources that aim at sharing best practices on developing strong anti-corruption practices in business and beyond. Criterion 14: The We foster a speak-up culture. Unilever provides external channels for COP describes employees and third parties to confidentially log concerns through a effective dedicated web portal or 24-hour toll-free hotline. A dedicated helpdesk monitoring and covers questions about CoBP compliance so issues can be discussed to preevaluation emptively find solutions that avoid breaches. mechanisms for June 2019 18 the integration Any suspected CoBP breach with a potential anti-corruption angle is of antisubject to triage that ensures accelerated review supported by internally corruption created tools involving subject-matter experts from the BI team. Investigations are overseen by local Business Integrity Committee unless senior executives are involved (in which case the CLO and CBIO are personally involved). Confirmed breaches result in disciplinary action in line with Unilever’s Global Sanctions Standard. ‘Reportable’ breaches are escalated to the GCPC as well as to the Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE), Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board. They see a quarterly review of case analytics and ‘reportable’ Code breaches by country. Incidents or concerns involving third parties are managed in ways that align with our overall approach, by reference to our internal Red Flag Mitigation Guidance that ensures prompt escalation and consistency. Since 2018 a newly staffed Investigations Centre of Excellence provides enhanced capabilities and resources to all BI investigators. In 2018, 1,206 whistleblowing incidents were opened (defined as Code Policy cases raised). We closed 1,252 incidents across all areas of our Code and Code Policies, with 662 confirmed breaches. In 2018, we terminated the employment of 330 people. Taking Action in Support of Broader UN Goals and Issues GC Principle Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Reference Advanced Level More to GRI Standards Scope: Taking Criterion 15: The We believe the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a once-in-aUN Sustainable 102-12 Action in COP describes lifetime opportunity to create a better world. We use our scale and reach Development Goals Support of core business to contribute to the UN’s agenda, and benefit from them. 102-13 Broader UN contributions to June 2019 19 Goals and UN goals and We contributed to the development of the SDGs, with actions including: Working with others Issues issues • 2012: Our former CEO, Paul Polman, served on the UN’s High-Level on Human Rights Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post-2015 Development Agenda, seeking to ensure that the voice of business was included. Engaging with our • 2014: Unilever co-ordinated the development of a Post-2015 stakeholders Criterion 16: The COP describes Business Manifesto, endorsed by more than 20 leading Transformational strategic social international companies, laying out a vision for strengthening the change investments and ability of business to substantially help achieve the SDGs. philanthropy • 2015: The UN General Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda for Creating and sharing Sustainable Development, including 17 Sustainable Development wealth Goals (SDGs). • 2016: Our former CEO, Paul Polman, began serving on the UN Criterion 17: The Secretary-General’s Advocacy Group for the Global Goals. COP describes • 2017: Paul Polman (our then CEO) co-founded the Business & advocacy and Sustainable Development Commission in 2016, which culminated public policy in the launch of a seminal report in 2017, Better Business, Better engagement World, on the business case for action on the SDGs. • 2018: We agreed a partnership with UNDP specifically aimed at collaborations that will help achieve the SDGs in Bangladesh. A key Criterion 18: The element will be delivered through our Pureit brand, helping to COP describes ensure safe drinking water for Bangladeshis, in support of clean partnerships and water and sanitation (SDG6). collective action In 2017 we mapped the SDGs to the nine pillars of the USLP, and found 14 have a strong and direct link. We outline our contribution to all the all the SDGs on our website. We are a founding signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). This sets out commitments for business in relation to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We have pledged to uphold these principles across our business. Our former CEO, Paul Polman, is the Vice Chair of the UNGC and a long-standing member of the Board. We are active participants in the Action Platforms. We are members of UNGC’s Human Rights Working Group, Business for the Rule of Law Committee, CEO Water Mandate and Caring for Climate June 2019 20 Initiative. We are also members of 16 UNGC local networks in a number of countries including the Netherlands, Vietnam, Zambia, Romania, South Africa, Turkey, Myanmar, Mozambique, Ghana, Chile, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Argentina, Colombia, Kenya and the UK. We are actively increasing our membership of UNGC local networks. In July 2013, we endorsed the Women’s Empowerment Principles, a collaboration between UNGC and UN Women. We are implementing these across our business, as well as taking steps to increase women’s rights and economic inclusion in our supply chain. We have also given our support to UNGC’s Food and Agriculture Principles. We are signatories to the UNGC Business for Peace, a platform of over 130 leading companies from 37 countries dedicated to catalysing collaborative action to advance peace. Companies who join Business for Peace commit to paying heightened attention to the implementation of the UN Global Compact Ten Principles in high-risk and conflict-affected areas, take action to advance peace, either individually or in collaboration with others, and annually communicate on our progress. Unilever partners with global organisations Oxfam, Save the Children, PSI, World Food Programme and UNICEF. These partnerships helped us to meet our ambitious goal of helping 1 billion people improve their health and well-being two years early in 2018. In addition to our focus on water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), we are also investing in livelihoods, sustainable sourcing and women’s empowerment. Our partners in these areas include: Acumen, Clinton Giustra Enterprise, the Ford Foundation, and the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN). We believe that Unilever should play an active role in shaping legislation and regulations that enhance positive social and environmental outcomes. We have an advocacy team that works together with other stakeholders to bring about changes in public policy in key areas of health and sustainability. Unilever’s social and community investment strategy is aligned with our business priorities and strategy in support of our brands with purpose June 2019 21 agenda and the USLP. It is not based on the traditional model of charitable philanthropy. Our social and community investment contributions excluding management costs totalled €77.9 million in 2018 (€81.1 million including management costs). In line with our strategy we have increased our spend on Commercial Initiatives (39% in 2018 versus 34% in 2017) designed to deliver positive social and environmental impact at the same time as growing our brands. We continue to invest in community activities that are strategically aligned to the USLP, accounting for 56% of community investment in 2018. Charitable donations made up the remaining 6% of spend. Our reporting of community investment is aligned with the LBG methodology for corporate community investment. Corporate Sustainability Governance and Leadership GC Principle Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Reference Advanced Level More to GRI Standards Scope: Criterion 19: The The Unilever Leadership Executive (ULE), led by our Chief Executive Officer, Our sustainability 102-14 Corporate COP describes monitor implementation and delivery of the USLP. Sustainability criteria governance Sustainability CEO are built into our senior executive remuneration procedure in the form of a 102-18 Governance commitment Management Co-Investment Plan (MCIP) which includes consideration of Investor relations: Our corporate governance 102-19 and Leadership and leadership progress against our sustainability targets. Our strategy for 102-20 Criterion 20: The Governance of our conduct as a responsible corporate citizen is provided sustainable growth COP describes by our Boards’ Corporate Responsibility Committee. 102-21 Board adoption About our strategy and oversight In 2018, our USLP Steering Team (USLP ST) included 11 Unilever Leadership 102-40 Executive (ULE) members, including our Chief Marketing & Engaging with our Communications Officer (chair); Chief Financial Officer; Chief R&D Officer; 102-42 stakeholders Chief Supply Chain Officer; Chief HR Officer; Chief Legal Officer; three June 2019 22 Divisional Presidents and two Regional Presidents, and is responsible for What matters to you 102-43 approving new USLP targets and monitoring progress. The Board’s Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) monitors USLP progress as one 102-44 of its allocated focus risks. As part of MCIP, we have introduced The Unilever Sustainable Progress Index, a long-term incentive linked to our sustainability performance. To avoid over-focus on any one element of the USLP, the progress index is an assessment made by the Board’s Compensation Committee taking into account progress towards the 10 pillar targets in our reported USLP scorecard. Criterion 21: The To succeed in our purpose of making sustainable living commonplace, we COP describes need to engage and work in partnership with a wide range of stakeholders. stakeholder These include: investors; consumers; customers; suppliers; governments; engagement. regulators and legislators; NGOs; civil society; and peer companies. We seek to understand the issues of concern to our stakeholders and to respond openly and transparently to any questions raised about our products and the way we run our business. We publish our responses to some of these questions in the What Matters to You section of our online Sustainable Living Report 2018. Both our USLP Steering Team and Corporate Responsibility Committee benefit from the insights of the USLP Advisory Council – a group of external specialists in corporate responsibility and sustainability who guide and critique the development of our sustainability strategy. In 2018, we invited six new members to join the Council from not-for-profit organisations, impact investors and academia. The variety of our relationships means we engage in different ways, depending on the nature of the interest, the relevance to the business and the most practical way to meet stakeholders’ specific needs and expectations. June 2019 23 Annex: Business & Peace GC Principle Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Advanced Level More Scope: Business Annex 1: The In addition to ensuring compliance with our Code Policies, an important Our values & & Peace COP describes way in which Unilever monitors our due diligence – particularly in high-risk principles policies and or conflict areas is through Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIAs) practices which include on-site visits by third party experts who engage and consult Working with others related to the right-holders and other stakeholders for example the HRIA in Myanmar on human rights company's core which we undertook in 2016. The results of HRIA’s enable us to adapt our Human Rights Report business due diligence and sourcing decisions. In February 2017 we held meetings in operations in five villages to train palm sugar farmers, using a video on the eradication of 2015 high-risk or child labour and briefings on health and safety. Human Rights conflict-affected Progress Report 2017 We continue to monitor working conditions or our tea plantations areas including ensuring that any issues of harassment are addressed, focussing Human Rights Supplier on the prevention of incidents through increased education and awareness, strengthening the management team, and improving the Audit Update 2018 grievance and reporting procedures. Progress is continually monitored Fairness in the through monthly reviews with the VP of Tea Procurement and Operations workplace and bi-monthly meetings with the Chief Procurement Officer. Understanding our In addition, we are working with UN Women to externally review the measures we have implemented and to extend our Safety Framework in human rights impacts Kenya and Assam, India. In countries with a particularly high risk of forced Kericho tea estates labour, we are rolling out awareness raising and capacity building for our employees and suppliers. In 2018 we worked with UN Women to develop a Global Women’s Safety Framework in Rural Spaces to help tackle harassment. June 2019 24 Annex 2: The Unilever neither supports political parties nor contributes to the funds of Code of Business COP describes groups whose activities are calculated to promote party interests, in line Principles and Code policies and with our Code Policy on political activities and donations. We prohibit Policies practices participation in the activities of political parties for business purposes. related to the company's government relations in high-risk or conflict-affected areas Annex 3: The Unilever takes a targeted approach to its social investments by focusing Ready to respond to COP describes our support on helping to improve the quality of people’s lives through the disasters & local provision of hygiene, sanitation, basic nutrition and access to safe drinking emergencies stakeholder water, as well as by enhancing self-esteem. A number of these engagement programmes take place in high-risk countries. and strategic Since 2012, we have partnered with five leading global organisations – social Oxfam, Population Services International (PSI), Save the Children, UNICEF investment and the World Food Programme (WFP). By working together, we have activities of the expanded the delivery of life-saving solutions and contributed to systemic company in and scalable social change. high-risk or conflict-affected Since 2017 we have partnered with international humanitarian aid areas organisation Direct Relief to help people get the products they need as fast as possible in times of crisis. Our soap, body wash and shampoo are part of the emergency kits distributed through Direct Relief’s networks. Direct Relief has distributed thousands of kits in response to the Kerala floods in India, the California wildfires, the floods in Bangladesh’s Rohingya refugee camps and the ongoing cholera outbreak in Yemen. We support refugees’ long-term needs through a number of initiatives: • In Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan, we have partnered with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and Carrefour, the supermarket chain, to help vulnerable individuals June 2019 25 • In Jordan, we are working with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to deliver the Baqala programme. This develops Syrian refugees’ selling and merchandising skills through a three month on-the-job training and internship provided by Unilever. • In Turkey, we’ve developed a reverse mentoring scheme with ideas platform, Xynteo. The ‘Embark’ partnership connects talented young Syrians in Istanbul with business leaders across Unilever Turkey to build refugees’ personal and professional networks. The pilot took place in 2018 and matched 13 Syrian applicants with 16 senior Unilever employees, and a second group was selected in Autumn 2018. In 2018, we continued to play an active role in the Tent Partnership for Refugees. This is a coalition of more than 100 companies making efforts to support refugees around the world. It offers a platform for companies to share information and best practices, and increase private sector coordination. It also helps to forge innovative solutions to deliver greater impact in response to the global refugee crisis. Our partners also serve as our primary beneficiaries in times of disaster and emergency relief. Annex: Women’s Empowerment GC Principle Criteria for GC Unilever Approach Where To Find Out Advanced Level More Scope: Women’s Annex 1: The Empowering women and girls is the focus of SDG 5, Achieving Gender Opportunities for Empowerment COP describes Equality. But, like the need to work in partnership (SDG 17), women’s women policies and empowerment is a thread that stitches all the SDGs together. In particular, practices it underpins the SDGs that aim to improve access to skills and employment Advancing diversity & related to and the resulting economic empowerment this brings. inclusion supporting June 2019 26 women’s We have a target in the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan to empower 5 Promoting safety for empowerment million women by advancing opportunities for women in our operations, women and advancing promoting safety, developing skills and expanding opportunities in our gender equality retail value chain by 2020. Enhancing women’s in the access to training & We have a great opportunity to help create this vision of unlocking workplace skills women’s potential (PDF | 203KB) throughout our extended value chain and in society at large. We start with progressive policies and practices in Enhancing our own workplace and supply chain operations through: building a entrepreneurial & life gender-balanced organisation with a focus on management; promoting skills through our safety for women in the communities where we operate; enhancing access to training and skills; and expanding opportunities in our retail value chain. brands In 2017 we introduced our Global Maternal Well-being Standard, which Expanding had been rolled out to every country in which we operate by the end of opportunities in our 2018. The Standard gives returning mothers access to facilities that allow retail value chain them to nurse their baby and to have all the flexibility they need to return to the workplace. Among other measures, it entitles all employees to 16 Challenging harmful weeks of paid maternity leave as a minimum. Although our previous gender norms entitlements already met local regulatory requirements, our Standard is a Fairness in the major advance. In 54% of the countries in which we operate, it exceeded the local regulatory requirement when we introduced it. workplace No discrimination in compensation Annex 2: The Unilever’s Opportunities for Women’ training and skills target in the USLP COP describes is critical for expanding female participation in the economy. policies and Access is one of the major barriers to women participating in training. This practices is why Unilever’s training is designed to encourage the full and equal related to participation of women, for example, by being held at convenient times in supporting accessible locations or by providing online courses. Unilever is also working women’s with partners, which helps us reach more women and encourages mutual empowerment learning. and advancing gender equality Our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP) contains targets to expand in the opportunities for women in our retail value chain and to increase the marketplace number of Shakti entrepreneurs that we train, recruit and employ. In 2018 June 2019 27 our Shakti network grew to around 113,000 women entrepreneurs. Shakti is a programme that catalyses rural affluence while benefiting our business by equipping women to distribute our products in villages. It’s become Unilever’s model to reach out to rural consumers on typically low incomes in developing and emerging markets such as South-East Asia, Africa and Latin America. We continue to explore new models that deliver a positive social impact, including through public-private models that support social entrepreneurship, such as TRANSFORM, a joint initiative between Unilever and the UK’s Department for International Development (DFID). For example, Kasha is a mobile e-commerce and content platform founded in Rwanda to sell and deliver women’s health and personal care products through an innovative system. Since 2016, it has reached nearly 20,000 customers. Annex 3: The We want to empower women throughout our supply chain. COP describes In 2014 we introduced a new USLP target on women’s safety following our policies and study in Kenya – which confirmed safety as a critical issue for women in practices the communities where we operate. Our approach to this issue is related to systematic and inclusive and we work alongside communities. We continue supporting to partner with expert external organisations to further strengthen this women’s work, raising awareness, providing more information on what constitutes empowerment sexual harassment and advancing more opportunities for girls to engage in and advancing social activities. gender equality in the In 2016, we started a global partnership with UN Women. As a result of the community joint work on tea estates in Assam, India and Kericho, Kenya, in December 2018 A Global Women’s Safety Framework in Rural Spaces was published. This groundbreaking guidance was created by UN Women, with our support, and will be made available to the global tea industry and other value chains in 2019. More and more of our brands such as Sunsilk, TRESemmé and Radiant are developing sustainable living purposes around skills and confidencebuilding or, like Surf, are tackling the norms around unpaid domestic work, which is hampering women’s access to opportunities outside the home, June 2019 28 holding individuals back and contributing to the gender gap. For Unilever, unpaid care work is a priority area given that it directly impacts women every day in our workplace, supply chain and distribution network, as well as our consumers. Unilever is taking its responsibility towards its own employees seriously, for example through progressive diversity and inclusion policies, as well as tackling this through some of our brands. We believe our laundry and other Home Care brands have a big part to play in helping to recognise, reduce and redistribute the amount of time spent by women and girls on household chores. One example is WE-Care − a three-year partnership between Surf and Oxfam that works to enable women to have more choice over how they spend their time, and greater opportunity to claim their rights and engage in social, personal, economic and political activity. Annex 4: The We’ve set a clear ambition in our USLP to have 50% women in COP contains or management positions by 2020. By the end of 2018, 49% of our total refers to sexmanagement were women, up from 47% in 2017. disaggregated At the most senior levels however, we know we have more to do as the data ratios are not as high: among our top 92 executives, 23% were women in 2018. Five out of our 13 Board members were female (38%). Improving female representation in the workforce is linked to the performance goals of our leaders. Each country and individual business function has its own targets, which reflect its particular diversity challenges. We’ve identified our Supply Chain as one of the areas where we need to give diversity greater priority. We’re making steady progress, for example the number of female factory managers and directors increased to 20% in 2018, compared to 12% in 2016. And we have around 45 women running our factories around the world. June 2019 29 More details on our policy commitments to diversity and inclusion are included in the Fairness in the workplace of our online 2018 Sustainable Living Report. If economic growth is to be inclusive and sustainable, workers need to receive fair compensation. Not only is this core to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, it’s vital to our ongoing success as a responsible, sustainable business. As part of our USLP, in 2014 we set ourselves the target of creating a structured way to define and assess how the elements of our compensation packages deliver compensation to our employees which is open, fair, consistent and explainable. The result was our Framework for Fair Compensation, which we finalised in 2015 and rolled out across our business in 2016. It’s a key part of our commitment to developing an inclusive culture and respecting the contribution of all employees regardless of gender, age, race, disability or sexual orientation. We review our pay structures in each country annually as part of our Framework’s compliance process. If our analysis indicates any average pay differences between genders at a country or grade level (a ‘gender pay gap’), we will support and identify opportunities to address gaps via our diversity and inclusion initiatives. This will help us achieve our ambition for our Framework for Fair Compensation to support full equal opportunities for all. When we look at our worldwide business as a whole, in countries with more than 250 employees, the average female pay was 26% higher than male pay in 2018 (2017: 25%). This is largely due to the fact that 80% of our lower-paying blue-collar roles are held by male employees. June 2019 30
