W E A R E 7 0 Y E A RS YO U N G S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS 02 Message from the Chairman 04 Message from the CEO 06 Akbank and the Journey of Sustainability A Timeline 12 About Akbank 22 About the Report 26 Our Approach to Sustainability 36 Corporate Governance at Akbank 42 Risk Management and Legal Compliance 50 Adding Value to Our Customers 64 Our Distinctive Employees 80 Our Operations and the Environment 84 Our Contribution to Society 90 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 99 Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPS) Progress Report 100 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Index 101 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and Akbank 102 Contact Details MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN With various longterm projects that we have supported for many years, we have encouraged creativity. We believe that free thinking and original ideas will provide inspiration to the ongoing development of our country. 2 Esteemed Stakeholders, In our CSR projects, we encourage employees to participate Having supported Turkey’s growth voluntarily. Akbank strives to make and development for over 70 years, lasting contributions to the lives Akbank continues today to create of more people through shared value for its stakeholders. In the experiences and diligent efforts. challenging year of 2018, the Bank merited the trust of its stakeholders We work hard to make Turkey’s and extended financing to dreams come true and move its numerous major investments, vision forward. We know that making significant contributions to forging our country’s future is a the national economy. responsibility that goes well beyond banking. With this perspective, we Strengthening its sustainability are committed to doing our full approach not only with financial share under the scope of the UN targets but also with its corporate 2030 Sustainable Development and ethical responsibilities, Goals, as we have in previous years. Akbank contributes to society’s I would like to express my heartfelt development with social gratitude to all stakeholders who responsibility projects in arts & supported our sustainabilityculture, entrepreneurship and focused activities. education. Yours sincerely, With various long-term projects that we have supported for many years, we encourage creativity. We believe that free thinking and original ideas will provide inspiration to the ongoing development of SUZAN SABANCI DİNÇER our country. With these projects Chairman that reach out to broad swathes of society, we provide benefits to all our stakeholders. As a pioneer of innovation, Akbank has always worked to ensure that bold entrepreneurs can access the support they need in the most effective way. We place immense importance on education and training. In particular, to reach the highest quality level in financial management, we design comprehensive training programs with experts in this key area. 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CEO As the pioneer of change in the Turkish banking industry, Akbank strives to bring its business processes to perfection with innovation-centered investments in light of digital transformation. Esteemed Stakeholders, to existing shareholders. Together delivers 75-80% faster service on with a TL 1.8 billion increase in the average and saves its customers 2018 was marked by major changes share premium at the beginning of valuable time. in the global economy. In addition 2019, we have achieved an overall to the ongoing uptrend in interest TL 3 billion increase in shareholders’ By focusing on building the Banking rates, uncertainties emerged that equity. of Future from today, we continued might pose a threat for the world to deliver innovative products and economy, including trade disputes In 2018, we recorded additional services to customers as part of and Brexit. Besides serving to successes in our sustainability our digital transformation initiative. slow investment spending, these journey. Thanks to its dynamic The previous year, we became the developments put a brake on organizational structure, Akbank first Turkish bank to execute an global trade, and thereby cooled continued its innovation-oriented international money transfer on economic growth. Turkey – an investments despite adverse blockchain infrastructure thanks important regional and economic developments in the global to our collaboration with Ripple. In powerhouse fully integrated into economic environment as well 2018, we introduced this service to the global economy – experienced as the real economy. In light of our customers. fluctuations in the second half of United Nations 2030 Development the year. Our economy remained Goals, we generated value for Our corporate social responsibility resilient in the face of this volatility society at large with pioneering projects continued apace during thanks to its robust banking projects to develop Turkey’s youth the year. Akbank has carried industry, effective economic entrepreneurship and innovation out CSR efforts since the day management, and general ecosystem, and enhance high it was established, alongside its dynamism. quality educational opportunities in mission of adding value to society. the financial sector. In 2018, we received a record Despite these negative macro number of applications for the developments, Akbank once In addition to our sound financial Young Volunteers Project, which again demonstrated a successful structure, our other strengths in we conduct with the voluntary performance in 2018 and created banking include a robust, advanced participation of university youth. sustainable value. As ever the technology infrastructure, and a These young people volunteered case, the Bank’s effective risk dedicated, highly skilled workforce. for 70 unique social responsibility management and high asset quality For this reason, we place great projects in 26 provinces across continued to set it apart from importance on continuously the country, where they had the the competition. We continued developing both our technology opportunity of performing good to support Turkey’s economy and human capital. Akbank Data deeds that touched many hearts. backed by our confidence in the and Life Center, for which we broke In our 70 th anniversary year, we country’s future in addition to our ground in 2017 and construction invited all of Turkey to smile strong capital, sound financials, continued throughout 2018, is with our “Donate A Smile” social sector expertise and long-standing expected to commence service responsibility effort. Under “The experience. In 2018, Akbank’s loan in 2019. Akbank Data Center is Smile Is from You, Support for support to the economy reached designed to host Akbank’s entire Education Is from Akbank” slogan, TL 267 billion, including TL 214 technology systems infrastructure, we donated the book and school billion in cash loans. We increased monitor all Bank operations 24/7 supplies need of 50 thousand our total deposits to TL 209 billion with the latest technologies and students at 141 schools in 50 while total assets climbed to TL provide uninterrupted services to provinces across Turkey. 355 billion. This year, our support our clients. The Center will not only to the economy via SME loans move the Bank forward into the As a bank that firmly believes and corporate lending totaled TL future, but also become a driving in Turkey, Akbank plans to 226 billion. For the year, Akbank force of our cultural transformation continue investing in the country reported consolidated net profit program. uninterruptedly. As we keep growing of TL 5 billion 709 million after and taking major steps forward, provisioning TL 1 billion 427 million On the 70 th anniversary of our we will operate with the same for taxes. founding, we initiated the branch transparent banking philosophy transformation initiative which that brings confidence to the With our robust financial structure will shape the future of Turkey’s forefront. We remain committed to and high-caliber human resources, banking industry. To date, Akbank our primary responsibility: creating we have given uninterrupted has implemented this new business value for our economy, society and support toward growing the national model in about 230 branches. Our culture with the innovative products economy for 70 years. We capitalize new paperless processes achieve and services we develop. I would like on our strong financial position to 95% paper conservation rate to extend my gratitude to all our maintain this support at an everannually in contract transactions valued customers, shareholders and increasing pace. Our strong equity alone. The Bank’s New Counter employees for this steady, strong position and prudent banking Extras allow customers to perform and sustainable performance. approach rank among our most some 200 different branch important competitive advantages. transactions as self-service, Yours sincerely, Therefore, despite our already solid without having to wait in a queue. capital structure, we decided to While making life easier for perform a capital increase in the customers, we eliminated two out of last days of the year. We increased every three signature requirements. our issued capital of TL 4 billion by Shortening the commercial credit TL 1.2 billion, through rights issues card application process, Akbank HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL CEO 5 AKBANK AND THE JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE AKBANK AND THE JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT OF AKBANK 1948 ↗↗ Established in the city of Adana to finance cotton producers in the region. 1950 ↗↗ First branch in Istanbul opened in Sirkeci. 1954 ↗↗ Akbank Head Office moved to Istanbul. 1963 ↗↗ Automation of all banking operations. 1964 ↗↗ First representative office opened in Frankfurt, Germany for bank transfers of Turkish workers. 1981 ↗↗ All banking operations computerized and online transactions started. 1990 ↗↗ Akbank shares offered to the public. 1996 ↗↗ AkSecurities established. ↗↗ Investor Relations Group established to manage relations with shareholders. 1998 ↗↗ With a secondary public offering, Akbank shares started trading in international markets as an American Depository Receipt (ADR). ↗↗ Akbank Representative Office in Frankfurt transformed into a branch. 1999 ↗↗ Akbank Internet Banking started. 6 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2000 ↗↗ Ak-Portfolio Management and Private Banking Business Units established. ↗↗ Akbank Malta branch opened. 2001 ↗↗ Akbank N.V. was established in the Netherlands. ↗↗ Akbank Call Center started operations. 2005 ↗↗ Akbank became the first to repurchase its founders’ shares. ↗↗ AkLease incorporated. 2009 ↗↗ Akbank International Advisory Board established. ↗↗ Akbank (Dubai) Limited as the first Turkish bank established in Dubai International Finance Center. 2010 ↗↗ Akbank Banking Center came into service with a capacity of approximately 5,000 people. 2011 ↗↗ Send Money and Pay Mobile-the first service of its kind in Europefacilitated customers’ access to financial services. 2012 ↗↗ The “Akbank Direkt” brand that combines the Internet and Mobile Banking services launched. ↗↗ Akbank N.V. in the Netherlands ceased operations and merged with our 100% subsidiary in Germany: Akbank AG. 2014 ↗↗ Akbank was chosen as one of only 15 companies to be included in the BIST Sustainability Index within Borsa Istanbul. 2015 ↗↗ The Akbank 2014 Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 “Comprehensive” Reporting Principles. ↗↗ The first version of our Investor Relations app, launched in January 2016, was completed for the iOS operating system in December 2015. 2016 ↗↗ The Akbank Investor Relations website and sustainability website became available for stakeholder access. 2017 ↗↗ Akbank continued to offer solutions that address customer needs exclusively through the mobile channel -from loans for making the lives of SMEs easier to offerings for member merchants. ↗↗ Akbank secured a USD 1.2 billion syndicated loan in 2017 in an effort to support Turkey’s real sector. ↗↗ Akbank began using block chain technology in overseas money transfers. 2018 ↗↗ Akbank decided to increase its share premium in December 2018. As a result of this transaction completed in early 2019, the Bank increased its shareholders’ equity by TL 3 billion, of which TL 1.2 billion was in the form of a rights issue. ↗↗ Akbank’s syndication loan of September 2018 exceeded the target value and was renewed by 104%, thus injecting USD 980 million of fresh funding into the Turkish economy. 7 AKBANK AND THE JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE AKBANK AND THE JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE TIMELINE OF AKBANK’S SUSTAINABLE INITIATIVES 2000 ↗↗ Akbank obtained the Information Technologies ISO 9001 Quality Certification. 2003 ↗↗ Akbank became the first bank to disclose its dividend policy to the public. ↗↗ Akbank became the first bank to publish its Corporate Governance Principles in the annual report. 2004 ↗↗ Akbank became the first bank to publish its Corporate Governance Principles on its web site. 2005 ↗↗ Akbank became the sponsor of the “Make a Wish” foundation, established to fulfill the wishes of children aged 3-18, fighting against life-threatening diseases. 2007 ↗↗ Akbank became the first Turkish bank to sign the UN Global Compact. ↗↗ Akbank started cooperation with Endeavor, an international non-governmental organization aimed at contributing to economic development by supporting active entrepreneurs in developing countries. ↗↗ Akbank Customer Complaint Management System obtained ISO 10002 Quality Certification. ↗↗ Akbank supported entrepreneurs with its “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” program. 2008 ↗↗ Akbank established “Akbank Thinking Club” with the aim of thinking together with the youth and co-creating values for the future of Turkey. 2009 ↗↗ The Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee (CGSRC) established under the Board of Directors. ↗↗ Women’s Development Center “BİZ,” established by KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) with the aim of helping women improves their individual productivity, opened with Akbank as the main sponsor. 2010 ↗↗ Akbank became the first Turkish bank to publish UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report. ↗↗ Akbank drew attention to environmental transparency by supporting the implementation of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in Turkey. ↗↗ Akbank became the first Turkish deposit bank to publish a Sustainability Report in accordance with GRI standards. ↗↗ Akbank became the first and only Turkish institution to be included in CDP 2010-Global 500 reporting and received scores that placed the Bank in the “World Sector Leaders” category. ↗↗ Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan was launched. ↗↗ A loan pool with favorable terms was launched for entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor Turkey. ↗↗ Akbank supported the “Before They Disappear” project implemented in Turkey in coordination with the Regional Environment Center (REC) with the aim of drawing attention to regions at risk due to climate change. 8 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2010 AND 2011 ↗↗ Akbank signed the Cancun and Durban Communiques prepared prior to the United Nations 2010 and 2011 Climate Change Summits. 2011 ↗↗ Akbank Volunteers System launched. ↗↗ Akbank supported the Global Student Entrepreneurs Awards. ↗↗ Akbank employees started to attend sustainability trainings. 2012 ↗↗ Akbank became one of first companies in the world to sign the “Carbon Price Communiqué” prepared by The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change (CLG) to draw attention to the need to develop a clear and transparent pricing policy for carbon emissions. ↗↗ To combat the savings deficit, which is an important barrier against the development of Turkey, Akbank initiated a social responsibility program named “Savings Campaign” to complement its banking products and services. 2013 ↗↗ Akbank consolidated its services for artisans under the “Craftsmen Fraternity” concept. The “Pay When You Can Loan,” the first product unveiled under this concept, provided artisans with the flexibility of making loan payments according to their income streams. 2014 ↗↗ Under the “Craftsmen Fraternity” concept, Akbank continued to deliver exclusive products and services for craftsmen customers. These special offerings include Axess SME, “Pay as You Wish Craftsmen,” complimentary tablet in return for POS turnover commitment, TESK (Confederation of Turkish Tradesmen and Craftsmen) cooperation agreement, Craftsmen Internship, and Craftsmen Festival. ↗↗ Akbank launched the “Akbank Academy of Family Businesses,” a joint venture with Sabancı University’s Executive Development Unit (EDU) geared toward family members who own or are employed at family businesses. This effort aims to enhance the competitiveness of businesses, help them establish a healthy growth trajectory, and support their sustainability and institutionalization efforts. 2015 ↗↗ Akbank became a signatory to the Pledge for Action, which allows non-party stakeholders to welcome the Paris Agreement on climate change and commit to implement the new roadmap circulated at the COP21 Conference of Parties in Paris. ↗↗ Under the “Young Volunteers” initiative, Akbank carried out more than 30 volunteering projects in wide-ranging issues, from shore clean-up and education to animal rights and health, in 26 provinces with the participation of university students. ↗↗ Akbank launched the CaseCampus project in partnership with Endeavor for young people who aspire to become entrepreneurs. ↗↗ Akbank initiated efforts to establish the Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF), an important initiative in the education field, as a joint venture with Sabancı University. 2016 ↗↗ Akbank conducted the “Keys to Sustainable Success for Family-Owned Businesses” study in conjunction with Sabancı University, Deloitte, and the Family Business Association of Turkey (TAİDER). ↗↗ The CaseCampus Program, a joint venture of Akbank and Endeavor launched for young people who want to start their own businesses, celebrated its first graduates. ↗↗ Akbank and Endeavor launched the Smartstartup Cities Initiative to foster the entrepreneurship ecosystem in Ankara and Izmir. ↗↗ The Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF), a significant venture in the education-training space, commenced operation as a partnership of Akbank and Sabancı University. ↗↗ The “Young Volunteers” project expanded its scope in 2016 thanks to a new partnership with a civil society organization and a larger number of university student participants. 2017 ↗↗ Akbank began operations at Akbank LAB to start the Future of Banking from today. ↗↗ Akbank broke ground for the Akbank Data and Life Center that will house operations and social activities. ↗↗ Akbank launched the “Branch Transformation Project” geared toward strengthening its service infrastructure. 2018 ↗↗ As part of its digital transformation, Akbank published its Digital Confidence Principles. ↗↗ Along with the UN Global Compact working group, Akbank participated in updating the Sustainable Financing Declaration, which had been signed in 2017. 9 AKBANK AND THE JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE AKBANK AND THE JOURNEY OF SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE TIMELINE OF AKBANK’S CULTURE & ART INITIATIVES 1972 ↗↗ Akbank Children’s Theatre started performances. 1991 ↗↗ Akbank Jazz Festival started with the aim of creating a well-established musical culture in Turkey, by bringing the world’s most famous jazz performers to mass audiences. 1993 ↗↗ Akbank Art Center established. 1998-2000 ↗↗ Ottoman Calligraphy Exhibition “Golden Letters,” containing numerous valuable works, exhibited in New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and Paris’s Louvre with the sponsorship of Akbank. 2003 ↗↗ Akbank Art Center was restructured towards modern arts and accelerated the artistic dynamics of our country by drawing attention to the local and international qualities of the arts with its exhibitions. 2003-2007 ↗↗ Akbank became the sponsor of Rock’n Coke Festival where the youth had the chance to listen to worldfamous rock stars. 2004 ↗↗ Akbank Short Film Festival was initiated. ↗↗ Akbank started to support the International Istanbul Film Festival and later became the main supporter. 2006 ↗↗ Rodin’s works were exhibited at Sakıp Sabancı Museum with support from Akbank. 2007 ↗↗ As sponsor of the modern and contemporary arts event “Contemporary Istanbul,” Akbank contributed to the realization of Turkey’s most important contemporary arts fair. 10 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 2008 ↗↗ With the sponsorship of Akbank, art fans had the opportunity to see the works of Salvador Dali one of the most important artists of the surrealism movement at Sakıp Sabancı Museum. The exhibition was the largest Salvador Dali exhibition outside Spain. ↗↗ Akbank Children’s Theatre boarded Hürriyet Newspaper’s “Human Rights Train” to once again carry the excitement and beauty of theatre to 45 cities in Turkey. ↗↗ Rock legend Metallica came to Turkey with the sponsorship of Akbank and 37 fans had the opportunity to watch the band live on stage. 2009 ↗↗ Latin Rock legend Carlos Santana gave a concert in Istanbul with the sponsorship of Wings. 2010 ↗↗ Around 75 people participated in the Sonisphere Festival that brought world-famous heavy metal bands with the sponsorship of our exi26 brand. 2011 ↗↗ Akbank became the prominent supporter of the Turkish National Youth Philharmonic Orchestra. ↗↗ Akbank sponsored the “Cirque Du Soleil-Saltimbanco” show. 2012 ↗↗ Akbank Children’s Theatre celebrated its 40 th anniversary by performing the first musical version of the Oscar-winning animation “Shrek” in Turkish. 2013 ↗↗ As part of its 65th anniversary festivities, Akbank sponsored the first comprehensive exhibition in Turkey of the leading international artist Anish Kapoor. 2014 ↗↗ Akbank Children’s Theatre reached 6,500 elementary school children during an Anatolia Tour that spanned six provinces with a new play, “Family Tree,” which communicates the importance of savings. 2015 ↗↗ Akbank partnered with Sakıp Sabancı Museum to bring the “Zero: Countdown to the Future” exhibition to arts enthusiasts in Turkey. ↗↗ The “Louise Bourgeois: Larger than Life” exhibit, featuring works of one of the most influential artists of the 20 th century, was presented to Turkish art lovers with the support of Akbank. 2016 ↗↗ Akbank Children’s Theatre began to stage Jules Verne’s world children’s literature classic “Around the World in 80 Days,” theatrically adapted by Toby Hulse and co-directed by Owen Clavert-Lyons and Lerzan Pamir. The play was staged 22 times by the end of December. 2017 ↗↗ Ai Weiwei, one of the most famous representatives of contemporary art, met with arts enthusiasts for the first time in Turkey with the “Ai Weiwei on Porcelain” Exhibit thanks to the cooperation between Akbank and Sakıp Sabancı Museum. ↗↗ Akbank Children’s Theatre, celebrating its 45th anniversary, began staging “Gorilla,” a play written by Anthony Browne and adapted to the stage by Rachel Barnett, in partnership with the London Polka Theatre. 2018 ↗↗ Having launched its own start-up recently, Akbank rolled out its product and designed the StartUp Campus Entrepreneurship Program for young entrepreneurs to grow their new businesses. 11 AKBANK IN BRIEF Celebrating its 70th anniversary in 2018, Akbank maintains its corporate development in a consistent manner in line with the principle of continuous development. PIONEERING CHANGE AND and customer base in fiscal year 13,367 INNOVATION IN TURKISH 2018. With its robust partnership BANKING structure and the ability to Celebrating its 70 th anniversary in secure long term, cost-effective 2018, Akbank is proud to extend funding, Akbank continued its Number of its unwavering, robust support to digital transformation efforts Employees Turkey’s sustainable development with success. In 2018, the Bank journey. Our Bank delivers services conducted its business operations in Retail Banking, Commercial Banking, Corporate Banking, Private in line with the responsibility of creating sustainable value for ~17.4 Million Banking, Foreign Currency, Money stakeholders. Akbank operates 780 Markets and Securities (Treasury branches and 4,900 ATMs located Number of Transactions) and International across Turkey, with 13,367 wellCustomers Banking, as well as non-banking qualified employees as of endfinancial services, capital markets and wealth management by means of its subsidiaries. In 2018, the Bank 2018. The Bank also manages its strong service infrastructure via 22 regional directorates that report to 780 once again successfully delivered the Head Office in Istanbul. Number of Branches* efficient products and services to customers 24/7. In 2018, Akbank recorded a A SERVICE APPROACH THAT successful performance despite volatility in the global economy and ~4,900 INTRODUCES CLIENTS TO the challenging period that Turkey Number of ATMs BANKING OF THE FUTURE experienced. During this period, Akbank has successfully effective risk management and implemented digital transformation, which continues at full speed in the banking industry, across asset quality differentiated Akbank from the competition. With a firm belief in the future of Turkey, the ~4.9 Million all its business lines. With this Bank continued its support to the Number of approach, the Bank consistently economy with its robust capital Credit Cards expanded its business volume structure, sound financials, industry expertise and long-standing experience. In 2018, Akbank reported total loans of TL 214 billion ~6.6 Million and total deposits of TL 209 billion. Number of The Bank posted consolidated net profit of TL 5 billion 709 million, Debit Cards after setting aside TL 1 billion 427 ~580 Thousand million as tax provisions. Number of POS Devices * Exclusive of the Malta Branch. 13 ABOUT AKBANK OUR VALUES We are built upon your trust. We exist because of our clients. We do what’s right. We stand out through innovation. We give back. 14 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT OUR VISION To be the leading bank that drives Turkey into the future OUR MISSION Creating superior and sustainable value for all our stakeholders through innovative and reliable financial services STRONG FOUNDATIONS ↗↗ Strong, local majority shareholder ↗↗ Solid capital ↗↗ Highly-qualified team ↗↗ Prudent risk management and robust asset quality ↗↗ Proactive ALM and strong liquidity ↗↗ Favorable cost base and high efficiency ↗↗ Stable and broad-based funding mix ↗↗ Well-diversified and sustainable revenue generation ↗↗ Innovative initiatives that herald the future of banking STRATEGIC GOALS ↗↗ Being the best bank in Turkey in terms of customer experience and satisfaction ↗↗ Maintaining strong asset quality through efficient risk management ↗↗ Preserving our competitive cost structure ↗↗ Ensuring a superior customer experience in all channels ↗↗ Enhancing customer value through innovative solutions ↗↗ Building the future of banking by investing in people, technology and advanced analytics 15 ABOUT AKBANK OUR PROFITABILITY CENTERED FINANCIAL RESULTS Despite fluctuations roiling Turkey’s economy as well as the global markets, Akbank maintained its financial profitability and operational efficiency in 2018. Operating a physical service KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS infrastructure that includes 780 Akbank’s key consolidated financial indicators for the last three years are branches across Turkey, and presented in the table below: offering products and services diversified according to customer Key Consolidated Financial Indicators 2016 2017 2018 needs and expectations, Akbank (TL million) rendered its financial profitability sustainable in 2018. Total Assets 294,501 341,610 354,682 DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS AND Loans 178,893 209,478 213,937 SERVICES Deposits 173,968 201,456 208,630 Akbank organizes its operations along the core business lines Funds Borrowed 32,304 33,627 43,650 of Corporate and Investment Shareholders' Equity 32,492 40,614 43,787 Banking, Commercial Banking, Retail Banking, Private Banking Net Profit 4,854 6,020 5,709 and Wealth Management, and Consumer Banking. Akbank Direkt Return on Equity (ROE) 16.0% 16.2% 13.6% was formed to include all digital Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) 14.2% 15.8% 16.8% banking offerings, which Akbank has pioneered in Turkey, under one Market Capitalization (USD million) 5,834 roof. With this approach, Akbank provides the best solutions to meet customers’ financial needs and delivers excellent customer service in the most suitable locations. 16 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT LOANS A breakdown of loans made by Akbank to clients by customer segment and currency denomination is presented in the table below: Loans 2017 2018 Corporate TL Loans (TL million) 26,267 24,531 Corporate Foreign Currency Loans (USD million) 13,030 10,963 Commercial TL Loans (TL million) 42,559 37,303 Commercial Foreign Currency Loans (USD million) 8,238 6,484 Other Commercial TL Loans (TL million) 17,531 13,302 Consumer Loans (TL million) 32,125 29,142 Credit Cards (TL million) 11,456 12,060 SOCIAL VALUE GROWING VIA STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION Understanding that the economic and social value the Bank generates will multiply with the participation of stakeholders, Akbank generated TL 10,378 million worth of economic value as of end-2018, up 61% year-on-year. Payments made by the Bank to employees, community investments, the government, investors and suppliers as well as the distribution of the economic value generated by Akbank in cooperation with various stakeholder groups are presented in the table below: Economic Value Generated and Distributed (TL million) 2016 2017 2018 Economic Value Directly Generated 23,436 27,695 39,877 a) Revenues 23,436 27,695 39,877 Economic Value Distributed 17,148 21,253 29,499 b) Operating costs 2,467 2,716 3,331 c) Employee wages and other benefits 1,799 1,969 2,261 d) Payments to providers of capital and funds 11,613 14,719 22,573 e) Payments to the government 1,252 1,834 1,322 f) Community investments 16 16 12 Economic Value Retained 6,289 6,422 10,378 a) Gross revenue in the Bank’s income statement is taken into consideration (interest income, fees and commissions collected, dividend income, commercial profit-loss and other income) b) Covers all operating costs of the Bank, excluding employee expenses c) Covers employee wages, bonuses, and all payments made to the government on behalf of employees. d) Covers dividends distributed to investors and all interest expenses of the Bank in the given year. e) Covers all taxes paid to the government. f) Covers donations to charities and expenses for various culture & arts events. Note 1: Provisions for non-performing loans are not included in the calculation of the Economic Value Retained. Note 2: This table is based on Akbank’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, these figures also include consolidated subsidiaries. 17 ABOUT AKBANK ROBUST SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE Akbank’s robust shareholding structure added impetus to the Bank’s accomplishments in 2018, its 70th anniversary. Founded on January 30, 1948 as a private-capital commercial bank, Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş., Akbank took major steps toward achieving its corporate objectives Affiliated Institutions and Individuals in 2018, when it celebrated its 70 th anniversary, powered by its robust 48.9% shareholding structure. Back in 2011, Akbank stock traded on Borsa Istanbul (BIST) with a free float ratio of 31%. Citigroup Inc. announced its decision to focus on its core business activities and exit minority interests in other companies due to ongoing capital planning initiatives. Citigroup finalized the sale of its stake in Akbank – corresponding to 9.9% of the Bank’s share capital – to a large number of potential buyers that were predetermined via an accelerated equity offering in March 2015. Prior, Citigroup Inc. had divested a stake corresponding to 10.1% of Akbank’s share capital in May 2012. After these Citigroup share sales, Akbank’s free float ratio stands at 51.1%. Information regarding Akbank’s operations and detailed financial performance in 2018 can be found in the Akbank 2018 Annual Report located at the following address: https://www.akbank.com/en-us/investor-relations/Pages/AnnualReport.aspx Free Float 51.1% Akbank’s Level 1 American Depository Receipts continued to be traded on the OTC market in the USA in 2018. Our shareholding structure as of December 31, 2018 is shown in the pie chart below. OUR SUBSIDIARIES* Akbank’s direct and indirect subsidiaries and our shares as of December 31, 2018 are presented below: Area of Share Country of Subsidiaries Operations (%) Operations Akbank AG Banking 100.00 Germany AkLease Financial Leasing 99.99 Turkey AKYatırım Stock Exchange Brokerage Services 100.00 Turkey AKPortföy Portfolio Management 100.00 Turkey AKÖde Electronic Money and Payment Systems 100.00 Turkey * The liquidation of Akbank (Dubai) Limited, the Bank’s wholly-owned subsidiary, was officially completed on December 5, 2017. 18 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT OUR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE The organization plan of Akbank, which conducts its activities in line with the principle of continuous development, is presented below: The Bank has 12 Executive Vice Presidents reporting to the CEO. The Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control and Compliance Unit, and the Risk Management and Information Risk Management Department report directly to the Bank’s Board of Directors. Consultant to the Board Chairman of the Board of Directors Executive Board Member EROL SABANCI SUZAN SABANCI DİNÇER A H M E T F U AT AY L A Board of Internal Auditors Chief Risk Officer EYÜP ENGİN Vice Chairman and Executive Board Member Internal Control and Compliance Unit H AY R İ Ç U L H A C I Information Risk Management S AVA Ş K Ü L C Ü JOSH ELLIS CEO HAK AN BİNBAŞGİL Corporate and Investment Banking Technology and Operations LEVENT ÇELEBİOĞLU İ L K E R A LT I N TA Ş Retail Banking Credit Underwriting BÜLENT OĞUZ YUNUS EMRE ÖZBEN Digital Banking Commercial Banking T O L G A U L U TA Ş MEHMET TUGAL Credit Monitoring and Collections Financial Management E G E G Ü LT E K İ N TÜRKER TUNALI Strategy and Human Resources Treasury BURCU CİVELEK YÜCE Ş E B N E M M U R AT O Ğ L U Specialized Credits Private Banking and Wealth Management ZEYNEP ÖZTÜRK DR. ALP KELER 19 ABOUT AKBANK CHANGES TO OUR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE In the new Akbank Board of Directors, designated at the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting dated March 26, 2018, Erol Sabancı was replaced by Kemal Özgür Demirtaş as Board Member. As of August 28, 2018, Yunus Emre Özben has been appointed as Executive Vice President – Credit Allocation, to replace Hasan Recai Anbarcı, who resigned from this position on August 14, 2018. On November 22, 2018, Arif İsfendiyaroğlu resigned from his position as Executive Vice President – Retail Banking. As of the same date, the Retail Banking and SME Banking Business Units were merged under the Retail Banking Business Unit. Bülent Oğuz, Executive Vice President – SME Banking, was appointed as Executive Vice President – Retail Banking. On January 4, 2019, Zeynep Öztürk was appointed the Executive Vice President in charge of the recently created Qualified Loans Business Unit. As of January 8, 2019, Gamze Şebnem Muratoğlu has been appointed Executive Vice President – Treasury, thus replacing Ali Batu Karaali. who resigned on January 7, 2019. 20 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SERVICE QUALITY CROWNED WITH AWARDS In 2018, Akbank was deemed worthy of many awards in domestic and foreign platforms in recognition of its diversified products and services. Brand Finance World Finance MIXX Awards Europe ↗↗Turkey’s Most Valuable ↗↗Turkey’s Best Brand ↗↗4 Gold, 3 Silver, 2 Bronze Banking Brand Awards Mergermarket Euromoney ↗↗Best Energy, 30. Crystal Apple ↗↗Turkey’s Best Brand Infrastructure Services ↗↗3 Crystal, 5 Silver, 1 ↗↗5 awards in Private and Mining M&A Bronze Awards Banking Global Capital MMA Smarties Awards The Banker ↗↗Most Successful Financial ↗↗5 Gold, 10 Silver, 7 Bronze ↗↗Bank of the Year in Turkey Institution in Emerging Awards ↗↗Best Private Banking Markets Borrowing Company in Turkey PERYÖN Value to Extel Survey Humans Awards Global Finance ↗↗Turkey’s Best Company in ↗↗Best Development ↗↗Turkey’s Best Brand Investor Relations and Transformation ↗↗Turkey’s Best Foreign ↗↗Turkey’s Best CEO in Management Program Exchange Provider Investor Relations ↗↗The Best Payment and ↗↗Turkey’s Best Professional Red Awards Collection Bank in Central for Investor Relations ↗↗Best Social Media and Eastern Europe Communication Stevie International ↗↗Best Data-Based EMEA Finance Business Awards Creativity ↗↗14 Awards ↗↗4 Gold, 3 Silver, 2 Bronze Awards The One Awards ↗↗The Year’s Most Prestigious Card 21 OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING Akbank 2018 Sustainability Report has been designed in the light of GRI 2016 Standards, the latest reporting standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 102-45 REPORT IMPACT MULTIPLIED PRESENTED TO STAKEHOLDERS 102-46 WITH STAAKEHOLDER IN LINE WITH THE 102-48 PARTICIPATION TRANSPARENCY PRINCIPLE With the responsibility of being By means of the GRI-approved Celebrating its 70 th anniversary in the very first Turkish bank to Sustainability Reports it has 2018, Akbank presents stakeholders publish a sustainability report issued since 2009, Akbank acts its sustainability efforts in different in the light of GRI principles, a role model for its stakeholders, areas –ranging from environmental Akbank has consistently raised in an extensive area – ranging protection to social investments its reporting quality and prepared from environmental protection – by means of its GRI-approved its annual sustainability report in and effective natural resource Sustainability Report. As the first accordance with Global Reporting usage, to continuous development bank to issue a GRI-approved Initiative’s (GRI) “Comprehensive” opportunities for human Sustainability Report in Turkey, Reporting Option, its latest resources and corporate social Akbank aims to bring its benchmark reporting standard. The Report’s responsibility projects. The Bank’s practices in this area to the content and scope are based on the sustainability reports are disclosed attention of stakeholders within Bank’s primary business areas and to stakeholders at https://www. its sphere of influence, through corporate goals. akbank.com/tr-tr/Yatirimci-iliskileri/ the annual sustainability reports Sayfalar/Surdurulebilirlik-Raporu. that it has published since 2009. aspx, presenting a vast array of Posting sustainable financial and capacity enhancement activities. operational results backed by its strong corporate culture that has left its mark on the Turkish banking industry, the Bank continued to uphold its environmental and social responsibilities under all circumstances during 2018. Under this approach, the Bank presents the sustainability-related initiatives it has undertaken between January 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018 to its stakeholders in this 2018 Sustainability Report. 23 ABOUT THE REPORT SCOPE AND FRAMEWORK OF THE REPORT The scope of the Akbank’s 2018 Sustainability Report covers the domestic activities of the Bank. 102-45 A STUDY AT GRI STANDARDS THE UN’S SUSTAINABLE 102-46 The Akbank 2018 Sustainability DEVELOPMENT GOALS 102-48 Report has been prepared in the GUIDE OUR SUSTAINABILITY light of Global Reporting Initiative’s ACTIVITIES... Publishing sustainability reports GRI Standards, the new generation Akbank shapes all of its business in accordance with GRI standards reporting principles available at the processes in line with the for 10 years, Akbank has been following address. Sustainable Development Goals consistent raising its social, (SDG) adopted with a unanimous environmental and economic https://www.globalreporting.org/ vote of the UN’s 193 member states sustainability targets higher. The standards/ on September 25, 2015. Consisting Bank has proven to its stakeholders of 17 goals that will guide the UN’s that it keeps a close watch PROJECTS DIRECTED TOWARD initiatives until 2030, SDG are on the most recent literature FEMALE EMPLOYEES HAVE focused on eliminating poverty, on sustainability reporting, by BEEN REPORTED IN LINE WITH combating inequality and upholding preparing its 2018 Sustainability THE WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT environmental protection. Centering Report in line with the principles of PRINCIPLES (WEPS)... all its activities on sustainability the GRI Standards Comprehensive Shaping all its operations in the principles, Akbank prepared its format. The GRI Index located at light of United Nations’ 2030 2018 Sustainability Report with the end of the Report serves as a Development Goals, Akbank has reference to the 17 sustainable guide to facilitate access of the prepared its 2018 Sustainability development goals. The relationship Bank’s stakeholders to social, Report with reference to the United between the related sections and environmental and economic Nations Global Compact (UNGC) the Sustainable Development Goals sustainability practices in the most and the Women’s Empowerment was highlighted with SDG icons convenient manner. Principles (WEPs). The UNGC Index throughout the Report. regarding the 10 principles under four headings (labor, human rights, environment, anti-corruption) and the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPS) Progress Report GRI Content Relationship Index, located at the end of the Report, serve as a guide for attaining the Bank’s initiatives within this scope. 24 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Financial information provided in the Akbank Sustainability Report reflect consolidated figures. 102-45 SCOPE OF REPORT COVERS REPORT CONTENT ENRICHED 102-46 OPERATIONS ACROSS TURKEY WITH STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 102-48 The Akbank 2018 Sustainability Important and priority matters Report covers the operations of related to the Bank’s corporate The scope of Akbank’s 2018 the Bank’s Head Office in Istanbul strategies in addition to major Sustainability Report is limited to as well as 780 Akbank branches all issues within Akbank’s stakeholder operations of Akbank T.A.Ş. within around Turkey, dialogue were assessed as part of Turkey. While the figures in the “Our between January 1 and December the process to set the content for Distinctive Employees” section of 31, 2018. Akbank minimizes the Akbank 2018 Sustainability the Report are inclusive of Akbank’s risks stemming from geographic Report. The Bank attained Malta Branch personnel, the and operational diversity by significant levels of increased Report’s scope does not include the standardizing all its business value-added in terms of business impacts stemming from the Bank’s processes in accordance with processes thanks to stakeholder overseas operations, joint ventures legal requirements as well as dialogue. Detailed information or suppliers. Generated and international banking standards. on selection of material issues distributed economic value tables and stakeholder dialogue is that include financial statements In this Report, the phrases “Akbank available in the “3. Our Approach reflect consolidated figures. T.A.Ş.,” “Akbank,” “our Bank,” “the to Sustainability” section of the Bank,” “We/us” all mean Akbank Report. T.A.Ş. unless stated otherwise. REPORTING APPROACH BASED ON TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES Shaping all its business processes in line with the principles of transparency and accountability, Akbank utilized the Global Reporting Initiative’s “G4 Sustainability Reporting Framework,” the most widely used reporting standard in sustainability reporting, during the content development process of its 2018 Sustainability Report. 25 OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION, STRATEGY, AND COMMITMENTS In order for Akbank to realize its sustainability vision, we aim to successfully manage significant and material environmental, social, ethical, and economic risks and opportunities. Akbank strives to leverage its OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION Akbank’s other goals in light of annual sustainability reports Our sustainability vision is to its sustainability strategy are as prepared in accordance with GRI become the leader in Turkey and follows: guidelines to further expand its one of the leading institutions in the • Supporting ethical and secure existing ties with its stakeholders. world. banking principles, The Bank aims to contribute to • Offering products and services the development of sustainability OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY that increase social welfare, culture among its stakeholders, In order for Akbank to realize its • Minimizing the environmental through its annual sustainability sustainability vision, we aim to risks from its operations, reporting process. successfully manage significant • Improving the corporate and material environmental, social, capability in line with the ethical, and economic risks and sustainability strategy. opportunities. By performing a materiality analysis, we identified A HOLISTIC SUSTAINABILITY the material and top priority APPROACH FOCUSING ON VALUE issues in which our stakeholders CHAIN PRODUCTION expect good performance from The Corporate Governance the Bank and that are required Committee (CGC), which reports for the Bank to succeed. We to the Board of Directors, is created a sustainability strategy the highest executive body for by identifying related risks and sustainability activities. The opportunities and started to Committee organizes and oversees implement this strategy. the efforts of all business units within the Bank in terms of focusing TOP PRIORITY: CONTRIBUTING on shared sustainability goals. TO TURKEY’S SUSTAINABILITY Akbank’s International Advisory ECOSYSTEM Board, comprised of experts who Akbank aims to further bolster have well-respected studies in their the value-added it generates respective fields, also adds value for the Turkish economy and its to the Bank’s sustainability vision. stakeholder community through its (The International Advisory Board sustainability vision realized with is discussed in more detail in Risk its strong financial foundations and Management and Legal Compliance deep-rooted corporate culture. at Akbank.) 27 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION, STRATEGY, AND COMMITMENTS 1 0 24 4 1 0 24 7 1 0 24 9 AKBANK 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TOPICS PRIORITIZATION STUDY Sustainable Profitability and Growth Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Corporate Governance Compliance with Anti-Bribery and Secure Banking (Digital Security/Cyber Security) High Corruption Policies Customer Satisfaction Environmental and Social Risk Ethical Banking Management in Lending Clean Banking Career Development and Training Employee Awareness Employee Volunteering Stakeholder Dialogue Middle Sustainable Products and Services Employee Satisfaction Equal Opportunity Sponsorships Employee and Human Rights Innovative Products and Services Supply Chain Management Facilitating Access to Financial Services Impact on Akbank Carbon Footprint Low Low Middle High Priorities of Stakeholders CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee was established SUSTAINABILITY TEAM: COMMITTEE: THE KEY ORGAN IN in 2009 with the name “Corporate IMPLEMENTATION ARM OF THE SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS Governance and Social REPORTING PROCESS The Corporate Governance Responsibility Committee” A Sustainability (Corporate Social Committee, which plays a key (CGSRC). In early 2012, the function Responsibility) Team composed role in Akbank operations, is of “remuneration” was also assigned of representatives from most of responsible for ensuring compliance to the Committee and thus its the business units in Akbank and with Akbank’s Corporate name changed to “Corporate operating under the leadership of Management Principles; monitoring Governance, Remuneration the CSR Sub-Group performs the the operations of the Investor and Social Responsibility sustainability reporting process Relations and Sustainability Committee” (CGRSRC). In early that feeds Akbank’s annually issued Department; determining, 2013, “nominating candidates” Sustainability Report. Operating conforming accordance of and was included in the Committee’s under the Investor Relations and evaluating ethical values; creating functions and thus the name was Sustainability Department, the a transparent system to identify, updated as “Corporate Governance Sustainability Team conducted the evaluate and train suitable Committee” (CGC) prioritization analysis above to set candidates for the Board of the content of the Akbank 2018 Directors; and working on related The Committee meets twice a Sustainability Report by taking into policies and strategies. In order to year. The items in its 2018 meeting consideration the feedback from function properly, the Chairman and agenda included the assessment the Bank’s business units as well as the majority of the members of the of the Bank’s sustainability issues, stakeholder expectations. Committee are independent Board entrepreneurship, and social Members. responsibility projects focused on education and social contribution. 28 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT AKBANK’S SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT MODEL Board of Directors Corporate Governance International Advisory Board O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S Committee O T H E R R E L AT E D U N I T S Investor Relations and OF THE BANK Sustainability Department FIRST PRIORITY: SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING FOR SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING PROFITABILITY EMPLOYEES IN LIGHT OF THE UN GLOBAL With the Topics Prioritization Seeing its employees among the COMPACT Study updated in 2018, we have most important stakeholders Akbank develops sustainability once again identified the top in realizing its sustainability trainings for its employees based priority topics for Akbank and its vision, Akbank develops special on the UN Global Compact. The stakeholders. Akbank utilizes the sustainability trainings for its “Corporate Social Responsibility” Topics Prioritization Study not only employees through internal section of the Bank’s corporate to include in the Sustainability communication channels. Field portal presents up-to-date Report but also to identify which studies are conducted for the information in a number of areas, sustainability activities the Bank employees of Akbank branches from Akbank’s sustainability will conduct throughout the year. across Turkey. approach to corporate social responsibility projects. 29 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION, STRATEGY, AND COMMITMENTS OUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT Commitment Topic Assessment of 2018 Our Commitments Financial Performance Sustainable Profitability and Standing out with its diversified product portfolio and a Akbank strives to diversify its product portfolio Growth broad-based customer portfolio, Akbank continued to post in light of customer needs and expectations and sustainable financial and operational results in 2018. ensure the sustainability of its financial and operational success. Sustainability Management Duties and Responsibilities We officially included related responsibilities into the job Akbank aims to develop plans of action that definitions of Sustainability Team leader and members. The will inform the sustainability strategy under Bank took the necessary steps to include sustainability in the the coordination of the Investor Relations and performance evaluation criteria of team members. Sustainability Department. Supply Chain Management Akbank continued to encourage its supplier firms to comply Akbank plans to secure from all the Bank’s with Akbank principles and policies as well as the UN Global suppliers declarations of commitment to comply Compact in 2018. with Akbank’s Code of Ethics and sustainability policies. Employee Awareness Akbank continued to deliver Sustainability Approach Awareness Akbank set it as a priority to leverage advances Training to its employees via the custom-designed classroom in education and training technologies to deliver sustainability training courses. more comprehensive and creative sustainability training to stakeholders. Stakeholder Dialogue Akbank maintains fresh stakeholder dialogue via a large number Akbank sees it as a core priority to increase of platforms. These include Live Broadcasts; Akbank For You stakeholder engagement and further improve Meetings; Agricultural Fairs; Breakfast with the CEO events; operational efficiency. Motivational Activities for Employees; Exclusive Events for the Customer in Various Segments; Corporate TVs; Bank of Mobile Activities; Volunteer Initiatives; Customer Satisfaction Surveys; Akbank Branches; Akbank Call Center; Contact Us Website; Social Media (1.9 Million Followers in Total); Customer Relationship Manager (CRM) Activities in Various Segments; Leaders’ Summit; E-Mail Notifications; Customer Business Development Meetings; Akbank Analyst and Investor Days; SME Informational Meetings; Akbank Art Center Events; Media, Advertising and Promotional Campaigns; Workshops; among other events. Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Legal Compliance Transparent Corporate The Investor Relations and Sustainability Division, together Embracing the principle of developing mutual Governance with the Bank’s senior executives, participated in a total of 23 trust-based relations with shareholders as investor conferences in Turkey and abroad in 2018 and met with well as current and potential investors, Akbank nearly 314 international investor funds and two rating agencies. intends to continue carrying out its corporate governance on the basis of accountability. Information Security In 2018, Akbank expended various efforts, such as providing new Akbank will continue to undertake investments products and organizing new training schemes for all employees, and dedicated training initiatives geared toward in order to ensure that the staff is cautious toward cybercrime enhancing information security in the period and the Bank is well protected against all cyber threats. ahead. Our Customers Customer Satisfaction Akbank strives to deliver excellent service quality at every point Akbank plans to continue improving its products of contact with the customer. To this end, the Bank focuses on and services in pursuit of unconditional listening to, understanding and empathizing with the customer customer satisfaction. and generating quick, personalized solutions. Continuously making progress on the basis of the experience gained while serving customers, the Bank always strives for the better in pursuit of developing products and services that will make a difference. In 2018, 9% of service contracts were revised in light of customers' evolving expectations, leading to a rise in the quality level. Environmentally-friendly In 2018 Akbank continued to focus on financing energy projects Akbank will continue its focus in this area in the Products and Services and, in keeping with its practice in the last three years, 100% coming period as well. of the funds were disbursed to renewable projects, raising the share of renewable energy projects in its portfolio to 80%. Environmental and Social Risk Akbank has appointed Environmental and Social Impact The Bank will continue to raise awareness of Management in Lending Assessment (ESIA) officials for effectively managing risk in the its employees involved in lending activities Bank’s lending processes, including environmental risks. as regards environment and social risk management, by means of in-class and online training. 30 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Innovative Products and The share of our digital channel customers performing banking The Bank aims to continue using an innovative Services That Facilitate transactions using mobile channels stands at 96%; meanwhile, approach and maintaining a competitive edge in Access to Financial Services 97% of all customer transactions are executed through nontechnology. branch channels. Commitment Topic Assessment of 2018 Our Commitments Our Employees Employee Engagement The Bank continued to carry out initiatives to ensure the The Bank will continue to take steps to render sustainability of employee engagement in 2018. Akbank is employee loyalty sustainable in 2018. keenly aware of the relationship between happy employees and high corporate performance. The Bank believes in increasing loyalty through awareness of employees’ feelings and opinions, their expectations, staff priorities regarding human resources and management policies, and their areas of satisfaction and dissatisfaction. Training By the end of 2018, 46 hours of training per employee was Conducting its business activities in line with organized as a result of Akbank's investment in training. 38% of the principle of continuous improvement, total training time was online training. Akbank aims to contribute to the personal and professional development of the Bank’s employees via internal training programs in 2017. Equal Opportunity In the evaluation conducted based on 22 criteria under the Equal Akbank will continue to stand out among the Opportunity Model Project, Akbank received FEM certification. competition in terms of business productivity, In addition, in 2016, the Bank became signatory to the Women’s by providing a work environment based on equal Empowerment Principles (WEPs), a private sector venture by the opportunities to its employees. United Nations that aims to empower women to take part in all sectors and all aspects of economic activity. Environmental Impacts of Our Operations Our Environmental Impact Akbank continued to successfully undertake initiatives to Akbank plans to minimize the environmental minimize the environmental impact of its operations in 2018. impact and natural resource utilization of its operations in the coming period. Carbon emissions Akbank continued to attain major reductions in carbon Akbank plans to continue actively supporting emissions from its operations in 2018 owing to the energy initiatives to combat climate change in the efficiency projects it has implemented. coming year. Our Contribution to Society Community Investment Akbank, which positions itself as an exemplary corporate In the corporate social responsibility areas that Through Sponsorships citizen, plans to continue lending sponsorship support to it prioritizes, Akbank will continue to design qualified projects in education, youth, entrepreneurialism, projects creating added value, together with our culture & arts, and environment in the next period. Launched as primary stakeholders. a joint venture of Akbank and Sabancı University, the Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF) commenced operation in 2018 by conducting various conferences, training programs, seminars and research reports. As part of the CaseCampus Program launched in conjunction with Endeavor, the Bank convened young people who chose entrepreneurship as a career path and organized conferences and training sessions. The fourth edition of the Good State of the City project was organized in 2018 with the participation of 2,600 youth. In 2018, Akbank spent TL 12.2 million on its various social responsibility efforts. Community Investment Under the leadership of Akbank Volunteers, participants The Bank aims to encourage its employees to Through Employee collaborate with local communities, NGOs and local participate in social projects on a voluntary Volunteering governments to design solution-oriented projects in response to basis in the upcoming period. social problems. 31 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT With its strong corporate communication culture, Akbank creates effective channels for stakeholder communication in the light of recent developments in information technologies. 1 0 24 0 1 0 24 2 1 0 24 3 As one of Turkey’s most established banking institutions, Akbank has formulated a comprehensive stakeholder map extending from the economy to social life. Firmly believing that added value that is produced and distributed will increase with stakeholder dialogue, Akbank places all enterprises, institutions and organizations that it interacts with on its stakeholder map. To expand the culture of sustainability across Turkey, the Bank conducted intensive corporate communication activities on the following dialogue platforms in 2018. Stakeholder Groups and Dialogue Platforms Our Approach Examples Shareholders, Investors, Analysts General Assembly Meetings and Minutes, The dialogue mechanism that was Akbank’s Investor Relations and Sustainability Face-to-Face and E-Dialogue (Meetings developed to ensure continuous Department informs investors regularly on the and Conferences in Turkey and Abroad, communication between Akbank Bank’s environmental, social and economic Presentations and Briefings via Webcast and management and stakeholders is based sustainability performance both in writing and E-mail), Public Disclosure Platform, Annual upon the principles of “transparency, verbally. Report, “e-Manage: Corporate Governance accountability, and regular information and Investor Relations Portal” of the Central disclosure.” Registry Agency, Capital Markets Board Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report Press Releases, Investor Presentations Employees Quarterly live broadcasts by the Bank’s CEO Akbank is aware that high motivation and Akbank established effective channels of entitled “New Generation Akbank Meetings,” satisfaction levels among its employees communication to ensure effective internal Breakfast with the CEO Events, Instantaneous are determinant in ensuring long-standing communication. Messages of the senior Motivation Events for Employees, Akbank business performance. Akbank is aware management and the Bank’s quarterly Volunteers Program, Employee Satisfaction that high motivation and satisfaction levels performance results are communicated firstSurvey, Corporate Performance System, among its employees are determinant hand to employees via the quarterly-held Meetings (e.g. Regional Directorates and in ensuring long-standing business live TV broadcast by the CEO, an initiative Customer Relationship Management performance. The Bank takes heed of that started in 2012. This project aims to Performance Reviews, Leaders’ Summit, regularly eliciting its employees’ opinions keep internal synergy dynamic, improve Leaders of the Future Meeting, Management and expectations and tries to bring related bilateral communication, and increase all Trainee Cocktail Party, Cocktail Party with New practices to life. employees’ motivation to reach common goals. Managers, Award Ceremonies, Brainstorming Participants from various departments of the Sessions), Coaching System, Corporate Portal Bank are provided the opportunity to exchange “For Us,” Suggestion System, BANKSİS (Union opinions with Akbank’s CEO at monthly of Bank and Insurance Employees), Akbank Breakfast with the CEO meetings. As part of Retirement Fund, Ethics Line, E-Bulletins, the Akbank Volunteers program, volunteer E-mails, Corporate TVs leaders across the entire country carry out social responsibility projects that create value for the locations they live and work in. Customers Akbank For You Meetings, Agricultural Fairs, Customer satisfaction is Akbank’s top Akbank is in constant contact with customers Exclusive Events for Direct Deposit Customers priority. Customer satisfaction is Akbank’s via 26 different Akbank accounts in social media. and One-to-One Segment Clients, Iftar Dinners first priority. Opinions and expectations Our agents, specially trained for this media and for SME and Agriculture Banking Customers, of customers guide the Bank in developing offering services 24/7, respond to more than 7 Akbank Academy of Family Businesses, products and services. In order to sustain thousand comments monthly, offer solutions to Investor Seminars for One-to-One Segment customer satisfaction, Akbank implements complaints, and record the suggestions. Clients, Exclusive Events for Corporate Banking numerous practices: information security, Clients, Exclusive Events and Sponsorships for responsible marketing communications, Technology Enthusiast Customers, Customer innovative and environmentally friendly Satisfaction Surveys, Akbank Branches, products, and supporting customers in Akbank Call Center, 'Contact Us' Website, business development. Social Media, E-Mail Notifications, Customer Business Development Meetings, SME Informational Meetings, Akbank Art Center Events, the Media, Advertising and Promotional Campaigns, E-Mail Messages, and Corporate TVs 32 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 1 0 24 0 1 0 24 2 1 0 24 3 Stakeholder Groups and Dialogue Platforms Our Approach Examples International Financial Institutions One-to-One and Joint Meetings, Audits, Loans that Akbank secures from international A process was initiated for establishing Negotiations, Reports, Presentations financial institutions such as IFC, EBRD, Environmental and Social Management Systems and EIB to be lent out to customers mostly to be implemented in SME loans under the carry the conditions of being environmentsecuritization transaction amounting to USD friendly and supporting development. Akbank 250 million, which was performed with the establishes dialogues with these institutions International Finance Corporation (IFC). With this with the aim of building management system, Akbank adapts its SME loan processes to systems to monitor environmental and social the environmental and social standards defined performances of its customers pursuant to by IFC. Thus, Akbank carries its pioneering the conditions attached to these loans. activities in the field of sustainability even further. Public Authority and Regulators Public-Private Sector Cooperation Akbank is committed to thoroughly In order to update the Sustainable Financing Workshop, Meetings, Forums and complying with all related laws and Declaration signed in 2017 with the UN Global Conferences, Various Working Groups, regulations in all its activities. Akbank is Compact working group, Akbank worked together Verbal and Written Notifications, committed to thoroughly complying with with other signatory banks in 2018. Declarations, Press Releases, Legal all related laws and regulations in all its Compliance Reports activities. Akbank participates in forums, To register personnel on the Data Officers conferences and working groups with Registry pursuant to the Law on Personal Data the aim of closely following the agenda, Protection, Akbank created a personal data identifying trends, and developing and inventory and designated contact persons. In adapting its products and services in line with addition, the necessary preparatory studies are expectations of customers and legislators currently underway in order to keep the personal in a timely manner. In addition, the Bank data inventory up-to-date. closely monitors developments related to the banking industry and presents its opinions on legislative and regulatory amendments to related authorities. Suppliers Supplier Identification Forms, Meetings, Akbank expects the suppliers with which it Akbank informs the companies in its supplier Akbank Code of Ethics cooperates in the scope of its operations to portfolio of Akbank Ethical Principles and act in accordance with the Bank’s principles Sustainability Policies. and values. The Bank also supports their development through continuous information transfer. University Students Activities Organized and Supported Caring about university students’ requests, For 10 years, Akbank has been developing Directly by Akbank, CaseCampus opinions, and expectations, Akbank different projects with Endeavor, which has Entrepreneurship Program, Akbank continuously improves its investments in been set up to support active entrepreneurs Thinking Club, Information Meetings, support of their education and development. in emerging countries and to contribute to Youth Banking, Campus Branches, Akbank cooperates with student clubs to economic development. Akbank included the Brochures and Promotional Campaigns support university students in entering the CaseCampus Program in its entrepreneurshipbusiness world and to better inform those focused efforts. Launched jointly with Endeavor who will graduate soon about Akbank. Turkey, CaseCampus Program is held twice a year since 2016. Certification programs were administered at the Center of Excellence in Finance (CEF) for high school and university students who are contemplating careers in the finance industry. Local Community Activities Akbank Organizes and Akbank strives to support numerous 14. As part of the Akbank Short Film Festival, Participates in, Local Sponsorship, activities that offer social benefits and to the event “Award-Winning Films Come to Volunteer Activities, Culture & Arts reach local communities in areas where it Universities” was held at 40 universities in 21 Activities, Press Releases operates. provinces, from Edirne to Van, Zonguldak to Mersin. As such, the Short Film Festival reached out to over 900 thousand university students. ESIA studies are conducted for communities that are affected by project financing lending activities. Non-Governmental Organizations Cooperation in Social Engagement Akbank makes a point of improving While developing its social investment projects, Practices, Sponsorships, Meetings, cooperation with non-governmental the Bank cooperates with non-governmental Conferences, Study Groups organizations, being in continuous organizations. Akbank invites representatives of communication with them, taking their NGOs to its events and receives their opinions on opinions and expectations about its activities related issues. In addition, Akbank participates into consideration. in the working groups of the non-governmental organizations and provides input. Media Press Conferences, Press Releases, Daily Akbank aims to maintain continuous dialogue Akbank senior management and relevant Economic Bulletins with national and international media, to managers regularly meet with prominent figures inform them promptly and accurately through of the media community and exchange opinions press releases, and to share opinions with at press conferences organized to discuss opinion leaders at press conferences. industry trends and the Bank’s products and services. 33 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Figuring among the most prestigious actors of the Turkish banking industry, Akbank is committed to actively participating in domestic and international platforms, by sending representatives or otherwise expressing its opinions. MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CONTRIBUTING TO PUBLIC AND UNIONS, SIGNED INITIATIVES • TÜYİD Investor Relations POLICY WITH OUR CORPORATE • European Association of Association EXPERIENCE AND KNOW-HOW Communication Directorates • Credit Cards Registry Office Celebrating its 70 th anniversary (EACD) (KKB) in 2018, Akbank successfully • European Union Green Banking in • Association of Corporate contributes to the development of the Mediterranean Project Communicators (KİD) public policy, especially as regards • Interbank Card Center (BKM) • Climate Platform and Turkish the finance industry, with its • United Nations Global Compact Leaders Group on Climate years-long experience and know(UNGC) Change established by REC and how. During the year, the Bank’s • Cancun and Durban TÜSİAD managers participated in Turkey’s Communiqués drawn prior to • Advertising Self-Regulatory prominent forums, conferences the Conference of the Parties to Board (RÖK) and workshops as both speakers the United Nations Framework • Association of Advertisers (RVD) and listeners, in order to share their Convention on Climate Change • Private Sector Volunteers experience and expertise with the to make a call of action to Association (OSGD) public at large. In addition, the Bank governments from the private • The Banks Association of Turkey provides sponsorship support to sector (TBB) prestigious events. • Endeavor Assessment (Support • Study Group of Sector’s Role on for Active Entrepreneurs) Sustainable Growth of The Banks LEADER COMMUNICATION • Turkish Ethics and Reputation Association of Turkey ACTIVITIES BY AKBANK TOP Society (TEID) • Public Relations Association of MANAGEMENT • Financial Literacy and Inclusion Turkey (TUHİD) Composed of the most competent Association (FODER) • Corporate Governance finance professionals in Turkey, • The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Association of Turkey (TKYD) Akbank’s Senior Management Leaders Group on Climate • Turkish Industry and Business attends President and Cabinet Change (CLG) Association (TÜSİAD) level meetings regarding such • Interactive Advertising Bureau • Turkish Industry and Business issues as the country’s economy (IAB Turkey) Association (TÜSİAD) Sustainable and financial affairs as part of the • Association of Advertisers Development Task Force Bank’s leader communications. • Istanbul Foundation for Culture • Visa Colorful Horizons A unique example of Akbank’s and Arts (İKSV) • The European Association of contributions to public policy and • Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange Communication Directors (EACD) a well-known figure on a global Sustainability Index (ISESI) • United Nations Women’s scale is the initiative of Ms. Suzan Project Empowerment Principles-WEPs Sabancı Dinçer, Chairman of the • 30% Club Board of Directors of Akbank, as a Member of the Board of Trustees of Chatham House, in promoting Turkey’s economic and strategic role internationally through this platform. 34 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Akbank closely monitors changes in laws and regulations related to renewable energy and energy efficiency in Turkey. The Bank is committed to ensuring full legal and regulatory compliance in addition to developing climate-friendly products and services. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSESSMENT OF CLIMATE DYNAMIC RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE SHAPES THE BANK’S CHANGE-RELATED RISKS... APPROACH STRATEGY TO COMBAT CLIMATE Climate change, caused by Akbank updates its risk CHANGE increasing levels of greenhouse management map when necessary, As a corporate citizen keenly aware gas emissions in industrialized by keeping track of recent of its environmental responsibilities, nations, poses major risks for developments related to climate Akbank views the fight against societies today. Heat waves change on international platforms. global climate change as one of of increasing frequency and Embracing a proactive approach to its top priorities. The Corporate intensity, floods, droughts, and risk management, the Bank strives Governance Committee, which extreme weather conditions due to to effectively manage climate reports to Akbank Board of climate change have the potential change-based risks and turn Directors, shapes the Bank’s to have negative impacts on threats into opportunities. strategy to combat climate change. industries such as forestry, fishing, The International Advisory Board, agriculture, healthcare, tourism, Akbank closely monitors changes composed of thought leaders, and construction, among others. in laws and regulations related contributes to the Bank’s corporate Climate change laws, rules and to renewable energy and energy vision in this area. Meanwhile, regulations that have been enacted efficiency in Turkey. The Bank is the Investor Relations and or are likely be put into effect in committed to ensuring full legal and Sustainability Department ensures Turkey and its trading partners regulatory compliance in addition coordination and management pose the risk of legal incompliance to developing climate-friendly of the topic. In addition, related and extra investment costs to fight products and services. Akbank also business units carry out efforts climate change. It is anticipated minimizes the environmental impact to minimize energy consumption that companies with large amounts of its operations by managing staff resulting from Bank activities of greenhouse gas emissions such related business travel and logistics and to ensure proper waste as those in the transportation and activities with a special focus on management. aviation industries will be impacted energy efficiency. by the aforementioned laws and regulations. 35 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 36 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKBANK With its visionary management approach, Akbank has also pioneered innovative corporate governance practices in the banking sector. Akbank works towards its goal INTRODUCING FIRSTS IN • First Turkish company included of full compliance with the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in the Global 500 Report of the corporate governance principles, With its visionary management Carbon Disclosure Project (2010). efficiently managing the risks approach, Akbank has also • Akbank published its Digital Trust and opportunities in its business pioneered innovative corporate Principles (2018) processes through its professional governance practices in the corporate governance approach. banking sector. The Bank’s major Akbank is committed to abiding At the Bank, corporate governance innovative practices in corporate by the Corporate Governance is divided into the following governance are as follows: Principles as set forth by the categories: Banking Law, Capital Markets In Turkey, Akbank is the first bank Board, and Turkish Commercial • Relations with Shareholders to: Code. Akbank is in compliance with • Public Disclosure and • Publicly announce its dividend the mandatory provisions of the Transparency Policy policy (2003). Corporate Governance Principles • Duties, Responsibilities, and • Announce its Corporate as published by the Capital Markets Authorities of the Board of Governance Principles in its Board in Official Gazette No. 28871 Directors annual report (2003). dated January 3, 2014. • Relations with Stakeholders • Announce its Corporate Governance Principles on its CONSISTENT SHARE website (2004). PERFORMANCE ON BIST • First bank to buy back its ISTANBUL founders’ shares (2005), Enjoying a prestigious position • First Turkish bank to be a in the eyes of investors with its signatory to the United Nations successful share performance on Global Compact (2007), Borsa Istanbul, Akbank complies • First bank to publish its Global fully with legal procedures, in Compact Report (2010), order to offer high returns to • Pioneer in Supporting the its shareholders and investors, Implementation of the Carbon and with its strong sense of Disclosure Project (CDP) in Turkey responsibility as a public company. (2010). In the upcoming period, Akbank • First deposit bank to publish aims to make its prestigious a sustainability report in position in capital markets accordance with Global Reporting sustainable. Initiative (GRI) standards (2010), 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKBANK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKBANK The Investor Relations and Sustainability Department is responsible for presenting the Bank’s performance and strategies accurately and transparently to existing and potential investors. ACCOUNTABILITYfacilitating protection and use of meetings is announcedin the BASED RELATIONS WITH shareholders’ rights – especially Turkish Trade Registry Gazette, SHAREHOLDERS the rights of getting information in a national newspaper, on the In 1996, Akbank established and examining the data. The corporate website, at the Public the Investor Relations Group to Department informs investors on Disclosure Platform www.kap. manage relations with existing and environmental, social and economic gov.tr, e-Governance Corporate potential shareholders through an sustainability. Governance and Coordination institutional perspective. From this and International Reporting on the date on, Akbank Investor Relations STRONG CREDIBILITY Central Registry Agency www.mkk. and Sustainability Department WITHIN THE INTERNATIONAL com.tr, and on the e-GEM Electronic conducted activities to make INVESTMENT COMMUNITY General Assembly Systemat Akbank’s corporate reputation At the beginning of 2018, least three weeks before the event. sustainable and adopted the Akbank Investor Relations and The Annual Report is submitted principle of responding to all Sustainability Department to the shareholders through our questions outside of commercial organized a video web cast to Bank’s website, at the Shareholder secrets in line with the principle announce the Bank’s budget Transactions Subdivision, as well as of equality. The Department, targets. During the year, the Bank at the Ankara and Adana Branches which assumes a key role in conducted a total of five web three weeks before the General the communication between casts – four on financial results, Assembly. In addition, matters the Bank’s Senior Management one on the capital increase – stipulated in Article 1.3.1 of the and shareholders, fulfilled its with the participation of senior Capital Markets Board Corporate responsibilities successfully in managers, complete with Q&A Governance Principles are disclosed 2018. Another department that sessions. Furthermore, Akbank to the shareholders on the Bank’s is responsible for overseeing senior management attended a website correspondingly with the shareholders’ rights at Akbank is total of 23 domestic and foreign announcement for the General the Financial Coordination and investor conferences. The Bank’s Assembly Meeting of Shareholders. Reporting Division. senior managers also held meetings with 314 international According to the Akbank Articles EFFECTIVE INFORMATION investment funds and two rating of Association, shareholders may DISCLOSURE CHANNELS FOR agencies. In addition, questions assign another shareholder as SHAREHOLDERS communicated by investors and a representative with a right to The Investor Relations and analysts via telephone and e-mail vote. Shareholders may exercise Sustainability Department is were responded to during the year. their right to vote either in person responsible for presenting the In total, the Department responded or through another person or Bank’s performance and strategies to more than 500 inquiries shareholder at General Assemblies. accurately and transparently to from investors and analysts via Media outlets are permitted to existing and potential investors. telephone and e-mail. Information attend and cover the Bank’s IRSD also plays an active role in on the General Assembly General Assembly Meetings. 38 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Akbank is committed to developing transparent relations based on mutual respect with its stakeholders. Akbank’s Public Disclosure Policy was formulated by the Board of Directors within the framework of the Capital Markets Board’s Corporate Governance Principles in accordance with capital markets laws, rules and regulations. The Public Disclosure Policy was then approved and announced to the public on Akbank’s website. The Corporate Governance PUBLIC DISCLOSURE POLICY INFORMATION CHANNELS Compliance Report and Corporate UNDER THE RESPONSIBILITY OF REINFORCED WITH MOBILE Governance Information Form THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TECHNOLOGIES 2018, both prepared in accordance Akbank is committed to The Akbank Website, material with the new reporting format as developing transparent relations disclosures, Akbank branches, prescribed by the CMB Resolution based on mutual respect with its Call Center, Akbank IR Apps (iOS, dated January 10, 2019 and stakeholders. Akbank’s Public Android) social media (Twitter, numbered 2/49, was published on Disclosure Policy was formulated Facebook), media, advertising the Public Disclosure Platform by the Board of Directors within the and promotion campaigns, Annual March 1, 2019. framework of the Capital Markets Report and Sustainability Report Board’s Corporate Governance are the most important platforms ELECTRONIC GENERAL Principles in accordance with to inform the Bank’s shareholders. ASSEMBLY SYSTEM FOR capital markets laws and In addition, the e-MANAGE: SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATION regulations, and then approved Corporate Governance and Investor AT THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY and announced to the public on Relations Portal of the Central General Assemblies are held at Akbank’s website. The Board Registry Agency are also utilized Akbank Head Office (Sabancı of Directors is authorized and in disseminating information to Center) in a way that increases responsible for informing the public, stakeholders. participation of shareholders, as well as monitoring, supervising, ensures fairness, and allows for and improving the public disclosure participation with a minimum cost policy. for shareholders. Those who have the right to participate in the Bank’s The Bank has tasked the Financial General Assembly meetings may Coordination and Reporting also vote via the Electronic General Department Directorate and Assembly System. the Investor Relations and Sustainability Department, jointly serving as the Investor Relations Division under the Financial Management business unit and the Corporate Communications Department, to supervise and oversee all matters pertaining to public disclosures. 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKBANK AKBANK BOARD OF DIRECTORS Akbank’s highest decision-making body is the Board of Directors, which reaches decisions by a majority of votes. AKBANK’S HIGHEST DECISION In order for the Board of Directors strategy, Akbank’s Board of MAKING BODY to make a resolution, one more than Directors oversees the performance The Board of Directors, the highest half of its members must attend the of executive management. The decision making body at Akbank, meeting. Therefore, all resolutions Board of Directors also oversees has three executive and seven nonare made with the majority of compliance of the Bank’s activities executive members as of end2018. members attending the meeting. with applicable laws, rules and As of end-2018, the Bank has three Negotiations of the Board are regulations, Articles of Association, independent Board Members. routinely recorded by a secretary internal regulations and policies. selected among the members According to the Capital Markets or by someone hired outside the The Board of Directors operates Board’s corporate governance Bank. Minutes must be signed by in line with the principles of principles, members of bank attendees and if there are opponent transparency and accountability. audit committees are considered members, the reason of opposition The Bank’s Board of Directors independent members of the to the resolution must be stated in plays an active role in maintaining Board of Directors. Hayri Çulhacı the minutes which must be signed efficient communication between and Yaman Törüner, the members by the voter. Board Members are the Bank and shareholders as well of the Audit Committee, are not entitled to have weighted votes as in resolving potential disputes. independent Board members. The and/or to veto resolutions. other Independent Member of our DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Bank is Mr. Aydın Günter who has ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PURSUANT TO THE ARTICLES OF all independency criteria in line THE BOARD ASSOCIATION with the Capital Markets Board The core duties of Akbank’s Board With its strategic decision-making regulations and who was approved of Directors include making the efforts, Akbank Board of Directors for a one year term at the Ordinary strategic decisions that strike keeps the Bank’s risk, growth and General Assembly Meeting held the optimal balance between return parameters at the optimal on March 26, 2018. The Corporate risk, growth and return, and level, protects the Bank’s longGovernance Committee report pursuing a rational and cautious term interests with its rational dated January 16, 2018 showing risk management approach that and cautious risk management that Aydın Günter meets the safeguards the long-term interests perspective, administers and criteria of independence has been of the corporate organization that it represents the Bank. The Board of submitted to the Board of Directors, represents. Directors of Akbank sets the Bank’s which has decided to submit his strategic goals, identifies the name to the CMB as independent THE CORPORATE ACTOR human and financial resources that member candidate. DETERMINING AKBANK’S the Bank will require, and monitors GROWTH STRATEGY: THE BOARD management’s performance. OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors oversees In addition to determining the compliance of the Bank’s activities Bank’s human and financial with applicable laws, rules and resources in line with its growth regulations, Articles of Association, internal regulations and policies. 40 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT In addition to approving the annual the internal systems as well as the formulated risk policies are put budget and strategic plan of the accounting and reporting systems. in writing and integrated into the Bank, the Bank closely monitors The Committee convenes at least Bank’s long-term overall strategy. the budget and actual figures, four times each year. The Committee convenes at least obtains information on deviations, four times each year. and follows up decisions. If there CORPORATE GOVERNANCE are any significant deviations COMMITTEE; OVERSEEING THE AUTHORITY THAT in macroeconomic conditions SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS SHAPES THE BANK’S FUNDING compared to the budget The Corporate Governance and STRATEGIES: ASSET-LIABILITY estimates, the budget is revised Social Responsibility Committee COMMITTEE and resubmitted to the Board of was established in 2009 with the The Asset-Liability Committee Directors for approval. The Board aim of monitoring compliance with (ALCO) is a subcommittee presided monitors strategic goals, budget corporate governance principles over by the CEO. Responsible targets and actual figures on a and supervising the implementation for daily liquidity and cash daily, weekly or monthly basis, of corporate social responsibility management, ALCO meets twice depending on the nature of the activities, Social Responsibility. a week to consider economic and issue. In addition to the hard copy In 2013, the “nomination” task market developments. In addition, reports it receives, the Board was also given to the Committee ALCO is charged with formulating of Directors has access to the and its name was changed to the investment, pricing and funding Bank’s financial statements, Corporate Governance Committee. strategies as well as making various financial and nonThe Committee is responsible decisions related to daily liquidity financial indicators on the basis for ensuring, monitoring and management. of customer, branch, business unit, communicating compliance with and the overall Bank through the Akbank’s Corporate Management RIGHTS OF THE BOARD MEMBERS Management Information System. Principles; monitoring the Having shaped its activities in operations of the Investor Relations line with the goal of full legal The Bank’s administrative structure and Sustainability Department; compliance, Akbank determines and organization is detailed in the creating a transparent system the remuneration policy for Board third section of the Articles of to identify, evaluate and train Members and Senior Management Association. This section explains suitable candidates for the Board in line with the regulations of roles and capacities of the Board of Directors; and working on related the Banking Regulation and Members and other executives. policies and strategies. Members of Supervision Agency (BRSA) and Roles and responsibilities of the the Remuneration Committee are CMB. According to the Akbank Board of Directors are subject responsible for monitoring, auditing, Articles of Association, Members to the provisions of the Turkish and reporting remuneration of the Board of Directors are paid a Commercial Code and Banking Law operations on behalf of the Board of monthly fee or remuneration is fixed as well as to the provisions of the Directors. The Committee convenes by the General Assembly. Salaries Articles of Association. twice a year. The chairman and paid to board members who assume majority of the members of the various prescribed duties at Akbank The powers and authorities of Committee are Independent Board are determined within the scope the Chairman of the Board of Members. of authorization granted by the Directors and the General Manager General Assembly. The Bank’s were clearly separated. This issue ULTIMATE DECISION MAKER IN compensation policy complies was included in the Articles of CREDIT ALLOCATION: CREDIT with the regulations of the Banking Association. COMMITTEE Regulation and Supervision Agency The Credit Committee is the final (BRSA) and Capital Markets Board BOARD OF DIRECTORS loan allocation decision body that (CMB). The compensation policy COMMITTEE STRUCTURE examines loan offers which have has been documented in writing, Akbank’s Board of Directors passed the loan processes of the presented to the shareholders fulfills its functions by means of Head Office in terms of compliance at the General Assembly, and various committees. In addition with legal regulations, banking presented to the stakeholders on to such committees, the Board of principles, the Bank’s goals and the Bank’s website. Internal Auditors, Internal Control loan policies. Unless excused, and Compliance Division, Risk all Committee members attend A COMMITTEE WITH Management Department and the meetings. Credit Committee INTERNATIONAL PRESTIGE: Information Risk Management convenes whenever deemed ADVISORY BOARD Department directly report to the necessary. Akbank has established the Akbank Board of Directors. Advisory Board composed of THE RISK MANAGEMENT BODY: opinion leaders in order to monitor EFFICIENT SURVEILLANCE OF EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE global and domestic economic INTERNAL SYSTEMS: AUDIT The Executive Risk Committee developments. Chaired by Suzan COMMITTEE is responsible for developing risk Sabancı Dinçer, the Advisory Board The Audit Committee helps policies, determining appropriate convened two times in 2018. the Board in the performance methods for measurement and of supervision and oversight management of risks, setting functions; in addition, it oversees commensurate risk limits and the functioning and adequacy of monitoring their performance. All 41 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 42 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES Thanks to its multi-dimensional risk management approach, Akbank maintained its risks at an optimal level in 2018. In 2017, Akbank successfully RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS MULTI-DIMENSIONAL RISK fulfilled the Risk Management FULLY SUPPORTED BY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Function under the responsibility of EMPLOYEES The Board of Directors is charged the Board of Directors. The Board of In 2018, Akbank employees with the primary responsibility Directors, which evaluates current continued to work with success of establishing and executing developments in collaboration in line with the risk management Akbank’s Risk Management System. with the Audit Committee and the policies set by the Board of The Board of Directors, with the Senior Risk Committee, played a Directors and legal requirements. help of the Audit Committee and decisive role in determining the risk The Bank, which shapes its the Executive Risk Committee, categories of the Bank and taking operations in line with its longassess current developments and the necessary measures. The Risk term strategy and targets, pursues determine Akbank’s risk categories. Management, Internal Control and a multidimensional approach Compliance, and Board of Internal including risk management, legal The Risk Management, Information Auditors, which report to the Board compliance, and environmentalRisk Management, Internal Control of Directors, successfully fulfilled social impact analyses on key and Compliance Division and the their coordination and assessment issues such as capital allocation, Board of Internal Auditors units, role, delivering the expected portfolio/investment preferences, which report directly to the Board of efficiency. new product and operation Directors, perform coordination and decisions. assessment functions to ensure the expected efficacy. INTERNATIONALLY ACCEPTED RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES MARKET RISKS Akbank effectively manages its Market risks emerging due to risks by integrating internationally fluctuations in foreign exchange accepted risk management models rates, interest rates, and market and regulations into its business prices of stocks are measured by processes. Analyses, calculations, using internationally-recognized simulations, scenarios, stress tests models. Limits are identified for and other studies conducted as the Bank or Group and compliance part of risk management have a with these limits is continuously supporting and decisive role in monitored. the strategic decisions taken by the Bank’s Board of Directors and Senior Management. 43 RISK MANAGEMENT AND LEGAL COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES Akbank makes efficient use of mechanisms such as differentiated and diversified controls, insurance and limitation in order to control operational risks associated with all risk categories, particularly legal compliance and reputation risks. LIQUIDITY RISKS and environmental and social REPUTATION RISKS Akbank has created a liquidity effects are assessed via an internal Reputation risk is a significant management framework for customer rating system. risk in terms of sustainability. All maintaining required liquidity Akbank employees, notably the resources to perform legal liabilities Sector, customer, loan type, Board of Directors, are responsible in a timely manner to depositors, customer segment-based limits are for the management of this risk. creditors and institutions that it identified in order to monitor credit As part of the management of this has made a commitment to. The risks. However, global developments risk, policies and practices were Bank protects itself from any are closely monitored; accordingly, identified (including areas such as negative impacts to be caused innovative studies are conducted full compliance with legislation, by liquidity risks thanks to its and model development and establishing and exercising widespread deposit base, robust validation processes are improved. trust-based relationships with capital structure, and varied foreign stakeholders, efficient and fast borrowing sources. In addition, extra OPERATIONAL RISK solutions to customer complaints) liquidity sources are made available Another area considered to be a and these have been put down in with limits allocated by the Central risk category for Akbank’s core writing. Akbank Ethical Principles Bank, BIST Repo Market and the activities is operational risk. serve as an important guide in this Settlement and Custody Bank as According to the Bank, the sources sense. well as the liquid securities portfolio for operational risk are overlooking in hand. By being cautious in foreign errors and irregularities in the LEGAL RISKS currency liquidity management, controls for business processes, Operating flawlessly in terms of reserves sufficient to fulfill liquidity senior management’s or employees’ compliance with legislation is a needs are maintained. Management failing to act in accordance fundamental priority for us. For and monitoring of market and with the time and conditions, following legislation related to the liquidity risks had an increasingly mistakes and disruptions in banking sector and adaptation important role in the cautious and information technology systems, to developments and changes, farsighted management of the and natural disasters. Akbank various departments work to ensure probable negative impacts of the makes efficient use of mechanisms compliance in the Bank’s system crises and challenges experienced such as differentiated and infrastructure, business processes, recently in the global economy. diversified controls, insurance, rules, and limits. and limitation to manage CREDIT RISKS operational risks associated with NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES All banking products with credit all risk categories, primarily legal RISKS risks (such as credit placements compliance and reputation risks. In addition to risks identified for and commitments to customers, The Operational Risk Committee, existing products and activities, letters of credit) are managed which was established at the risks that may arise from with assistance from cautious senior management level in 2011, development of new products loan policies and procedures in discusses subjects that are of and services are also assessed. Akbank. In all credit transactions, importance from an operational risk Potential financial, operational, loan quality (credit worthiness perspective and actively monitors legal and reputation risks of with scorecards), purpose of use, the actions taken at its regularlynewly-developed products or held meetings. services; methods to be used in measuring and managing these 44 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT risks; and control mechanisms • Terms and Conditions: Customers This model provides a holistic to be established are identified should be informed in a timely, approach to information risk, by with contribution from related accurate, complete and separating information risks from departments of the Bank. transparent manner as regards information technology risks. The contract terms and conditions, Information Risk Management Since 2011, the New Product and and risks related to products/ Unit has been restructured to Service Evaluation Committee, services; customers’ rights and better achieve these objectives comprising managers of all responsibilities should be clearly and to support a self-development departments involved in product stated, and there should be no culture strategy. The organization’s development, decides on the misleading information about the members were encouraged to suitability of all product and service terms and conditions. participate in both national and in terms of legislation and technical • Pricing: Setting, declaring and international training programs. qualifications. When the Board of implementing prices according Directors approves the extensive to Bank policies (the Bank Work was undertaken to ensure risk assessment made by the may refrain from announcing that employees take precautions Committee, necessary actions are interest rates for risk premium, against cybercrime, and to enhance taken for risk management. profitability and other purposes the Bank’s protection against cyber -except for retail customers); threats, by providing new products CLEAN BANKING RISK standardization of fee/ and organizing new training Clean Banking Risk is defined as commission/expense collection programs for all employees. the Bank’s and its employees’ and return processes. unfair practices or behaviors that • Discrimination: There can be no To increase cyber security, all affect customers, stakeholders or discrimination among customers technology and banking processes markets, and lead to damage to on the basis of religion, language, at the Bank were given a more customers, financial penalties or race, age, gender, political information-focused format. loss of reputation. As part of Clean orientation, and the like and Investments in new technologies Banking efforts, Akbank’s and product/service quality cannot boosted the diversity of information its employees’ behavior not only vary according to these criteria. risk processes, while at the same complies with applicable legislation • Market Integrity: Market integrity time ensuring the development of IT but also uphold customers’ and public interest must be held structures. interests. Clean Banking Principles in all transactions performed; are important in terms of the better transactions jeopardizing Akbank plays a pioneering role managing of operational and competition and market integrity in the sector also with its 2018 reputational risks, eliminating of shall not be performed. investments and 2019 investment possible legal risks and establishing budget for increasing its in-house sustainable customer relations. INFORMATION RISK cyber security. The Bank places MANAGEMENT great emphasis on developing • Conformity: Services or Akbank is committed to protecting technologies that prevent products given or sold to stakeholders’ confidential and information risk. Its efforts in this customers, and product/service private information. This is critically key area are carried out by wellrecommendations should conform important when developing experienced professionals. to the customer’s risk profile, long-term relations based on expectations and needs, financial mutual trust with employees and condition, and financial literacy. customers. The Bank integrates the • Disclosure: Customers should latest technological developments be provided with detailed in information security, one of the information on products/services, most important topics today, into before, during and after sales; the its business processes, and protects information thus provided should the privacy of its stakeholders at a be comprehensible by customers superior level. The activities carried with a low level of financial out by the Bank with respect to literacy. people, process and technology are • Customer Approval: In products/ presented below. services, customer approval documents ought to be clear The Information Risk Management and understandable; customers’ Unit is established to ensure that confirmation must be received the information risk at the Bank for unclear issues; necessary is audited directly by the Board of screens/flows should be designed Directors, and thus reports directly to receive clear approval from to the Board of Directors. Akbank is the customer for products/ one of the few companies worldwide services offered through distant to implement this model, and channels; voice records and other the only company to do so in the audit trace records of customer Turkish banking industry. confirmation must be kept. 45 RISK MANAGEMENT AND LEGAL COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDIT STRUCTURE REINFORCED WITH NEW INVESTMENT Akbank efficiently manages risks by using its internal audit and control mechanism which incorporates the latest technologies and by employing highly skilled staff. Akbank has built a robust In line with this understanding, • Establishment of information internal audit practice by swiftly effectiveness of the internal control systems that are in compliance integrating innovative internal system is ensured by using certain with the volume and quality of the control and audit practices from the mechanisms including: Bank’s activities, international banking sector into • Creation of efficient and its business processes. The Bank’s To this end, the Bank’s internal comprehensive communication sound internal control system is control efficiency was secured with channels, designed to ward preserving its mechanisms such as: • Collecting and implementing assets, conducting activities in • Identification of functional employee suggestions on an effective, efficient way and in differences, separation of the processes and operations accordance with legal regulations, functions of marketing and and maintaining a reliable and operations, holistic accounting and financial • Documentation of job definitions reporting system. The proper and specific responsibilities in the functioning of the Bank’s internal control system of each employee control and audit infrastructure is at every level, led by the Board of Directors. The • Documentation of all workflows Audit Committee’s function is to and checkpoints throughout aid the Board of Directors in its the Bank via Business Process activities in this arena. The control Management (BPM), environment at Akbank is defined within certain rules and designed to contribute to all business processes. 46 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT INTERNAL CONTROL AND COMPLIANCE DIVISION In 2018, Akbank Internal Control and Compliance Division successfully performed the management and coordination of audit and regulatory relations, as in previous reporting periods. Akbank Internal Control and EFFICIENT CONTROL PROCESSES perspective of the compliance and Compliance Division conducts IN FIVE AREAS control systems. The Division also its operations in line with the Standing out with its highly skilled carried out oversight and control principle of full compliance with human capital and advanced tasks regarding compliance with the applicable laws and international expertise, Akbank fulfilled its obligations stipulated in Law No. banking regulations. The Division duties and responsibilities in 5549 on Prevention of Laundering is responsible for compliance with five areas in the 2018 reporting Proceeds of Crime and Financing of relevant legislation and internal period. As part of Head Office Terrorism. regulations, including prevention of and process controls, the Division the laundering of crime proceeds executed controls of core banking In 2018, Akbank Internal Control and the financing of terrorism. The and Bancassurance functions; and Compliance Division Internal Control and Compliance performed assessments on control successfully performed the Division carries out control points of designed business flows; management and coordination activities not only at the Head and ensured the implementation of audit and regulatory relations, Office but also at Akbank branches of measures that comprise the as was the case in previous across Turkey with its highly internal control process. These periods Under this function, audit specialized staff. include functional separation of processes were coordinated from tasks, sharing of authorities and a single source while the Division The Division, which has a key role responsibilities, design of systems played a guiding and effective in the Bank’s operational, legal and controls, control of financial role in tracking the audit results. In risk management, makes significant reporting systems, integrity and addition, the Division facilitated the contributions to minimizing reliability of accounting and coordination, within the Bank, of losses from operational risks, and reporting systems, and supporting correspondence with official bodies performing operations effectively the business units’ projects. such as the Banking Regulation and efficiently, in compliance and Supervision Agency (BRSA), with applicable laws, rules and As part of compliance controls, Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) and regulations, and within an effective where it has significant the Capital Markets Board (CMB) as control environment. competence, Akbank conducted well as with industry associations monitoring, oversight and control such as the Banks Association activities to internalize and of Turkey (BAT) and the Turkish implement new legal and regulatory Capital Markets Association requirements in the banking (TCMA). The Division made legislation compliance area in 2018. significant contributions to healthy The Division assessed the Bank’s and trustworthy relationships new product/service projects as well with regulatory and supervisory as regulatory changes announced authorities and entities. for the entire organization from the 47 RISK MANAGEMENT AND LEGAL COMPLIANCE BOARD OF INTERNAL AUDITORS Akbank has adopted the highest ethical principles to perpetuate its high brand reputation in Turkish and international markets. BOARD OF INTERNAL AUDITORS: information systems. Results of the MARKETING COMMUNICATION IN COORDINATOR OF INTERNAL operations by the Board of Internal LINE WITH ETHICAL STANDARDS AUDIT ACTIVITIES Auditors and the Internal Control Akbank operates in line with the The Board of Internal Auditors; and Compliance Division are principle of full compliance with which is in charge of coordination of regularly monitored and evaluated the law as a necessity of operating all the audits at Akbank, performs by the Control Committee and the in the banking sector, where the risk-oriented internal audits in a Board of Directors. promotion and marketing of way that covers all units, processes products and services is strictly and operations and in a planned INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS regulated. Every employee who manner. Examples of the work done AGAINST THE RISK OF communicates with customers, by the Board of Internal Auditors LAUNDERING CRIME PROCEEDS including the Corporate include evaluating the compliance Conducting all business processes Communications Department, is of branch transactions with the in line with international banking responsible for compliance of our provisions and liabilities stated in regulations and domestic communication activities with internal and external legislation legislation, Akbank takes applicable laws and regulations. investigating; analyzing and effective measures to prevent the Attaching great importance to assessing existing or probable, laundering of crime proceeds and protecting the privacy of customer actual or potential risks resulting the financing of terrorism. In this information, the Bank has from negligence, misconduct, fraud respect, measures and principles embraced high ethical standards and the like in our branches, units for identifying, grading, monitoring, in all its product promotion, sales and affiliates; and eliminating risks. evaluating and preventing and marketing communications possible risks are implemented activities, including advertisements EFFICIENT AUDIT AGAINST RISKS in consideration of obligations and sponsorships. Adopting an open OF IRREGULARITY related to the identification of the disclosure policy in the promotion of The Board of Internal Auditors customer. The Bank fully complies its products and services, the Bank expends efforts to identify with the legislation issued by conducts all business processes for and solve probable irregularity international regulatory authorities customer relationship management notifications from legal bodies (OFAC, EU, UN, among others), in line with this open disclosure (including those via the Ethics Line), and the Internal Control and policy in order to prevent customers the Bank itself, and our customers. Compliance Department performs from losing their rights. Furthermore, the Board of Internal all the necessary controls in this Auditors monitors the reliability of field. 48 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT FULL COMPLIANCE WITH THE ISO Akbank has adopted the highest A STRONG CHANNEL FOR 22301:2012 STANDARD ethical principles to perpetuate its STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION: To ensure continuity of critical high brand reputation in Turkish ETHICS LINE business processes as well as and international markets. Special By means of the Call Center 444 recovery of the system in case of training programs were organized 25 25 and the e-mail address etik@ failure, prevent customer losses, in 2018 to cultivate these ethical akbank.com, Akbank stakeholders and to maintain its corporate principles among all stakeholders can quickly report to the Board of reputation, Akbank continued the in Akbank’s sphere of influence, Internal Auditors their suspicions Business Continuity Management especially employees. The Bank of ethical principle violations. If Program in 2018. The Business has focused on cultivating this Akbank’s employees believe that Continuity and Emergency ethical banking perspective among there are practices contradicting Management System in place its employees through internal the Ethical Principles in their across the Bank is implemented communication channels such units, but choose to refrain from in line with the ISO 22301: 2012 as the corporate website and taking actions as being part of the Social Security Business Continuity e-training program. same unit, to solve the problem, Management System standard. they can use our Ethics Line. The The Bank’s Business Continuity existence of the Ethics Line, areas Committee, which convenes twice of practice and means to reach the a year, is responsible for monitoring line are announced to all employees and directing the work carried out regularly via e-mail. Employees under the Business Continuity and may have access to the Ethics Line Emergency Management System. any time of day via telephone and e-mail. Callers are not required to give their names and if they do, the information is kept confidential. 49 ADDING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS 50 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT EXCLUSIVE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Akbank keeps customer satisfaction at the highest level thanks to products and services designed in line with customer needs and expectations, and its product responsibility approach. Akbank further boosted its product CUSTOMIZED RETAIL BANKING • and studies to open the and service quality by effectively SOLUTIONS infrastructure for bill and money extending its digital transformation Akbank appeals to a broad transfer activities to BRSAacross business processes during customer base with its branch licensed payment companies fiscal year 2018. Operating with the network radiating throughout were among the most important principle of delivering unconditional Turkey and diversified digital efforts. customer satisfaction, the Bank channels. With its competencies develops products and services that make a difference in product The Collaboration Agreement that make a difference vis-a-vis development, the Bank develops with Turkish Exporters’ Assembly the competition by maintaining products and services for retail (TİM), the first edition of which customer interaction at the highest customers from all age groups was signed in 2014, was revised level. Closely monitoring new and socio-economic backgrounds, and upgraded in 2018. As part dynamics in the real economy and with a special focus on the youth of this partnership agreement, emerging trends across society, segment. in addition to offering financing Akbank stands by its customers support under advantageous terms, 24/7 with diversified products and INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR the Bank provides exporter firms services, as well as an extensive CORPORATE CUSTOMERS with insurance, factoring, treasury service infrastructure across Turkey. After E-discount rolled out in 2017 and other risk-hedging financial as part of commercial transactions products. financing, Akbank launched Digital Payment Guarantee in 2018 – a The Bank’s offerings include export new product offering payment and factoring, export receivables collection guarantee services. insurance, financing for insured receivables, and BPO (Bank Digital Payment Guarantee aims for Payment Obligation) service, an online guarantee arrangement a new payment form that has between parties during goods or gained momentum recently. These services purchases through digital products and services aim to channels. minimize receivables collection risk for Akbank clients that mostly In addition, Supplier Financing, export on a running account or an advance financing product, cash against goods basis while was activated on Akbank Direkt meeting the working capital needs Internet. of exporters. • Partnerships with existing ERP Akbank supports exporters, Systems, especially their sales to European • Integration with trade finance markets, with the products of its platforms, subsidiary based in Germany, Akbank AG. 51 ADDING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS EXCLUSIVE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS In 2018, Akbank remained the primary bank and solution partner of mediumand large-scale enterprises across Turkey with its well-established expertise in commercial banking. SOLUTION PARTNER OF CLIENTS Recently, Bank launched its own developments, Akbank continued In 2018, Akbank remained the initiative – StartUpCampus to offer fast and efficient banking main bank and solution partner Entrepreneurship Program – to solutions in 2018. Akbank Call of mediumand large-scale encourage young entrepreneurs Center, which has one of the enterprises across Turkey with with products in the market most sophisticated service its well-established expertise in to grow their businesses. The infrastructures in the banking commercial banking. Boasting program began in November as a sector, goes the extra mile in terms a highly specialized commercial business partnership with Endeavor of quick and easy access, with its banking staff, the Bank developed Association. StartUpCampus more than 1,000 employees, who innovative solutions in key areas Entrepreneurship Program provided realized close to 90 million customer such as cash management, entrepreneurs with 10 weeks of contacts in 2018. foreign trade, treasury and project training, workshops and mentoring financing throughout the year. support as well as the opportunity The Call Steering system analyzes to meet with investors. customer speech in the interactive AKBANK ALWAYS STANDS BY voice response system and directs SMES Akbank, one of the leaders in the them to the right destination. As Akbank Retail Banking’s support Turkish banking industry, is also such, customers are connected to to SMEs is not limited to financing. active in the consumer lending the right customer representative The Bank also delivers advisory market. The Bank supports in their first call. Further improving and guidance services, provides customers in a wide variety of the performance of its Call Steering the information SMEs need to areas, from home and car purchases system each day, Akbank directed effectively tap this funding to their education, wedding and customers to the correct service resource, and generally encourages short-term cash needs. The step at nearly 100% accuracy in their growth. Bank’s primary goal is to deliver 2018. customers top quality service in an At the “Tourism: Our Future” easy, practical and swift manner. meetings conducted by Akbank To this end, Akbank enriches the in cooperation with Turkish banking services provided on Hoteliers Federation (TUROFED) digital channels each passing year, with the participation of industry enabling customers to apply for and representatives and tourism obtain loans easily, without having investors and professionals in to visit a branch. Bodrum and Alanya, the 2017 season was reviewed, projections 24/7 SERVICE APPROACH WITH for the 2018 season were discussed. TELEPHONE BANKING In addition, tourism was assessed With the 444 25 25 Akbank under the categories of the Telephone Branch and Voice economy, the environment and Response System structured in digitization. light of the latest technological 52 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT FOR LENDING PROCESSES A signatory to the UN Global Compact, Akbank encourages all its corporate lending clients to embrace the UN Global Compact principles in their business procedures. Akbank is aware of the importance and Social Policies regardless of The Bank does not finance the for sustainability of effectively their amount in order to check production or trade of any product managing environmental and whether any commercial credits or service that is deemed illegal social risks as well as measuring fall under the “List of activities under national legislation and and preventing these risks. As a that will not be credited,” which international agreements which result, the Bank has formulated a constitutes a part of the Bank’s Turkey has signed. Furthermore, in strong social and environmental environmental and social policy. line with the Bank’s social criteria, credit policy. In the light of the Furthermore, priority is given to no credit is extended to businesses sustainability approach that it lending to projects that improve that employ child labor or produce implements across its business environmental conditions, such weapons of mass destruction and procedures, the Bank performs as renewable energy investments, landmines. an environmental and social waste recycling investments, risk assessment for the credits carbon emission reduction, Moreover, the Bank does not extend allocated to customers in the and productivity enhancement credits to the following activities: Corporate and Commercial Banking investments. In projects whose segments. Akbank implemented adverse effects on the environment • Production or trade of (banned) the Environmental and Social had not been anticipated in the first asbestos without a documented Management Systems to align SME place, customers are given support chain, production or trade of loans with environmental and social to make improvements. products that deplete the ozone standards defined by IFC in 2016. layer (falling under the scope of The Bank went on to implement ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL Regulation on the Reduction of the Environmental and Social IMPACT ASSESSMENT IN LENDING Materials Depleting the Ozone Impact Assessment System in PROCESSES AND OPERATIONS Layer published in the Official 2017 to cover all segments. In 2018, THAT ARE NOT CREDITED Gazette dated 07.04.2017 and Akbank upgraded this system and Pursuant to Akbank’s Environmental numbered 30031), continued its pioneering efforts in and Social Policies, we pay due • Production or trade of products sustainability. attention that all elements stated including PCB (polychlorinated in the United Nations Global biphenyl) a group of highly toxic ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL Compact are implemented by chemicals (products falling under CREDIT POLICIES the customers that we grant the scope of Article 5 “General Akbank evaluates project finance loans to. In this respect, as per Principles” of Regulation on the credits of USD 20 million and above the national legislation and Control of the Polychlorinated and other investment credits international agreements which Biphenyl and Polychlorinated of USD 50 million and above, Turkey has signed, the Bank has Terphenyls issued on the Official regardless of maturity limits, by determined the activities which Gazette dated 27.12.2007 and analyzing their environmental and cannot be financed without need numbered 26739), social effects in a detailed manner. for environmental and social risk • Fishing activities using explosives Besides, all loans are evaluated assessment, regardless of any and toxic substances, or nets under Akbank Environmental amount limit. longer than 2,5 km, 53 ADDING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT FOR LENDING PROCESSES Pursuant to Akbank’s Environmental and Social Policies, we pay due attention that all elements stated in the United Nations Global Compact are implemented by the customers that we grant loans to. • Commercial activities concerning • The Bank demands an • Presence of a plan to minimize natural life elements and products Environmental and Social tree cutting in projects, and if from rainforests, as banned by Assessment Report to be issued tree cutting is inevitable, a plan CITES, by an independent consultant for to compensate for the trees and • Production or trade of radioactive all projects and loan requests with forest areas to be destroyed, products (except in the purchases high and medium level risk. The • Amount of additional greenhouse of medical equipment, quality company requesting loan and/ gas emissions and the ensuing control -measurementor project financing is also asked carbon cost in operation time equipment, or equipment whose to prepare an Environmental of projects with high carbon radioactive source is insignificant and Social Action Plan (List emission risk, and/or adequately protected), as of Environmental and Social • Processes to assess the impact well as shipbreaking operations, Commitments). on biodiversity, • Casinos or accommodation • This Environmental and Social • Customers’ existing or workfacilities with a casino, Action Plan (List of Environmental in-progress Environmental and • Activities within areas designated and Social Commitments) is Social Management Systems. as RAMSAR areas as per the also included in the agreement Ramsar Convention on Wetlands reached with the client. In addition, Akbank conducts of International Importance an independent review by an In efforts to manage environmental independent environmental and The following criteria are applied in and social risks in high and medium social counselor for projects with the Environmental and Social Risk risk projects, the Bank takes into potentially high-risk impacts, Assessment System implemented account the following issues: including but not limited to the across Akbank(1): following: • New investment projects • Stakeholder engagement and demanding financing (or credit complaint mechanism processes, • Adverse impact on indigenous demands) are classified as high, • Company compliance with peoples, medium and low risk as a result of Occupational Health and Safety • Critical impact on the habitat, an assessment of their potential (OHS) legal and regulatory • Effects on crucial cultural environmental and social impacts. requirements during both heritage, • Additional assessment criteria current business activities and • Large-scale resettlement. that differ from sector to sector investment activities, are applied in sectors with high • Proximity of the project to the environmental and social risks(2). wetlands identified under the • The environmental and social RAMSAR Convention, risks arising from the activities • Presence of a Resettlement currently performed by the Action Plan in land acquisition company requesting a loan, and projects involving physical or the manner in which these risks economic resettlement, are managed are also taken into account in this evaluation process. (1) This system does not apply to loans extended and/or loan relief/restructuring requested prior to the enactment of the Environmental and Social Policies updated with this document. (2) Some sectors identified to pose high environmental and social risks under the evaluation system are as follows: Mining, Manufacturing (machinery, equipment, food, and fisheries), Chemicals (including petrochemicals), Infrastructure&Transport and Energy. 54 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL AND LOCAL COMMUNITY’S new loan opportunities to its SOCIAL CAPABILITIES ARE NOW SENSITIVITIES ARE TAKEN INTO customers and thus contribute to STRONGER ACCOUNT economic growth in Turkey. With the Akbank gives top priority to Akbank investigates relevant issues Loans obtained from international equipping its employees with the such as the project’s compliance financial institutions such as prerequisite skills to help them with EIA and/or Environmental IFC, EBRD, EIB and OPIC, the effectively measure and monitor or Social Situation Report and Bank gives consistent support to risks. A total of 35 staff members local community’s reactions to environment-friendly projects that involved in lending processes the prospective project as part focus on sustainable development. underwent comprehensive in-class of the pre-project controls with In projects and investments trainings designed for this purpose independent consultants that supported by such loans, we in 2018. The training effort informed are expert in their fields. Akbank require our customers to abide by a employees about identifying the ensures that local residents variety of social and environmental environmental and social risks are informed about the project performance criteria depending on arising under lending activities, via stakeholder participation the source of the loan. In addition, analyzing these in the assessment meetings. The Bank encourages we provide our customers with processes, determining the resulting setting up complaint mechanisms financing from international sources effect and risk, identifying the to take into consideration views for affordable loans to be used in obligations and practices to be and expectations about the energy efficiency and renewable fulfilled to minimize the risk, and project. During the project, the energy projects. taking these into consideration main focus shifts to compliance in decision-making processes. In with occupational health and A PIONEERING SCHEME IN addition, awareness training on safety standards. Work conditions ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL international best practices and of workers are inspected onIMPACT ASSESSMENT: AKBANK sustainability issues continues site and support is provided for SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL regularly as part of in-class and improving their conditions. Under MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SEMS) online training models. Akbank Environmental and Social Under the loan contract we signed Credit Policies, drafted in due with IFC in 2010, we established ASSESSMENT UNDER THE consideration of stakeholders’ the Akbank Social & Environmental RESPONSIBILITY OF CREDITS views, projects that allow Management System (SEMS), which BUSINESS UNIT AND RELEVANT transforming environmental risks is an exemplary scheme in social UNITS into opportunities are given priority. impact assessment for the finance The Environmental Impact Among these are renewable energy industry, based upon IFC’s social Assessment Unit, Akbank branches, investments, waste recycling and environmental performance Corporate, Commercial and Retail investments or those which reduce standards. SEMS, a standardBusiness Units, Investment Banking, carbon emissions or improve setting reference project in the and the Credits Business Unit are efficiency. Turkish banking system, addresses responsible for the evaluation of a variety of issues including: loans in terms of compliance with ACCURATE ASSESSMENT • Environmental and social the policies and preparation of the PROCESS IN HIGH RISK assessment and management, required action plans. Loans are PROJECTS workforce and labor conditions, approved by the Credit Committee In the credit allocation processes prevention and reduction of within the Board of Directors or of medium and high-risk projects, pollution, any unit that was appointed for Akbank evaluates whether the • Public health, safety and security, allocation. company has an environmental • Protection of biodiversity, and social policy or not. The Bank • Sustainable natural resource Akbank Environmental and Social analyzes whether a company management and protection of Credit Policies are reviewed once with such a policy possesses cultural heritage, among others. a year in response to changing and Environmental and Social developing needs, and submitted Management Systems and the This sustainability-oriented to the approval of the Board of adequate human resources application, launched by the Directors. Environmental and organization to carry out the Bank in partnership with the Social Impact Assessment Team efforts defined by these systems IFC, was revised in 2016 and is responsible for assessing and at the point of application. When expanded further to cover all managing the environmental and necessary, Akbank offers capacity SME Banking customers as part social impact of projects and development opportunities to its of the Environmental and Social investment activities, from the clients. Management System. In addition, construction phase to the operation Akbank analyzed SME clients’ phase, and even the termination STRONG ACCESS TO environmental and social risks and phase in certain sectors (such as INTERNATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY made major strides toward raising mining). LOANS sustainability awareness among Enjoying strong credibility in the SME customers. eyes of international finance institutions, Akbank joins forces with these to continuously offer 55 ADDING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT FOR LENDING PROCESSES Enjoying strong credibility and solid reputation within the international banking community, Akbank collaborates with international finance institutions to provide new lending opportunities to its clients – thus contributing to the growth of the national economy. Initiatives under the Akbank necessary measures to avoid the Akbank accepts customers’ Environmental and Social materialization of these risks; and social and environmental risk Management System are organized prevent any adverse environmental scores as the deciding factor by the SEMS Team; one person each or social impacts. in lending processes. The Bank from the SME Banking Business does not originate loans to Unit and the Loans Business Akbank Environmental and Social customers in banned industries, Unit were appointed as SEMS Management System consists the environmental risks of which Officer. In order for the system to of the following three main are deemed to be unmanageable. be managed in a more effective components: In 2018, Akbank rejected 29 loan and active manner, one person • Equipping employees with demands as they did not comply each from the credit allocation prerequisite skills to measure SME with environmental and social teams reporting to Regional Credit customers’ environmental risks, impact policies. Departments were included on the • Furnishing the infrastructure SEMS Team. This resulted in 20 that enables the measurement of Information on sectors banned more persons included on the SEMS environmental and social risks in under the scope of the SEMS Team. Regional SEMS Officers lending processes, system can be accessed via the analyze customers’ environmental • Carrying out reporting that following link: and social risks on-site through enables the measurement and https://www.akbank.com/ regular visits and encourage monitoring of risks. Documents/KRED%C4%B0LEND% them to take corrective measures C4%B0R%C4%B0LMEYECEK%20 when necessary. Participation in ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL FAAL%C4%B0YETLER%20L%C4% the SEMS teams is provided by RISK MEASUREMENT OF SME B0STES%C4%B0.pdf the Treasury Business Unit on CUSTOMERS UNDER SEMS matters related to funds secured As part of the SEMS system, When originating loans to SME from overseas institutions; by the since the year 2017, Akbank customers in the medium risk Legal Department on applications has successfully continued category, Akbank assesses the loan of the Turkish Environmental its infrastructure buildingapplications in conjunction with Laws and potential amendments related efforts to analyze the measures to be taken to minimize to the legislation; and by the environmental and social risks the risks and creates an action plan. Human Resources Department of SME customers and assess on issues concerning the Labor these risks objectively within Law and worker safety. The a quantifiable and traceable Akbank Environmental and Social system. This process has become Management System aims to quantifiable and assessable upon assess all environmental and the assignment of a Social and social risks in the SME segment; Environmental Risk score to each increase customer awareness SME borrower via the Decision and encourage them to take the Making Matrix added to the system infrastructure. 56 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT CLIMATE-FRIENDLY LOANS Renewable energy projects financed by Akbank yielded annual electricity generation of around 13,200 GWh and prevented 5.8 million tons of CO2 emissions in 2018. FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR which have received support from Akbank financed renewable energy RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS the public and the state in recent investments totaling USD 208 Akbank uses the Bank’s own years. In parallel with the increasing million in 20152017. The aim is resources as well as borrowings investments in this field, the Bank to continue the allocation of the from international funding facilities plans to continue to formulate new remaining amount in 2018. to develop financing solutions for funding options in terms of maturity energy efficiency and renewable and cost in the coming period. 100% OF ENERGY PROJECT energy projects, which it considers FINANCING GOES TO RENEWABLE as crucial areas in terms of ENERGY EFFICIENCY LOAN BY ENERGY sustainability initiatives. OPIC Akbank extended project finance In an effort to ensure the loans to renewable energy projects Making significant contributions sustainability of the Bank’s support valued at USD 10+ million totaling to help develop Turkey’s energy for renewable energy projects, USD 2,408 million as of December industry, and thus reduce our Akbank signed an agreement 31, 2018. Meanwhile, the share of foreign dependence in energy, for a 15-year, USD 175 million renewable energy loans in total Akbank runs its project financing credit facility with Overseas energy generation projects rose to operations in due consideration of Private Investment Corporation 82%. environmental impact. Conducting (OPIC), the development finance its business activities in line with institution of the United States, Renewable energy projects this approach in 2018, the Bank in October 2014. Through this financed by Akbank yielded annual undertook initiatives that became attractive loan package, Akbank electricity generation of around model practices in the industry. financed customers’ energy 13,200 GWh and prevented 5.8 efficiency investments in addition million tons of CO 2 emissions in RENEWABLE ENERGY to machinery and equipment 2018. INVESTMENTS TO REDUCE purchases that achieve energy DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN savings of at least 20% as well as The breakdown of Akbank’s existing ENERGY Renewable Energy investments. renewable energy project portfolio Foreign dependence on energy is presented in the table below: plays an important role in the ALLOCATION OF MIDSEFF FUNDS current account deficit, one of FROM EBRD TO RENEWABLE Total Installed Capacity (MW) Turkey’s biggest problems. For ENERGY PROJECTS this reason, energy investments In October 2015 and June 2016, Hydro 3,438 that will decrease dependence on Akbank signed agreements Wind 610 imported energy resources such with the EBRD for two loans Geothermal 320 as natural gas and coal are of totaling USD 220 million with a huge importance. In 2018, Akbank maturity of 12 years, in order to Solar 181 continued to formulate original continue its support for renewable Total 4,549 financing solutions for solar power energy projects. With this loan and geothermal energy projects, package, which offers attractive opportunities for investors, 57 ADDING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS FINANCING SOLUTIONS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS In 2018, Akbank extended EUR 100 million worth of project financing to the Çanakkale Malkara Motorway (including the Çanakkale 1915 Bridge) – classified as an eco-friendly project that makes social and economic contributions to Turkey – under the scope of financing buildoperate-transfer mega infrastructure projects. MEGA INFRASTRUCTURE stage and creates roadmaps for Successfully executing its annual PROJECTS AND COOPERATION structuring the financing deal. plans and attaining its corporate WITH INTERNATIONAL During this process, by cooperating goals, the Bank boasts one of the ORGANIZATIONS with local and international banks lowest non-performing loan ratios In 2018, Akbank extended EUR 100 as well as multilateral financial in the industry. Akbank originates million worth of project financing institutions such as IFC, EBRD, and loans to the energy, infrastructure, to the Çanakkale Malkara EIB, the Bank strives to create the real estate, industry, service, Motorway (including the Çanakkale financing structure that offers the transportation, and petrochemicals 1915 Bridge) – classified as an greatest value-added to all parties, industries in order to maintain a eco-friendly project that makes and especially to our customers. balanced and diversified credit social and economic contributions portfolio. to Turkey – under the scope of financing build-operate-transfer mega infrastructure projects. The PROJECT FINANCING LOANS BY INDUSTRY IN 2018 (USD MILLION) total investment cost of the project, which Akbank participated in as 5 a guarantee agent, stands at EUR 202 196 3.1 billion. Twenty-four financial institutions, consisting mostly of foreign banks, provided EUR 2.3 billion in financing to the mega Credit Risk 167 3,061 project. Credit Commitment 2,408 2,405 SECTOR LEADER WITH CUSTOMIZED INVESTMENT 1,230 BANKING SOLUTIONS AND INNOVATIVE APPROACHES THAT DRIVE PROJECT FINANCING Energy Infrastructure & Real Estate Acquisition and Akbank has assumed the role Industry Syndication of “Pioneer Bank” in Turkish investment banking by including projects in its portfolio that have strong collateral and repayment structures and prioritizing projects such as liability undertaking and Energy 26% 100% purchase guarantee transactions. Infrastructure & Industry 16% Real Estate 26% DIVERSIFIED LOAN PORTFOLIO Acquisition and Syndication 32% Akbank shares its deep-rooted know-how in project financing with clients at the investment planning 58 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT EXCLUSIVE SERVICES FOR CLIENTS Akbank supports the digital transformation efforts of SMEs, which play a major role in Turkey’s sustainable development journey. EFFECTIVE COOPERATION WITH organized in Adana and Diyarbakır given EDU certificates at the end CGF in 2018 due to ample demand and of the training programs. While the In 2018, Akbank continued to interest. In addition to Akbank training programs were in progress, cooperate with state agencies in customers, the Academy was seven key improvement areas were the area of SME financing. With also organized for distributors/ identified in order to be successful agreements signed with Credit dealers, upon the request of in the institutional transformation Guarantee Fund (CGF), Akbank leading companies in the sector. process under the scope of the mediated in Treasury and Equity Akbank Family Company Academy report “Keys to Sustainable programs, thus providing collateral targets those family companies Success in Family Companies,” support to SMEs. Akbank will which want to institutionalize their prepared in the previous years. One continue to cooperate with CGF in company, get up-to-date through of these titles was designated as the coming period to facilitate SME academic training, and hand over “the creation of brand strategy”. In access to loans. their company management to this direction, the new guide book the next generation. The program titled “Success Factors of Century“AKBANK FAMILY COMPANY covered a wide variety of subjects Old Brands” features opinions and ACADEMY” FOR THE of particular interest to familyexperiences as to how century-old INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF owned business representatives family companies have successfully FAMILY COMPANIES including strategic management, managed this process. In collaboration with Sabancı business development, innovation, University Executive Development institutionalization, finance, best Unit (EDU), the Bank organized corporate governance practices, the 12 th edition of Akbank Family legal matters and human resources Company Academy in 2018, which management. Factory visits was first held in 2014. Aside from were paid to Sabancı Holding Istanbul, the program was also companies, and participants were 59 ADDING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION JOURNEY In fiscal year 2018, when it celebrated its 70th anniversary, Akbank continued to introduce its customers to innovative digital banking practices designed in light of digital transformation. The digital transformation journey DIGITAL BANKING CUSTOMERS IN purchases thanks to improvements affects banking and customers’ TURKEY REACHES 40 MILLION and collaborations based on lives in three core areas: trust, According to data by the Banks customer needs. As a result, an prevalence and time cost. The Association of Turkey (TBB), the end-to-end digital solution is experience of digital banking has number of active individual digital offered in e-commerce via the radically changed the daily banking banking customers in Turkey in Direkt Pay service. Customers have experience in these key areas. the period July-September 2018 the opportunity to pay for their Customers who receive banking totaled 39 million 758 thousand. purchases either by debiting their services meet a large part of their Some 4 million 53 thousand digital accounts, or by instantly taking daily banking needs through digital banking customers in Turkey out consumer loans. The Bank channels. performed only internet banking has designed a holistic channel transactions, while 28 million experience –starting with the POS Keeping close watch on the digital 424 thousand performed only device in the store and continuing transformation in the banking mobile banking transactions. The on the mobile app – to facilitate industry, Akbank undertakes number of customers engaged in ease of use by its customers. extensive advanced technology both internet and mobile banking investments and intensive efforts transactions amounted to 7 million A BANK OF “FIRSTS:” AKBANK to deliver customers a mobile 281 thousand people. In JulyAkbank derives inspiration from its banking experience where they can September 2018, the number of customers’ habits in everyday life complete transactions easily in active corporate digital banking for the services it develops. The just a few seconds. The technology, customers who made at least popularity of smartphones and products and services offered one log-in stood at 1 million 822 chat applications has triggered the by Akbank Direkt, the umbrella thousand. development of banking services brand of the Bank’s digital banking through Chatbot technology, which services, reduce the time allocated In 2018, Akbank focused on will play a key role in Banking of by customers to banking down to providing an exceptional banking the Future. In a first for Turkey, seconds. In line with this vision, the experience to customers via digital customers can now chat with Bank continues efforts in designing banking innovations. The Bank Akbank Assistant accessible on and developing Akbank Direkt. closely tracks customer needs and the corporate web site, to perform prioritizes the concept of holistic Swift money transfers. In addition, service. Akbank shapes its designs Akbank Assistant provides in line with this perspective. customers the opportunity to make mobile phone operator bill UNINTERRUPTED ONLINE AND payments. In 2019, Akbank aims OFFLINE EXPERIENCE WITH to expand its service area by DIREKT PAY stepping up investment in Chatbot In 2018, Akbank implemented technology. uninterrupted payment processes both in e-commerce and in-store 60 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Following the 2018 update, Akbank Direkt mobile users can now use facial recognition technology to +70% 4,900 ATMs log in to the mobile app without The share of Akbank’s With 4,900 ATMs located entering a password, simply by Direkt Loan product across a wide geographic displaying their face to the front within consumer loans area for easy access, camera of their phones. The service provider with which the Bank has exceeded 70% as of Akbank operates one of collaborated for this feature figures year-end 2018. the largest ATM networks among the pioneers of facial in Turkey. recognition technology worldwide. The service provider indicated that Akbank has recorded one of the highest customer penetration rates using this innovative feature among its clients globally. SPECIAL DIGITAL SOLUTIONS FOR Credit renewal, one of the Bank’s SME CUSTOMERS new practices, allows customers FIRST INTERNATIONAL BANKING Akbank, which has introduced many to roll all their individual loan TRANSFER VIA BLOCKCHAIN IN innovations to SME customers, products into a single loan and THE TURKISH BANKING INDUSTRY continues to roll out added value enjoy an easier follow-up process. Akbank, in cooperation with services that benefit customers In addition, credit is extended Silicon Valley-based company in addition to standard financial to customers via Direkt Pay Ripple, became the first Turkish services. In another first in Turkey, partnerships as well. bank to perform international thanks to the cooperation with money transfers on blockchain Google, SMEs can now register MEETING THE NEEDS OF infrastructure. By using the Akbank with Google My Business instantly CONTRACTED MERCHANTS IS Direkt Retail Internet and Mobile and free-of-charge, and thus OUR TOP PRIORITY branches, customers can track their appear in customer Google search As of end-2017, Akbank started payments and learn about transfer results more easily. As a result, all accepting POS device applications costs beforehand thanks to the the Bank’s SME customers can over its web site, even from nonfast and flexible service they can complete a key process for their customers – marking another first access 24/7. In 2019, the Bank aims businesses via Akbank Direkt in for the Turkish banking industry. to expand its blockchain money effortless and instant manner. In 2018, the Bank expanded the transfer network by developing channels for this application cooperation with more banks. In At the Smarties Awards – organized process further by including 2018, Akbank Direkt achieved by MMA (Mobile Marketing internet and mobile branches. another first in the sector by Association), which drives global During the year, corporate offering book-building services to development of mobile marketing customers were also given the customers over the mobile channel. – Akbank Direkt won a total of 18 opportunity to benefit from this Some 84% of book-building during awards The Bank was presented service. POS reports issued online the EnerjiSA IPO originated from with one Global, eight EMEA and to corporate clients, providing digital channels. nine Turkey level awards. The detailed information on sales and Smarties Awards recognizes recommendations on how to boost During the year, Akbank Direkt excellence in mobile marketing on selling transactions, were also launched a new feature to simplify a global, region and country basis transferred to the mobile channel, customers’ foreign exchange and each year. in keeping with customers’ evolving gold transactions by offering channel usage habits. With this foreign exchange alarm and order DIREKT LOAN PRODUCT effort, Akbank customers are able functionality over the mobile ACCOUNTS FOR OVER 70% OF to easily access POS reports and channel. The telephone store, CONSUMER LENDING new upgrades. In addition to helping accessible over Akbank Direkt, is As of end-2018, Akbank Direkt corporate customers boost their another first in Turkey offered to Loan product’s share within the sales, the Bank also developed Bank customers as a shopping general-purpose consumer loan solutions to meet their cash needs. solution. With this service, Bank portfolio at the Bank exceeded With a recent upgrade to assist customers can access an online 70%. Following optimization of the Akbank contracted merchants store via Akbank Direkt Mobile, credit experience in 2018, nearly who use blocking to meet their choose the phone of their liking three out of every four general cash requirements more easily, the and complete the entire purchase purpose loan was extended via deblocking procedure that transfers process via the mobile channel, Akbank Direkt channels. Enhancing POS turnover to merchants’ including dividing the payment into its credit allocation by making accounts immediately was enabled installments. real-time customized offers to over Akbank Direkt Mobile as well. clients, the Bank made significant acquisitions in terms of raising the credit allocation ratios of its target audience. 61 ADDING VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION JOURNEY Thanks to the “District Campaigns” feature in the Axess Mobile application, Akbank’s contracted merchants can now design their own campaigns. NON-CUSTOMERS CAN NOW methods, including ethnographic In 2018, Akbank Call Center APPLY FOR COMMERCIAL CARDS research, neuro-measurement, realized over 90 million customer Akbank customers can apply for questionnaire, one-to-one in-depth contacts, and continued to make commercial credit cards via Akbank. interview and feasibility testing. a difference in swift and practical com and the Bank’s Direkt channels. accessibility with over 1,000 With upgrades completed in 2018, DIGITAL BANKING SERVICES employees. The Bank renders an non-customer personal companies AT OVER NEARLY 4,900 ATMS unparalleled customer experience can also apply for the Axess ACROSS TURKEY thanks to its constantly expanding Business credit card over Akbank. With 4,900 ATMs spread across technology utilization, and ends com and Direkt channels. During a wide geographic area for easy calls successfully, without the the credit card application process, customer access, Akbank boasts need for the customer to call customers can immediately see the one of the largest ATM networks in back. Leveraging its powerful CRM results of their application without Turkey. In 2018, the Bank continued infrastructure to generate dynamic having to visit a branch and receive to serve Akbank customers as well offers to customers in line with their new card via courier. as those of other banks through its their needs, the Bank boosts its ATM network. As year-end 2018, effectiveness and market share DISTRICT CAMPAIGNS WITH Akbank processed a total of 210 in insurance, credit card, revolving AXESS MOBILE million transactions; in addition, credit card loan, and general Thanks to the District Campaigns and nine out of every 10 cash purpose loan sales each passing feature in the Axess Mobile transactions during the year were day. application, Akbank contracted performed via ATMs. The Bank also merchants can now design and offered customers the QR code SERVING CUSTOMERS VIA customize their own promotional money withdrawal option over DIFFERENT CHANNELS campaigns. As a result, contracted Akbank Direkt Mobile to help them The Call Steering application merchants’ campaigns can appear withdraw cash even if they do not analyzes customer speech in the in the application in the area where have their cards with them. interactive voice (IVR) response individual customers are offered the system and guides them to the most suitable campaign promotions AKBANK CALL CENTER SERVES right destination. This approach depending on their current location. CUSTOMERS 24/7 ensures that customers are With its customer centric service connected to the right customer AN ENRICHED DIGITAL model, Akbank aims to provide representative on their first call. The CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE unique experiences to its customers Bank has continuously improved Akbank uses a customer experience at every point of contact, the Call the performance of its Call Steering management model across all Center continued to lead the sector system since it was implemented. Direkt Banking services and in 2018 with its well-educated, Ongoing enhancements have products – at every step, from experienced, highly-qualified, resulted in guiding customers to design to roll out – in order to solution-oriented staff; rich the correct service step with nearly maintain customer focus. This diversity of transactions; superior 100% accuracy in 2018. model ensures that customers technological capabilities; creative participate in all design processes and results-oriented perspective. with the latest, most efficient 62 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Akbank Call Center also serves has over 100 fintech companies in efforts aimed at identifying customers via Facebook, Twitter, Turkey and aboard, which act as its customer needs, managing the chat and video chat channels in solution partners. customer portfolio by steering addition to voice calls, thus offering marketing efforts in this direction, specialized services to more than EMPLOYEES ENCOURAGED TO effectively managing the sales 100,000 customers who prefer PARTICIPATE IN INNOVATION force, and developing corporate to receive remote services via PROCESSES strategies-oriented advanced Akbank Call Center. These services In 2018, under the coordination of analytics business solutions. largely focus on Retail Banking, Akbank LAB, the Bank launched Affluent Banking, and relationship numerous first-in-class, highAkbank is committed to and wealth management for SME added value projects. These bolstering the existing analytical segment customers. Akbank Call projects included log-in to Akbank infrastructure with new generation Center aims to operate with a Direct Mobile via face recognition, machine learning technologies. Digital Banking point of view and money transfer via Chatbot, To this end, the Bank completed a vision centered on boosting mobile phone bill payment, infrastructure development sales, achieving higher efficiency Robotic Process Automation, and upgrade efforts during via technological innovation and partnership with Ripple, and the year. Bank data is modeled process improvements, and gaining international money transfer over using next generation machine a larger share in profitmaking blockchain infrastructure. Aiming learning techniques with high initiatives by providing specialized to add momentum to the digital data processing capacity. With services. transformation underway in Turkey this approach, Akbank identifies and discover new ideas, Akbank customer needs related to banking AKBANK INNOVATION CENTER: LAB organizes various activities for products and services. The Bank THE DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION digital transformation stakeholders developed the Financial Intelligence HUB and sponsors major events in Application, which is designed Akbank Innovation Center (Akbank the country. Internally, the Bank to ensure optimal portfolio LAB) was established in late 2016 organizes the innovation contest management based on customer with a view towards developing “Go Beyond Yourself” each year to analytics models-driven customer innovative projects suited for the encourage the staff to embrace and needs and sales force targets. This needs of business units, achieving uptake the digital transformation application was installed at Akbank perfect digital customer experience process. Akbank LAB actively branches and direct channels during by integrating globally proven fosters an innovation culture within the year. financial solutions into the Bank’s each department of Akbank via processes, and reaching our goal of such efforts, while cooperating BEST VALUE PROPOSITION FOR impeccable customer experience. closely with the Strategy CUSTOMER ANALYSIS With this structure, the Bank not Management, Human Resources In channels where customers only started to prepare for the and Corporate Communications contact Akbank, the bank deploys technology of the future from Departments. a real-time marketing system today, but also took steps to ensure to analyze customer needs at that innovation becomes an integral Under Akbank LAB’s coordination, that moment and make them the part of the Bank’s culture. Akbank aims to continue executing best value proposition. As part of efficient innovation processes, corporate analytics application Akbank LAB has a central team and deploy technologies that drive efforts, the Department focused on composed of professionals with not just finance, but also machine developing analytics applications experience in consulting, finance, learning, blockchain, artificial for internal customers and boosting IT and marketing. Until date, over intelligence and big data. In 2019, the efficiency of the Bank’s 100 Bank employees have played the Bank plans to develop new operational processes. an active role in the innovation products in order to deliver an processes coordinated by Akbank excellent customer experience. Akbank plans to continue its LAB, which is open to the entire analytics initiatives in 2019 in organizational structure of the ANALYTICS DEPARTMENT: A line with its digital and real time Bank. Business units develop FOCUS ON NEW GENERATION banking vision. These efforts have ideas in line with the focus areas ANALYTICAL SOLUTIONS a particular focus on customer and targets set by the Bank. Operating in a data-intensive experience enhancement, analytic These ideas are then turned into world centered on evolving and marketing, smart sales and service projects to deliver value-added fast-changing digital technologies, infrastructures, and income financial services. Ideas found to Akbank Analytics Department optimization. In an attempt to be successful following various is focused on producing next adopt and integrate new generation assessments go through the “PoC” generation analytics solutions solutions at the Bank, Akbank is (proof of concept) phase. At this in order to translate generated actively undertaking efforts to stage, the feasibility of these ideas data into value-added in business develop new advanced analytics is tested and possible gains for results. As part of its analytics technologies in collaboration with customers are calculated. The Bank initiatives in 2018, the Bank’s fintech companies. 63 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 64 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT OUR HUMAN RESOURCES VISION By offering continuous development opportunities to its workforce – consisting of the most experienced professionals in the Turkish banking sector – Akbank ensures that its human resource competence is sustainable. OUR HUMAN RESOURCES VISION OBJECTIVES OF OUR HUMAN HUMAN RESOURCES OPERATING Employing the most qualified RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES human resources in the Turkish • Recruiting the best candidates to • Structuring and assessing all banking industry and investing in the Bank, employees in accordance with the this resource to create value for all • Constantly developing the objectives and performance of of our stakeholders. corporate culture and business the organization, conduct, • Recruiting new employees who OUR HUMAN RESOURCES • Building the organizational will fit in with the Bank’s culture MISSION structure in accordance with and values, In an effort to support the Bank strategic objectives and • Being internal and external in its journey toward sustainable ensuring its continuity in order to customer-oriented, always leadership, retaining highly qualified safeguard the Bank’s effective prioritizing this focus in work human resources at Akbank and and productive operation, relationships, recruiting new ones, improving • Making effective investments in • Supporting all employees with the existing human resources human resources in accordance the best human resources systems and practices as part with targets and strategies, applications without of this process, designing new • Carrying out participatory career discriminating on the basis of ones and carrying out effective planning, language, religion and sect, race, communication regarding these. • Using a reward mechanism that gender, age, political belief or encourages and supports superior faith, performance of employees by • Ensuring the coherence between way of a goal and competencebusiness objectives and HR based, transparent performance practices by having a technical management system, understanding of major business • Undertaking system and process lines of banking and speaking improvements for employee the same language with other engagement. During the course employees in the organization on of carrying out these objectives, a technical level, Akbank’s Human Resources • Continuously helping the Bank’s Department embraces the employees with its expertise, principle of being the strategic know-how and experience in business partner of the business order for them to improve the units. performance of their units as well their own personal performance, • Respecting open communication, confidentiality of personal information, sense of justice, and compliance with the code of ethics, 65 OUR DISTINCTIVE EMPLOYEES OUR HUMAN RESOURCES VISION Akbank aims to be the employer of choice of experienced professionals and talented young people in its recruiting practices in order to ensure the sustainability of its financial and operational success. • Planning and implementing • Ensuring that everybody HUMAN RESOURCES FOCUSED proactive applications and at the Bank acts with the ON CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT activities with regard to the awareness that human resource The Bank’s recruitment policy is management of the organization management is the core function to hire qualified, well-educated, and its human capital without of all managers, innovative people who are open to waiting to be asked to do so, • Taking heed of and solidifying learning and developing constantly • Establishing and implementing the Bank’s corporate culture in all and who are eager to create value coherent, integrated and decisions taken and all practices for Akbank and its stakeholders, sustainable systems throughout carried out. without discriminating on the basis the Bank, creating a harmonious of race, language, religious belief, synergy by ensuring the AKBANK: PROFESSIONALS’ TOP gender and age. The Bank pursues participation of all units in this CHOICE a fair hiring policy focused on effort, Akbank strives to be the choice equal opportunity, and based upon • Developing practices to help of professionals and talented predefined recruitment criteria. individual business units attain youth in its recruiting practices in As part of this effort, Akbank their goals or making adjustments order to ensure the sustainability strives to hire the most appropriate to existing Bank practices on an of its financial and operational candidates in the most suitable as-needed basis, success. Akbank’s human resources position by employing competence• Creating an environment practices are aimed at making the based objective measurement and where employees can improve Bank: “The leader among the most evaluation methods. To this end, it themselves and support their preferred employers where creative, is among Akbank’s utmost priorities development, dynamic and confident people who to recruit new graduates who do create value choose to work and not have professional experience a company which employees are in order to develop future leaders proud to be a part of.” and offer them career opportunities within the banking sector. 66 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SOCIAL POLICY PRACTICES TENURE AND EXPERIENCE-BASED COMPENSATION PRACTICES SUPPORTIVE OF EMPLOYMENT IN Akbank’s entry level compensation policy is the same in all branches and TURKEY service points. The initial salary for the assistant function is parallel to the As part of business performance minimum wage. The initial salary for the Management Trainee function is 45% and productivity, vacant positions higher than minimum wage. within the organization are first announced to Akbank employees. FULL COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL REPORTING PROCESSES REGARDING Applications of Akbank employees EMPLOYEES for new positions are evaluated If significant changes occur in the employment contracts of employees, quickly and appointments of notice and notification periods stipulated in the Labor Code and HR worthy candidates are made. While Applications Principles are in effect. The minimum notice period varies based recruiting for the Head Office and on the tenure of the employee. The Bank provides 2 weeks of leave for those branches, Akbank prefers to recruit whose term of office is less than 6 months, 4 weeks for those between 6 candidates living in regions close months and 1.5 years, 6 weeks for those between 1.5 years and 3 years, and to its service locations. In our Malta 8 weeks for those over 3 years. In-scope employees whose term of office is branch, Akbank pursues a policy of more than 3 years have 11 weeks of leave. employing local residents. HUMAN RESOURCES PROFILE COMPETENCE-BASED Some 95% of Akbank employees are university graduates. The average COMPENSATION POLICY tenure at Akbank, which differentiates from the competition with its skilled Compensation policies of human capital, is 9.4 years while the average time of service is 10.4 years in companies are among the the banking industry. Some 67% of Akbank employees work at branches, important factors in employee which are one-to-one contact points with customers. loyalty and performance improvement. Therefore, Akbank’s OUR EMPLOYEES IN FIGURES compensation policy is structured Akbank boasts a continuously expanding service network, and as of to attract the human capital December 31, 2018, it has a total of 13,377 employees, including the Members required for continuous success and of the Board of Directors. As of 2018, the Bank has 361 employees with to reward, motivate and retain highdisabilities. Akbank initiated half-time positions for the first time in 2016; the performing employees. Akbank’s Bank currently has 11 half-time employees. Excluding Including one to three compensation policy is formulated month internship period of university students, all employees are permanent compatible with the Bank’s and full-time. Benefits provided for full-time employees may only vary operations, long-term objectives, depending on the person’s performance. and risk management structure. In order to ensure fair compensation, A breakdown of our employees by service location is presented in the table employees with similar roles and below. responsibilities are paid similar salaries and those who perform Number of Employees 2016 2017 2018 better than their benchmarks based on the results of the Performance Head Office * 1,343 1,363 1,385 Evaluation System receive higher Akbank Banking Center 2,753 2,982 3,074 raises and bonuses. In an effort Regional Directorates ** 924 942 797 to encourage the development of personal growth and competencies Branches *** 8,823 8,597 8,111 within Akbank, the Bank pays an Sum Total 13,843 13,884 13,367 additional salary to employees who speak a foreign language. In * Excluding the Board of Directors. addition, personnel who perform ** As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included better than their benchmarks are in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are awarded through various rewards actually working in the field. programs. *** Including employees at the Malta branch. In case of necessity, Akbank generates employment through outsourcing. The number of employees working especially in the Digital Banking, Credit Monitoring and Follow-up, Technology and Operation, Financial Management, Retail Banking, Human Resources and Strategy Business Units are available in the table below. 2016 2017 2018 Number of Subcontractor 3,383 3,538 3,378 Employees* * Includes non-banking positions such as lawyers, architects, engineers and support staff. 67 OUR DISTINCTIVE EMPLOYEES OUR HUMAN RESOURCES VISION GENDER DISTRIBUTION Akbank embraces the principle of equality of opportunity without any discrimination on the basis of gender or age. Over the years, the share of female and male employees at Akbank remained more or less the same. At the end of 2018, the percentage of female employees came in at 52.7% in 0.5 point decrease compared to the previous year. Gender Distribution (%) 2016 2017 2018 Positions Men Women Men Women Men Women Board of Directors 88.9 11.1 88.9 11.1 90.0 10.0 Senior Management 66.6 33.4 66.7 33.3 68.9 31.1 Mid-Level Management 49.3 50.7 48.9 51.1 49.1 50.9 Auditors 65.5 34.5 63.1 36.9 62.6 37.4 Assistant Managers 41.7 58.3 42.4 57.6 42.7 57.3 Other * 69.7 30.3 59.4 40.6 66.0 34.0 Sum Total 46.5 53.5 46.8 53.2 47.3 52.7 * Includes non-banking positions such as lawyers, architects, engineers and support staff. AGE DISTRIBUTION The average age of Akbank employees is 35.9 as of year-end 2018. In almost every position, employees between 30 and 50 years old constitute an important percentage. Among those under the age of 30, “assistant managers“ and “auditors” are the main positions. Pursuant to the Bank’s recruitment policy, only those of full legal age can work at Akbank. There are no employees under the categories of child labor (employees under 15 years of age, at which compulsory education ends) or young labor (over the minimum age for employment and under 18 years of age) at Akbank. As for students and young employees who apply for internship positions, high school students must be 4th grade, while university students need to be in the 2nd, 3rd or 4th year. A total of 100 students in the June-September period completed their internship at Head Office departments. The number of student interns at Akbank has a seasonal pattern; there was no intern on the Bank’s payroll as of year-end 2017. Age Distribution (%) 2016 2017 2018 Positions Under 30 Between 50 Years Under 30 Between 50 Years Under 30 Between 50 Years and Years 30 and 50 and Above Years 30 and 50 and Above Years 30 and 50 Above Years Years Years Board of Directors 11.1 88.9 100.0 10.0 90.0 Senior Management 95.7 4.3 95.7 4.3 93.6 6.4 Mid-Level Management 0.8 98.4 0.8 0.8 98.3 0.9 0.7 98.1 1.2 Auditors 34 66 44.4 55.6 41.5 57.9 0.5 Assistant Managers 38 61.9 0.1 35.9 63.9 0.2 31.6 68.0 0.4 Other * 20.5 73 6.5 27.3 65.7 7.0 4.7 85.8 9.4 Sum Total 24.7 74.5 0.8 23 76.2 0.9 19.5 79.2 1.3 * Includes non-banking positions such as lawyers, architects, engineers and support staff. 68 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT BELOW-AVERAGE LABOR TURNOVER RATE Employee turnover rates and numbers based on location are presented in the table below. The Human Resources Department analyzes feedback from employees who have left the Bank regarding their reasons for leaving and improvements are made in business processes according to these findings. Labor Turnover Rate* 2016 2017 2018 Ratio (*) Number Ratio (*) Number Ratio (*) Number Head Office 14.28 204 11.65 170 10.87 171 Akbank Banking Center 12.69 334 11.67 312 11.22 324 Regional Directorates** 10.42 93 9.30 86 10.95 95 Branches 11.45 1,018 8.30 728 8.74 724 Bank as a Whole (average) 11.91 1,649 9.37 1,296 9.66 1,314 * Employees who have left the Bank (including those who retired, resigned, and those whose work contracts were terminated). ** As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are actually working in the field. Employees are free to resign so long as they comply with the terms of their employment contracts. Forced labor is outside of Akbank’s business principles. Employee turnover rates depending on the age group are presented in the table below. Labor Turnover Rate per Age Group Labor Turnover Rate per Age Group Under 30 Years Between 30 and 50 Years 50 Years and Above 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Ratio Ratio Ratio Ratio Ratio Ratio Ratio Ratio Ratio (*) Number (*) Number (*) Number (*) Number (*) Number (*) Number (*) Number (*) Number (*) Number Head Office 23.80 46 16.49 32 19.32 41 12.53 148 10.89 131 9.23 119 18.52 10 11.31 7 15.33 11 Akbank Banking Center 31.19 180 27.34 149 20.37 123 7.43 151 7.57 158 8.55 191 13.79 3 12.42 5 19.39 10 Regional Directorates** 12.54 24 19.25 36 23.53 30 9.30 64 6.38 46 9.01 65 38.71 5 25.00 4 0.00 0 Branches 15.85 278 13.72 226 13.98 169 10.12 717 6.82 482 7.61 532 47.92 23 37.97 20 29.97 23 Bank as a Whole (average) 19.44 528 17.22 443 16.87 363 9.83 1.080 7.37 817 8.07 907 30.00 41 21.07 36 20.14 44 Employee Turnover Rate and Numbers by Gender Employee turnover rates and numbers by gender are presented in the table below. The reason for the higher employee turnover rate among females compared to males is that number of female employees is higher at the Center. Employee Turnover Rate and Numbers by Gender Men Women 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Ratio (*) Number Ratio (*) Number Ratio (*) Number Ratio (*) Number Ratio (*) Number Ratio (*) Number Head Office 12.73 104 11.41 95 9.44 85 16.35 100 11.98 75 12.78 86 Akbank Banking Center 11.11 133 10.35 128 8.97 125 14.01 201 12.80 184 13.31 199 Regional Directorates** 8.73 47 8.78 48 11.17 56 12.98 46 10.06 38 10.65 39 Branches 10.54 408 8.72 333 8.50 307 11.79 590 7.98 395 8.93 417 Bank as a Whole (average) 10.77 692 9.39 604 8.94 573 12.65 937 9.36 692 10.29 741 * As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are actually working in the field. 69 OUR DISTINCTIVE EMPLOYEES PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT FOCUSED ON CONTINOUS IMPROVEMENT To sustain the Bank’s successful financial performance, Akbank Head Office employees have performance evaluations once a year while field staff are evaluated twice each year. Akbank’s transparent and flexible responsibilities. Accordingly, STAFF PRODUCTIVITY RISES Performance Management the Bank’s employees get the WITH SELF-ASSESSMENT AND System is capable of responding opportunity to continue their SELF-TARGETING to changing needs and conducive Akbank careers in other business Akbank revamped its Performance to improvement in managing units based on organizational needs Management System to increase the talents and experience of and their own preferences. the efficiency of the system and its employees effectively in boost employee efficiency. One accordance with its corporate The aims of the Performance innovation introduced is allowing goals. In an effort to sustain Management System, which is employees to set their own the Bank’s successful financial developed with a management targets, share their views about performance, Head Office approach that supports and their targets with the respective employees go through performance encourages high-level performance, managers, and receive feedback evaluations once a year while field are to: from managers. The efficiency of personnel perform this process • Enable employees to realize their the performance system depends twice each year. As a result of this corporate targets and to increase upon the transparency, simplicity evaluation, areas of development corporate performance, and accurate measurement of the are identified for employees and • Guide and develop employees in system. In addition, an efficient various training and development order to meet their changing and performance management opportunities are organized in developing needs better, system should have the capability these areas to support their • Align the Bank’s goals with the to provide staff members with career development. Performance personal goals of employees, accurate feedback and allow them evaluations allow the Bank to • Ensure that employees to monitor their performance easily. determine employees’ competence understand what is expected of Akbank designed its new system levels for a variety of roles and them better, get involved with to respond to these requirements. their jobs and stay motivated to In addition, employees can track attain their targets, their performance via the mobile • Encourage continuous channel. development via open communication and regular EFFICIENT MECHANISMS feedback and to increase FOR EVALUATING SENIOR motivation, MANAGEMENT’S PERFORMANCE • Evaluate contributions and the Performance evaluation of Akbank’s performance of employees in a senior management is based on fair and objective manner and to both the Bank’s overall year-end shape their competence in line performance and success criteria with the needs of Akbank, that support long-term sustainable • Make correct decisions about performance. Accordingly, Senior career planning, training and Management’s performance other human resources processes is measured based on criteria of employees and to ensure their such as financial, risk, service personal development in line with quality and human resources. such processes. Therefore, senior management’s 70 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT 102-41 consult with them regarding their In order to earn the right to benefit career development. In addition, from retirement, employees employees can visualize the should fulfill requirements such indicators of goals and success position they apply for, their as completing a certain period also include performance criteria application status, track, and seize of insurance, having fully paid such as customer satisfaction and the career opportunities announced premiums for the required number employee satisfaction, in addition within the organization. All the of days, and having reached a to financial criteria. career principles are stipulated certain age. Employees who fulfill in detail in the Human Resources these conditions are provided SUSTAINABLE CAREER Implementation Principles with pension by Akbank Staff MANAGEMENT POLICY document and shared with the Retirement Fund Trust upon their The career management function employees. demand. In calculating the pension, plays a strategic business partner the main parameters are the role in supporting the realization BENEFITS TO EMPLOYEES working period of the employee, of the Bank’s goals. To this end, total income within this period and Akbank’s priority is to position the AKBANK STAFF PENSION FUND age, as well as consumer price index efficient and systematic human TRUST change rates and development resources activities and the existing All our current and retired Akbank rates in our country. Due to such human resources in the right way employees and their dependents variable parameters, monthly while creating effective medium are registered in the Akbank Staff pensions may differ for each and long-term career plans to Retirement Fund Trust (Akbank employee. ensure the development of the Bank Tekaüt Sandığı), independent of and the employee. Turkey’s Social Security Agency. OPTIONAL PRIVATE PENSION Pensions and healthcare services SYSTEM WITH CORPORATE FAIR AND EFFECTIVE offered to the members of this Fund CONTRIBUTION PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Trust are of higher quality than the In addition to the Aksandık pension, Pursuing a career management basic services offered by the state Akbank employees are also offered policy that gives priority to owned Social Security Agency. Private Pension System (PPS) promotions and transfers from Services with some corporate within the organization, Akbank RETIREMENT APPLICATIONS contribution. Employees on the successfully continued efforts Akbank Staff Retirement Fund determined level are included to develop a fair and effective Trust is a social security institution in this PPS plan with corporate performance management function; and a legal entity that provides contribution option. Our Bank identify, monitor and develop skills; social insurance support to contributes to savings of such and provide career opportunities members using the insurance employees by making additional for employees where they can prove premiums collected from employees payments to the PPS contracts of themselves in 2017. To ensure the and the employer, with the provided the above-mentioned employees continuity of the organization in the rights not being inferior to those at a certain ratio of their monthly future, the Bank devises succession provided by the Social Security gross salary. Thus, we help Akbank plans for each position based on the Agency. Conditions for earning employees make savings and level of experience, competencies the right to benefit from insurance continue with the same living and technical skills of employees; support are in parallel with legal standards in their retirement. implements the training and regulations; however, with additional development programs to prepare rights inherent in Akbank Staff In order to improve employee the related employees for the Retirement Fund Trust’s status, this loyalty and motivation, we attach envisioned positions; and closely support is improved. special importance to the PPS with monitors the course of action in corporate contribution and try to conjunction with the business RETIREMENT PRACTICES BASED increase the number of employees units. In addition, branches and ON EMPLOYEE TENURE participating in this plan. As a units were visited to make career Premium injections into Aksandık result of such efforts, the number interviews; this creates effective (Akbank Staff Retirement Fund of employees participating in PPS communication in terms of career Trust) are 33.5% of the employee with corporate contribution reached management. salary, on condition that it is taken 5,960 at year-end 2018. within the maximum monthly SPECIAL CAREER MAPS FOR revenue identified by the law COLLECTIVE BARGAINING EMPLOYEES annually for insurance premiums. AGREEMENT Career maps that encompass Some 14% of this is deducted from At our Bank, all employees can career steps for employees the employee’s salary and 19.5% become members of BANKSİS at Akbank are posted on the is the contribution of Akbank. In (Union of Bank and Insurance portal “Bizbize” (Among Us). As addition, premiums amounting to Employees). Financial rights and a result, employees can receive 2% of total annual revenues of administrative relations of BANKSİS detailed information on career employees are deposited by Akbank members are defined by the maps and job families as well as to the Trust’s account, again on Collective Bargaining Agreement, the contact information of the condition that these are within the while those of non-members are Human Resources Career Advisor stated limits. defined by the HR Applications assigned to support them and Principles. 71 OUR DISTINCTIVE EMPLOYEES PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT FOCUSED ON CONTINOUS IMPROVEMENT As a result of the 2018 assessment under the Equal Opportunity Model project, Akbank was granted Equal Opportunity Certification for a two-year period. OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AKBANK IS INVOLVED IN THE recruitment and selection Attaching great importance to EQUAL OPPORTUNITY MODEL processes, training, performance employee satisfaction in boosting (EOM) PROJECT evaluation, promotion, career work productivity, Akbank offers We completed preparation for support practices and corporate employees various fringe benefits the Equal Opportunity Model communication activities, support based on the position in addition (EOM) project in cooperation with the concept of equal opportunity. to the core benefits such as salary, KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs As a result of the audit, Akbank bonus, incentive compensation, Association of Turkey) in 2011 and earned the Equal Opportunity and foreign language allowance. the project was launched in 2012 Certificate, which is valid for two The position-specific fringe with technical support from the years. benefits category includes financial World Bank. Eleven corporations liability allowance, vehicle, fuel including Akbank that agreed AKBANK BECOMES SIGNATORY limit, toll allowance (OGS/HGS), to take part in the project were TO WEPS mobile phone and/or voice line, audited by an independent In 2016, Akbank became signatory internet access, iPad/tablet, laptop institution in line with 22 criteria. to the Women’s Empowerment computer, transportation, parking, Principles (WEPs), a private sector public transit fares, and clothing These criteria are divided into two venture by the United Nations that assistance. Meanwhile, the social parts: main criteria and supporting aims to empower women to take assistance category comprises criteria. The main criteria are as part in all sectors and at all levels of relocation allowance, goods follows: economic activity. transportation fee, death and injury • Management’s commitment to indemnity, and natural disaster equal opportunity Established in 2010 through a assistance. • Equal opportunity in recruitment partnership between the United and selection Nations Global Compact and the Corporate discount opportunities • Equal opportunity in access to United Nations Entity for Gender are also provided from various trainings Equality and the Empowerment of companies for Akbank employees. • Equal opportunity in performance Women (UN Women), the WEPs evaluation and promotions Platform offers practical guidance • Career support practices to the private sector on how to • Investigation of feedback and empower women in the workplace, complaints marketplace and community to • Communication and corporate ensure social gender equality. advertising As a result, the Bank’s human In the independent audit for the resources approach, which is based EOM project, it was examined on equal opportunity in full and whether Akbank’s corporate related initiatives, conformed to the policies and procedures, global platform. 72 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT HEALTH AND SAFETY In addition to its occupational health and safety practices that were designed in line with international OHS standards, Akbank ensures the sustainability of staff productivity with high-quality health services. HEALTH AND SAFETY In cases of emergency, e-mail Employees whose wives have given Fully complying with the notifications are sent. In addition, birth are also entitled to five days occupational health and the Bank conducts fire and of paid leave. Some 664 Akbank safety legislation, Akbank has earthquake drills and administers employees went on maternity recruited workplace doctors and natural disaster trainings. leave during 2018; 30% of these occupational safety experts at employees resigned from the Bank the Head Office and Banking PARENTAL LEAVE PRACTICES at the completion of their maternity Center. The Bank aims to appoint Akbank’s female employees leave or unpaid leave. occupational safety experts to all are entitled to 16 weeks of paid branches and service buildings by maternal leave eight weeks before NUMBER OF WORKDAYS LOST July 1, 2020, in accordance with and eight weeks after the birth. Due to the nature of its operations legislation. They can also take unpaid maternal and as a result of its systematic leave for up to six months and 1.5 occupational health and safety In addition to its occupational hours per day for breastfeeding initiatives, occupational diseases health and safety practices that until the child reaches the age of or workplace accidents are not were designed in accordance with one. In the case of an adoption of experienced at Akbank. Total international standards, Akbank a child younger than three years absenteeism (lost days) of 6,022 also ensures the sustainability old, one of the spouses can take employees who received sick of the work productivity of its a maternity or paternity leave of leave with official health reports staff with high-quality health eight weeks beginning on the day amounted to 64,991 calendar days services. Employees are entitled they are united with their adopted in 2018. to services at healthcare centers child. in certain provinces as part of If we divide this figure by the Aksandık’s healthcare services. Employees returning from a legal number of employees, the average Akbank employees can get an initial paid maternity leave have the sick leave day per employee is 4.8. treatment in these centers, and optional right of working half-time This figure was 4.2 days in 2017, 3.8 in cases where medical expertise (20 hours per week) within certain days in 2016 and 3.7 days in 2015. or operation is required, they can timeframes. Upon the request of receive services from Aksandık’s the employee, Akbank allows for OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND contracted health institutions. unpaid leave of half of weekly work SAFETY COUNCILS WHERE Employees who reside in the hours for a period of 60 days after EMPLOYEES ARE REPRESENTED provinces where a Foundation the first birth, 120 days after the Complying meticulously with Healthcare Center does not exist second birth, and 180 days after occupational health and safety can get service from affiliated the third and subsequent births. laws and regulations, Akbank healthcare providers. These periods are increased by 360 formed an Occupational Health and days, respectively, in the event of Safety Council, at the Head Office HEALTH INFORMATION a multiple pregnancy. This leave is and at the Banking Center. The PROCESSES THROUGH INTERNAL extended to 360 days if the child council meetings are held quarterly COMMUNICATION CHANNELS has a disability. and attended by the Employer Information on epidemics and Liaison, Occupational Safety other major diseases is provided In the event of an adoption, only Specialist, Workplace Physician, regularly under the “Health Column” one of the spouses is entitled to HR/Social Affairs Liaison, and published on the Aksandık website. take this leave. Employee Representative. 73 OUR DISTINCTIVE EMPLOYEES CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AT AKBANK Akbank Academy continued its successful operations in 2017. The Academy aims to develop the best professionals in the industry and to transform training into an investment tool for staff members. CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT AKBANK’S UNIVERSITY: AKBANK from technology, innovation and AND TRAINING TO ACHIEVE ACADEMY marketing to psychology, health and COMMON GOALS Akbank Academy successfully art. Akbank employees also shared Akbank’s training system, which continued its operations in 2018 in their knowledge and experience in has strategic significance for the order to train the best employees their own areas of expertise that Bank, supports the development in the sector and turn training into is of interest to the Bank overall. of all employees and aims to an investment tool for employees. Furthermore, long-running art increase motivation and work Within the scope of the 2018 workshops and Technology and satisfaction. In full awareness activities, the Bank focused Children workshops for employees of the fact that information is on the improvement areas of and their children were organized. In a significant asset and wellemployees and continued efforts 2018, a total of 30 such events were equipped human resources is a to expand personalized and easily held. major competitive advantage, the accessible training methods. In Bank organizes training activities this vein, the always accessible The academic organization created to contribute to the personal and Akbank Training Catalogue by Akbank helps employees professional development of its Platform continued to support successfully carry out their employees. Akbank designs its employees’ development with existing job functions while also training courses in accordance with its rich content, by making them preparing them for the position corporate goals and strategies, the training suggestions depending they are applying for. Management needs of the sector, and areas of on their area of competence. By Trainees and Head Office and development that were identified actively encouraging participation branch employees with “Assistant” based upon employee potential and in overseas and domestic summits, designation in their job titles, who preferences. conferences and seminars, the just joined the Bank without any Bank enabled employees to closely prior experience in the banking In line with the goal of moving follow relevant developments wide industry, attend “Management Akbank forward into the future, world and in the banking industry. Trainee” and “Core Banking” the Bank’s career management Under the Akbanker Get-togethers programs. Akbank managers, strategy is based on a multifaceted in 2018, Akbankers continued who are the leaders of today, are approach to ensure success. This to come together with subject supported via classroom training, approach underscores relationship matter expert guests in numerous one-to-one consulting and management, quality, efficiency, venues, including lunch seminars, online applications in executive and sustainability; offers Academy TV, webinars, and development training programs to recommendations to the business spontaneous meetings. The events groom the leaders of tomorrow. units and field operations under a entailed a wide range of subjects, proactive business model; embraces a customer focus rather than a product focus; and focuses on development sources. 74 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Akbank conducts varied and business results via ROI methods Insurance Training Center (SEGEM), ongoing programs, including and designs productive training and Private Pension System (PPS) solutions tailored to meet individual programs accordingly. All questions, licenses, both to comply with the needs, in order to develop the requests, suggestions and opinions legal mandates and to support staff leaders of today and cultivate regarding the training courses can development. Akbank encourages those of tomorrow. During these be e-mailed to Akbank Academy at broad participation in these exams. efforts, the Bank aims to ensure akbank.akademi@akbank.com. Akbank Academy supported the that the processes in competence licensing exam preparation efforts development programs are Classroom training is also of employees by administering designed in an efficient and supported by distance learning classroom training, e-learning, transparent way. As part of tools in Akbank Academy’s training practice tests, mobile applications initiatives carried out under talent and development programs. We and by making available question management development, the administer orientation training banks. Assessment Center identifies through a combination of classroom needs and formulates a personal based training and remote training During the year, a total of 1,466 development plan by using various for employees who just joined the Bank staff members were granted tools such as surveys. In 2018, Bank or were recently appointed PPS, SEGEM or CMB certificates. By Akbank supported its entire to a new position. The Academy the end of 2018, 46 hours of training workforce with a Competency designs e-learning programs to per employee was conducted as a Development Journey tailored to accelerate the learning curve of result of Akbank’s investment in their individual development plans trainees regarding new products training. Some 38% of total training and competencies. The journey and processes while also offering time was online training. incorporates international knowsupplemental distance learning how as well as select interactive modules in a variety of technical NEW GENERATION content in compliance with subjects. Akbank Academy provides DEVELOPMENT PLATFORMS Akbank’s competence definitions personal development-oriented (AKBANK ACADEMY PORTAL) and strategies, while featuring a classroom training programs such The Akbank Academy portal was personalized design. as customer-oriented service, restructured with new generation phone communication, presentation infrastructure and technology. As new technologies gain in techniques, negotiation strategies, Akbank Academy Portal is a importance today, proper training innovation, creative thinking platform continuously supporting of employees who will use techniques, and managerial skills. the development of the Bank’s advanced technology is critical. The Academy also employs both employees where they can In 2018, Akbank implemented classroom training and distance manage their training planning the development program “We learning tools for development in accordance with their career Are Ready for the Future” to programs that will help staff progression. Akbank employees translate effective use of emerging members adapt to working life can continue their development technologies in the workplace while also benefiting them in 24/7 at home or in the office via and forge a common language. their personal lives. Relevant the Akbank Development Center, Under this program, the Bank topics covered include stress which contains all employee plans to focus on key areas. These management, creative brain codes, e-training modules and can include producing meaningful analytical thinking techniques, be reached online at any time results from big data; mastering persuasion and perception from any location. Employees artificial intelligence and machine management, communication can see their individual training learning applications; and applying techniques and team building. calendar, request training, and get the design-oriented thinking information on questionnaires, methodology, which places the As per legislation, Occupational exam results, e-learning and customer at the center in product Health and Safety, Basic First Aid, training organizations via the portal. and service delivery. and First Aid Renewal trainings are In order for employees to reach organized at the Bank. As of 2017, Akbank Academy portal’s functions Feedback from participants is Akbank employees whose positions with their mobile devices, Akbank of critical importance for the necessitate Private Pension System Academy mobile app was launched effectiveness and success of the (PPS) and Insurance Training Center in 2016, and infrastructure such as training efforts. All feedback is (SEGEM) licenses are required, as gamification, social learning, digital submitted to Akbank Academy by a prerequisite, to hold the related catalogue and advanced Corporate way of online surveys. The results licenses in order to advance in their TV were established in 2017. In of these surveys are important for respective career paths. This new 2018, promotion and development the evaluation and improvement requirement was announced to the work on these platforms continued. of training content, trainers and personnel. In 2018, the Bank launched the the training environment. In 2018, infrastructure for “Training Journey,” Akbank placed an emphasis It is critical for the Bank’s which allows the employees to keep on measuring and assessing future success that Akbank track of their training schedule in a training activities. At the end of employees whose positions require single flow. critical training programs, the professional certifications possess Bank measures their effects on Capital Markets Board (CMB), 75 OUR DISTINCTIVE EMPLOYEES CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AT AKBANK In 2018, the Bank launched the infrastructure for Training Journey, which allows employees to track their training schedule in a single information flow. DIPLOMA SYSTEM: LIFELONG independent of time and space, and Akbank employees who have a high LEARNING render information more accessible. performance and potential, and Some of Akbank’s training is There were also efforts to revise are designated as the managers of subject to the certification system, the training content in 2018. The the future are given the chance to where employees attend specified “Development Journey Project” participate in Sabancı University training programs and take exams which transforms the learning MBA Program with full scholarship. to be certified. Personnel who experience of employees into a Since 2001, 107 Akbank employees participate in such activities as holistic development journey was have participated in the MBA homework, project presentation implemented in the SME segment program in this way. In the 2018and online simulation in pursuit of in 2018. Employees will use online 2019 academic year, 6 employees a certification also move forward training learning to complement benefit from this opportunity. on their career development their technical training redesigned roadmaps. The certification system with new generation learning In line with their roles and grooms well-equipped, competent, techniques, while practicing and responsibilities, some staff innovative, and high performing enhancing these in classroom members attended summits, employees in terms of professional training, and improving their conferences and seminars both in and managerial skills, striving competence. Upon the launch of Turkey and abroad. 200 employees to build a corporate culture that the Development Journey Project were sent to overseas seminars/ creates its own leaders. in all segments, the diploma system conferences/training while 507 will cede its place to a holistic personnel attended seminars/ As part of its certification training development journey. conferences/training in Turkey in initiatives in 2018, Akbank focused 2018. on corporate strategies, industry OTHER TRAINING developments and segment needs; OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYEES and continued to administer Akbank supports its employees in programs that will support obtaining certifications especially employees in pursuit of their career those that are internationally roadmaps. recognized in their areas of specialization. Depending on The Bank conducted systemic certain criteria, these examination work to render the existing fees are covered by the Bank. In career diplomas more specific 2018, there were 177 certificates to the segment, individual, and reimbursement applications in total, requirement, more compact, more and these were endorsed by the Bank. 76 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT BANK OF INSTRUCTORS Employees enlisted in the Mentorship Program are supported by their mentors in a wide variety of ways – from personal development to career advancement. Meanwhile, mentors have the opportunity to hone their management and leadership skills. RETIRED AND INTERNAL job trainings of the employees carries out for management INSTRUCTOR PRACTICE recruited as assistants continue. trainees is aimed at completing Know-how and experience of retired Participation in on-the-job trainings their orientation of new graduate Akbank employees are highly is tracked by registering them in employees to the organization as valuable for the Bank. Successful the training system and the training soon as possible and having them Akbank retirees who possess the results are computed. embrace the experience, know-how skills and interest in carrying out and corporate culture within the training are hired as instructors There are training programs and Bank. in return for a fee. In particular, professional coaching practices almost all of the Core Banking designed to help Heads of Employees enlisted in the program training classes for new recruits are Department and Managers at are supported by their mentors administered by retiree instructors. Akbank headquarters, regional in a wide variety of ways, from directors and regional sales personal development to career Similarly, active employees who managers with expertise in advancement, while the mentors are specialists in their field and Consumer, Commercial and SME hone their management and who possess the skills to teach can Banking to improve competence leadership skills. become internal instructors. To in technical banking, sales and become an instructor, one should management. Through such ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING comply with certain criteria and trainings, managers can coach The banking sector faces successfully complete the Training their teams in an effective and corruption risks due to its global of the Instructor Program. In-house target-oriented way. The Bank size and the magnitude of trainers are paid a fee per hour for administers a one-on-one coaching monetary transactions. It has been the training they deliver program for branch managers who determined that corruption can in addition to their standard duties. are newly assigned to the position be prevented to a great extent of a hybrid commercial branch by control systems and training. ON-THE-JOB TRAININGS AND manager covering various subjects Armed with this awareness, Akbank COACHING SYSTEM – including branch analysis, organizes internal classroom As part of efforts to become a planning, implementation, and training sessions and e-learning learning organization, on-thestaff management – to accelerate applications on technical issues as job trainings focusing on sharing adaptation to the new job. well as on actions to be taken and experiences comes to the forefront. those to be avoided. Newly assigned Customer Experienced Mangers and Customer Relationship Managers are Relationship Managers provide The content of these training matched with high-performing and mentorship support to newly programs is determined in experienced Training Envoys to get appointed Branch Managers and accordance with the needs of the on-the-job trainings structured in Customer Relationship Managers target audience. The majority of areas such as loan analysis, foreign who manage portfolios through the anti-corruption trainings are for trade, deposits and investment the Field Mentorship program. The the employees working in Akbank products. In addition, on-theMentoring Program that Akbank branches, but all employees also 77 OUR DISTINCTIVE EMPLOYEES BANK OF INSTRUCTORS Akbank’s intra-company communication initiatives are designed to inform staff about the Bank’s goals and strategies and encourage them to adopt a customercentric approach. attend training on the Code of INTERNAL COMMUNICATION AND EFFECTIVE INTRA-COMPANY Ethics, Information Security, Data ACTIVITIES AT AKBANK COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Leakage, and Law on the Protection The Bank carries out intra-company Akbank’s intra-company of Personal Data. International communication activities and communication initiatives are Sanctions/Combating Proceeds organizes events through various aimed at informing employees of Crime training was conducted channels in order to facilitate about the Bank’s goals and to related Head Office and branch communication between employees strategies and encouraging them personnel in classroom and online at every level, foster team spirit, to operate with a customer-centric training formats. strengthen employee motivation approach. The most frequently and engagement, and share the used internal communication Akbank continuously reviews and management’s objectives and channels are the mobile app of the reevaluates the topics and contents strategies so as to ensure their corporate portal, corporate TV, of its anti-corruption training internalization by employees. e-mailing, New Generation Akbank programs based on developments Meetings watched by all employees, and needs in this area. Critical Akbank’s intra-company Breakfast Meetings with the CEO, training such as risky teller communication and events are and Directors Meetings. As a result transactions, document protection, guided by the following goals: of the changes implemented at the detection and prevention of • Creating an effective end of 2012, employees can also be fraud, and operational risk are communication synergy and reached outside of business hours administered to the appropriate communicating this synergy with via the interactive platforms on the audience by assignment. Akbank the right tone, at the right time intranet as well as the Corporate continuously tracks the level of and through the right channels; TV, which is also available to participation in training activities while encouraging employees customers. Events organized are and undertakes efforts to boost to use the right communication communicated to employees via attendance. channel, e-mailing, the portal and the mobile • Making employees feel the app, while exclusive discount brand spirit and turning them campaigns for the Akbank family into natural representatives of are posted on the portal and mobile the brand, and conveying and application. enriching the corporate culture with the right messages, • Ensuring the continuity of supporting organizations and practices geared toward solidifying team spirit. 78 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT BREAKFAST WITH THE CEO INTRA-COMPANY SOCIAL IN-HOUSE ACTIVITIES Once a month, Akbank employees NETWORKS, “FOR US” AND Akbank continued to organize social from various segments and/ “CONGRATULATIONS AKBANKER” events in order to improve employee or units who display successful AREAS engagement and motivation, and performances attend a breakfast The intra-company social networks to reinforce team spirit and internal meeting with Akbank’s CEO, of Akbank’s “Among Us” Portal communications in 2018. around specific topics, projects or was restructured as an interactive awards. At the breakfast gathering, platform where employees share EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT employees share their opinions and their opinions, ideas and knowledge. Considering that employee suggestions about the topic with It has been transformed into a engagement is key to ensuring the CEO. major channel that strengthens business continuity and attaining intra-company communications. long-term goals, Akbank conducts SENIOR MANAGEMENT’S Similarly, the “Award Winning an Employee Engagement Survey MESSAGES VIA NEW Akbanker” and “Life at Akbank” every year. In addition, the Bank has GENERATION AKBANK MEETINGS platforms were upgraded to launched the “Pulse Questionnaires” Live broadcast sessions are enhance the interaction between in order to broaden the dialogue organized in order to establish personnel. with employees in different closer and more regular channels and provide continuous communication between senior Examples of Life Content at communication and feedback. Both management and employees, Akbank of these studies are conducted either face-to-face or through • Social activities attended by by an independent research other communication tools as well employees, company, in line with the principle of as to reach the teams in branches. • Albums from which employees research confidentiality. Necessary This common ground keeps the can download photos from social improvement and development internal interaction and synergy events, initiatives are carried out based on dynamic and reinforces mutual • Volunteering activities, the survey results. communication and increases • Special offers for Akbank employee motivation to achieve employees from companies in Armed with the knowledge of the common targets. Every three various industries, close relationship between happy months, Akbank’s CEO shares • Interactive pages of social clubs, employees and high corporate messages on the quarterly • Bulletin boards on which performance, Akbank believes performance assessment and employees put various items and in bolstering loyalty through strategic issues live via computer property on sale. awareness of the staff’s feelings, screens with all employees. opinions, and expectations, Before and during the broadcast, MECHANISMS FOR EXPRESSING their priorities related to human the questions of employees are EMPLOYEE OPINIONS AND resources and management collected and the CEO and relevant SUGGESTIONS policies, and their areas of Executive Vice Presidents answer There are various mechanisms satisfaction and dissatisfaction. these questions live in person. for employees to express their opinions and suggestions to senior EFFECTIVE INTRA-COMPANY management. In addition to the New COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Generation Akbank Messages from Akbank employs an internal the Senior Management via Live intranet system in order to ensure Broadcast practices, employees effective and easy access to convey their expectations, information by employees and opinions and suggestions to senior to reinforce communication. management through the annual The improvements put in place Employee Satisfaction Survey. transformed Akbank’s “Among Us” Portal into a platform with more Employees can also share their interactive sections. The aim of suggestions about business the renewal was to allow internal processes through the Suggestion and external information transfer; system on the corporate portal. In increase operational efficiency in all addition, the Ethics Line is a tool processes thanks to state-of-thethat enables employees to express art technologies; create a common issues which they believe should be platform for information; and to resolved within their departments ensure easy access to information but cannot share with their direct and consolidation. The Akbank managers; and to provide support “Among Us” mobile application and advice to employees in such enables employees to access the circumstances when necessary. latest news about the Bank, major applications on the intranet, and Akbank Academy training modules via their personal mobile phones. 79 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 80 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND COMMITMENTS Akbank has identified energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, paper use, and disposal of technological waste as its priority environmental topics. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY • Covering the environmental DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY AND COMMITMENTS sustainability issues in the CONSUMPTION INDICATORS Setting environmental training programs provided for In 2010, a wide scale project was sustainability activities as a our employees in order to reduce executed to create an energy priority, Akbank identified energy the environmental impacts of management system and to consumption, greenhouse gas activities of our Bank, calculate fuel consumption for emissions, paper use, and disposal • Reducing customers’ and electricity and heating purposes in of technological waste as its employees’ carbon emissions as a the buildings where Akbank carries priority environmental topics. result of the Bank’s technological out its activities. Under this project, services and Digital Banking consumption figures of all buildings With the aim of actualizing its products, including branches, were collected environmental policy, Akbank • Supporting education and in a database. has adopted the following awareness projects that commitments: will increase environmental Akbank Banking Center, a high• Taking necessary steps to fully awareness in society and among tech complex located in Şekerpınar, comply with environmental laws young persons in particular, commenced operation in 2010; and regulations, • With international collaborations, some of the Bank’s buildings • Contributing to the protection of supporting transparency policies previously located in Istanbul natural resources by using energy, that will help reduce greenhouse moved to the Akbank Banking water and paper economically, gas emissions of the Bank and Center in 2010 and 2011. As one of • Carrying out tasks to reduce corporate stakeholders. the Bank’s biggest forward-looking the amount of waste produced investments, work continued on in business processes as much EFFECTIVE NATURAL RESOURCE the Akbank Data and Life Center as possible, and to rationally CONSUMPTION STRATEGY in 2018. The new center, whose recycle the wastes in case waste Adopting an active stance in the foundation was laid in fourth reduction is not possible, struggle against global climate quarter 2017, is scheduled for change, Akbank implements completion in 2019. Akbank Data efficient projects to reduce the and Life Center will serve customers carbon emissions from its activities in a total area of 6,700 m2 once it to a minimum. In 2009, the Bank has becomes operational. With 3,000 supported the Carbon Transparency Akbank employees, it will become Project that was actualized by the heart of all Akbank operations. the Sabancı University Corporate Governance Forum. The Bank is one of the first private enterprises in Turkey that has committed to implementing climate change strategies and greenhouse gas emission reporting in compliance with international standards. 81 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND COMMITMENTS In addition to encouraging the use of digital channels, Akbank offers new-generation Akbank branch facilities for customers who prefer the branch channel. The Bank’s self-service, lean, digital and mobile customer experiences minimize the use of paper. The environmentally friendly data Similarly, all the trees used in landscaping were selected from special species center will have a total enclosed that consume less water. The roof of the structure is painted with a specially area of 32 thousand m2. The center, developed coating to prevent it from heating the environment. which will feature a 5 thousand m2 information technology system hall, MEASUREMENT AND EVALUATION COMPLIANT WITH SCIENTIFIC is built to provide uninterrupted PRINCIPLES service even during a magnitude 9 Energy and carbon emission figures collected and reported pursuant to earthquake. This center will operate international standards within Akbank are presented below: with an energy efficiency ratio of 1.4. The data center is designed with Fuel type (Gigajoules/year) 2016 2017 2018 enough generator capacity to be Natural Gas 73,073 108,462 100,306 unaffected by power outages of up Electricity 295,648 283,825 252,866 to one month. Liquid Fuel 40,370 23,681 22,461 Akbank’s Data and Life Center Total 409,091 415,968 375,633 has demonstrated its world-class standards with the international Carbon Emissions (ton CO2e) 2016 2017 2018 certifications it has received to Scope 1 Emissions 8,082 7,515 6,970 date. Scope 2 Emissions 38,761 36,115 33,153 The building’s design and Total 46,843 43,630 40,123 application compliance with global standards are documented with REDUCTION OF PAPER USAGE Uptime Institute Tier 3 Design Designing digital processes and solutions in line with its efficient natural Certification and Uptime Institute resource consumption strategies, the Bank attempts to keep paper usage to a Tier 3 Constructed Facility minimum by promoting the use of Digital Channels among customers. Certification. In addition to encouraging the use of digital channels, Akbank also offers Furthermore, the design entails the new-generation Akbank branch facilities for customers who prefer the branch use of “free cooling” technology channel. The Bank’s self-service, lean, digital and mobile customer experiences for cooling with external air to minimize the use of paper. Akbank implemented the following innovations to ensure a superior energy efficient reduce paper consumption under the New Generation Sales Service Model: data center. The new data center also has LEED Gold Green Building • The Mobile Completion App, which allows customers to approve contracts Certification (Leadership in Energy and forms related to Bank products in the digital environment, was and Environmental Design). implemented in 2017 and adopted across the branch network. By replacing printed contracts with online versions in Akbank Direkt, the Bank offers In accordance with LEED Gold customers a paper-free experience, saving ~2.2 million tons of paper and criteria, rainwater is stored in large ~185 trees in fiscal year 2018. underground storage receptacles • In next generation Akbank branches, instead of waiting at the counter, (190,000 liters) and used when cus tomers can perform their transactions via self-service at Counter needed. All lighting systems utilize Extras. In 2018, paper consumption was reduced by transferring 60% of the LED lighting systems that consume transactions previously performed at the counters to Counter Extras. limited energy. 82 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT In 2018, loan and direkt loan 2016 2017 2018 contracts and forms, which Water Consumption (m3/year) 104,519 112,052 120,648 correspond to the use of 22 million sheets of paper, were procured RECYCLING-ORIENTED WASTE MANAGEMENT POLICY digitally. Akbank uses a great number and variety of electric and electronic devices due to the nature of banking operations, which require electronic means in Akbank raises awareness of saving a number of transactions. These devices contain not only valuable metals paper among its customers and that should be brought back to the economy, but also environmentally provides E-Statement as bank harmful materials. Therefore, we have several measures to ensure recovery of statement to 72% of its customers. devices that have gone out of use within the economy or to reduce potential In addition to paper conservation, environmental impact. In our main buildings, we sort and collect wastes to Akbank is engaged in paper deliver them to recycling companies. For instance, used paper, plastics, glass recycling and continued to reduce and metals are collected in separate boxes and sent to recycling. In addition, its environmental footprint steadily oil retainers are placed between the wastewater line and the city sewer lines in 2018. At the Kınalı Archives in the kitchens to collect waste oils. These waste oils are sent to oil recovery Center, where all branch and Head stations to be recycled. When floor coverings in buildings need to be replaced, Office archives are kept, 750 tons of we take the environmental performance of carpets and other floor coverings paper were disposed and recycled in into consideration. 2018 after their legal preservation period ended. In this way, 10,700 RECYCLING TONER CARTRIDGES trees were saved. Empty toner cartridges of printers have negative impacts on the environment if they are not disposed of properly. In order to minimize this effect, a recycling In addition to the paper sent to be project was initiated in August 2010 to recycle the empty toner cartridges recycled by the Archives Center, from the printers used at the Bank. From this date onwards, all empty in branches some valuable papers cartridges, including those from Akbank branches, are shipped to a company are slit and regular paper is used that recycles electronic waste. In 2018, the Bank became a member of the on both sides when possible. Then, Integrated Environmental Information System with Environmental Identity these are collected in recycling Number 256713150. Waste toner cartridges are received from Akbank Banking boxes provided by municipalities Center by the recycling company by making a transport request via the and non-governmental system. organizations such as TEMA (Turkish Foundation for Combating Erosion In 2018, a total of 4784 empty toner cartridges were sent to the said recycling Reforestation and the Protection company. of Natural Habitats) to be recycled later on. TECHNOLOGICAL WASTES ARE RECYCLED BACK TO THE ECONOMY Electronic devices that are no longer appropriate for use according to WATER CONSUMPTION Akbank’s standards are sold to companies in Turkey, as scrap or second-hand products for recovery of the metals and electronic parts. In addition, some of EFFECTIVE NATURAL RESOURCE these devices are donated as per the requests made to the Bank. CONSUMPTION STRATEGY Akbank shapes all its activities in TECHNOLOGICAL WASTE TYPES AND FIGURES light of its strategy of the effective consumption of natural re-sources Type 2016 2017 2018 The Bank’s bulk water consumption Scrap Grants Scrap Grants Scrap Grants includes employees’ water usage, sales sales sales cleaning activities, and irrigation PC 45 253 3,983 367 9,571 316 of green space. Akbank has limited water consumption compared to Monitors 166 253 454 367 508 316 manufacturing companies. Our Passbook Printers 281 254 663 water use does not have significant Dot Matrix 288 1.037 42 impact on a specific water source. Printers Laser Printers 469 4 154 882 POS Equipment 16,303 12,941 35.747 ATM 337 510 386 17,889 510 19,333 734 47,799 632 83 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 84 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT CULTURE AND ART In joint exhibitions that bring together widely renowned names of the domestic and international art world, Akbank Art Center presented select examples of contemporary works to arts enthusiasts. AKBANK ART CENTER Mimarlar+Han Tümertekin’s works Balanescu Quartet under the Celebrating its 25th anniversary entitled “ÖTE/DE/Kİ MİMARLIK banner “Akbank Art Center 25th Year in 2018, Akbank Art Center was Sergisi (Ulterior Architecture).” Concerts.” During 2018, Akbank Art established in 1993 to brand the The Center also accommodated Center also continued its highly innovative and visionary identity the Akbank 36th Contemporary popular Philosophy Seminars, Art Akbank pursues in the arts. Playing Artists Prize during the year. This History Seminars and Cinema and a leading role in the development prestigious event was organized Psychiatry Seminars as part of of contemporary arts in Turkey in collaboration with Akbank the “Human Condition in Cinema” and in bringing artworks to vast Art Center and the Painting and series. The Center also launched numbers of individuals across all Sculpture Museums Association the New Media Talks program at the social strata, Akbank Art Center to support development of end of the year. ranks among the pioneering contemporary arts and encourage contemporary arts institutions in young artists. Furthermore, Akbank Akbank Art Center’s Dance the country. The center organized Art Center was among the six Workshop has recorded many over 700 events throughout 2017 in venues of the 4th Istanbul Design international achievements. During various branches of arts—including Biennial with the “Deconstruction the year, the Dance Workshop held exhibitions, concerts, theatrical School.” workshops with choreographers and plays and dance—sending renowned dance instructors, such ripples across the national and CULTURE & ARTS ACTIVITIES FOR as Antien Van Mierlo, Ido Batash, international arts communities. STUDENTS Sagi Gross, while continuing to offer The Contemporary Art Education dance lessons for both children EXHIBITIONS HIHLY APPRECIATED Program, specially designed for and adults. In 2018, open auditions BY THE CULTURE AND ARTS every exhibition held at Akbank were once again organized for COMMUNITY Art Center, provides primary, junior dance performances. Talented In joint exhibitions bringing high and high school students the young dancers were also provided together widely renowned names opportunity to become acquainted scholarships for modern dance of the domestic and international with contemporary works of art. lessons. art worlds, Akbank Art Center The program also offers a fun presented select examples of environment, where students can AKBANK CHILDREN’S THEATRE contemporary works to arts enjoy various artistic, cultural and Having made a significant enthusiasts. In 2018, Akbank Art social experiences with educational contribution toward cultivating Center hosted such exhibitions materials, by thinking freely and a theatre-going audience in the as Susie MacMurray’s “Strange creatively. Nearly 3,000 children and past and the present, Akbank Fruit,” Bülent Erkmen’s “Remix,” young people participated in these Children’s Theatre celebrated its Tabanlıoğlu Architects and trainings in 2018. 45th anniversary in 2018. During the year, the Theatre staged the play Akbank Art Center’s Multi-Purpose “Gorilla” written by Anthony Browne Room, one of the major meeting and adapted to the stage by Rachel points of arts lovers, hosted Barnett, with the collaboration of concerts by world-renowned London Polka Theater. As part of musicians such as Tord Gustavsen its Anatolia tour, Akbank Children’s Project, Joachim Kühn Trio, The Theatre performed “Gorilla” in Gaziantep for a total of 3,000 youth. 85 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY CULTURE AND ART With its varied culture and arts program during the year, Akbank Art Center hosted 105,200 visitors in 2018. In 2018, Akbank Art Center Jazz on Campus concerts the Selection Committee of the published the volume “100 Works continued in 2018, as part of the international competition were of Art That Will Define Our Age” 28 th edition of Akbank Jazz Festival. screened at 40 universities in authored by Kelly Grovier. The Prominent musicians of the new 21 cities – from Edirne to Van, compendium designates the top generation, Evrencan Gündüz and Zonguldak to Mersin – between 100 art works produced since the his group Uzaylılar, came together April 2 and May 17. As such, the 1990s and doubles as an easywith more than 6,500 university Short Film Festival reached out to-follow intellectual map that students and guests in nine to over 900 thousand university helps the reader navigate the provinces – Edirne, Çanakkale, İzmir, students. contemporary art world. Muğla, Eskişehir, Ankara, Kayseri, Mersin and Adana – between CONTEMPORARY ISTANBUL ART 37 CONCERTS AT THE 28TH November 12-23. FAIR HOSTED “IMAGE THINGS” AKBANK JAZZ FESTIVAL In 2018, the Contemporary At the 28 th Akbank Jazz Festival, 37 AKBANK SHORT FILM FESTIVAL Istanbul Art Fair was held between concerts, three discussions and 16 COMPLETES 14 YEARS September 20-23. Akbank Art workshops were held in 37 venues The 14th Akbank Short Film Festival Center’s booth was home to the on October 17-28, 2018. The festival is a prominent platform for short exhibition “Image Things” by hosted over 100 artists and was films in Turkey that strives to American artist Tommy Hartung. attended by 20 thousand music support new ideas and contributes The exhibition, curated by Hasan lovers. As part of the High School to short film culture. In 2018, Bülent Kahraman, featured three Jazz Workshops initiative in 2018, the festival presented cinema video works by the artist. Tommy 1,355 youth from nine high schools enthusiasts with the opportunity Hartung, a leading name in the New met with Ercüment Orkut, Volkan to enjoy important films shown at Media field, reached out to Turkish Topakoğlu and Ediz Hafızoğlu to international festivals, workshops art enthusiasts with his interactive learn more about jazz music and and conversations, as well as works. In 2018, 105,200 visitors instruments. competition films for 10 days attended Akbank Art events. between March 19-29. During the festival, 1,342 short movies from 65 countries were screened for welcoming audiences. During the +900 14th Akbank Short Film Festival, as part of its “Award-Winning Films thousand Come to Universities” program, the best films designated by The 14th edition of the “Award-Winning Films Come to Universities” event reached out to over 900 thousand university students in 2018. 86 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT EDUCATION Akbank established the “Akbank Thinking Club” in September 2008 in order to provide a creative platform for young people and to think alongside them, the natural stakeholders of continuous development and innovation, and to create value for Turkey’s future with them. “Akbank Thinking Club” celebrated its 10th year in 2018. A ROBUST BRIDGE BETWEEN THE and certificates of completion. At AKBANK FAMILY COMPANY ACADEMY AND FINANCE SECTOR: the end of the classroom activities ACADEMY FOR SUSTAINABILITY CENTER OF EXCELLENCE IN organized by Akbank Volunteers, OF FAMILY COMPANIES FINANCE (CEF) students were presented the In collaboration with Sabancı The Center of Excellence in Akbank Ladybug Penny Bank University Executive Development Finance (CEF), founded by Sabancı dubbed “Kumbirik.” Children Unit (EDU), the Bank organized University in 2016 under the enjoyed very much the chance the 12 th edition of Akbank Family sponsorship of Akbank brings to save money with their favorite Company Academy in 2018, which together academics, financial “Kumbirik.” was first held in 2014. In response actors and investors to transform to the requests from the leading basic financial information into AKBANK THINKING CLUB IN ITS companies in the industry, the applications which can be put 10TH YEAR program was administered for to use in real life. CEF continued Akbank established the “Akbank Akbank customers as well as their to constitute a bridge between Thinking Club” in September 2008 distributors and dealers. Akbank academia, the finance sector, policy in order to provide a creative Family Company Academy targets makers and the real economy with platform for young people and to those family companies which its certification programs, seminars, think alongside them, the natural want to institutionalize their and research reports throughout stakeholders of continuous company, get up-to-date through 2018. development and innovation, and academic training, and hand over to create value for Turkey’s future their company management to AKBANK “JUNIOR SAVERS” with them. “Akbank Thinking Club” the next generation. The program PROJECT celebrated its 10 th year in 2018. The covered a wide variety of subjects Akbank actively supports initiatives Club is open to applicants from all of particular interest to familyto improve financial literacy and 3. year university students across owned business representatives encourage savings. As part of Turkey. New participants of the including strategic management, this effort, Akbank launched the Club designed projects according business development, innovation, Akbank Junior Savers Project in to themes given to them every year. institutionalization, finance, best 2012. Aimed to reach out to children These projects were then assessed corporate governance practices, at the age they begin forming by a special selection committee legal matters and human resources lasting habits, the program featured composed of academics, experts management. special project materials, including and Akbank senior managers. The a website prepared exclusively for creator of the best project was this initiative, a board game played rewarded with a scholarship for the with children as part of classroom Harvard University Summer School. learning activities, a savings poster, 87 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY ENTREPRENEURSHIP CaseCampus, Akbank’s entrepreneurship program launched in 2015 in collaboration with Endeavor Turkey, continued meet with young entrepreneurs in 2018, enjoying vast popularity. In 2018, Akbank continued to The program brings together and workshops in order to help their support efforts to spread the spirit successful Endeavor Entrepreneurs businesses grow. The ten-week of entrepreneurship in Turkey, train with third and fourth year StartUpCampus Program targets a greater number of entrepreneurs, undergraduate students, graduate entrepreneurs under the age of 35, and increase opportunities for students as well as recent who have chosen entrepreneurship them. Examples of such efforts are graduates from the last five years, as a career path, established their provided below. who are under age 30 and who are company, launched their early stage considering entrepreneurship as a product and recorded their first “CASECAMPUS PROGRAM“ career option. This initiative offers sales. FOR YOUNG ENTREPRENEUR eligible participant a brand new, CANDIDATES innovative, applied environment of CaseCampus, Akbank’s learning and networking. entrepreneurship program launched in 2015 in collaboration CONTRIBUTIONS TO with Endeavor Turkey, continued TURKEY’S ENTREPRENEURIAL meet with young entrepreneurs in ECOSYSTEM: STARTUPCAMPUS 2018, enjoying vast popularity. In ENTREPRENEURSHIP PROGRAM the project realized in two terms For the last three years, Akbank and -spring and autumn-, in line with Endeavor have conducted a youth the principle ‘no training is as entrepreneurship program in Turkey educative as a case’, participants called CaseCampus, which analyzes are offered innovative training and the success stories of various startlearning opportunities through ups and supports enterprises on a the real stories and dilemmas of growth path. In the StartUpCampus Turkey’s prominent, exemplary Program, young entrepreneurs entrepreneurs. participate in mentoring, training 88 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT VOLUNTEER WORK The fourth edition of the “Young Volunteers” project was conducted in June-November 2018. The number of NGOs collaborating in the project rose from five to 10, a total of 9,000 youth applied for voluntary activities, and 2,600 young volunteers were chosen to take part. AKBANK VOLUNTEERS FOCUSED graduate students) aged 18 to 26 CHARITABLE DONATIONS ON CREATING VALUE FOR the opportunity to have contact Akbank customers can donate SOCIETY with NGOs and participate in their money from their demand deposit Akbank Volunteers is a platform voluntary activities. accounts and credit cards to committed to running projects a variety of associations and that contribute to the society The fourth edition of “Young foundations that operate in together with Akbank employees Volunteers” was conducted in JuneTurkey on behalf of the public across the country as well as their November 2018. The number of interest. Donors who are not families, customers and business NGOs collaborating in the project Akbank customers can make cash partners. The main protagonists of rose from five to 10, a total of donations at Akbank branches. the volunteer system are Akbank 9,000 youth applied for voluntary Customers can donate funds for employees all over Turkey. Under the activities, and 2,600 young one-time only or with automatic leadership of Akbank Volunteers, volunteers were chosen to take part. payment orders to an association or the Bank joins forces with the local The volunteer youth participated in foundation of their choice. community, non-governmental a wide array of social responsibility organizations and local initiatives. These projects included In 2018, customers’ donations governments in various regions, painting school walls, sports amounting to TL 27.528.125, USD develops projects to address social activities with disabled persons, 342.122 and EUR 49.088 were problems, and strives to become a hobby workshops with seniors, transferred to over 30 associations part of the solution. activities with young people and foundations by the Bank. under state protection, cleaning Akbank does not charge any fees URBAN PHILANTHROPY of coastal areas, distribution of for these donation payments. “Young Volunteers” is a project that soup to the homeless, tending to encourages university students to shelter animals, and sign language take part in social responsibility workshops. The volunteers were projects organized in collaboration then invited by Akbank to a concert with NGOs. This effort offers featuring the singer Kalben at university students (twoor fourVolkswagen Arena on November 24, year college students as well as 2018. 89 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX This service was performed on the Turkish version of the report. This report presents Akbank’s efforts to develop its economic, social, environmental performance in the period of January 1-December 31 2018 and the results of these consistent efforts. This report is prepared in accordance with the “Comprehensive” option of GRI Standards. The following table is prepared to reach the reporting information easily. In the context of the Priority Notification Service, GRI checked the disclosure of the GRI Content Index and whether the references to the notifications between 102-40 and 102-49 were properly placed in the report. GRI Indicator Answer and Page Number GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (GRI 101 does not consist of indicators.) Organizational Profile GRI 102 General Indicators 2016 102-1 AKBANK 102-2 About Akbank, p.12-22 102-3 About Akbank, p. 12-22 102-4 About Akbank, p. 12-22 102-5 About Akbank, p. 12-22 102-6 About Akbank, p. 12-22 102-7 About Akbank, p. 12-22 102-8 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 102-9 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 102-10 There has been no significant change in the reporting period. 102-11 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 102-12 Memberships in Associations and Unions, signed initiatives, p.34 102-13 Memberships in Associations and Unions, signed initiatives, p.34 Strategies GRI 102 General Indicators 2016 102-14 Chairman’s Message, CEO’s Message, p. 2-5 102-15 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102 General Indicators 2016 102-16 Akbank’s Corporate Building Blocks: Vision and Mission, p. 14-15 90 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Governance GRI 102 General Indicators 2016 102-17 Mechanisms for Employees to Share Opinions and Suggestions, p.79 102-18 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-19 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-20 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-21 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-22 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-23 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-24 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-25 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 102-26 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-27 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-28 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-29 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 102-30 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 102-31 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 102-32 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 102-33 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 102-34 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 102-35 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 102-36 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 102-37 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 102-38 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 102-39 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 Shareholder Engagement GRI 102 General Indicators 2016 102-40 Dialogue with Stakeholders, p. 32-33 102-41 Collective Labor Agreement, p. 71 102-42 Dialogue with Stakeholders, p. 32-33 102-43 Dialogue with Stakeholders, p. 32-33 102-44 Topic Prioritization Study, p. 28 91 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX Reporting GRI 102 General Indicators 2016 102-45 About the Report, p. 23-25 102-46 About the Report, p. 23-25 102-47 Topic Prioritization Study, p. 28 102-48 About the Report, p. 23-25 102-49 Topic Prioritization Study, p. 28 102-50 About the Report, p. 23-25 102-51 About the Report, p. 23-25 102-52 About the Report, p. 23-25 102-53 Contact Details, p. 102 102-54 About the Report, p. 23 102-55 GRI Index, p. 90-98 102-56 The report content has not undergone external audit. GRI 200: Economic Standards Series 2016 Economic Performance (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 103-2 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 103-3 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 About Akbank, p. 12-22 201-2 About Akbank, p. 12-22 201-3 About Akbank, p. 12-22 201-4 About Akbank, p. 12-22 Market Presence (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 103-2 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 103-3 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 GRI 202: Market Condition 2016 202-2 All members of Akbank Senior Management are Turkish citizens. 92 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Indirect Economic Impact (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 103-2 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 103-3 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-36 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impact 2016 203-1 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64, Our Contribution to Society, p. 84-90 203-2 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64, Our Contribution to Society, p. 84-90 Responsible Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-32 103-2 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-32 103-3 Our Sustainability Approach, p. 26-32 GRI 204: Responsible Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 GRI 308: Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 308-2 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 GRI 409: Forced Labor 2016 409-1 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 GRI 414: Social Assessment of the Supplier 2016 414-1 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 414-2 Supply Chain Management, p. 30 93 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 103-2 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 103-3 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption (Material Topic) 205-1 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 205-2 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 205-3 Risk Management and Legal Compliance, p. 42-50 GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series 2016 Energy (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-3 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 302-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 302-3 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 302-4 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 302-5 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 Water Consumption (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-3 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 GRI 303 Water 2016 303-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 303-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 303-3 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 94 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Emissions (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-3 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 305-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 305-3 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 305-4 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 305-5 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 305-6 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 305-7 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 Wastes (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 103-3 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 GRI 306: Wastes 2016 306-1 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 306-2 Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 GRI 400 Social Standard Series 2016 Employment (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 401-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 95 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX Employee-Employer Relations (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 GRI 402: Employee-Employer Relations 402-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 402-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 Occupational Training (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 403-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 403-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 403-4 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 Occupational Training (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 GRI 404: Occupational Training 2016 404-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 404-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 404-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 GRI 407: Occupational Training 2016 407-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 96 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Diversity and Opportunity of Equality (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 GRI 405: Diversity and Opportunity of Equality 2016 405-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 Struggle Against Discrimination (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-2 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 103-3 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 GRI 406: Struggle Against Discrimination 2016 406-1 Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 Marketing and Labeling (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-2 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-3 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 417-2 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 417-3 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 Information Security (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-2 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-3 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 GRI 418: Information Security 2016 418-1 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 97 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX Customer Satisfaction (Material Topic) 103-1 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-2 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-3 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 Increasing Access to Financial Services (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-2 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 103-3 Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 Corporate Governance (Material Topic) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 103-2 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 103-3 Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 98 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES (WEPS) PROGRESS REPORT WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES WEPS 6 PRINCIPLES GRI Standards Disclosures Principle 1Corporate Leadership Promoting Gender Equality 405-1 405-2 Principle 2-Equal Opportunity, Participation and 406-1 Nondiscrimination Principle 3-Health, Safety, and Freedom from Violence 406-1 Principle 4-Education and Training 404-1 404-2 Principle 5-Enterprise Development, Supply Chain and Marketing 404-1 404-2 Practices Principle 6-Community Leadership and Participation 405-1 405-2 Principle 7-Measurement and Public Reporting on Gender 405-1 405-2 Equality 99 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX In 2007, Akbank led the way for the Turkish banking sector by signing the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The below table shows the pages of the Sustainability Report 2018 where you can learn about the practices that Akbank has implemented as a signatory to UNGC and performance information. Information included in the report on each principle can be accessed by means of this table. UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PAGE OF THE PERFORMANCE INFORMATION HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pages: 12-22 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pages: 12-22 LABOR Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pages: 64-80 Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Pages: 64-80 Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labor. Pages: 64-80 Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pages: 64-80 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Pages: 80-84 Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Pages: 80-84 Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pages: 80-84 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Pages: 42-50 100 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND AKBANK Akbank supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals declared in 2015 to determine global questions that will be planned to solve by 2030. The table that shows the Bank’s approach and contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals as follows: Sustainable Development Goals Relevant Section 4 Quality Education Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 5 Gender Equality Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 6 Clean Water Hygiene and Public Health Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 7 Accessible and Clean Energy Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 8 Decent Work and Growth Our Distinctive Employees, p. 64-80 9 Industrial Innovation and Infrastructure Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 11 Sustainable City and Living Spaces Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 12 Responsible Consumption and Production Value that We Add to Customers, p. 50-64 13 Climate Action Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 15 Terrestrial Life Our Operations and the Environment, p. 80-84 17 Partnerships to Reach Targets Corporate Governance at Akbank, p. 36-42 101 CONTACT DETAILS CONTACT DETAILS AKBANK HEAD OFFICE Sabancı Center, 4. Levent-Istanbul/TURKEY Telefon: +90 212 385 55 55 Faks: +90 212 319 52 52 +90 (212) 269 77 87 www.akbank.com Akbank Sustainability Report, Contact Investor Relations and Sustainability Department for Further Information sustainability@akbank.com Akbank Sustainability Report (“the Report”) was prepared solely for informative purposes and does not create a basis for any kind of investment decisions. This report has been originally prepared and published in Turkish. Even though its translation into English has been realized with utmost care and attention for precision, the Turkish version prevails as the original. All content and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable at the time the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and constant. All rights reserved. 102 AKBANK 2018 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Proudly produced by FİNAR. www.finarkurumsal.com HEAD OFFICE Sabancı Center, 4. Levent 34330 İstanbul Telephone: (0212) 385 55 55 Facsimile 1: (0212) 319 52 52 Facsimile 2: (0212) 269 77 87 https://www.akbank.com/en-us/Content/Pages/ Contact-Us.aspx
