illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 1 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Introduction The United Nations Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) is rooted in the desire to promote a sustainable global economy, in full respect of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, and the fi ght against corruption. It was proposed for the first time during the 1999 World Economic Forum in Davos by former UN Secretary Kofi Annan, who on that occasion invited the global economic leaders attending the forum to endorse a “Global Compact” with the United Nations to tackle the most critical aspects of globalization in a collaborative manner. As of today (September 2019) over 9,500 companies and organizations from over 160 countries have adhered to the Compact. In 2012, illycaffè adhered to the Global Compact (in 2013 published its first Communication on Progress), and committed to integrating into its strategic vision, organizational culture, and day-to-day operations the ten principles related to human and labour rights, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption promoted by the initiative. The Communication on Progress is a document that accompanies and completes the company’s Sustainable Value Report, prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative: both are instruments through which illycaffè periodically informs its stakeholders on the activities implemented and results achieved concerning corporate responsibility and sustainability. For more in-depth information and a detailed account of what illycaffè has done and the results it has achieved, please view the relevant sections of the Sustainable Value Report 2018, available FROM October 2019 on http://valuereport.illy.com/. 2 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 For more questions or comments related to sustainability, illycaffè is glad to provide information on its vision, as well as on its specific goals and targets. e-mail: valuereport@illy.com 3 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Statement 4 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Human Rights Principles of the Global Compact: 1 Businesses should promote and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their respective spheres of influence; and 2 make sure they are not complicit, directly or indirectly, in human rights abuses. Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè illycaffè exercises due diligence to identify, prevent, and take on the actual or potential impacts on human rights of its own activities and the activities of those with which it works or over which it can exert some influence. It uses various systems of governance, analysis, monitoring, management, and communications: • illycaffè Sustainable Value Report is the structured instrument used to communicate what the social, environmental and economic repercussions of illycaffè’s activities are. The respect of human rights, related to employees, producers and suppliers, is considered a material issue, according to the Materiality principle consistent with the GRI Standards. • illycaffè’s Sustainability Policy, renewed in 2017, has the aim of providing a more up-to-date and timely representation of the company's values, objectives, commitments and governance in terms of sustainability. The Policy – which is consistent with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nationsis applied, together with the laws and regulations in force, in all territories and countries where it operates illegally, permeated the corporate culture based on the principles of behaviour already defined in the Code of Ethics and other corporate policies and strategies. • Given the importance attributed to sustainability, since 2017 illycaffè has established the Sustainability Committee, which oversees all sustainability issues and cooperates with the Board of Directors with its research – giving advice and making recommendations – in relation to considerations and decisions on sustainability. The company set out its rules of functioning, the activities and the scope of its responsibilities and held a Board induction session to explore and address with top management key sustainability themes across the board. • illycaffè adheres to the principles of the ILO International Labour Organization: illycaffè only purchases its coffee from countries which comply with ILO standards such as a minimum age of 14 years for child employment. • In 2012, it adhered to the Global Compact and committed to periodically reporting the results obtained in the human rights field; in 2013 published its first Communication on Progress; Since 2014 it has confirmed its commitment. • illycaffè monitors legislative and normative developments in the countries which supply it with green coffee and periodically updates its country risk assessments (Country Profile); • For the seventh consecutive year, illycaffè has made the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies, created by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining and promoting ethical standards and commercial practices. illycaffè is one of the 3 companies awarded in the Food, Beverage & Agriculture category for 2019 and is the only Italian company, thus taking its places among the companies of excellence and sector leaders. 5 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • In its commercial, professional, and social relationships, illycaffè applies and explicitly references the Code of Ethics that includes clauses on the respect for Human Rights in all behaviours and purchasing contracts. Certain parts of the Code, such as those related to Human Rights, are applied to purchases and along the entire supply chain. The application of the Code of Ethics and the monitoring of any violations thereof are ensured by the presence of the Supervisory Board. • Since 2011 illycaffè certifies its management model of the green coffee supply chain according to the standard Responsible Supply Chain Process (RSCP) , developed by DNV GL, an international certification body. Through the RSCP illycaffè adopts a direct and traceable approach in procurement, it transfers knowledge for the continuous improvement of product quality and sustainability to the green coffee supply chain and it guarantees a higher compensation than the market average to reward the producers for the superior quality produced. The RSCP applies to every actor in the supply chain and expects the company to monitor its suppliers by verifying that the legal requirements are met (indispensable for maintaining the relationship with the company) through punctual controls in the following areas: environment, employment and product. • Relationships with other suppliers are constantly subject to monitoring control (performed by illycaffè). In particular, illycaffè involves its strategic and/or critical suppliers in a Sourcing Risk Management that has been further implemented and improved. This management system includes a supplier assessment program, which takes into account environmental, social and ethical aspects along with those strictly related to supply conditions; additionally, all suppliers are provided with the Code of Conduct, which refers to the Code of Ethics and its principles. Where to verify it – Results to 31/12/2018 (outputs and outcomes) Section of Sustainable Value Report 2018 illycaffè has made it to the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies 1.7 In 2018 illycaffè paid 337 visits to farmers. From 2010, when the Responsible Supply chain 1.13 Process begun, to the end of 2017, over 2,600 producers were involved. RSCP includes screening for human rights Continuous use of the Sourcing Risk Management 1.14 No instances of discriminatory practices registered 8.2 No violations of local community rights registered 8.2 The company has not received any complaints concerning human rights 1.11 6 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Labour Principles of the Global Compact: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè • illycaffè Sustainable Value Report is the structured instrument used to communicate what the social, environmental and economic repercussions of illycaffè’s activities are. The respect of human rights and fair labour conditions – especially related to both green coffee supply chain and other suppliers are considered material issues, according to the Materiality principle consistent with the GRI Standards. • illycaffè adheres to the principles of the ILO International Labour Organization. • illycaffè applies to its workers all of the dispositions contained in the National Collective Bargaining Agreements and all norms related to labour rights in every country in which its staff operated. • The company adopts a Code of Ethics which sets out the rights and responsibilities of workers, reference corporate principles (value of human resources, the integrity and dignity of people, equitable authority) and norms of behaviour; the Code is distributed both internally and externally. • Staff management includes annual performance evaluation systems based on the clear definition of shared goals that are measurable in individual, financial, numerical, and economic terms, whose achievement is rewarded with an economic bonus of variable entity. • The company adopts an Organizational, Management, and Oversight model compliant with Italian Legislation, which makes it possible to monitor and act upon violations of the Code of Ethics and thus of workers’ rights. • The respect of workers’ rights and labour laws is considered a minimum, indispensable prerequisite for establishing commercial relations with green coffee producers and other suppliers: the company constantly monitors the evolution of legislation in the countries it works in and prepares specific Country Profiles for each country. • Through the Responsible Supply Chain Process, the company monitors its coffee suppliers and actively manages aspects such as compliance with national legislation regarding labour, human rights, child labour, 7 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 forced and compulsory labour, union rights, overtime, health and safety, diversity and equal opportunities in the workplace, and equal pay for men and women. • In the supplier qualification process, illycaffè deals with issues related to the respect for diversity, racial or gender discrimination and child exploitation, training of employees outside legal obligations, corporate welfare initiatives. • Since 2013, the company has had an agreement of co-shared responsibility to increase motivation and a sense of belonging: the illycitizen active citizenship program, aimed at transferring knowledge and information that make each collaborator a brand ambassador. Where to verify it – Section of the Results to 31/12/2018 (outputs and outcomes) Sustainable Value Report 2018 Diversity: Employees by gender, age, and country 4.2 Workers belonging to protected categories 4.2 Gender equality: Percentage of women per position and annual gross retribution ratio for 4.2 men and women Talent attraction: New hires by gender and position 4.2 Benefits to improve the work-private life balance 4.4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 8.2 Skill management programmes and annual training hours per employee 4.3 – 4.5 Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance and career development 4.2 assessments Programmes implemented to monitor compliance with human rights for workers in the 1.11 – 1.12 – 1-13 coffee value chain and their results Continuous use of the Sourcing Risk Management 1.14 8 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Environment Principles of the Global Compact: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè • illycaffè Sustainable Value Report is the structured instrument used to communicate what the social, environmental and economic repercussions of illycaffè’s activities are. Climate change, water management, energy efficiency, use of raw materials and protection of biodiversity are considered material issues, according to the Materiality principle consistent with the GRI Standards. • Since 2003, illycaffè has adopted an Environmental Management System (E.M.S) certified according to UNI ISO 14001 international standards. On the basis of the risk analyses and monitoring activities provided for by the E.M.S, each year the company defines the programmes and management, control, and prevention activities to improve its environmental impact. • In addition to ISO 14001 certification, since 2004 illycaffè has adopted the EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme. • illycaffè has developed an environmental Policy to define the company strategy and all the activities carried out by the company in the field of environmental sustainability. • In the supplier qualification process, illycaffè addresses issues related to the monitoring and saving of water and energy consumption, the reduction and / or recovery of waste, the use of renewable energy and the activities implemented for the reduction of environmental impacts. • Through the publication and dissemination of its Environmental Policy and Environmental Statement, illycaffè periodically communicates its commitment and achievement to all stakeholders. • Life Cycle Assessment: illycaffè uses the latest version of the software SIMAPRO 8.3 to calculate and reduce the environmental impact of its production processes. LCA is a support tool for decision-making right from the planning stage, and whose goal is to create new products and packaging. • illycaffè has an energy manager to help it reduce its energy consumption; additionally, illycaffè has decided to exclusively use electricity from renewable sources. The total illycaffè's electrical energy supply is obtained by renewable sources, regarding all collection points in Trieste (Italy). • The company’s production facilities are not located in protected areas or areas with high biodiversity. • The company promotes integrated farming principles, limiting the use of active principles and fostering good agronomic practices, such as the use of vegetation cover for land, the reduction of soil erosion 9 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 through contour farming, the reduction of land use to maintain soil fertility unaltered and the application of nutrients, including through organic and mineral fertilizers, accepted in organic farming. • illycaffè allocates special incentives and recognition programs for those producers who strive for sustainable quality such as the Ernesto Illy International Coffee Award, the Ernesto Illy de Qualidade Sustentavel do cafè para Espresso Award, the Clube illy do Cafè. • illycaffè is certified in keeping with the Responsible Supply Chain Process though which it monitors green coffee producers. Some of the prerequisites include specific ones related to the management of environmental risk. • With reference to the packaging of products, illycaffè adopts eco-compatible solutions to reduce the environmental impact. • Since 2013, Fondazione Ernesto Illy is financing a project regarding the reforestation of the Tamara region in Colombia, near the water sources, with native trees, that has been renewed until 2020. • In December 2015, the company received the ISO 50001 certification (Energy management systems) by following a systemic approach to energy efficiency. Where to verify it – Section of the Results to 31/12/2018 (outputs and outcomes) Sustainable Value Report 2018 Updated environmental management system and policy 7.2 Further implementation of the energy management and energy savings 7.4 Water management 7.5 Mitigation of the environmental impact of products and packaging 7.9 Biodiversity protection 7.6 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and results achieved 7.7 Control of the emission of substances harmful to the ozone layer by weight and other 7.7 significant emissions Waste management 3.7 No fines or sanctions for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations registered 8.2 Sustainable agriculture and biodiversity; dissemination of agricultural methodologies with low 7.6 environmental impact Initiatives to monitor and reduce the environmental impact of transport and results 1.15 Increased producers’ awareness 7.6 Continuous use of the Sourcing Risk Management 1.14 10 illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Anti-Corruption Principles of the Global Compact: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè • illycaffè Sustainable Value Report is the structured instrument used to communicate what the social, environmental and economic repercussions of illycaffè’s activities are. Ethics and integrity are considered material issues, according to the Materiality principle consistent with the GRI Standards. • illycaffè has adopted a Code of Ethics which establishes the values and rules that best represent the declared corporate principles and values, of which it requires compliance by its corporate bodies, employees and third parties. In February 2018 the Board of Directors approved the update of the Code of Ethics, subsequently disclosed to the subsidiaries and branches: the Code of Ethics was translated, and made public, in seven different languages, in addition to Italian. • The company adopts an Organizational, Management, and Oversight model through which it analyses risks associated with corruption and identifies specific procedures to fight it. The adoption of the Organization, Management and Control Model represents a voluntary choice of illycaffè with the aim of adhering to the Legislative Decree n. 231/2001. The last update of the model dates back to December 2017. • The company is certified in accordance with the Responsible Supply Chain Process, which oversees the monitoring and management of business ethics risks, including corruption. • illycaffè has a Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations; In every supply contract there is a clause of vision and commitment to respect illycaffè’s Code of Ethics. • In the supplier qualification process, issues related to anti-corruption, anti-competitive practices, and respect for intellectual rights and / or responsible marketing practices are addressed. • illycaffè has been recognized by the Ethisphere Institute, the global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices as a 2019 World’s Most Ethical Company (seventh consecutive time). The information collected provides a comprehensive sampling of definitive criteria of core competencies, rather than all aspects of corporate governance, risk, sustainability, compliance and ethics. Where to verify it – Section of the Results to 31/12/2018 (outputs and outcomes) Sustainable Value Report 2018 Update of the Code of Ethics 1.4 Update of the Organizational, Management and Oversight Model 1.4 Support to local communities and institutional relationships illycaffè in Italy 6.1 Programmes and results to promote fight against corruption and monitor risks along the coffee 1.11 – 1.12 – 1.14 value chain Continuous use of the Sourcing Risk Management 1.14 11
