SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018: YEAR IN REVIEW CONTENTS – MESSAGE FROM FOUNDER 3 – GANNI SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) FOCUS 4 – PEOPLE 5 – PLANET 7 – PRODUCT 11 – COMMITMENTS 12 – LOOKING AHEAD 13 2 MESSAGE FROM FOUNDER “At GANNI, we recognise that current fashion From my perspective, sustainability is a prerequisite production can never be 100% sustainable. We for being in business – it’s not a trend. It’s something know we're not perfect, but we want to be honest I’ve been unhealthily preoccupied with since I with you about how we are working towards studied at university, and my eyes were opened to reducing the footprint we leave behind. the impact humans are exploiting the Earth. Always having this on the brain meant I wasn't the most In our commitment to the planet, we've signed popular guy to sit next to at dinner, but 20+ years up to a more sustainable future with the help of later, something’s changed, and I love that people the UN Global Compact and published our 2018 are now taking action. Sustainability Report. I’m not a visionary or guru, I’m just an ordinary guy In 2018, as always, climate change was our top who wants to make sure my three kids grow up in a priority. We’ve been tracking our CO2 footprint world that’s liveable. We’ve still got a way to go, and and offsetting it with carbon credits since 2016, you might think we’re not doing enough, but know which has helped us become super aware — that we are striving to improve and do better every because we’ve essentially imposed a carbon tax on day. ourselves. Take a look back at what we managed to achieve To date, GANNI has launched more than 25 small in 2018 and stay tuned for what’s coming up for the sustainable initiatives. Some deal with supply chain rest of 2019 and the future. challenges, while others help create awareness among our community, employees, and partners. – Nicolaj Reffstrup, Founder, GANNI But we believe small steps make a huge impact and together we can all be catalysts for change. For 2019, we’re working on including circularity into every project: – This year we joined the Sustainable Apparel Coalition and implemented the Higg index to allow more transparency and traceability. – This year we are looking to implement a garment collection concept which will be available in our stores. – We’ve agreed to produce more sustainable designs and increase the use of recycled textiles in our collections. – This year recycled fibres will be an integrated part of our Pre-Fall and Fall/Winter collection. Watch this space for more. 3 GANNI SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) FOCUS In 2018, we took a decision to incorporate the global Sustainable Development Goals into our sustainability strategy. We support all 17 goals, however, in order to truly help tackle these goals, we have decided to focus on 3 of the goals where we believe we can make the biggest impact. SDG 5 is in place to end all levels of discrimination The target of SDG 13 is to take urgent action to against all women and girls everywhere. This combat climate change and its impacts. Climate includes eliminating all forms of violence against all change is now affecting every country on every women and girls in the public and private spheres, continent. At GANNI we’re making climate change including trafficking, sexual and other types of our top priority as we believe it’s one of the biggest exploitation. As a fashion brand for women, created threats to our planet . By using the data that we have by women, we feel that it is our responsibility to on our carbon footprint and exploring how we can ensure female empowerment and gender equality set carbon reduction targets, it will provide us with is top of our agenda. the tools to proactively reduce our carbon footprint and work towards carbon neutrality. The target of SDG 12 is to ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. From a GANNI perspective, this means reviewing our production from the fibres and materials we source, where we produce, where we sell and who we work with, to make solid improvements. 4 PEOPLE Our business relies on people – and how we treat them, matters. The GANNI team operates all over the world, from our offices in Copenhagen, London and New York to our suppliers in Italy, Portugal, Turkey, India and China. We have committed to the UN Global Compact since 2017 and are looking to work with the UN Guiding Principles, which sets a minimum standard for all 48 human rights. This will give us greater visibility on how we can improve our social sustainability. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT make these adjustments while also making larger scale change in our production, it will change the behaviour and the mindset within the company and Our code of conduct has been in place since begin a positive chain reaction that filters throughout 2017 and sets the ethical and social behavioural the business. We empower and encourage each framework for GANNI and outlines our standards of our employees to feel a sense of responsibility, to external partners and suppliers. The code of especially around climate change and while climate conduct is based on the UN 10 principles and compensating isn’t the ideal solution, it raises the International Labour Organisation (ILO) . It’s awareness of the issues our planet is facing. reviewed and signed by all partners and suppliers annually. IN 2018 WE: The global slavery Index highlights Garment workers as the second most at risk of Modern – Implemented a Sustainability Guide as part of Slavery. Although we do not own our supply our onboarding process for new employees, which chains, we are always trying to improve our social gives our employees a better understanding of our transparency and that’s one of the reasons we mindset when it comes to sustainability and CSR. joined the Sustainable Apparel Coalition in 2018. This will give us greater visibility of our production – Changed our organic lunch offering to almost sites and areas in which we can work with our 100% Vegetarian suppliers to improve if necessary. To date, 9 of our 39 suppliers are using the HIGG Index. – Switched our London office to use Green Energy. Now all of our Danish stores and our We’re hopeful that by joining the Sustainable Copenhagen HQ runs from green energy and Apparel Coalition and also working with the UN we’re aiming for 70% green energy in 2019. Guiding Principles it will connect us to like minded brands, businesses, suppliers and individuals – Implemented a garbage sortation system in our that are cohesively working to promote a more London and Copenhagen offices sustainable industry and open to sharing best practice, which will ultimately move the industry – As part of the holiday gift to GANNI employees forward at a much quicker pace. and friends of GANNI, we purchased 2,5 tons of CO2 for each individual, which roughly covers the GANNI HQ annual CO2 consumption of a citizen. The money spent to carbon compensate will fund UN approved social projects that promote clean energy. Over the course of 2018, we made small changes at our head offices. We recognise that these small changes are exactly that small. However, we feel that starting at head office, and continuing to 5 GLOBAL GIRLS WORLD CUP DANISH FASHION ETHICAL CHARTER In Fall 2018, GANNI once again teamed up with Global Goals World Cup (GGWCUP) in supporting In 2018, we continued to support and commit to the UN Sustainable Development Goals for the the Danish Fashion Ethical Charter. The purpose of fourth time. GGWCUP is an open women’s soccer the charter is to secure the wellbeing of models we tournament, and a partnership between EIR work with on shoots and at shows through the core Soccer, The United Nations Development Program values: accountability, compassionate respect and (UNDP), Save the Children international, the Danish health and based on three general rules: age limit, government and a range of supporting soccer and healthy diet and wages. development organizations. The world cup works to raise awareness and mobilize communities in support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals through a powerful female sports platform centering on soccer. We created a limited edition t-shirt and bandana for the Global Goals soccer tournament, with special attention to the fifth global goal ‘Gender Equality’. In addition to the soccer tournament, GANNI financially donated to support the project. 6 PLANET Since 2016, we have been tracking our carbon footprint. In 2018, we continued to calculate our carbon footprint by looking at the whole value chain, from production, clothing manufacturer, transportation to distribution and packaging. Inside every GANNI style, next to the care label, there is a Climate Once we know the GANNI Carbon footprint, we verify this with an independent an accredited gaining access to efficient and clean cookstoves which prevents less carbon monoxide and toxic Compensated label, to show you partner, who calculate how much we’re costing the earth in monetary value, known as ‘Carbon fumes being inhaled. that we’ve covered the cost of the CO2 emissions of that item. Credits’. We then spend these Carbon Credits on The clean cookstove project also helps creates Global Standard Foundation and UN approved jobs for local people, with employment of both social projects that support clean energy and men and women in the region. They are educated bring positive change to people’s lives. in the health benefits of using clean-burning stoves and employed in the production of stoves. We’ve continued to work on a project that we have This gives locals a livelihood, with wages that are supported since 2016 which provides ‘Energy 80% higher than the minimum wage. In 2018, we Efficient Cook Stoves’ to support women and their implemented a total of 2,250 Cookstoves. families in Nepal and since 2018 in Ghana too, in 7 GANNI 2018 CO2 REPORT We work with CEMAsys who evaluate a range of international Life Cycle Assessment studies and marry this with actual production data from GANNI in order to calculate emissions related to transportation, packaging materials, sales & administration, distribution and use of the textiles. KEY FINDINGS: GHG emission from GANNI 2018 collections (ton CO2 emission) Production of the fabric is by far the largest contributor to the clothingcarbon footprint and therefor the choice of the textiles is of great importance. The diagram shows the distribution of GHG emissions for an average GANNI clothing through its life cycle including usage phase. GANNI clothing fabric production (kg Co2 emission per kg) This shows that 79% of the emissions from GANNI’s production comes from producing the actual fabric. This include the whole process from crop cultivation (or oil/gas production for synthetic fibers), fiber production, yarning, dyeing to final Fabric. CO2 REDUCTION We are a signatory of the UNFCCC Charter for Climate Action which recognises the crucial role that fashion plays towards climate action and the Paris Agreement. From the 2018 CO2 data we know that fibre and material choice has a huge impact on our carbon footprint and that’s why we have committed to a 30% reduction in CO2 per Kg of clothing produced by 2030. We want to reach this much sooner and we’re hopeful that by joining the charter and actively participating in the working groups, we, with the industry will A weighted average for all GANNI clothing shows a carbon footprint of 16.8 kg CO2 emission per kg clothing be able to find solutions. that is a 2% reduction in comparison with 2017. 8 PACKAGING CIRCULARITY In 2018, we started to make a few tweaks to our – Our sunglass cases are made from Recycled We work on giving life to old stock through These materials are then reprocessed into new packaging and pledged our support to the Ellen polyester, the dyes and thread are Oek-tex certified upcycling projects, donation, and re-use such as products in various industries, to create products MaCarthur New Plastics Economy Commitment. and the glue meets REACH standards. our upcycled denim accessories and use old stock like microfibre cloths. SOEX is working on solutions in collaborations to ensure the best use. to recycle textiles and shoes into new fibres and From 2019, all GANNI packaging will be from – The dustbags that come with our shoes are GOTS granules so that they can go back into the fashion sustainable sources certified organic cotton (and reusable!) While we work extremely hard to not create clothing loop, promoting a more circular economy. waste, sometimes we do have to deal with clothing –­ Our new carrier bags are biodegradable. The REPACK that has not managed to sell through our outlet In 2019, we plan to implement the I:CO* take-back bags are made from cornstarch and our new online channels like POSTMODERN or is not fit for selling system in our retail stores, so we can collect pre-loved order packaging is recycled plastic. In 2018 we started plans to implement RePack for (e.g. claims and faulty items). In 2018, we formed clothing and shoes from our customers to ensure February 2019. RePack is a reusable packaging a partnership with SOEX to ensure that clothing these are handled in the best environmental way. – Any paper used for wrapping or cardboard is FSC solution to avoid single use packaging. If the trial is handled in the most environmentally positive Certified and chlorine freewhich means it comes is successful we will look to offer RePack as an way possible, in accordance with the international * I:CO, short for I:Collect, is a respected global from sustainably managed forests without risk of option at checkout indefinitely. waste hierarchy. SOEX give clothes a second life solutions partner and innovator for collection, deforestation. reuse and recycling of used clothing and shoes. cycle. They do this through re-selling, as the first I:CO is an 100 percent subsidiary of SOEX. More port of call. If unsuccessful in re-sell the products information www.ico-spirit.com. are mechanically recycled to create secondary raw materials. 9 RETAIL STORES POSTMODERN GANNI is proud to have a reuse concept store based in our hometown Copenhagen, that gives We’re happy to say that in 2018 GANNI girls an opportunity to shop pieces they love we use green energy in all of our from past seasons, one-off samples and other rare pieces. Danish stores, with 70% powered by windmills. Any new GANNI Our POSTMODERN concept is part of our sustainability strategy. Reusing garments is concept stores will also use green considered to be one of the most environmentally energy, alongside LED lighting. beneficial ways to reutilise clothes. By extending the life of a product by just nine months, it can lower its water, carbon and waste footprint by 20-30%. From 2019, we will start to test sustainable initiatives on prolonging our clothes through our POSTMODERN store. Come and visit us in Christianshavn Overgaden Oven Vandet 40 In our pledge to the planet, we’re trying to 1415 Copenhagen, Denmark incorporate more sustainable elements into every 10AM 6PM new store we open. We know it’s a small step, but we hope with every store we can do more to reduce our footprint on the planet and support businesses that are trying to do make the world a better place. We introduced recycled plastics in our Danish stores, in our store displays from Smile Plastics, who transform waste materials into unique decorative panels for the architecture and design industry. Every Smile Plastics panel is a unique material and is made by hand-selected recycled plastics consisting of a mix of plastic bottles, yoghurt pots and packaging, plant pots, food packaging, and coffee grounds. To expand on this, we’re currently in conversation with a company that could potentially use some of our sample or customer claims and recycle them into furniture– which would be super cool! When it comes to our retail concepts, we have a long way to go when it comes to sourcing sustainable materials so any companies reading this that have experience in this area, please get in touch. 10 PRODUCT In 2018, we created Sustainable Definitions for each fibre and material we either use or may use in the future. This is shared with our sourcing and production team who can use the scale to evaluate what fibres and materials we should proceed with. We’re hoping that now we have joined the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, we can use the HIGG Material Index to strengthen our Sustainable Definitions and can start to provide more detail on environmental impact, especially towards carbon emissions. BIODEGRADABLE RAINWEAR RESTRICTED SUBSTANCES LIST For our Pre-Fall 2018 collection, we included We’ve been adhering to European REACH rainwear made from biodegradable thermoplastic standards for our chemical usage since 2017. In instead of Polyurethane (PU). We didn’t widely 2018, we strengthened our restricted substances communicate this material, but it resonated with list and the limits that chemicals could be present our customers and we have carried this material during the production process. We continue to work forward and included it in our Pre-Fall 2019 with our partner SGS to review potentially harmful collection. chemicals and test between 25-30 products per collection to ensure the Restricted Substances List is fully respected. SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION GARMENT CARE GUIDE To us, sustainable innovation is imperative. We find re-thinking sustainability by introducing disruptive We created a Garment Care guide for our retail business models or innovative materials fascinating store teams and conducted training for all retail and are all for it. teams. The GANNI team in stores are aware of what materials we work with and can inform the customer We’re working on a rental model concept, that on the best ways to take care of the pieces their we are piloting spring 2019 and various upcycling purchasing and also how to handle these in the projects throughout the year. most environmentally friendly way. As an SME, we can’t do it all and that’s why we’re In 2019, we will share our Garment Care guide with keen to collaborate and support emerging solutions customers on GANNI.COM, to encourage caring for sustainability in any way that we can. and extending the life cycle of their favourite pieces. One example of this is teaming up with responsibly sourced e-commerce platform SARDIN. We are working with co-founder Rune Orloff, as our go-to ‘sustainability guru’. Rune is helping us in moving toward a more environmentally conscious future and advising us on fabric sourcing and establishing made-to-order collaborations around the world to eliminate overproduction. 11 COMMITMENTS GLOBAL FASHION AGENDA: COMMITMENT TO A CIRCULAR ECONOMY Our mission is to go full circle. We’re a signatory of the Global Fashion Agenda (GFA) with the aim to have a circular approach and solutions in our business activities and global operations. We’ve committed to the following by 2020: – Implementing design strategies for cyclability – Increasing the volume of used garments and footwear collected – Increasing the volume of used garments and footwear resold – Increasing the share of garments and footwear made from recycled post-consumer textile fibres GLOBAL FASHION AGENDA: ASSOCIATE PARTNER In 2019 we joined Global Fashion Agenda’s Associate Partner programme, which aims to connect select brands and retailers to support, advise and inspire each other on sustainability in a fashion context. ELLEN MACARTHUR NEW PLASTICS COMMITMENT In December 2018, GANNI signed the Ellen Macarthur plastics commitment, that signals our intent to actively identify problematic and unnecessary plastic packaging and to take action to eliminate those through redesign, innovation, and new (reuse) delivery models. GANNI will be announced as a signatory in March 2019. Exciting! UNDP: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL ACCELERATOR We signed on to the United Nations Development Programme called the SDG Accelerator, that aims to accelerate small and medium Danish companies' work to develop new products, services and business models under the auspices of the Global Sustainable Development Goals. In the SDG Accelerator, the participating companies get help and a solid method for developing new products, services or business models that address the challenges of the SDG's. The programme begins in March 2019. UN CHARTER FOR CLIMATE ACTION We are a signatory of the UN Charter for Climate Action which recognises the crucial role that fashion plays towards climate action and the Paris Agreement. GANNI has committed to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and is aligned with their vision of zero emissions by 2050. 12 LOOKING AHEAD The earth’s resources are precious, and as a fashion brand, we believe it’s our moral obligation to understand our impact on the planet and create meaningful change. At GANNI our stance on being ‘honest, not perfect’ stands truer than ever before. We want to ensure that sustainability is embedded authentically throughout our business, and with full transparency. By being open with you in sharing knowledge, our findings and learnings, we believe we can create genuine and meaningful change. We hope our report has provided you with a sense of what we’re trying to achieve and highlights where we need to improve along the way. As always, we’d love to hear your feedback. sustainability@ganni.com 13
