Annual Report 2018 “If you choose to sail upon the seas of banking, build your bank as you would your boat, with the strength to sail safely through any storm.” Jacob Safra (1891 – 1963) Contents Group Chairman’s Foreword ——— 6–7 Market Environment ——— Report of the 20 – 21 Board of Directors ——— Year in Review 12 –13 ——— 16 –17 Consolidated Address List Financial Statements ——— ——— 112 – 113 40 – 77 Corporate Governance ——— 24 – 31 Group Companies ——— 34 – 37 Sustainability Report ——— 80 – 109 Endurance Group Chairman’s Foreword Oak Tree | “Quercus” Group Chairman’s Foreword good global governance further reinforce the region’s Welcome to the Annual Report of J. Safra ecosystem which we are part of. Sarasin Group for 2018. Once again we delivered robust results, particularly in the This Swiss bedrock is synonymous with the strength of context of geopolitical uncertainty and a our Group. We remain naturally prudent and are priviglobal economic slowdown. Our strong leged to be able to take a long-term perspective thanks to no competing voices or interests. We regularly reinperformance is testament to our founding vest into equity capital, adding to the Group’s stabilprinciple: “If you choose to sail upon the ity. The Group’s shareholders’ equity stands today at seas of banking, build your bank as you CHF 5.1 billion, making J. Safra Sarasin one of the best would build your boat, with the strength capitalised banks in Switzerland. to sail safely through any storm.” I have had the privilege of witnessing many different economic cycles, and steering our Group through chalIn the second half of 2018 the storm clouds gathered, lenging environments. The world today may seem parwith the global economy entering the late stage of the ticularly perturbed by competing visions of how governbusiness cycle and the transition by global central ment should be conducted, of how economies should banks to a less accommodative monetary policy. be regulated and of how the financial sector should act more responsibly. Broader challenges such as climate Against this backdrop, Switzerland remains the best change and the increasing digitalisation of services and country from which to operate a global private bank. society impact all people and sectors across the world. Political neutrality, economic competitiveness, low government debt, a reliable legal system and a safe-haven However, it is at times of greatest stress that humancurrency, all provide a bedrock of stability. The presence kind also shows the most resilience and ingenuity to of international organisations and forums dedicated to learn and take different paths to progress. Within each 6 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Group Chairman’s Foreword challenge exists an opportunity. As bankers, we are to sustainability. Trees are universally recognised as a uniquely positioned to analyse the world and identify core part of the planet’s ecosystem. They also reprefavourable circumstances for our clients. sent a continual cycle of renewal across generations, whatever the environmental conditions. Different speThis brings me to a guiding principle of banking: if you cies of trees symbolise distinct qualities, many of which look after your clients carefully, and nurture your staff, exemplify our approach to wealth management – such then everything else falls into line. When you lose sight of as endurance, protection, wisdom and renewal. what is best for your clients or for your staff, then you endanger the very essence of banking: trust and reputation. Our core focus has always been, and will continue to be, on our clients and their future generations. We carry out Our Group’s longevity is also due to simplicity through wise this role with pride and passion. So long as we continue and considered investment, as well as a clear understandto focus on your needs, then we will do our job properly ing of our evolving environment. Deep involvement, risk and prosper together. management, tight controls: these are trademarks of the consistent way we run the Group. At its heart, wealth manI would like to thank all our clients and employees for agement is a simple business – focusing on risk-adjusted their trust and their significant achievements in 2018. I performance, but also ensuring good service, knowing your am confident that the Group has the scale and strengths clients, and thinking about them all the time. to ensure consistent performance in the years ahead. In 2019 we are celebrating 30 years since the Group Every bank is like a child – you have to nurture it so it is conducted the first ever sustainability investment anaable to grow and thrive. lysis of a company. Sustainability is at the heart of the Group’s philosophy, and we continue to be a global leadJoseph Y. Safra er in this investment approach. This year we have choChairman of the Board of Directors sen the theme of trees to illustrate our commitment J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 7 Consolidated Key Data 2018 2017 Consolidated income statement CHF 000 CHF 000 Operating income 1,209,223 1,187,285 Operating expenses –671,673 –650,797 Operating profit 537,550 536,488 Consolidated profit 347,264 315,261 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Consolidated balance sheet CHF 000 CHF 000 Total assets 35,230,892 35,170,035 Due from customers 13,904,706 13,687,354 Due to customers 26,848,174 26,107,696 Equity 5,119,114 4,792,113 2018 2017 Ratios % % Cost-income ratio 55.5% 54.8% CET1 ratio 31.8% 28.8% 8 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Key Data 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Assets under management CHF million CHF million Assets under management 164,609 170,019 Headcount (full-time equivalents) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Consolidated headcount 2,151 2,155 Assets under management by booking centre Headcount by location (CHF billion) 31. 12. 2018 (full-time equivalents) 31. 12. 2018 17.5 18.8 279 125 44.9 83.4 599 1,148 Total 164.6 Total 2,151 Switzerland Switzerland Europe (excluding Switzerland) Europe (excluding Switzerland) Asia Asia Other Other J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 9 Adaptability Report of the Board of Directors Willow | “Salix” Report of the Board of Directors Thanks to this ownership and its financial strength, We are pleased to report another solid J. Safra Sarasin continues to play a leading role in the performance in 2018 for the J. Safra ongoing industry consolidation. During 2018 we welSarasin Group, particularly in the concomed clients and colleagues from Bank Hapoalim in text of worsening economic fundamenLuxembourg and Switzerland, and we were delighted to tals and a decline in risk appetite. This announce the return of our physical presence to Israel. In 2018, J. Safra Sarasin was proud to join the year’s robust results are a testament to the UN Global Compact Network in Switzerland. J. Safra consistent revenue generation of our core Sarasin was also honoured to receive Global Finance business, and the prudence with which magazine’s “World’s Best Private Bank for Social Rewe manage the Group. We are proud to sponsibility” award, a trusted standard of excellence. These have been new milestones in our journey in susbe ranked amongst the leading banks of tainability which we began 30 years ago. Switzerland1, and to be recognised globally as an employer of choice. Capital strength and risk management J. Safra Sarasin Group is ranked as the 5th largest banking group in Switzerland by Tier 1 capital, the Client focus remains central to our success. We are ultimate measure of a bank’s financial strength, privileged to accompany many clients across generaholding more than twice its regulatory requirements tions as they build patrimony that requires careful stewwith a CET1 ratio of 31.8% 2. ardship. That is why we are very selective in the talent A sound capital base is the foundation stone needed we hire, the businesses we acquire, and the manner in for a global private bank. This philosophy is also reflectwhich we integrate people into the culture of a familyed in the conservative structure of the Group’s balance owned private bank. sheet, which maintained a high level of liquidity. The Group deploys ample resources to manage increasing regulatory requirements and a challenging market environment, in combination with a proven risk management approach. Assessment reviews are conducted on a regular basis. The Group’s comprehensive approach to risk management is detailed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Robust results in 2018 Client assets under management reduced slightly to CHF 164.6 billion as client net new assets of CHF 4.7 billion were offset by negative market performance. 1) The Banker Top 1000 World Banks July 2018. 2) Capital adequacy disclosures under FINMA Circulars 08/22 and 16/1 are published on our website www.jsafrasarasin.com. 12 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Report of the Board of Directors Operating income increased by 2% to CHF 1,209.2 Outlook 2019 million in 2018 compared to 1,187.3 million in 2017. As we enter 2019, the geopolitical climate and ecoDespite a challenging environment during the second nomic environment remain volatile and challenging in half of the year, this overall increase and in particular many parts of the world. Public distrust of several instithe 3% rise in net commissions and fee income are a tutions remains high. All sectors continue to face distestament to the strength and dependability of our core ruption from digitalisation, amidst the growing role of wealth management services. data, algorithms, blockchain and artificial intelligence. Operating expenses increased slightly by 3.2% to At times like these, we can depend on the strength of CHF 671.7 million in 2018 against CHF 650.8 million in the Group to sail through turbulent waters and provide 2017, thanks to the efficient integration of new teams a safe harbour to our valued clients. This also includes and acquired businesses. Indeed, the Group cost inthe next generation of “Millennial” clients, whose come ratio of 55.5% remains one of the best in class in needs and expectations must be accounted for. the wealth management industry. We are confident that the Group will deliver another The stable operating profit of CHF 537.6 million in solid performance in 2019. Our business continues to 2018 demonstrates the reliability of our core business generate reliable revenues with sector-leading efficieneven in difficult headwinds. cy. This is supported by exceptional capital strength, Moreover, the real financial strength of the Group built up over years of prudent risk management and is reflected in how net profit rose solidly by 10.2% to reinvestment of retained earnings. CHF 347.3 million for the year 2018 against CHF 315.3 We continue to welcome new teams of bankers, and million for 2017. to also carefully evaluate potential opportunities as The consolidated balance sheet at 31 December one of the leaders in the consolidation of the sector. 2018 remained stable at CHF 35.2 billion. The Group The Board of Directors would like to thank our loyal maintained high levels of liquid assets at CHF 7.1 bilclients for their continued trust and support, and to exlion at the end of 2018 compared with CHF 6.8 billion press our gratitude to all employees for their expertise at the end of 2017. and dedication as we continue to grow and thrive. With the allocation of all Group net profit for 2018 to retained earnings, Group shareholders’ equity reached Jacob J. Safra CHF 5.1 billion at the end of 2018 compared with Chairman of J. Safra Holdings International CHF 4.8 billion at the end of 2017. (Luxembourg) S.A. Total headcount (full-time equivalents) remained Vice-Chairman of J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. stable at 2,151 at the end of 2018. The Group operates in more than 25 locations worldwide and continues to seek appropriate locations to best serve its clients as it executes its growth strategy across Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Latin America and the Caribbean. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 13 Protection Year in Review Ash Tree | “Fraxinus” Year in Review our cost income ratio of 55.5% remains one of the best in class in global private banking and reflects our discipline in managing the Group prudently at all times, not only due to lower costs but also thanks to the quality and consistency of our revenues. The bottom line of our efforts is reflected in the consolidated net profit which reached CHF 347.3 million for the year 2018. Over the years our steady financial returns are regularly reinvested into the Group to augment even 2018 was marked by dissynchronised further its strong capital reserves. With shareholders’ economic growth across different regions. equity of CHF 5.1 billion, the Group significantly exceeds During the second half of the year most its regulatory requirements. financial markets reflected concerns over In January 2019, Standard and Poor’s affirmed the a US-China trade war, the slow-down Group’s “A” long-term and “A-1” short-term counter-party credit ratings together with a stable outlook, which rein China’s economy, shrinking central flects “strong brand name recognition and a solid private bank liquidity, political instability across banking franchise; sound liquidity and very strong capiEurope and long-standing debt issues in talisation supported by committed family shareholders”. emerging markets. Prudence and efficiency A key point of differentiation for our Group is that as a In last year’s report we remarked about the disconnect family-owned business we take care of our clients’ wealth between global economic performance and geopolitical like our own. This core philosophy means we evaluate tensions. As these came home to roost in 2018, we had risks thoroughly and above all keep things simple and already prepared well in advance, and so we are pleased efficient. We are also using this pragmatic approach to to report robust results again this year. As conservative evaluate the potential of fintech and digitalisation on our private bankers with a heritage of over 175 years, we albusiness practices. ways look way beyond a single year’s performance. Indeed it is our first responsibility to ensure that the Group Sector leadership remains as strong as possible to weather different ecoThanks to our strong base the Group continues to be a nomic cycles, to provide a safe harbour to our clients and proactive consolidator in the private banking industry. The to guide them accordingly. number of Swiss private banks has continued to decrease Our resilience and performance continues to be in 2018 and industry commentators expect that only the founded on stable family ownership, exceptional capital most efficient and competitive banks will thrive. Over the strength, prudent controls, and investments with a longpast few years, the Group has acquired several private term perspective. These qualities ensure that the Group banking businesses in Europe and this continued in 2018 is well positioned to benefit from opportunities that may with the successful integration of Bank Hapoalim’s priarise as the banking industry develops. vate banking businesses in Switzerland and Luxembourg. As the sector undergoes challenges and pressures, 2018 – a strong performance there will be more opportunities for us to evaluate. HowWe performed strongly in the context of worsening ecoever, such acquisitions would not be done solely for the nomic fundamentals and a decline in risk appetite. sake of scale; they must fit with our client focus and culClient assets under management reduced slightly to ture. Indeed, each acquisition is looked at not just as a CHF 164.6 billion as client net inflows were offset by marstand-alone deal, but as a stepping stone to future talent ket performance. Operating income increased by 2%, reand clients. flecting the strength of our core wealth management serIn 2018 we were delighted to return to Israel with a vices. Operating expenses were kept under control even physical presence thanks to the start of activities of as we integrated new teams across the globe. Indeed, J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Israel) Ltd, a compa16 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Year in Review ny licensed by the Israel Securities Authority (ISA), togethness activities. As a Group we follow a clear corporate er with the opening of a representative office, both locatsustainability strategy. This is why we are also committed ed in Tel Aviv. We have also incorporated J. Safra Sarasin to the UN Global Compact with its Principles of the United Asset Management (North America) Ltd in Geneva, a comNations Global Compact. During 2018 we were delighted pany registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange to be a prominent supporter of the launch of the “Tour Commission (SEC) as an investment adviser which prode Suisse” by the Swiss Global Compact, aimed at eduvides investment advisory and discretionary asset mancating companies, institutions, and the public about the agement services mainly to clients resident in the United fundamental benefits of managing all our activities in a States of America. sustainable manner. We were particularly pleased to reA sure sign of sector leadership is the credibility of our ceive the 2018 award for “Best Private Bank for Social brand and our reputation as an attractive employer. We Responsibility” by Global Finance magazine. are pleased to report that highly respected bankers and specialist staff continue to join us. We thank them for Trees and sustainability their new perspectives and client relationships, and the This year’s Annual Report focuses on the theme of trees smooth manner in which they have become integrated as globally recognised symbols of life and sustainability. into our entrepreneurial culture. Trees are an integral part of the planet’s ecosystem, and their health is a vivid litmus test of man’s global footprint. Staff loyalty However much we as a species destroy our habitat, trees Our Group is also thankful to the many staff who have remain extremely resilient and for millennia have manworked with the Group for most of their professional caaged constant renewal across generations. It has been reer. They share the family’s approach to careful, condemonstrated that trees have highly sophisticated mechservative banking, building deep and trusting relationanisms for communication and nourishment, protecting ships with clients, steering and advising them in times of their young and sick, particularly in times of adversity. growth and times of turbulence. Their loyalty and depth Different species of trees symbolise distinct qualities. of knowledge of clients and products create a legacy of For example, the Oak represents endurance. We hope know-how that is unequalled. that you will recognise and empathise with the qualities of other trees illustrated in this Annual Report such as Celebrating 30 years of sustainable investments the Willow (adaptability), the Ash (protection), the WalIn 1989 the Bank undertook its first analysis of a companut (knowledge) and the Japanese Cherry (renewal). We ny and potential investments through the lens of sustainstrongly believe that we can only serve you best as ability – one of the first done by any bank in the world. The clients if we stick to these same tried and tested qualisubsequent launch by the Bank of the first investment ties which have ensured the resilience and performance fund based on environmental criteria marked the start of our Group for over 175 years. It is reassuring to our of a success story that triggered a boom in sustainclients that we have the heritage and capacity to ably managed assets. Today, Bank J. Safra Sarasin is perform robustly even as we face another year of ecoSwitzerland’s market leader amongst private banks in nomic volatility. sustainable investments – a market enjoying an extremeIn conclusion, on behalf of the leadership team, we ly dynamic pace of growth and valued at CHF 390.6 billion would like to thank all of our clients, employees and busiin 2018. This reflects broader trends in society and politiness partners for their continued trust and confidence cal determination to implement new sustainable ways of as we continue to grow a truly exceptional global private doing business. The financial sector has a significant role bank of which we can all be proud. to play in incentivising, measuring and holding to account how companies invest in sustainable best practices. For us, sustainability is not a niche offering, but an inteIlan Hayim Edmond Michaan gral part of our brand. Our claim, “Sustainable Swiss Chairman Chief Executive Officer Private Banking since 1841”, is a clear expression of Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s commitment to ensuring that sustainability is firmly embedded in every aspect of our busiJ. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 17 Strength Market Environment Huangshan Pine | “Pinus hwangshanensis” Market Environment ened significantly in June and intensified further in the 2018 started on a strong note thanks to second half of 2018, as President Trump implemented US tax cuts. Global growth slowed in the his plans of taxing numerous Chinese imports. Rising second half, becoming particularly visible trade tensions, combined with previous policy tightening in China and Europe. in China, have weighed on capital spending and global trade in the second half of 2018. The Federal Reserve increased short-term rates by 100 basis points in 2018 as the US economy grew strongReview of 2018 ly, supported by fiscal stimulus in the form of tax cuts. 2018 has been a year of dissynchronised growth, with US 10-year yield rose by 40 basis points in 2018. They the US outgrowing other developed markets as the reached their high in November at 3.2% before dropping large fiscal stimulus enacted in January supported to 2.8% by year end as the global economic outlook worsdomestic demand and boosted investments. Chinese ened and equity markets fell significantly. German 10-year economic growth gradually lost steam, as the Chinese bond yields, however, dropped by 20 basis points in 2018 government curtailed loan growth, aiming to reduce as the European economy started to lose steam and conshadow banking as well as speculative lending activities. sequently, the ECB was expected to keep its expansionThese measures gradually reverberated through East ary monetary policy for longer than anticipated. Asia, where manufacturing indicators in export-oriented Emerging Market (EM) assets suffered losses across economies like Japan, Taiwan and South Korea started the board in 2018. The normalisation of Fed policy and a heading south during 3Q 2018. Growth in continental booming US economy sent the hunt for yield that buoyed Europe peaked in early 2018 and decelerated during the EM markets in past years into reverse. China’s economy year, reflecting the effect of slowing Chinese growth and continued to slow, while fears of a trade war with the rising oil prices. Japanese 3Q 2018 GDP growth over US triggered outflows. The difficult backdrop exposed past quarter even turned negative, while South Korean long-standing debt problems in Argentina and Turkey, export growth declined sharply in late 4Q. Ongoing diswhile Brazilian assets suffered ahead of the presidencussions between the UK and the European Union about tial election in October before recovering strongly after a post-Brexit framework failed to bear fruits, as Mrs May it. While the subsequent crises in those countries were struggled to get the negotiated deal approved by Parliacontained, fears of contagion also contributed to a genment. Trade tensions between the US and China worseral repricing of EM assets. US corporate tax cuts bolstered US earnings growth, which sustained significant outperformance of US equities until December 2018. Large US technology companies significantly contributed to this outperformance before topping in October. EM and Chinese equities drifted lower during the year. European equities gradually lost momentum during 1H 2018, as manufacturing activity slowed and Brexit uncertainty penalised British equities. They corrected more heavily in 4Q 2018 as shrinking central bank liquidity and trade war concerns put an end to the outperformance of US equities. 20 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Market Environment Outlook for 2019 of around 1.5%. A further decline in the unemployment The world economy is entering a later stage of the rate and higher wages should support domestic debusiness cycle and global growth should slow further mand, pushing core inflation higher in 2019. in 2019. However, the year is likely to be a tale of two After taking a “pause” in March, we expect the Fed to halves, with a further drop in growth momentum in the hike twice in the remainder of the year. The ECB and the first half of the year, reflecting tighter global liquidity and SNB are expected to raise rates once towards the end of lower Chinese domestic demand. As we enter the secthe year. As a result, we see scope for global long-term ond half of the year, global growth should pick up somebond yields to rise from current levels. However, the what as the effects of policy loosening in China fully move should be modest. We are already at an advanced kick in and the impact from the recent spike in financial stage in the rate cycle in the US with a slowing growth stress moderates. profile. In the euro area, the ECB will be very cautious The US should continue to grow above trend, with in tightening monetary policy. Since growth and inflation a strong labour market supporting higher wages and rates are not likely to accelerate significantly, the upside some further tightening in US monetary policy in the for European yields is also going to be limited. As far as second half of the year. However, the Bank sees trade the UK is concerned, we do not regard a “hard Brexit” a tensions posing a downside risk to 2019 growth forebase case, hence we would expect growth expectations casts. So far, the US administration has backed off from and bond yields to increase somewhat once the worst its stand-off with its allies, and trade talks with China fears are overcome. have shown some signs of progress, raising hopes that Emerging markets will face many of the same chalthe trade truce will be extended beyond February. Over lenges in 2019 as they did in 2018. In the near term, a the medium term, we expect the conflict with China to further slowdown in China’s economy and fears of a “hard remain. Hardliners in Washington view the country as a landing” will continue to challenge sentiment. While we strategic competitor to the US – on the technological, think that policy support will ultimately stabilise China’s economic and geopolitical fronts – that needs to be coneconomy in mid-year, this will probably coincide with a tained. A “permanent” threat by the US administration resumption of Fed tightening. The good news, however, is to impose higher tariffs if China fails to comply with the that valuations are now more attractive, which will create terms of the “deal” could over time deter multinationals selective opportunities for investors. to expand their supply chains in China. Equities will face more volatile conditions in 2019 and In Europe, political risks will continue to weigh on the are unlikely to repeat their performance of the past three economy. Indeed, the UK government and Parliament reyears as the global manufacturing cycle appears to have main divided over Brexit, and the latest developments passed its peak. The leadership of IT stocks has probsuggest that Article 50 will have to be extended; i.e. ably come to an end, as the US-Chinese trade tensions the UK will not leave on March 29. While there is very have engulfed the technology sector too. The decline little appetite for a disorderly Brexit, the next steps rein central bank liquidity is likely to create headwinds main uncertain. This uncertainty over the direction of for equities. A strong derating of equities in December travel will continue to weigh on the economy. Weaker 2018 has created some opportunities in terms of valuglobal growth will also be a challenge for the euro area. ation, for instance among EM equities, and should open While the external environment in 2018 was still quite the way for a rebound during the first half of the year. supportive, 2019 might be more difficult and we expect euro area growth to slow towards its long-run potential J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 21 Corporate Governance Fir Tree | “Abies” Truth Corporate J. Safra Holdings International (Luxembourg) S.A., Luxembourg, holds the entire share capital and voting Governance rights of JSSH. JSSH is ultimately owned by Mr. Joseph Y. Safra and his family. Both JSSH and BJSS are regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA). Consolidated supervision The JSS Group qualifies as a financial group within the Corporate Governance at J. Safra meaning of Article 3c al. 1 of the Swiss Banking Act, over Sarasin Holding Ltd. (“JSSH”) ensures which FINMA exercises consolidated supervision. The that the management and supervision of scope of consolidated supervision applies to all direct the Group are focused on the long-term and indirect subsidiaries, branches and representative success of the organisation to the benefit offices of the JSS Group. JSSH has delegated to BJSS governing bodies all duties, of all stakeholders. responsibilities and competencies related to the management and operation of its current business. These responsibilities include the organisation, the financial consolidaGroup structure and shareholder tion and the risk diversification as well as the supervision J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. is a holding company on a consolidated basis of the JSS Group’s activities. incorporated under the laws of Switzerland with its Accordingly the implementation of the criteria for registered office in Basel. JSSH is the shareholder of the consolidated supervision of the JSS Group is the Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd (“BJSS”) and other direct and responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Group indirect subsidiaries and, as the case may be, their Executive Board (“GEB”) of BJSS, under the auspices of branches and representative offices (each a “Group the Board of Directors of JSSH. The main functions and Company” and together the “J. Safra Sarasin Group” or departments at the level of BJSS, and in particular, the the “JSS Group”). Reference is made to the organisation following functions and departments, exercise Groupchart on page 31 and the information provided in the wide consolidated supervision on the JSS Group: section Group Companies of this report. Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd is a company incorporated • Finance under the laws of Switzerland with its registered office • Credit in Basel. It holds a banking licence and has the status • Legal and Compliance of a securities dealer. • Risk Management • Treasury & Trading • IT • Group Internal Audit The duties and responsibilities of the above functions are governed by the regulations, directives, working directives and guidelines issued by JSSH and/or BJSS. The implementation of an adequate and effective framework of consolidated supervision throughout the JSS Group ensures inter alia: • Compliance with the relevant accounting standards of the JSS Group; • Compliance with consolidated capital adequacy provisions for the JSS Group; 24 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance • Compliance with risk provisions on a consolidated Internal organisational structure basis for the JSS Group; Meetings of the Board are convened by its Chairman or, • Compliance with the liquidity requirements of the should he be impeded, by the Vice-Chairman. Meetings JSS Group; take place as often as business requires, generally • Adequate system of internal controls and supervision once a quarter. In addition, any Board member may of the governing bodies of all JSS Group entities and submit a request that a meeting be convened. Usually separation of functions; the Boards of BJSS and JSSH meet on the same day • Operation of a Group-wide system of directives, and both meetings together last several hours. In 2018, which serves as a management instrument for the the Board of JSSH met five times and the Board of BJSS implementation of regulations and processes which are met six times. necessary in the context of the consolidated supervision; Board members have access to all information • Group-wide anti-money laundering and combatting concerning the business and the affairs of the JSS the financing of terrorism; Group as may be necessary or appropriate for them to • Group-wide regulatory compliance, risk management fulfil their duties. During Board meetings, any Board and internal audit; and member is entitled to request information on any matter • Immediate access to any information required to relating to the JSS Group regardless of the agenda. ensure the integrated management of all entities The Board has set up an Audit & Risk Committee. within the JSS Group. Information and control instruments vis-à-vis Board of Directors senior management The CEO and the GEB assure the implementation of the Area of responsibility Board’s decisions and of plans and projects approved The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of JSSH is the by the Board. The GEB and the CEO are responsible for ultimate governing body of the JSS Group. It lays down the operational management of the JSS Group. the Group’s objectives and business strategy and In coordination with the Chairman of the Board, the supervises the GEB, entrusted with the management of CEO is responsible for promptly informing the Board the business. and/or the Audit & Risk Committee of any aspects of Furthermore, the Board is responsible for the financial the JSS Group or a Group Company that are material for situation and development of the JSS Group and decision-making and monitoring. approves the capital and liquidity plans, as well as the In addition, the CEO or, in certain cases, the competent financial statements. Division Head (or Function Head) provides the Board The Board is also responsible for all business with the general information it requires to carry out its matters that the Articles of Association and the law supervisory and control functions. This includes regular do not specifically reserve for the General Meeting of information about the general course of business, the shareholders. Group’s financial performance and the implementation The Board signs off the Group-wide risk management of the Group’s risk management framework. framework and is responsible for monitoring and The Board may invite the Division Heads or Business controlling the main risks of the JSS Group as required by Units Heads to Board meetings to discuss unit-specific Swiss banking regulation and the implementation of an matters. appropriate business organisation and the consolidated supervision framework. The Board delegates the running of the JSS Group to the CEO of BJSS and the GEB in accordance with the applicable Organisational Regulations and is regularly briefed by the CEO and the members of the GEB. The allocation of responsibilities between the Board, the CEO and the GEB is further specified in the Regulations on Allocation of Competencies of JSSH. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 25 Composition of the Board Since 1998, Jacob J. Safra is responsible for the main As of 31 December 2018, the composition of the Board business activities of the J. Safra Group outside of of JSSH was as follows: Brazil. From 1998 until 2005, he served as COO and subsequently CEO of Safra National Bank of New York, • Joseph Y. Safra Chairman USA, where he is currently Vice-Chairman of the Board of • Jacob J. Safra Vice-Chairman Directors (since 2015). In 2002, he became Director of • Pierre Alain Bracher Member* the Joseph Safra Foundation, a position he holds to this • Philippe Dupont Member* day. Since 2005, Jacob J. Safra is a member of the Board • Ilan Hayim Member* of Directors of BJSS (including Banque J. Safra (Suisse) * Independent member SA) and since 2008 he is Vice-Chairman of JSSH. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of various As of 31 December 2018, the composition of the Board entities of the J. Safra Group and member of the Board of BJSS was as follows: of Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Monaco) SA (from 2006 until 2014 as Vice-Chairman and since 2014 as Chairman). • Ilan Hayim Chairman In addition, since 2015 he is a member of the Board of • Pierre Alain Bracher Vice-Chairman Directors of Chiquita Brands International. • Philippe Dupont Member • Jorge A. Kininsberg Member Pierre Alain Bracher • Jacob J. Safra Member Born in 1947; Swiss national; lives in Switzerland; Chartered Accountant Diploma – EXPERTsuisse, Collectively, the members of the Board have a thorough Swiss Institute of Accounting & Tax Experts understanding of the banking and financial services sector in general and in particular of the JSS Group, as Pierre Alain Bracher joined the accounting firm Deloitte well as the global regulatory environment. Ltd, Zurich, in 1972 as junior accountant in the financial industry group. He moved to Geneva in 1974 and became Joseph Y. Safra a partner at Deloitte Ltd from 1984 until 2007. From 2007 Born in 1938; Brazilian national; lives in Switzerland until 2013, he was a member of the Board of Directors of Banque J. Safra (Suisse) SA and from 2009 until 2015 Joseph Y. Safra heads the J. Safra Group, which member of the Board of Directors of Royal Bank of Canada consists of privately owned banks under the Safra (Suisse) SA. Since 2012 Pierre Alain Bracher is member name and investment holdings in asset-based business of the Board of Directors of BJSS and JSSH. Since 2017 sectors such as real estate and agribusiness. The he is also a member of the Board of Directors of Banque J. Safra Group’s banking interests are: J. Safra Sarasin J. Safra Sarasin (Monaco) SA. Holding Ltd., headquartered in Basel, Switzerland; Banco Safra SA, headquartered in São Paulo, Brazil; Philippe Dupont and Safra National Bank of New York, headquartered in Born in 1961; Luxembourg national; lives in Luxembourg; New York City, USA, all independent from one another Master’s Degree in Law – University of Paris, France; from a consolidated supervision standpoint. Master of Laws (LL.M.) – London School of Economics From 2000 until 2012, Joseph Y. Safra was Chairman of and Political Science, UK; Member of the Luxembourg Bar the Board of Directors of Banque J. Safra (Suisse) SA. Since 2001, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors of JSSH. Philippe Dupont began his professional career as a Currently, he is also a member of the Board of Directors of lawyer in 1986. He is a founding partner of Arendt & Safra National Bank of New York, USA (since 1986). Medernach where he serves as head of the firm’s banking and finance industry group. Philippe Dupont is a member Jacob J. Safra of the Board of Directors of Pictet & Cie (Europe) SA, Born in 1975; lives in Switzerland; Luxembourg. He further acts as conciliator and arbitrator Bachelor of Sciences in Economics; Finance Major – Wharton at the International Centre for Settlement of Investment School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA Disputes of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 26 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Development. Since 2012, Philippe Dupont is member of Audit & Risk Committee the Board of Directors of BJSS and JSSH. The Board has set up an Audit & Risk Committee (ARC). As of 31 December 2018, the ARC was composed of Ilan Hayim the following members: Born in 1951; Swiss national; lives in Switzerland; Master Degree in Economics (MBA) – University of • Pierre Alain Bracher Chairman Geneva • Philippe Dupont Member • Ilan Hayim Member Ilan Hayim has extensive experience in the banking sector both at the operational level and as a member Collectively, the members of the ARC have a thorough of the Board of Directors. He started his professional understanding of all entities of the JSS Group career at Paribas (from 1975 until 1988) where he worldwide and the international banking industry and was a member of the Executive Committee. Between its regulation. The ARC maintains regular contact with 1988 and 2006, he held the CEO position in several the audit committees of the individual companies of banking institutions (Banque Unigestion, UBP Ltd, HSBC the JSS Group. It receives copies of minutes of such Guyerzeller Bank SA). In 2007, Ilan Hayim was elected committees and ensures consistent implementation of member of the Board of Directors of Unigestion Holding its own decisions within the JSS Group. SA, a position he held until 2010. Since 2013, Ilan The ARC is responsible for the definition of general Hayim is Chairman of the Board of Directors of BJSS guidelines on internal audit and financial reporting, the and a member of the Board of Directors of JSSH. monitoring and assessment of financial reporting and the integrity of the annual financial statements before Jorge A. Kininsberg they are presented to the Board for approval. Born in 1950; Brazilian national; lives in Panama; The ARC regularly receives information regarding Bachelor in Business Management – Mackenzie compliance with legal and regulatory obligations by Group University, Faculty of Economics/Accounting and Companies as well as with regard to the existence of adequate Administrative Science, São Paulo, Brazil and effective internal controls on financial reporting. The ARC is also responsible for monitoring and assessing the During his professional career, Jorge A. Kininsberg adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control systems, collected extensive experience in the banking sector specifically risk controls, compliance and internal audit. both at the managerial level and as a member of Boards The ARC sets down the standards and methodologies for of Directors. Jorge A. Kininsberg held various leading risk controls with regard to all types of risk (including legal managing positions amongst others at Banco Safra de and regulatory risks) in order to ensure compliance with Investimento SA and Banco Safra SA, São Paulo, Brazil. the principles of the risk policy adopted by the competent In 1982, he became CEO of Trade Development Bank supervisory authority, the Board or management bodies (Uruguay) S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay. Between 1985 and within the JSS Group. The ARC reviews and proposes to the 1989, he was CEO of Safra National Bank of New York, Board the JSS Group-wide framework for risk management USA. In 1990, Jorge A. Kininsberg moved to Luxembourg and its guiding principles. It controls and assesses them taking the positon as CEO and member of the Board periodically (at least annually), making recommendations of of Directors of Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Luxembourg) any required changes to that framework. SA, Luxembourg, positions he held until early 2017. The ARC assesses the regulatory audit plan, audit Between 2008 and 2015, he was member of the Board rhythm and audit results produced by Group Internal of Directors of Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Bahamas) Ltd., Audit and the external auditors. It also ensures contact Bahamas and since 2018 he was again elected to the with the external auditors at the level of the Board and Board of Directors. Since 2017, Jorge A. Kininsberg is a monitors their performance and independence as well member of the Board of Directors of BJSS. as their cooperation with Group Internal Audit. The Chairman of the ARC regularly reports its activities and findings to the Board. The Chairman of the Board of BJSS is also a member of the ARC. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 27 External audit firm GIA reports to the Boards of BJSS and JSSH and to the Deloitte Ltd has been appointed as external auditor of ARC. In addition, GIA representatives also report to the J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. and all relevant JSS Group respective board of directors and audit committees of Companies in 2013. For 2018, the audit firm and its the Group Companies for their related matters. affiliated companies were appointed by the General GIA has an independent and objective monitoring and Assembly of J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. and all relevant consulting role designed to add value and improve BJSS’s Group Companies for a one-year term for the financial and JSS Group’s operations. It helps each Group Company and the regulatory audits. Re-election is possible. to accomplish its objectives by bringing a focused and Sandro Schönenberger is the responsible partner systematic approach to evaluating and improving the leading the audit activities. He holds this function since effectiveness of risk management, control processes and 2018. Group governance by systematically assessing: Auditing fees i. the appropriateness and effectiveness of processes The JSS Group paid Deloitte Ltd and its affiliated implemented to define strategy and risk tolerance, companies fees totalling CHF 3,325,000 for services as well as the overall adherence to the strategy apconnected with the financial and regulatory audit for the proved by the Board; year 2018. ii. the appropriateness and effectiveness of governance processes; Additional fees iii. the effectiveness of risk management, including The JSS Group paid Deloitte Ltd and its affiliated whether risks are appropriately identified and concompanies fees totalling CHF 231,000 for services not trolled; connected with the financial and regulatory audit for iv. the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal the year 2018. controls, specifically whether they are commensurate with the risks taken; Information instruments pertaining to external audit v. the effectiveness and sustainability of the impleThe ARC holds regular discussions with representatives mentation of remedial actions; of the external audit firm regarding the audit planning, vi. the reliability and integrity of financial and operathe results of the audit activity in relation to supervisory tional information, i.e. whether activities are propcontrols and the preparation of financial statements, as erly, accurately and completely recorded, as well as well as the adequacy of internal control systems, in light the quality of underlying data and models; and of the Group’s risk profile. vii. the compliance with legal, regulatory and statutory During 2018, representatives of Deloitte Ltd attended requirements, as well as with internal directives six meetings of the ARC and one meeting of the Board and contractual obligations. for specific agenda items. The ARC monitors the scope and organisation of GIA has unrestricted auditing rights within the JSS the audit activity and evaluates the performance of Group. It has access to any relevant documents and the external audit firm. The audit firm and its affiliated information required to fulfil its auditing responsibilities. companies must be independent from J. Safra Sarasin GIA reports in a timely manner on all material findings Holding Ltd. and its Group Companies. directly to the Board, through the ARC and/or the GEB. Representatives of the external audit firm have direct GIA publishes at least annually a report describing access to the ARC at all times. the key audit findings and important activities during the audit period and submits this report with any Group Internal Audit (GIA) corresponding conclusions to the ARC, the GEB and the GIA is the internal audit function responsible for the external audit firm. entire JSS Group. The Board has issued regulations for GIA setting out Group Executive Board its tasks, duties and responsibilities. GIA prepares its Under the leadership of the CEO, the Group Executive audit reports without instructions from any other party. Board (GEB) has executive management responsibility 28 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance for the steering of the JSS Group and its business in of the division Trading, Treasury and Asset Management of line with the direction given by the Board. The GEB BJSS. Daniel Belfer is member of the GEB. is entitled to delegate certain responsibilities and authorities to other management bodies such as the Edmond Michaan Executive Committee or other operational committees Born in 1970; Brazilian national; lives in Switzerland; according to the relevant Organisational Regulations of Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and International BJSS and the Regulations on Allocation of Competencies Relations – Bar Ilan University, Israel, and Master of of JSSH. In his capacity as Chairman of the GEB, the Science in Management – Boston University CEO provides the Board with all information it requires to carry out its supervisory and control functions and Edmond Michaan began his professional career in 1991 requests the approval of the Board for matters which are at First International Bank of Israel. In 1995, he moved in the competence of the Board according to relevant to Brazil and started at Safra Leasing S.A. in São Paulo. internal regulations. In 1997, he joined Banco Safra SA in São Paulo first The following individuals are members of the GEB: as senior account officer and then as general manager of a local Branch. In 2001, he relocated to Geneva Stephane Astruc (Switzerland) and joined Banque J. Safra (Suisse) SA Born in 1969; French national; lives in Switzerland; where he was active in various management functions Master’s Degree in Private Law – University of Nice in the Private Banking division and after 2012 as CEO. Sophia Antipolis; Since 2013, Edmond Michaan is CEO of BJSS. He Qualified French Lawyer – Bar of Paris chairs the GEB. Stephane Astruc began his professional career in 1993 Elie Sassoon at HSBC Private Bank (Monaco) SA where his main Born in 1954; Swiss and Brazilian national; lives in responsibilities were Head of the Legal and Compliance Switzerland; department, Member of General Management and Studied Economics at the Pontificia Universidade Corporate Secretary. In 2005, he moved to Geneva Católica São Paulo, Brazil (Switzerland) and joined Banque J. Safra (Suisse) SA as Head Legal and Compliance. Since 2013, Stephane Elie Sassoon began his professional career in 1977 Astruc is General Counsel of BJSS and since April 2017, at Banco Safra SA in São Paulo where he was active member of the GEB. in various functions in the back and front office. In 1985, he joined Banque Safra (Luxembourg) SA in Daniel Belfer Luxembourg first as director of Private Banking and then Born in 1975; Brazilian national; lives in Switzerland; as managing director responsible for the operation. Bachelor of Science in Business Administration – In 2000, he moved to Geneva (Switzerland) where he Boston University, Boston, USA; CFA Charterholder joined Banque J. Safra (Suisse) SA where he was active in various management functions in the Private Banking Daniel Belfer began his professional career in 1997 at division and since 2012 as Deputy CEO. Since 2013, BancBoston Robertson Stephens Inc. in Boston, USA, Elie Sassoon is Head of the division Private Banking in the Emerging Markets Sales, Trading & Research Region II & EXAM of BJSS. He is member of the GEB. department. In 2000, he joined Safra National Bank of New York where he was responsible for Fixed Income Marcelo Szerman Trading and Structured Products. In 2004, he was Born in 1977; Brazilian national; lives in Switzerland; promoted to Head of Trading. From 2008 to 2010, he Bachelor in Business Administration – Finance – EAESP was CEO and member of the Board of Directors of Bank – Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV), São Paulo, Brazil J. Safra Sarasin (Bahamas) Ltd. In 2010, he moved to Geneva (Switzerland) where he joined Banque J. Safra Marcelo Szerman began his professional career in 1999 (Suisse) SA. In 2012, he became Head of Treasury, Trading at Brascan S.A. CTV (Brascan Holdings/Mellon Bank) & ALM and Head of Credit of JSSH and since 2013 Head in São Paulo as International Equities and Futures J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 29 Sales trader. In 2000, he joined Safra National Bank tional implementation of and trends in the compensaof New York where he acted as Vice President in the tion systems. In accordance with the Regulations on Investment Advisory Group. In 2005, he moved to Allocation of Competencies of JSSH, the Board approves Geneva (Switzerland) where he joined Banque J. Safra the annual total pool for all variable pay and the annual (Suisse) SA in the Trading & Treasury department and salary increase, including the GEB. from 2008 as CEO. From 2012 to 2013, he was CEO of The payment of variable remuneration is at the JSSH. Since 2013, Marcelo Szerman is the COO of the discretion of management and is in principle contingent JSS Group. He is a member of the GEB. on the fulfilment of certain conditions, including performance and conduct. Remuneration Employees and senior executives who hold controlling, auditing, legal, compliance and risk management Basic principles functions are generally paid a fixed salary in line with JSS Group’s compensation principles are issued by the market and the calculation of variable remuneration the Board of BJSS and govern the fundamentals of the is not directly dependent on the performance of the compensation systems for the entire JSS Group. business units, specific products or transactions. The compensation philosophy of the JSS Group is based on a transparent and sustainable approach Risk strategy and risk profile to operating a performance-related compensation Private banking and asset management are business system. Compensation is based on quantitative and activities which inevitably entail inherent direct and qualitative performance measurement criteria which indirect risks. are as objective as possible. Such criteria are graded The main risks are: according to specific responsibilities and positions held, with the aim to align reward closely with performance • Market, liquidity and financing risk and conduct of the JSS Group, the Group Company • Credit risk concerned and the individual employee. • Operational and reputational risk Any performance measurement criteria shall in • Legal conduct and compliance risk particular foster ongoing compliance with all applicable • Business and strategic risk laws, rules and internal regulations and promote the general risk awareness of employees as well as The section on Risk Management (page 49) describes encourage them to perform their business activities in a in details the main risks to which JSS Group is exposed. sustainable client-orientated manner. The Group considers that its risk management framework is a central component of its strategy, and maintaining Elements of remuneration it constantly adequate to the regulatory environment, to The JSS Group aims to offer competitive remuneration the business evolution, and to the customer needs is aligned with the market in order to attract, develop and an absolute condition for a sustainable and long-term retain employees for the long term. success. Total remuneration generally consists of fixed and The Board defines the risk strategy by which certain variable remuneration and applicable fringe benefits. risks will be avoided, mitigated or transferred, and the The elements of compensation are communicated to residual risks will be assigned a level of appetite and employees in a transparent manner and form an integral tolerance. The strategy is implemented by the GEB, part of their employment contracts. who ensures that the controls and processes are in place and efficiently performed. A sound monitoring Procedure for determining compensation and accurate reporting with a fast escalation process Certain members of the Board receive Board member complete the risk management framework. fees, graded according to position held and membership By complementing the expertise of the front units with of committees. a strong risk culture and adequate levels of controls, the The Board periodically reviews the Compensation JSS Group strives to preserve its client assets, keep a solid Rules and obtains information each year on the operacapital base and maintain its reputation in the long run. 30 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Legal structure as at 31. 12. 2018 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Basel SIBTL Holding Banque Banque J. JSS Private J. Safra Bank J. Safra Ltd., Nassau J. Safra Safra Sarasin Equity Sarasin Asset Sarasin Ltd, Sarasin (Luxembourg) Investments Management Basel (1) (Monaco) SA, SA, Fund GP (North Monaco Luxembourg S.à r.l., America) Ltd, (13) Luxembourg Geneva 52% Bank J. Safra J. Safra J. Safra J. Safra bank zweiplus J. Safra Eichenpark Bank Bank J. Safra Bank J. Safra J. Safra Sarasin Sarasin Sarasin Sarasin ltd, Zurich (2) Sarasin Verwaltungs J. Safra Sarasin Asset Sarasin Sarasin Asset (Bahamas) Asset Polska Gestion (Deutschland) GmbH, Sarasin (QFC) Management (Gibraltar) Management Ltd., Nassau Management sp. z o.o., (Monaco) SA, GmbH, Glashütten LLC, Doha (Middle East) Ltd, Gibraltar (Israel) Ltd, (11) (Bahamas) Warsaw (14) Monaco Frankfurt (in liquidation) Ltd, Dubai (4) Tel Aviv Ltd., Nassau 99.95% 57.50% J. Safra JSS Servicios Lyford JSRE Sarabet Ltd, J. Safra J. Safra JSS (Gibraltar) Sarasin S.A. de C.V., (Bahamas) Basel Sarasin Trust Sarasin Ltd, Gibraltar Asset Mexico (12) Ltd., Nassau Company Asset Management (Singapore) Management S.A., Panama Ltd., (Europe) Ltd, Singapore (7) Gibraltar (5) 99.99% J. Safra JSS JSS Global J. Safra Sarasin (U.K.) S.I.M. Sarasin & Bank JSS Sarasin Administradora Real Estate Sarasin Ltd, London Partnership Partners LLP, (Gibraltar) Nominees de Recursos Management Investment(London) Ltd, London (6) Ltd, Gibraltar (Singapore) Ltda., Company fonds Ltd, London (3) (in liquidation) Pte. Ltd., São Paulo S.à r.l., Basel (8) Singapore (10) Luxembourg 99.99% 60.59% J. Safra Sarasin Sarasin Asset Sarasin Funds Sarasin-Alpen Sarasin Fund Investment Management Management & Partners Management Funds Ltd, Ltd, London (Ireland) Ltd, Ltd, Dubai (Luxembourg) London Dublin (in liquidation) S.A., Luxembourg (9) 19% SIF Nominees UK Ltd, London Banking status Except as indicated, 100% ownership. (1) Branches in Bern, Geneva, Lugano, Lucerne, Zurich Branches abroad: Guernsey, Hong Kong, Singapore Representative offices: Tel Aviv, Warsaw (2) 42.5% with Falcon Private Bank Ltd. (3) 39.41% with Management (4) Head Office: Gibraltar – Branch: London (5) Head Office: Gibraltar – Branch: London (6) Head Office: London – Branch: Dublin (7) The Company owns the following subsidiaries: Asia Square Holdings Ltd. (BVI), Edinburgh Management Ltd. (BVI), Shenton Management Ltd. (BVI) (8) Head Office: Basel – Branches: Geneva, Zurich (9) Head Office: Luxembourg – Branch: Vienna (10) The remaining 0.01% of the shares are held by Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd (11) The remaining 0.05% of the shares are held by Fiduciary (12) The remaining 0.01% of the shares are held by SIBTL Holding Ltd. (13) Representative office: Tel Aviv (14) Not yet operational J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 31 Wisdom Group Companies Redwood | “Sequoiadendron giganteum” Group Companies Within Switzerland, Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd has offices Private banking is a global growth market, in Basel (head office), Bern, Geneva, Lucerne, Lugano presenting opportunities that the J. Safra and Zurich. It also has representative offices in Poland Sarasin Group actively seeks to exploit. and Israel and branches in Hong Kong, Singapore and The Group is represented in more than 25 Guernsey. locations in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd is recognised as a leader among full-service banks in the private banking segLatin America and the Caribbean. ment, offering all the advantages of the Swiss banking environment together with dynamic and personalised asset management and advisory services focusing on opportunities in international financial markets. Its The companies described in this chapter are the main team of highly experienced professionals develops operating companies of the J. Safra Sarasin Group. For a tailor-made products to meet the needs of clients, complete list of all companies being consolidated under as well as offering a comprehensive array of financial J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., please see the notes to the services. Financial strength, excellent client service consolidated financial statements on page 61. A chart and outstanding quality are the key elements of its showing the legal structure of the Group is available as philosophy. It provides a high level of service and part of the chapter on “Corporate Governance” on page expertise when acting as investment advisor and asset 31. All subsidiaries of J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. are manager for private and institutional clients. subject to consolidated supervision by FINMA. Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Bahamas) Ltd. Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the Bahamas, Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd was founded in 1841. As a Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Bahamas) Ltd. focuses on asset leading Swiss private bank, its many years of banking management services as well as portfolio management experience have made it consciously opt for sustainfor private clients. Its private banking operations have ability as a key component of its corporate philosophy. expanded strongly in recent years, alongside successful forays in the wider international markets. Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Monaco) SA Acquired in 2006, Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Monaco) SA is one of the largest banks in the Principality of Monaco. Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Monaco) SA delivers the services of a global bank with the flexibility and the agility of a private bank. With its trading desk, the Bank has direct and immediate access to the major international financial markets. 34 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Group Companies Basel Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Gibraltar) Ltd service, principally to private clients, in conjunction with Incorporated in 2001 with a full banking licence, Bank Sarasin & Partners LLP, London. The branch is licensed J. Safra Sarasin (Gibraltar) Ltd offers private banking and regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services services and accepts deposits both from individual Commission. clients and other banking institutions. From inception, Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Gibraltar) Ltd has maintained its Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, Hong Kong Branch growth strategy and strong capitalisation. Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, Hong Kong Branch, was established in 2010 by conversion from a Hong Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Gibraltar) Ltd, London Branch Kong-based investment services subsidiary and is Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Gibraltar) Ltd, London Branch, an authorised institution licensed by the Hong Kong started operating in 2007. It offers UK residents and Monetary Authority. The branch offers private banking international clients based in London access to one of services and accepts deposits both from individual and the world’s most important financial centres. The team corporate clients. develops comprehensive and flexible private banking services to individuals and families, as well as the full Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, Singapore Branch array of financial services to corporate clients. Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, Singapore Branch, was established in 2012 by conversion from a SingaporeBank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, Guernsey Branch based banking subsidiary and operates under a The Bank established a presence in Guernsey in wholesale bank licence granted by the Monetary 1992. The branch accepts deposits from other Authority of Singapore. The branch offers private banking institutions and institutional clients as well banking services and accepts deposits from both as offering a discretionary investment management individual and corporate clients. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 35 Bern Geneva Lucerne Lugano Zurich Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Luxembourg) SA Services Authority. It offers residents of the UAE and Established in 1985, Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Luxembourg) other international clients based in the Middle East and SA focuses on private and commercial banking, offering Africa comprehensive and bespoke advisory services. an array of products and personalised services tailored to the needs of customers. Thanks to the expertise in the Bank J. Safra Sarasin (QFC) LLC banking sector, Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Luxembourg) SA Bank J. Safra Sarasin (QFC) LLC has been incorporated meets its customers’ expectations by developing financial in 2014 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bank strategies to achieve their targets in accordance with their J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, located in the Qatar Financial Centre investment profiles. Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Luxembourg) (QFC), Doha, and operating under a licence from the QFC SA has a representative office in Israel. Regulatory Authority. It offers residents of Qatar and other international clients based in the Middle East and J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Europe) Ltd Africa comprehensive and bespoke advisory services. J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Europe) Ltd is a subsidiary of Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Gibraltar) Ltd. It J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management S.A. opened its London Branch in 2010 with the objective of Incorporated in 2008 under Panamanian laws, the focusing its offerings of services on investment funds, wholly owned subsidiary of Bank J. Safra Sarasin thus being attractive to wealth managers who want to (Bahamas) Ltd. provides investment advisory services invest across a wide range of asset classes. and operates as a broker. J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management S.A. is licensed by the National Security Bank J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management Commission of Panama. (Middle East) Ltd Bank J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Middle East) J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Bahamas) Ltd. Ltd has been incorporated in 2013 and is a wholly Incorporated in 2014 under the laws of the Bahamas, owned subsidiary of Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, located J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Bahamas) Ltd. in the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), Dubai, focuses on asset management services as well as and operating under a licence from the Dubai Financial administration and advisory services for in-house funds. Doha Dubai Gibraltar Hong Kong London 36 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Group Companies J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Israel) Ltd Ltda. offers investment advisory and discretionary asset Established in November 2017 in Tel Aviv, J. Safra management services mainly to private clients. Sarasin Asset Management (Israel) Ltd has obtained in 2018 the relevant licenses for investment marketing J. Safra Sarasin Trust Company (Singapore) Ltd. and portfolio management from the Israel Securities Incorporated under the laws of Singapore, J. Safra Authority (ISA). J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management Sarasin Trust Company (Singapore) Ltd. obtained (Israel) Ltd provides investment services mainly to its licence from the Monetary Authority of Singapore private clients. under the Trust Companies Act 2004 and commenced business in December 2010. It offers tailored trust J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management and company management services to take care of the (North America) Ltd wealth protection and succession planning needs of its Incorporated in 2018, the company has its registered clients. office and place of business in Geneva. J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (North America) Ltd is registered with Sarasin & Partners LLP the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Sarasin & Partners LLP is a London-based asset as an investment adviser and member of the Swiss management group that manages investments on Association of Asset Managers (SAAM), a self-regulatory behalf of charities, institutions, pension funds and organisation (SRO) supervised by the Swiss Financial private clients, from the UK and around the world. Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA). The business Sarasin & Partners LLP is known both as a leader in focus of the company consists in providing investment thematic investment and for long-term income and advisory and discretionary asset management services dividend management across multi-asset and equity mainly to clients resident in the United States of America. mandates. Consistent with a longer-term approach is a commitment to “stewardship” principles, embedding J. Safra Sarasin (Deutschland) GmbH environmental, social and governance considerations J. Safra Sarasin (Deutschland) GmbH is licensed under into the investment process. Sarasin & Partners LLP is § 34f German Trade Act and supervised by the Chamber 61% owned by Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd and 39% owned of Commerce. It provides investment advice and investby its partners. ment broking services in relation to domestic, foreign and EU registered open/closed-ended investment funds, bank zweiplus ltd which may be marketed in accordance with the German Incorporated in 2008 in Switzerland, it offers custody Capital Investment Code. services to clients of financial services providers, independent asset managers and insurance companies JSS Administradora de Recursos Ltda. and in so doing supports these financial intermediaries Incorporated under the laws of Brazil, it commenced in servicing their clients. bank zweiplus ltd also has business in 2017 and operates under a portfolio a sophisticated product offering specifically tailored manager license of the Brazilian Securities and Exchange to clients of financial services providers, independent Commission (CVM). JSS Administradora de Recursos asset managers and insurance companies. Luxembourg Monaco Panama Singapore Tel Aviv J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 37 Consolidated Financial Statements Walnut Tree | “Juglans” Knowledge Consolidated balance sheet 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Assets CHF 000 CHF 000 Liquid assets 7,095,720 6,812,453 Amounts due from banks 1,804,564 1,226,028 Amounts due from securities financing transactions 59,148 210,079 Amounts due from customers 10,758,968 10,554,066 Mortgage loans 3,145,738 3,133,288 Trading portfolio assets 1,655,311 1,144,188 Positive replacement values of derivative financial instruments 692,417 866,505 Other financial instruments at fair value 1,058,177 1,317,015 Financial investments 7,725,000 8,610,233 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 229,982 183,320 Non-consolidated participations 24,286 20,230 Tangible fixed assets 318,748 322,088 Intangible assets 381,049 470,682 Other assets 281,784 299,860 Total assets 35,230,892 35,170,035 Total subordinated claims 157,333 135,566 of which subject to mandatory conversion and/or debt waiver – – Liabilities Amounts due to banks 770,591 948,333 Liabilities from securities financing transactions 0 151,609 Amounts due in respect of customer deposits 26,848,174 26,107,696 Trading portfolio liabilities 8,136 0 Negative replacement values of derivative financial instruments 623,693 804,477 Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair value 805,997 1,230,926 Bond issues and central mortgage institution loans 384,303 453,372 Accrued expenses and deferred income 440,658 394,540 Other liabilities 207,681 217,296 Provisions 22,545 69,673 Reserves for general banking risks 360,742 360,742 Share capital 848,245 848,245 Capital reserve 1,745,862 1,745,862 Retained earnings reserve 1,060,990 852,811 Currency translation reserve 66,334 87,156 Minority interests in equity 689,677 582,036 Consolidated profit 347,264 315,261 of which minority interests in consolidated profit 87,513 107,082 Total liabilities 35,230,892 35,170,035 Total subordinated liabilities – 3,600 of which subject to mandatory conversion and /or debt waiver – – 40 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated off-balance sheet CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Contingent liabilities 663,626 738,821 Irrevocable commitments 18,390 17,919 Obligations to pay up shares and make further contributions 1,487 1,487 Credit commitments 0 0 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 41 Consolidated income statement CHF 000 2018 2017 Interest and discount income 448,972 356,914 Interest and dividend income from trading portfolios 0 0 Interest and dividend income from financial investments 154,490 161,681 Interest expense –194,303 –115,243 Gross result from interest operations 409,159 403,352 Changes in value adjustments for default risks and losses from interest operations –3,305 –13,008 Subtotal net result from interest operations 405,854 390,344 Commission income from securities trading and investment activities 587,031 576,638 Commission income from lending activities 3,883 4,079 Commission income from other services 68,160 59,834 Commission expense –77,084 –74,477 Subtotal result from commission business and services 581,990 566,074 Result from trading activities and the fair value option 215,805 205,107 Result from the disposal of financial investments –42 9,832 Income from participations 3,923 3,755 of which, participations recognised using the equity method 0 0 of which, from other non-consolidated participations 3,923 3,755 Result from real estate 796 651 Other ordinary income 6,210 12,410 Other ordinary expenses –5,313 –888 Subtotal other result from ordinary activities 5,574 25,760 Operating income 1,209,223 1,187,285 Personnel expenses –524,290 –494,046 General and administrative expenses –147,383 –156,751 Operating expenses –671,673 –650,797 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets and value adjustments on participations –115,547 –67,144 Changes to provisions and other value adjustments, and losses –37,591 –36,972 Operating result 384,412 432,372 Extraordinary income 251 232 Extraordinary expenses –43 –25 Changes in reserves for general banking risks 0 –77,000 Taxes –37,356 –40,318 Consolidated profit 347,264 315,261 of which minority interests in consolidated profit 87,513 107,082 42 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated cash flow statement 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 CHF 000 Source of funds Use of funds Source of funds Use of funds Consolidated profit 347,264 0 315,261 0 Change in reserves for general banking risks 0 0 77,000 0 Value adjustments on participations, depreciation and amortisation of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets 115,547 0 67,144 0 Provisions and other value adjustments 0 –46,571 15,974 0 Change in value adjustments for default risks and losses 23,388 39,125 0 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 0 –49,989 0 –9,880 Accrued expenses and deferred income 56,368 59,221 0 Other items 0 0 0 0 Previous year’s dividend 0 0 0 0 Cash flow from operating activities 446,007 563,845 Share capital 0 0 0 0 Capital reserves 0 0 0 0 Retained earnings reserve 0 0 0 0 Minority interests in equity 0 –9,967 0 –10,847 Cash flow from equity transactions –9,967 –10,847 Participating interests 0 –3,195 87,825 0 Bank building 0 –7,374 0 –80,598 Other fixed assets 0 –8,997 0 –7,263 Intangible assets 0 –11,296 0 0 Cash flow from transactions in respect of participations, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets –30,862 –36 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 43 Consolidated cash flow statement 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 CHF 000 Source of funds Use of funds Source of funds Use of funds Mediumand long-term business (>1 year) Amounts due to banks 19,453 0 0 –27,149 Amounts due in respect of customer deposits 0 –20,255 0 –418,956 Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair value 0 –78,573 396,125 0 Bonds 0 0 0 0 Central mortgage institution loans 0 –49,067 198,343 0 Loans of central issuing institutions 0 –17,035 0 –52,841 Other liabilities 0 –7,384 20,461 0 Amounts due from banks 0 –3,455 0 –96,229 Amounts due from customers 128,956 0 0 –123,402 Mortgage loans 0 –44,110 0 –83,895 Other financial instruments at fair value 0 –14,296 219,593 0 Financial investments 722,411 0 0 –38,158 Other accounts receivable 0 –197,793 422,915 0 Short-term business Amounts due to banks 0 –185,591 0 –66,766 Liabilities from securities financing transactions 0 –151,609 151,609 0 Amounts due in respect of customer deposits 1,090,106 0 252,062 0 Trading portfolio liabilities 8,136 0 0 0 Negative replacement values of derivative financial instruments 0 –176,427 182,312 0 Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair value 0 –331,863 0 –427,272 Amounts due from banks 0 –578,289 1,395,136 0 Amounts due from securities financing transactions 151,154 0 74,009 0 Amounts due from customers 0 –393,197 0 –1,017,774 Trading portfolio assets 0 –506,649 0 –184,741 Positive replacement values of derivative financial instruments 167,872 0 0 –143,853 Other financial instruments at fair value 266,847 0 0 –73,106 Financial investments 115,149 0 0 –307,508 Cash flow from banking operations –85,509 250,915 Conversion differences 0 –36,403 75,528 0 Change in liquid assets 283,267 0 879,405 0 CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Liquid assets at beginning of the year (cash) 6,812,453 5,933,048 Liquid assets at the end of the year (cash) 7,095,720 6,812,453 Change in liquid assets 283,267 879,405 44 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Presentation of the consolidated statement of changes in equity Retained Reserves Currency Share Capital earnings for general translation Minority Result of CHF 000 capital reserve reserve banking risks reserve interests the period Total Equity on 01.01.2018 848,245 1,745,862 1,060,990 360,742 87,156 689,118 4,792,113 Currency translation differences –20,822 6,954 –13,868 Dividends and other distributions –9,967 –9,967 Change in scope of consolidation 3,572 3,572 Consolidated profit 87,513 259,751 347,264 Equity on 31.12.2018 848,245 1,745,862 1,060,990 360,742 66,334 777,190 259,751 5,119,114 Share capital structure and disclosure of shareholders holding more than 5% of voting rights 31. 12. 2018 31. 12. 2017 Total DividendTotal Dividendnominal Number bearing nominal Number bearing CHF 000 value of units capital % value of units capital % J. Safra Holdings International (Luxembourg) S.A. Share capital 848,245 848,245 848,245 100% 848,245 848,245 848,245 100% J. Safra Holdings International (Luxembourg) S.A., Luxembourg, holds the entire share capital and the voting rights of J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. JSSH is ultimately owned by Mr. Joseph Y. Safra and his family. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 45 Consolidated notes Name, legal form and domicile those of its subsidiaries and branches listed on page The J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. (the “Group” or the 61. Newly acquired subsidiaries are consolidated as “Holding”) is a global banking group in private banking from the time control is transferred and deconsolidated services and asset management. As an international once control is relinquished. group committed to sustainability and well established in more than 25 locations in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Consolidation method Latin America and the Caribbean, the Group is a global Participating interests of more than 50% are wholly symbol of private banking tradition, emphasising security consolidated using the purchase method if the Group and well-managed conservative growth for clients. has the control, i.e. if the Group has the power to govern J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. is headquartered in Basel. the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Assets and liabilities, Accounting and valuation principles as well as costs and revenues, are stated in full (100%). The Group’s financial statements are presented in Minority shareholders’ interests in the net assets and accordance with Swiss accounting principles applicable net profit are stated separately in the balance sheet for Banks (Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority and the consolidated income statement. Participating FINMA Circular 2015/1), the Swiss Banking Act and the interests between 20% and 50% are consolidated Swiss Code of Obligations. Capital adequacy disclosures according to the equity method. The net profit and under FINMA Circulars 08/22 and 16/1 are published assets corresponding to such holdings are reflected in on our website www.jsafrasarasin.com. the consolidated accounts according to the percentage owned by the Group. Minor participating interests and Changes in accounting and valuation principles those of less than 20% are stated as unconsolidated Accounting and valuation principles remained unparticipations at their acquisition cost, after deduction changed. Selectively, changes to the method of presof provisions for any necessary depreciation in value. entation were made to improve the level of information When acquiring a participation, the difference between provided. Consequences are explained in the notes the book value of the acquired participation and its net where meaningful. Comparative information has been asset value is allocated to goodwill. reported accordingly. Elimination of intra-Group receivables and payables Consolidation principles All items stated in the balance sheet and income stateThe consolidated financial statements are prepared ment (including off-balance sheet transactions) resulting in accordance with the True and Fair View principle. from business relationships between Group companies The consolidation period for all Group entities is the are eliminated from the consolidated accounts. calendar year ending 31 December. The accounting and valuation principles of the entities have been adjusted, Recording of transactions where materially different, to the Group’s consolidation All transactions concluded are recorded according to the principles. settlement date accounting principle. Foreign exchange spot transactions and security transactions concluded Consolidation perimeter but not yet executed are recorded as derivative financial The consolidated financial statements comprise those instruments in the balance sheet positions “Positive of J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Basel, as well as (or negative) replacement values of derivative financial 46 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements instruments”. The corresponding assets and liabilities The statutory financial statements of J. Safra Sarasin are recorded as contract volume in the off-balance Holding Ltd. are not deemed representative of the sheet. Firm commitments to underwrite securities banking activities of the Group and are therefore not issues and money market time deposits are recognised published. at the settlement date. Cash, due from and to banks and clients Translation of foreign currencies These items are stated at their nominal value. Known Income and expenses in foreign currencies arising during and foreseeable risks are reflected in individual value the year are translated at the exchange rates prevailing adjustments, which are stated directly under the at the date of the transaction. Exchange differences corresponding headings of the balance sheet. are recorded in the statement of income. Assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies are converted Amounts due from and liabilities from securities at the daily rate of the balance sheet date. The income financing transactions statements of Group entities are translated at the yearly These items contain receivables and obligations from average rate. Main exchange rates ruling at the balance cash collateral delivered in connection with securities sheet dates are as follows: borrowing and lending transactions as well as from reverse repurchase and repurchase transactions. Currency 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 These items are stated at their nominal value. The USD/CHF 0.986 0.975 transfer of securities in connection with a securities EUR/CHF 1.127 1.170 financing transaction does not require recognition of the securities in the balance sheet when the ceding party Outright forward exchange contracts are translated at retains the economic power to dispose of the rights to the residual exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet the transferred securities. date. Profits and losses on these exchange positions are included in the foreign exchange results at the Securities and precious metals trading portfolios balance sheet date. Trading balances are valued at market price on the balance sheet date. Realised and unrealised profits Consolidated supervision and losses are included in the item “Result from trading The Group qualifies as a financial group within the activities and the fair value option”. Securities that meaning of Article 3c al. 1 of the Swiss Banking Act, over are not traded regularly are stated at their acquisition which FINMA exercises consolidated supervision. The cost, after deduction of the necessary depreciation. scope of consolidated supervision applies to all direct Interest and dividend income from trading balances and indirect subsidiaries, branches, and representative are credited to “Result from trading activities and the offices of the Group. fair value option”. The Group offsets the interest and The Holding has delegated to the Bank’s governing dividend income on trading portfolios with the cost of bodies all duties, responsibilities and competences funding from these portfolios. Income from securities related to the management and operations of its issuing operations (primary market trading activities of current business. This management includes the structured products) is recorded in the item “Result financial consolidation as well as the supervision, on a from trading activities and the fair value option”. consolidated basis, of the activities of the Group. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 47 Positive and negative replacement values Fixed assets and intangible assets of derivative financial instruments Fixed assets and intangible assets are stated at their Derivative instruments include options, futures and swaps acquisition cost. Depreciation is computed using the on equities, stock indices, foreign exchange, commodities straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the and interest rates, forward rate agreements, and forward respective assets net of impairment considered necescontracts on currencies, securities and commodities. sary as follows: Derivative instruments are marked-to-market. For trading balances, realised and unrealised profits and losses 2018 2017 are stated under the result from trading activities. Fixed assets Hedging transactions are recorded according to the rules Bank premises and applicable to the underlying position. If the underlying other buildings 50 years 50 years position is not marked-to-market then the market value Leasehold change of the hedge instrument is recorded in the improvements/ compensation account in “Other assets or liabilities”. Renovations 10–20 years 10–20 years In the case of advance sale of an interest rate hedging Furniture and machines 3–10 years 3–10 years instrument valued on the principle of accrued interest, Hardware 3–8 years 3–8 years the realised profit or loss is deferred and reported in Software 3–8 years 3–8 years the income statement over the initial duration of the instrument. If the impact of the hedging transactions is Intangible assets greater than that of the hedged positions, the surplus Goodwill 5–20 years 5–20 years fraction is treated as a trading transaction. Other intangible assets 3–10 years 3–10 years Other financial instruments at fair value The items “Other financial instruments at fair value” If, when acquiring a business, the costs of acquisition and “Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair are higher than the net assets acquired, the difference value” contain self-issued structured products without represents the acquired goodwill. The goodwill is inherent derivatives. Certificates issued are recorded capitalised in the balance sheet and amortised linearly in the balance sheet position “Liabilities from other over the estimated useful life. Other intangible assets financial instruments at fair value” at marked-to-market. consist of acquired clientele. The assets held for hedging purpose of the certificates (e.g. stocks, bonds, etc.) are recorded in the balance Impairment of non-financial assets sheet position “Other financial instruments at fair value” On the balance sheet date, the Group determines at marked-to-market. If the hedging is effected with whether there are any reasons for an impairment of derivative financial instruments, the replacement values non-financial assets. Goodwill and other intangible are recorded in the balance sheet positions “Positive assets with indeterminate useful life are checked for (or negative) replacement values of derivative financial impairment at least once a year, and also whenever instruments”. events suggest their value is too high. Any other nonfinancial assets are reviewed for impairment if there Financial investments are signs that their book value exceeds the realisable Financial investments, intended to be held until maturity amount of the fair value. The estimated fair value of date, are stated at acquisition cost, less amortisation non-financial assets is determined on the basis of three of any difference to nominal value over the period until valuation methods: maturity date (accrual method). Financial investments which are not intended to be held until maturity date, i. Comparable Transactions; shares and similar securities and rights are stated at ii. Market Comparable; and the lower of cost or market value. An impairment test is iii. Model of discounting of cash flows. performed on a regular basis to determine any potential depreciation in the credit quality of the issuer. 48 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Value adjustments and provisions on the liabilities side under accrued expenses and For all potential and identifiable risks existing at the deferred income. The tax effects arising from temporary balance sheet date, value adjustments and provisions differences between the carrying value and tax value are established on a prudent basis. Value adjustments of assets and liabilities are recorded as deferred taxes due from banks or due from customers, mortgages under provisions in the liabilities section of the balance and bonds intended to be held until maturity date are sheet or in other assets for deferred tax assets. Deferred deducted from the corresponding asset in the balance taxes are calculated using the expected tax rates. sheet. Risk management Reserves for general banking risks Structure of risk management Reserves for general banking risks can be accounted General considerations for at consolidated financial statements level only or at Achieving a high standard of risk management is not individual accounts level to cover risks inherent to the simply a question of compliance with formalised inbanking business. These reserves form part of equity ternal and external rules. Moreover, quantitative criand are subject to deferred tax. Reserves for general teria are only one component of comprehensive risk banking risks at individual account level have not been management systems. Indeed, risk awareness must be subject to tax. a key governance element to spur the appropriate risk culture and become an integral part of an organisation. Employee pension plans Only then will such risk culture demonstrate itself The Group operates a number of pension plans for its through the discipline and thoroughness with which employees in Switzerland and abroad, most of them employees perform their tasks. comprising defined contribution plans. The adjusted contributions for the period are shown as personnel costs Governance in the income statement. The corresponding adjustments The Board of Directors carries ultimate responsibility or liabilities and the claims and commitments arising in the Group’s business strategy and principles for the from legal, regulatory or contractual requirements corporate culture. It is responsible for establishing the are shown in the balance sheet. In accordance with business organisation, for issuing the necessary rules the Swiss GAAP RPC 16, a study is performed on an and regulations, and ensuring that the Group has the annual basis to assess a potential financial benefit/ adequate level of personnel and infrastructure. commitment (surplus/deficit) from the Group’s point The Board defines the risk strategy, approves the of view. A surplus is recorded only if the Group is Group-wide risk management framework, and is reslegally permitted to use this surplus either to reduce ponsible for establishing an effective risk management or reimburse the employer contributions. In the case of function and for managing the Group’s overall risks. It deficit, a provision is set up if the Group has decided ensures that the risk and control environment is adequate to or is required to participate in the financing. When and that the internal control system is efficient. The the surplus and/or deficit is recorded in the income Board of Directors formulates the Group’s risk policy and statement, it is recognised under personnel costs. In monitors its implementation by the Group Executive Board, the balance sheet, the surplus is recognised under which is responsible for running the operational business other assets, whereas a deficit is recognised under activities and for the day-to-day risk management. provisions. Risk management framework Taxes The risk management framework is developed by the Current taxes, in general income and capital taxes, are Group Executive Board and approved by the Board of calculated on the basis of the applicable tax laws and Directors. It is based on a comprehensive assessment recorded as an expense in the relevant period. One-off of the inherent risks resulting from the activities of the taxes or taxes on transactions are not included in current Group. For each of these activities, the existing controls taxes. Deferred taxes are recorded in accordance with of first, second and third level of defence are assessed requirements. Accruals of current taxes due are booked and revised if necessary. These controls, together with J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 49 other mitigating factors, will serve to derive the residual The Central Credit Committee (CCC) administers the risks which in turn are classified in the corresponding credit portfolio and controls the Group’s credit risk. It is principal risk categories. responsible for the review and approval of the Group’s Risk tolerance, defined as the level of risk that the client credit exposure and non-client counterparty limits Group is prepared to assume to achieve its business and utilisations and for the review of the Group’s credit objectives, is determined by risk category. Corresponding policy. limits are set where applicable. The Treasury Committee is responsible for the Under the responsibility of the Board of Directors, consolidated supervision of the treasury, liquidity, the Group Executive Board ensures that the necessary investment activities and cash management of the instruments and organisational structures allow for Group. It controls and manages interest rate risk, shortthe identification, monitoring and reporting of all risk term liquidity risk and midto long-term refinancing risks. categories. The Treasury Committee is mandated in particular to The elements of risk tolerance are integrated in supervise liquidity, refinancing, interest risk exposure, internal regulations, directives and policies which investment income and interest-bearing products and govern the activities performed within the Group and accounts. contribute to enforcing the risk culture. Those policies The Product Committees oversee the idea generation, and related documents define the operating limits and the development and the sales support activities describe the procedures to follow in case of breaches. for the new products offered within the Group. These A programme of training and e-learning is also designed committees bear ultimate functional responsibility for to educate and inform personnel on risks and restricthe product approval process and for managing the tions related to the activities. product development process. The risk management framework is reviewed annually. All operational committees are made up of representatives from different divisions and meet at Committees regular intervals, at least quarterly. To ensure holistic risk management, the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Board have appointed Organisation of risk management the necessary committees to deal with risks and which Risk management is structured along three lines of act as decision-making bodies for key issues and risks. defence. The first line of defence is operated by the Their roles also include the promotion of risk awareness revenue-generating and operational units. The second and compliance with the approved risk standards. line is assured by independent control units, with The Audit and Risk Committee (“ARC”) reports to unlimited access to information. The third level of the Board of Directors. The committee assesses the defence is provided by the Internal Audit function. effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk Independent controls are executed by Risk Office, control, the compliance function and internal audit. the Credit department and the Legal & Compliance It monitors the implementation of risk strategies and departments which, from an organisational perspective, ensures that they are in line with the defined risk are all independent from the first level of defence units. tolerance and risk limits. In addition, the ARC assesses This separation of functions ensures that the business the risk management framework and makes relevant units taking decisions on the level and extent of risk recommendations to the Board of Directors. exposure act independently of the departments that The Risk Committee is the Group’s highest mananalyse the risks assumed and monitor adherence agement committee concerned with risk. Its primary to limits and other competencies. This structure function is to assist the Group Executive Board and prevents potential conflicts of interest and incompatible ultimately the Board of Directors in fulfilling their objectives as early and as effectively as possible. responsibilities by implementing the risk guidelines The Chief Risk Officer heads the Risk Office set by the Board and reassessing the Group’s risk prodepartment, which is responsible for the comprehensive file. When evaluating risk, the Risk Committee takes and systematic control of risk exposure. It ensures that into consideration the findings and measures of other the risk profile of the Group is consistent with the risk committees. tolerance and limits approved in the risk management 50 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements framework. Risk Office performs in-depth analysis of the management process is the basis for the comprehensive Group’s exposure to market, treasury, non-client credit, assessment and rating of risks associated with a new operational and other risks. It anticipates risk and takes activity or process. The Group has established a clear necessary measures to adjust to the Group’s risk profile. process to detect existing or potential risks before It is responsible for ensuring compliance with the risk entering into any new business. The involvement of management process. Risk Office has developed its own all relevant business units at an early stage ensures risk infrastructure allowing for efficient risk monitoring comprehensive, cross-discipline assessment of every and robust reporting. The infrastructure undergoes new business transaction or process and its associated regular updates and enhancements. Risk Office also risks. submits periodic and ad-hoc reports to the Audit and Risk Committee, to the Group Executive Board and to Risk indicators business units. In-depth risk profiling will result in defining quantitative The Credit department analyses, grants and records and qualitative risk indicators. In the case of quantitative client credits and if necessary initiates measures to indicators and depending on the required level of prevent credit losses for the Group. Client credits include granularity, these will be measured at minimum against cash loans, contingent liabilities and transactions with an internal limit as well as a regulatory limit (if applicable). initial margin requirement such as forwards, futures Qualitative indicators are assessed in the context of the or option contracts. The Credit department defines “appetite statement” defined in the risk management credit parameters relevant to credit, such as eligibility framework. To the extent possible, these indicators are of assets for lending, lending-value rules and initial standardised throughout the Group. The Group makes margin requirement according to the type of derivative use of stress testing in order to evaluate the impact transaction. An independent team monitors the client of adverse scenarios on different elements: capital credit activity and the adherence to limits. adequacy, liquidity, interest rate sensitivity and collateral The Legal & Compliance function supports the Group value of the credit portfolios. In order to estimate the Executive Board and the management of JSSH Group financial impacts on capital adequacy, different scenarios Companies in their efforts to ensure that the Group’s are considered that can be systemic or idiosyncratic. business activities in Switzerland and abroad comply Several scenarios occur yearly while others are defined on with applicable legal and regulatory frameworks, as an ad-hoc basis. The recurrent themes are the effects of well as with generally accepted market standards and a global recession and a local recession, the impact of a practices. Compliance assures that an appropriate significant change of foreign exchange rates and interest system of directives and procedures is in place and rates and reputational damage. For each scenario, all adequate training on compliance matters is provided to possible direct and indirect consequences on the profit relevant staff. It also performs several controls of second and loss and on the equity of the Group are considered. line of defence. Other controls such as suitability and A detailed three-year schedule for capital planning and cross-border compliance are performed by the Business development describes the impact of each scenario on Development department. The Legal function guarantees capital adequacy over several years. The ARC assesses that the Group structure and business processes adhere the Group’s capital and liquidity planning and reports to a legally abiding format, particularly in the areas of them to the Board of Directors. service provision to clients and product marketing. Regular and comprehensive risk reporting on compliance Risk categories and legal risk is provided to the Audit and Risk Committee The Group is exposed to the following risks through its and the Group Executive Board. business activities and services: A clearly structured and transparent risk management process allows for the timely identification of risks, their • Market risk documentation, escalation, resolution and/or close • Liquidity risk monitoring. The process is applied to all risk categories, • Credit risk, including risk of concentration both individually and collectively. When introducing new • Operational and reputation risk, including IT and business transactions and new procedures, the risk information security risk J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 51 • Legal and compliance risk able, to meet an obligation owed to the Group or to an • Business and strategic risk individual Group company. Such potential counterparty failures may result in financial losses for the Group. Market risk Market risk refers to the risk of a loss due to changes Lending business with clients in risk parameters (share prices, interest rates and Lending activities are mainly limited to private client foreign exchange rates) in on-balanceor off-balance-sheet loans which are secured against securities or mortgages. positions. The Group is exposed to market risk on its Lending criteria are very strictly formulated and their trading book in a limited way. Specific limits are set on appropriateness is continuously reviewed. The lending different parameters at granular level. The monitoring of business with clients respects a strict separation the limits is automated and performed on an ongoing rule between front and support functions where the basis ensuring a timely intervention when justified. A clear assessment, approval and monitoring of such business and efficient escalation process is in place so that in case is performed by the latter. of breach the remediation measures are presented to the Credit is granted under a system of delegation competent limit owner. Regarding the banking book, marof authority, based on the size and risk class of the ket risk limits are in place for the interest rate and foloan, where the Central Credit Committee examines reign exchange exposures as well as regarding derivatives applications and authorises them in line with the exposures. Specifically, the exposure to interest rate risk delegated authority and the policy defined. Client loans is measured via diverging maturities of interest-sensitive and mortgages are classified by risk classes through positions per currency (gap). The interest rate risk stress an internal rating system, which considers the applied testing assesses the impact on the economic value of the lending value, the average daily turnover and dynamic balance sheet and on the projected interest income for the weightings. following twelve months. When a loan is granted, the loan-to-value ratio is established on the basis of the current value of the Liquidity risk collateral. The Group applies loan-to-value criteria The liquidity risk refers to the potential inability of the which are in line with Swiss banking industry common Group to meet its payment obligations or failure to practice. A system of alerts and internal controls is used meet requirements imposed by banking regulations. to monitor individual situations in which credit risk has The Treasury Committee is responsible for monitoring increased. The risk profile of the Group’s loan portfolio liquidity. The prime objective is to guarantee the Group’s distributed by type of exposure, risk class and collateral ability to meet its payment obligations at all times and to type is reviewed on a quarterly basis and reported to ensure compliance with legal requirements on liquidity. management. Non-performing loans and collateral A key task of the Committee is to monitor all relevant obtained are valued at liquidation value, taking into liquidity risk factors. These include money flows between account any correction for the debtor’s solvency. Offsubsidiaries and the parent company, inflows and balance-sheet transactions are also included in this outflows of client funds and changes in the availability assessment. The need for provisions is determined of liquidity reserves. As a supporting strategy, target individually for each impaired loan based on analysis bandwidths are set for surplus coverage of minimum performed according to a clearly defined procedure. liquidity. These are actively monitored and corresponding A stress testing on the collateral value of the credit measures are taken if liquidity falls below the specified portfolio is performed at least on a quarterly basis. targets. A contingency funding plan may be triggered if certain conditions are met. Stress testing allows for the Lending business with banks, governments impact of larger outflows combined with the deterioration and corporates of Group assets on the liquidity indicators to be assessed. Transactions entered into with banks, governments and corporates (non-client credit activities) may represent Credit risk direct exposures or serve the Group’s need to manage Credit or counterparty risk is the risk related to a client its foreign exchange, liquidity or interest rate risk and or a counterparty being either unable, or only partially hedge client transactions. 52 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements An internal framework regulates the granting of credit The risk of fraud is embedded in Operational Risk. In limits to non-clients. This framework is based on the order to mitigate that risk, strict procedures are in place Group’s general risk appetite, mainly measured in and their application is monitored. freely disposable capital, and the credit quality of the All operational risk incidents are notified to and respective counterparty. The Central Credit Committee analysed by Risk Office. Various reports are produced and approves and reviews the limits granted to non-client presented to the Group Executive Board. An Operational counterparties. Risk Committee meets at regular intervals to review the The limit requests and the credit analysis of the incidents and issue the necessary recommendations. respective counterparties are performed by credit The continuous measurement, reporting and assessment analysts. The limits are reviewed regularly, but at least of segment-specific key risk indicators allows potential once a year or ad-hoc if required by specific credit events. weaknesses to be detected well in advance, monitored The Group’s Risk Office is in charge of monitoring and and escalated. Ongoing risk and control self-assessment reporting all exposures on a daily basis. is performed involving representatives from all business As a general rule, the emphasis when conducting units and risk experts in order to identify and catalogue the business on the interbank market is on the quality risks and inadequacies of a specific area. If necessary, of the counterparty, but strong focus is also on risk targeted action plans are designed to decrease the risk reduction measures wherever possible. Over-the-counter level and align with the Group’s risk appetite. transactions with third-party banks are mainly executed Business Continuity Management (BCM) is designed under netting and collateralisation agreements and to maintain or restore critical business functions as lending is provided against collateral (repo transaction) quickly as possible in the event of internal or external whenever appropriate. incidents. BCM aims to minimise financial impact, and The country risk is monitored via a set framework and protect client assets as well as the Group’s reputation. limits which are both approved by the Board of Directors. The BCM plan is reviewed yearly by the BCM Board. Regular crisis management exercises are conducted to Large exposure and concentration risks validate the efficiency of the plan. Large exposure risks are monitored for every counIn addition to the BCM and the operation risk terparty and are based on the provisions of the Swiss framework, the Group mitigates potential consequences Ordinance on Capital Adequacy and Risk Diversification of risk with tailored insurance solutions. These solutions for Banks and Securities Dealers. A group of related are regularly reassessed to comply with new emerging counterparties is regarded as a single counterparty. risks (fraud, information security) and new regulations. Large exposure risks are calculated on a risk-weighted basis taking into consideration available collateral Reputational risk provided. The upper limit per counterparty is 25% Reputation is a critical element shaping stakeholders’ of the eligible capital calculated in accordance with perception of the Group’s public standing, professionthe statutory requirements. While client receivables alism, integrity and reliability. Reputational risk can be are mostly covered by readily realisable collateral defined as the existing or potential threat of negative and therefore do not represent large exposure risks commercial impacts on the Group created by stakeholdfrom a regulatory point of view, prior to entering into ers’ negative perception of the Group. It is most often an positions involving non-clients the Group’s Risk Office event which has occurred as a direct consequence of anchecks that the critical size of the concentrations is other risk materialising. To identify potential reputational not exceeded. risks at an early stage and take appropriate preventive measures, the Group strives to instil an intrinsic risk culOperational risk ture in its staff, structures and processes. Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss that arises through the inadequacy or failure of internal Legal and compliance risk procedures, people or systems, or as a consequence Legal risks relate to potential financial loss as a result of external events. It includes IT and information of the deficient drafting or implementation of contracsecurity risks. tual agreements or as a consequence of contractual J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 53 infringements or illegal and/or culpable actions. It also Explanation of the methods used for identifying default covers the deficient implementations of changes in the risks and determining the need for value adjustments legal and regulatory environment. The legal department Based on the inherent risk of a credit facility, the Group is involved as soon as a potential risk has been identified. establishes the individual Credit Risk Class (CRC) which It assesses the situation and, if appropriate, retains an in return defines the review cycle of the facility. All external lawyer with whom it works to resolve the issue. credits are regularly followed by means of a constant Such risks have been assessed and provisions have monitoring of the adherence to the credit approval and been set aside on a case-by-case basis. the Group’s credit policy. Deviations from the agreed Compliance risk is defined as the risk of legal contractual terms with regard to interest payments and/ sanctions, material financial loss, or loss to reputation or amortisation, representing potential indicators of the Group may suffer as a result of its failure to comply default risk, are detected by the aforementioned regular with laws, its own regulations, code of conduct, and credit-monitoring process and trigger a review and restandards of best/good practice. Compliance risk evaluation of the CRC. relates to many areas, such as anti-money laundering With respect to Lombard facilities, the lending values and combating the financing of terrorism, regulatory are periodically reviewed and set by the Group’s Central tax compliance, breaches of the cross-border rules, Credit Committee on an asset-by-asset basis. Any conduct risks including suitability and appropriateness lending value exceptions are approved in conjunction of products and investments, or market conduct rules. with the credit request in question. On this basis, each approved credit facility is given a CRC. Additionally, Business and strategic risk country concentration embedded within the portfolios Business and strategic risk is inherent to external or on which the Group lends is also reviewed periodically, internal events or decisions resulting in strategic and as necessary. Lombard loans are monitored daily for business objectives not being achieved. Assessment margin purposes, and in relevant periodic intervals for reviews are conducted on a regular basis to evaluate repayment purposes. At each such monitoring interval, the impact of potential strategic and business risks and the CRC of a Lombard facility or group of facilities are define mitigating measures. continuously reassessed. Any adverse change in the Group’s outlook with respect to the collateral shall, on Treatment of structured products a case-by-case basis, trigger an assessment for the Self-issued structured products containing option purpose of establishing a provision. components shall be separated in the fixed-income With respect to mortgage facilities, the value of the instrument and the embedded derivative. The fixedcollateral is assessed based on a property valuation income instrument is recognised in the balance sheet mandated by the Group and performed by a certified position “Amounts due in respect of customer deposits” value and/or property valuation tool. In addition to the and the derivative is recognised in the balance sheet risk-class-based review process and in order to detect position “Positive (or negative) replacement values a potential material decrease in market value, market of derivative financial instruments”. Assets (stocks, prices are analysed and documented against appropriate bonds derivatives from third parties, etc.) bought to regional price statistic. If prices of certain regions and/ hedge self-issued structured products are recognised or object types have significantly decreased in value or in the respective balance sheet position. For selfa corresponding decrease is deemed to be imminent issued structured products where the fair value option by the Group, the respective mortgage facilities are is applied, the product itself and the corresponding assessed individually and provisions are set aside on a hedging positions in stocks, bonds and funds are case-by-case basis. recognised in the balance sheet position “Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair value” or “Other Explanations of the valuation of collateral, in financial instruments at fair value”, respectively. particular key criteria for the calculation of current Potential derivative positions also held for hedging market value and lending value purposes are reported under “Positive (or negative) The lending business is basically limited to Lombard replacement values of derivative financial instruments”. loans and mortgages. In case of a Lombard loan, the 54 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements collateral is accepted at a percentage of its market value to manage the risk in its banking book. In order to avoid according the Group’s credit policy. The lending value asymmetric profit and loss recognition, the Group may depends on the nature, solvency, currency and fungibility apply hedge accounting if possible. Interest rate risk of of the assets. In case of a mortgage, the maximum assets and liabilities are typically hedged by interest pledge rate is defined by the Group’s credit policy, the rate swaps (IRS), but other instruments like forward rate property type and the appraised value of the property. agreements (FRA), futures or interest rate options could also be used. In order to hedge the counterparty risk of Explanations of the Group’s business policy regarding financial investments the Group can buy credit default the use of derivative financial instruments, including swap (CDS) protection. The hedge relationships with explanations relating to the use of hedge accounting underlying hedged item(s) and hedge transactions are The Group enables clients to trade different types of documented and periodically reviewed. derivatives. Client derivatives trading activities include The effectiveness of hedging transactions is measured options, forwards, futures, swaps on equities, foreign prospectively either by the differential of sensitivity to the exchange, precious metals, commodities and interest risk parameter, within a predefined corridor, of the hedged rates. The Group can trade derivative products for its item(s) and the hedging transaction, or by matching own account, either for proprietary trading or for balance the cash flows of the hedge and the risk position. The sheet management activities, as long as the necessary hedging relationships are periodically checked, whether limits are approved by the Board of Directors, or square hedged item(s) and hedging transaction are still in place client transactions in the market with third parties in and hedge effectiveness is guaranteed. order to eliminate market risk incurred through the Where the effect of the hedging transactions exceeds client transactions. the effect of the hedged items, the excess portion of the The use of derivatives in discretionary portfolio derivative financial instrument is treated as equivalent management is restricted to the transactions authorised to a trading position. The excess portion is recorded in by the Swiss Bankers’ Association asset management the profit and loss item “Result from trading activities”. guidelines and in accordance with the Group’s investment policy. Subsequent events The Group uses derivative financial instruments as No events affecting the balance sheet or income part of its balance sheet management activities in order statement are to be reported for the financial year 2018. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 55 Consolidated notes – Information on the balance sheet Breakdown of securities financing transactions (assets and liabilities) CHF 000 2018 2017 Book value of receivables from cash collateral delivered in connection with securities 59,148 210,079 borrowing and reverse repurchase transactions (before netting agreements) Book value of obligations from cash collateral received in connection with securities lending and repurchase transactions (before netting agreements) 0 151,609 Book value of securities lent in connection with securities lending or delivered as collateral in connection with securities borrowing as well as securities in own portfolio transferred in connection with repurchase agreements 150,541 276,713 with unrestricted right to resell or pledge 150,541 125,105 Fair value of securities received and serving as collateral in connection with securities lending or securities borrowed in connection with securities borrowing as well as securities received in connection with reverse repurchase agreements with an unrestricted right to resell or repledge 428,439 588,487 of which, repledged securities 2,704 1,930 of which, resold securities 0 0 56 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Presentation of collateral for loans/receivables and off-balance-sheet transactions, as well as impaired loans/receivables Mortgage Secured by Without CHF 000 collateral other collateral collateral Total Loans (before netting with value adjustments) Amounts due from customers 253,037 10,745,135 34,793 11,032,965 Mortgages loans Residential property 1,355,485 0 0 1,355,485 Office and business premises 1,444,627 0 0 1,444,627 Trade and industry 329,619 0 0 329,619 Others 16,007 0 0 16,007 Total loans (before netting with value adjustments) Current year 3,398,775 10,745,135 34,793 14,178,703 Previous year 3,392,906 10,533,361 34,587 13,960,854 Total loans (after netting with value adjustments) Current year 3,273,572 10,629,280 1,854 13,904,706 Previous year 3,272,667 10,413,348 1,339 13,687,354 Off-balance-sheet transactions Contingent liabilities 0 662,671 955 663,626 Irrevocable commitments 640 17,750 0 18,390 Obligations to pay up shares and make further contributions 0 0 1,487 1,487 Total current year 640 680,421 2,442 683,503 Previous year 0 755,662 2,565 758,227 Impaired loans Estimated Gross debt liquidation value Net debt Individual value CHF 000 amount of collateral amount adjustments Current year 403,484 129,487 273,997 273,997 Previous year 414,923 141,423 273,500 273,500 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 57 Breakdown of trading portfolios and other financial instruments at fair value (assets and liabilities) CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Assets Trading portfolios Debt securities, money market securities / transactions 804,059 358,817 of which, listed 229,768 257,302 Equity securities 361,598 316,436 Precious metals and commodities 437,810 468,935 Other trading portfolio assets 51,844 0 Other financial instruments at fair value Debt securities 144,123 496,470 Structured products 0 0 Other 914,054 820,545 Total assets 2,713,488 2,461,203 of which, determined using a valuation model 0 0 of which, securities eligible for repo transactions in accordance with liquidity requirements 0 0 Liabilities Trading portfolios Debt securities, money market securities/transactions 0 0 of which, listed 0 0 Equity securities 8,080 0 Precious metals and commodities 0 0 Other trading portfolio liabilities 56 0 Other financial instruments at fair value Debt securities 147,267 501,999 Structured products 0 0 Other 658,730 728,927 Total liabilities 814,133 1,230,926 of which, determined using a valuation model 0 0 58 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Presentation of derivative financial instruments (assets and liabilities) Positive Negative CHF 000 replacement values replacement values Contract volumes Trading instruments Interest rate instruments Forward agreements 0 0 415 Swaps 67,219 68,167 7,275,940 Futures 0 8 0 Total interest rate instruments 67,219 68,175 7,276,355 Foreign exchange Forward agreements 64,154 73,621 8,043,585 Combined interest/currency swaps 243,466 227,961 28,140,270 Futures 0 0 548,332 Options (OTC) 76,826 75,991 14,558,534 Total foreign exchange 384,446 377,573 51,290,721 Equity securities/indices Forward agreements 919 483 60,014 Futures 157 157 0 Options (OTC) 184,534 127,137 1,651,533 Options (exchange traded) 42,885 36,210 1,009,125 Total equity securities/indices 228,495 163,987 2,720,672 Precious metals Forward agreements 269 146 27,406 Swaps 3,454 4,009 229,319 Options (OTC) 4,958 4,488 396,807 Total precious metals 8,681 8,643 653,532 Credit derivatives Credit default swaps 0 14 986 Total credit derivatives 0 14 986 Other Forward agreements 45 36 121,979 Total other 45 36 121,979 Total trading instruments before netting agreements on 31.12.2018 688,886 618,428 62,064,245 Total trading instruments before netting agreements on 31.12.2017 861,649 798,317 72,638,598 Hedge instruments Interest rate instruments Swaps 3,531 5,265 329,027 Total hedge instruments on 31.12.2018 3,531 5,265 329,027 Total hedge instruments on 31.12.2017 4,856 6,160 278,885 Total before netting agreements on 31.12.2018 692,417 623,693 62,393,272 of which, determined using a valuation model 0 0 – Total before netting agreements on 31.12.2017 866,505 804,477 72,917,483 of which, determined using a valuation model 0 0 – Total after netting agreements on 31.12.2018 97,506 217,243 Total after netting agreements on 31.12.2017 164,517 277,544 Central clearing Banks and Other Breakdown by counterparty houses securities dealers customers Positive replacement values (after netting agreements) on 31.12.2018 4,014 60,370 33,122 Positive replacement values (after netting agreements) on 31.12.2017 7,676 142,420 14,421 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 59 Financial investments Book value Fair value Book value Fair value CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 Debt securities 6,938,384 6,944,752 7,731,115 7,970,107 of which, intended to be held until maturity 6,550,454 6,549,148 6,503,229 6,594,669 of which, not intended to be held to maturity (available for sale) 387,930 395,604 1,227,886 1,375,438 Equity securities 732,011 948,276 833,823 965,934 of which, qualified participations 0 0 0 0 Precious metals 0 0 0 0 Real estate 54,605 54,605 45,295 45,295 Total financial investments 7,725,000 7,947,633 8,610,233 8,981,336 of which, securities eligible for repo transactions in accordance with liquidity regulations 87,506 226,644 Breakdown of counterparties by rating BBB+ to CHF 000 AAA to AA– A+ to A– BBB– BB+ to B– Below B– Unrated Debt securities: Book value on 31.12.2018 1,809,665 2,621,590 1,226,408 884,840 4,419 391,462 Book value on 31.12.2017 1,811,256 2,396,013 1,093,291 1,985,873 5,985 438,697 The above rating is based on the credit rating of Standard & Poor’s. Participations Accumulated Book value Book Acquisition value as at Reclassi­Value value as at Market CHF 000 costs adjustments 31.12.2017 fications Additions Disposals adjustments 31.12.2018 value Participations valued using the equity method with market value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 without market value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 – Other participations with market value 20,495 –265 20,230 0 4,056 0 0 24,286 66,674 without market value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 – Total participations 20,495 –265 20,230 0 4,056 0 0 24,286 66,674 60 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Significant participating interests Share % of Direct/ Place of capital equity/ indirect incorporation Activity Currency ’000s votes ownership Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Basel Bank CHF 22,015 100.00% direct Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Gibraltar) Ltd Gibraltar Bank CHF 1,000 100.00% indirect J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Europe) Ltd Gibraltar Advisory CHF 4,000 100.00% indirect JSS (Gibraltar) Ltd Gibraltar Holding GBP 235 100.00% indirect Bank JSS (Gibraltar) Ltd Gibraltar Bank GBP 5,000 100.00% indirect Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Monaco) SA Monaco Bank EUR 67,000 100.00% direct J. Safra Sarasin Gestion (Monaco) SA Monaco Advisory EUR 160 100.00% indirect Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Luxembourg) SA Luxembourg Bank EUR 8,800 100.00% direct JSS Polska Sp. z o o. 1) Poland Advisory PLN 5 100.00% indirect JSS Private Equity Investments Fund GP S.à r.l. Luxembourg Fund Management EUR 12 100.00% direct J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (North America) SA 1) Geneva Asset Management CHF 500 100.00% direct SIBTL Holding Ltd. Bahamas Holding USD 460,932 52.00% direct J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Bahamas) Ltd. Bahamas Fund Management USD 50 52.00% indirect Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Bahamas) Ltd. Bahamas Bank USD 18,000 51.97% indirect J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management S.A. Panama Advisory USD 3,250 51.97% indirect JSS Servicios S.A. de C.V. Mexico D.F. Advisory USD 3 51.97% indirect Lyford JSRE (Bahamas) Ltd 1) Bahamas Real Estate USD 50 51.97% indirect Bank J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Middle East) Ltd Dubai Asset Management USD 22,000 100.00% indirect Bank J. Safra Sarasin (QFC) LLC Doha Asset Management USD 2,000 100.00% indirect J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management (Israel) Ltd Tel Aviv Advisory ILS 350 100.00% indirect Eichenpark Verwaltungs GmbH Glashuetten Holding EUR 25 100.00% indirect bank zweiplus ltd Zurich Bank CHF 35,000 57.50% indirect J. Safra Sarasin (Deutschland) GmbH Frankfurt Advisory EUR 1,000 100.00% indirect J. Safra Sarasin Trust Company (Singapore) Ltd. Singapore Trust Company USD 1,000 100.00% indirect Sarabet Ltd Basel Holding CHF 3,250 100.00% indirect Sarasin (U.K.) Ltd London Holding GBP 17,900 100.00% indirect S.I.M. Partnership (London) Ltd London Holding GBP 727 60.59% indirect Sarasin & Partners LLP London Asset Management GBP 15,051 60.59% indirect Sarasin Asset Management Ltd London Asset Management GBP 250 60.59% indirect Sarasin Investment Funds Ltd London Fund Management GBP 250 60.59% indirect Sarasin Funds Management (Ireland) Ltd Dublin Fund Management GBP 500 60.59% indirect JSS Administradora de Recursos Ltda. São Paulo Advisory BRL 1,711 100.00% indirect JSS Global Real Estate Management Co S.à r.l. Luxembourg Fund Management EUR 125 100.00% indirect J. Safra Sarasin Investmentfonds Ltd Basel Fund Management CHF 4,000 100.00% indirect J. Safra Sarasin Fund Management (Luxembourg) S.A. Luxembourg Fund Management EUR 1,500 100.00% indirect 1) Fully consolidated for the first time. Participations removed from the scope of consolidation cash zweiplus ltd Zurich Information CHF 1,000 28.75% indirect Non-consolidated investments in subsidiary companies SIX Group AG Zurich Stock exchange CHF 19,522 2.40% indirect PFBK Schweizerische Hypothekarinstitute AG Zurich Mortgage company CHF 900,000 0.30% indirect J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 61 Tangible fixed assets Book value Change in Book value Acquisition Accumulated as at scope of Reclassi­as at CHF 000 costs depreciation 31.12.2017 consolidation fications Additions Disposals Depreciation 31.12.2018 Real estate: bank buildings 342,072 –82,553 259,519 0 1,747 7,374 107 –5,980 262,767 Real estate: other real estate 4,985 –1,829 3,156 0 0 0 0 –83 3,073 Proprietary or separately acquired software 27,043 –21,046 5,997 –66 0 1,908 –4 –2,508 5,327 Other fixed assets 139,398 –85,982 53,416 0 –1,747 7,128 –163 –11,053 47,581 Tangible assets acquired 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 under finance leases: of which, bank buildings 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 of which, other real estate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 of which, other tangible fixed assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total fixed assets 513,498 –191,410 322,088 –66 0 16,410 –60 –19,624 318,748 Operating leases CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Remaining maturity <1 year 13,279 16,732 Remaining maturity 1 – 5 years 32,985 34,131 Remaining maturity >5 years 5,198 18,629 Total liabilities from operating lease 51,462 69,492 of which, remaining maturity <1 year that can be terminated within one year 117 261 Intangible assets Book value Book value Acquisition Accumulated as at Reclassi­as at CHF 000 costs amortisation 31.12.2017 fications Additions Disposals Amortisation 31.12.2018 Goodwill 568,333 –147,725 420,608 0 –4,437 0 –35,123 381,049 Patents 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Licences 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other intangible assets 76,838 –26,764 50,074 0 11,296 –569 –60,8001) 0 Total intangible assets 645,171 –174,489 470,682 0 6,859 –569 –95,923 381,049 1) Corresponds to the amortisation of the entire remaining inventory of “Other intangible assets” related to recent acquisitions. Book value related to these assets, previously recognized on a straight-line basis over five years from the time of acquisition, was amortised as such nontransformative intangible assets acquired were fully integrated into the core business and individual cash flows can no longer, with reasonable effort, be reliably measured with probable assumptions. 62 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Other assets/Other liabilities CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Other assets Compensation account 25,195 52,734 Deferred income taxes recognised as assets 53,197 59,467 Amount recognised as assets in respect of employer contribution reserves 0 0 Amount recognised as assets relating to other assets from pension schemes 0 0 Others 203,392 187,659 Total 281,784 299,860 Other liabilities Compensation account 14,594 11,969 Others 193,087 205,327 Total 207,681 217,296 Disclosure of assets pledged or assigned to secure own commitments and of assets under reservation of ownership Effective Effective Book value commitment Book value commitment CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2017 Financial instruments 459,424 437,476 719,948 558,311 Other assets 247,678 247,678 137,470 130,344 Total pledged assets 707,102 685,154 857,418 688,655 There are no assets under reservation of ownership. The assets are pledged for commitments from securities borrowing, for Lombard limits at central banks and for stock exchange security. Disclosure of liabilities relating to own pension schemes, and number and nature of equity instruments of the Group held by own pension schemes CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Liabilities to own pension plans 43,220 35,840 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 63 Pension schemes contributions for the period are shown as personnel The Group operates a number of pension schemes for costs in the income statement. its employees in Switzerland and abroad. Employees The purpose of the pension scheme is to provide in Switzerland are covered either by the pension fund pension benefits for employees of the Group upon of Bank J. Safra Sarasin or by the collective foundaretirement or disability and for the employees’ survition “Trianon”. These pension schemes are defined vors after their death. It manages the mandatory retirecontribution plans. Also all pension schemes based ment, survivors’ and disability benefits in accordance outside of Switzerland are defined contribution plans. with the BVG (“Berufliche Vorsorge”) in Switzerland. There is neither a surplus nor a deficit coverage. The The Group does not have any patronage funds. Employer’s contribution reserves (ECR) Result from Result from ECR in ECR in Nominal Renunciation Balance Balance personnel personnel value of use Creation sheet sheet expenses expenses CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2018 2018 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 2018 2017 Patronage funds/pension schemes 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Economic benefit /economic obligation and pension benefit expenses Change in Pension Pension the prior-year benefit benefit period or Contribuexpenses expenses Economical Economical recognised in tions within within Surplus/ part of the part of the the current concerning personnel personnel (deficit) organisation organisation result of the the business expenses expenses CHF 000 31.12.2018 1) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 period period 2018 2017 Pension schemes with surplus 63,383 0 0 0 23,043 23,043 23,113 without surplus /(deficit) 0 0 0 0 9,607 9,607 9,459 Total 63,383 0 0 0 32,650 32,650 32,572 1) At the publication date the final financial statements of the pension schemes were not available. Therefore the figures are based on the financial statements of the pension schemes 2017. The financial statements of the pension funds in Switzerland are prepared in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER 26. 64 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Presentation of issued structured products Underlying risk of the embedded derivative Valued separately Valued separately Value of Value of the host Value of the Total the host Value of the Total CHF 000 instrument derivative 31.12.2018 instrument derivative 31.12.2017 Interest rate instruments With own debenture component (oDC) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Without oDC 0 0 0 0 0 0 Equity securities With own debenture component (oDC) 703,986 –113,966 590,020 791,548 –18,316 773,232 Without oDC 0 0 0 0 0 0 Foreign currencies With own debenture component (oDC) 193,042 –794 192,248 31,253 –157 31,096 Without oDC 0 0 0 0 0 0 Commodities/precious metals With own debenture component (oDC) 882 –251 631 1,007 41 1,048 Without oDC 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 897,910 –115,011 782,899 823,808 –18,432 805,376 Presentation of bonds outstanding and mandatory convertible bonds Early Weighted Amount Year of termination average Maturity outstanding issuance possibilities interest rate date CHF 000 Issuer Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Non-subordinated 2014 no 1% 28.05.2020 154,500 Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Non-subordinated 2017–2018 no 0% 2019 153,223 Non-subordinated Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd mortgage-backed bonds 2012–2013 no 1.03% 2019–2024 76,580 Overview of maturities of bonds outstanding CHF 000 < 1 year > 1 – < 2 ys > 2 – < 3 ys > 3 – < 4 ys > 4 – < 5 ys > 5 years Total Issuer Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd 202,565 174,733 2,998 0 2,000 2,007 384,303 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 65 Presentation of value adjustments and provisions, reserves for general banking risks, and changes therein during the current year Use in conformity Change New Balance with in scope Past due creations Balance as at designated of consoReclassiCurrency interest, charged to Release as at CHF 000 31.12.2017 purpose lidation fications differences recoveries income to income 31.12.2018 Provisions for deferred taxes 18,811 0 0 0 –252 0 1,088 –16,160 3,487 Provisions for pension benefit obligations 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Provisions for default risks (off-balance sheet) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Provisions for other business risks 3,020 –153 0 0 –58 0 150 –342 2,617 Provisions for restructuring 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other provisions 47,842 –66,935 0 0 –249 0 36,253 –470 16,441 Total provisions 69,673 –67,088 0 0 –559 0 37,491 –16,972 22,545 Reserves for general banking risks 360,742 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 360,742 Value adjustments for default and country risks 290,723 –9,662 0 0 –3,454 20,083 9,651 –6,346 300,995 of which, value adjustments for default risks in respect of impaired loans/receivables 273,500 –9,662 0 0 –3,376 19,844 0 –6,309 273,997 of which, value adjustments for latent risks 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Disclosure of amounts due from/to related parties Amounts due from Amounts due to CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Holders of qualified participations – – – – Group Companies – – – – Linked companies 1,675,453 1,570,871 1,979,903 749,364 Transactions with members of governing bodies 11,359 14,817 10,525 14,025 Other related parties 49,993 32,396 1,770,287 1,246,753 Above-mentioned operations are concluded at arm’s length. Off-balance-sheet transactions with any of the above-mentioned parties are mainly foreign exchange operations. 66 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Presentation of the maturity structure of financial instruments Due within Due within Due Due within 3 to 12 12 months more than CHF 000 At sight Cancellable 3 months months to 5 years 5 years No maturity Total Liquid assets 7,095,720 0 0 0 0 0 0 7,095,720 Amounts due from banks 852,097 0 787,140 14,007 151,320 0 0 1,804,564 Amounts due from securities financing transactions 0 0 59,148 0 0 0 0 59,148 Amounts due from customers 1,441,179 356,267 6,635,332 656,968 1,294,738 374,484 0 10,758,968 Mortgage loans 4,289 0 638,555 344,569 1,899,092 259,233 0 3,145,738 Trading portfolio assets 1,655,311 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,655,311 Positive replacement values of derivative financial instruments 692,417 0 0 0 0 0 0 692,417 Other financial instruments at fair value 1,058,177 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,058,177 Financial investments 786,617 0 1,758,795 513,498 3,228,817 1,437,273 0 7,725,000 Total 31.12.2018 13,585,807 356,267 9,878,970 1,529,042 6,573,967 2,070,990 0 33,995,043 Total 31.12.2017 13,217,754 379,334 8,752,503 1,900,609 7,282,406 2,341,249 0 33,873,855 Due to banks 372,457 2,251 368,576 27,307 0 0 0 770,591 Liabilities from securities financing transactions 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Amounts due in respect of customer deposits 14,417,289 2,190,447 8,568,367 1,002,242 669,829 0 0 26,848,174 Trading portfolio liabilities 8,136 0 0 0 0 0 0 8,136 Negative replacement values of derivative financial instruments 623,693 0 0 0 0 0 0 623,693 Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair value 805,997 0 0 0 0 0 0 805,997 Bond issues and central mortgage institution loans 0 0 153,223 49,342 179,731 2,007 0 384,303 Total 31.12.2018 16,227,572 2,192,698 9,090,166 1,078,891 849,560 2,007 0 29,440,894 Total 31.12.2017 17,986,104 2,615,072 7,252,988 896,046 942,195 4,008 0 29,696,413 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 67 Assets and liabilities by domestic and foreign origin 31.12.2018 31. 12. 2017 CHF 000 Swiss Foreign Swiss Foreign Assets Liquid assets 6,637,494 458,226 6,516,667 295,786 Amounts due from banks 193,761 1,610,803 198,137 1,027,891 Amounts due from securities financing transactions 0 59,148 0 210,079 Amounts due from customers 1,059,883 9,699,085 833,361 9,720,705 Mortgage loans 584,387 2,561,351 590,982 2,542,306 Trading portfolio assets 690,960 964,351 643,549 500,639 Positive replacement values of derivative financial instruments 113,115 579,302 97,430 769,075 Other financial instruments at fair value 535,809 522,368 422,360 894,655 Financial investments 379,089 7,345,911 392,606 8,217,627 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 53,538 176,444 47,048 136,272 Non-consolidated participations 24,043 243 20,096 134 Tangible fixed assets 301,021 17,727 311,286 10,802 Intangible assets 381,049 0 433,813 36,869 Other assets 91,914 189,870 116,476 183,384 Total assets 11,046,063 24,184,829 10,623,811 24,546,224 Liabilities Amounts due to banks 312,015 458,576 364,440 583,893 Liabilities from securities financing transactions 0 0 0 151,609 Amounts due in respect of customer deposits 7,463,871 19,384,303 6,900,261 19,207,435 Trading portfolio liabilities 5,978 2,158 Negative replacement values of derivative financial instruments 102,624 521,069 90,498 713,979 Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair value 658,686 147,311 528,202 702,724 Bond issues and central mortgage institution loans 384,303 0 453,372 0 Accrued expenses and deferred income 163,364 277,294 152,097 242,443 Other liabilities 64,928 142,753 108,220 109,076 Provisions 15,693 6,852 49,817 19,856 Reserves for general banking risks 350,971 9,771 350,971 9,771 Share capital 848,245 0 848,245 0 Capital reserve 1,745,862 0 1,745,862 0 Retained earnings reserve –320,735 1,381,725 –280,401 1,133,212 Currency translation reserve 138,873 –72,539 138,873 –51,717 Minority interests in equity 22,645 667,032 18,842 563,194 Consolidated profit 52,292 294,972 54,067 261,194 Total liabilities 12,009,615 23,221,277 11,523,366 23,646,669 68 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Assets by countries/country groups 31. 12. 2018 31. 12. 2017 CHF 000 Total Part as a % Total Part as a % Europe 7,687,056 21.8% 7,578,284 21.5% Americas 11,363,695 32.2% 11,871,697 33.8% Asia 4,704,638 13.4% 4,706,517 13.4% Others 429,440 1.2% 389,726 1.1% Total foreign assets 24,184,829 68.6% 24,546,224 69.8% Switzerland 11,046,063 31.4% 10,623,811 30.2% Total assets 35,230,892 100.0% 35,170,035 100.0% Breakdown of total net foreign assets by credit rating of country groups (risk domicile view) 31. 12. 2018 31. 12. 2017 Net foreign exposure Net foreign exposure CHF 000 Part as a % CHF 000 Part as a % Standard & Poor’s AAA to AA9,313,029 90.7% 7,051,379 89.5% A+ to A955,109 9.3% 831,404 10.5% Total net foreign assets 10,268,138 100.0% 7,882,783 100.0% Basis for country ratings: Standard & Poor’s Issuer Credit Ratings Foreign Currency LT (long term). J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 69 Balance sheet by currencies CHF 000 CHF EUR USD Others Total Assets Liquid assets 6,637,483 435,945 522 21,770 7,095,720 Amounts due from banks 102,843 510,631 902,202 288,888 1,804,564 Amounts due from securities financing transactions 0 0 59,148 0 59,148 Amounts due from customers 1,074,584 1,920,984 5,912,253 1,851,147 10,758,968 Mortgage loans 684,892 665,700 432,939 1,362,207 3,145,738 Trading portfolio assets 357,568 18,732 364,301 914,710 1,655,311 Positive replacement values of derivative financial instruments 313,593 147,519 178,002 53,303 692,417 Other financial instruments at fair value 512,317 97,232 381,019 67,609 1,058,177 Financial investments 1,040,367 1,697,987 3,367,037 1,619,609 7,725,000 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 29,574 32,330 136,888 31,190 229,982 Non-consolidated participations 24,043 243 0 0 24,286 Tangible fixed assets 299,512 1,081 15,281 2,874 318,748 Intangible assets 381,049 0 0 0 381,049 Other assets 92,391 139,227 37,308 12,858 281,784 Total balance sheet assets 11,550,216 5,667,611 11,786,900 6,226,165 35,230,892 Delivery entitlements from spot exchange, forward forex and forex options transactions 5,330,608 6,446,446 19,630,244 7,860,695 39,267,993 Total assets 31.12.2018 16,880,824 12,114,057 31,417,144 14,086,860 74,498,885 Liabilities Amounts due to banks 63,197 108,310 358,666 240,418 770,591 Liabilities from securities financing transactions 0 0 0 0 0 Amounts due in respect of customer deposits 3,344,060 4,823,433 14,813,850 3,866,831 26,848,174 Trading portfolio liabilities 6,009 1,145 975 7 8,136 Negative replacement values of derivative financial instruments 241,241 122,364 208,546 51,542 623,693 Liabilities from other financial instruments at fair value 211,618 165,384 425,228 3,767 805,997 Bond issues and central mortgage institution loans 384,303 0 0 0 384,303 Accrued expenses and deferred income 97,776 197,083 100,042 45,757 440,658 Other liabilities 43,283 37,473 111,138 15,787 207,681 Provisions 14,387 8,158 0 0 22,545 Reserves for general banking risks 350,971 9,771 0 0 360,742 Share capital 848,245 0 0 0 848,245 Capital reserve 1,745,862 0 0 0 1,745,862 Retained earnings reserve 272,621 289,003 480,742 18,624 1,060,990 Currency translation reserve 138,873 –68,510 16,058 –20,087 66,334 Minority interests in equity 22,645 0 651,709 15,323 689,677 Consolidated profit 66,115 56,331 189,782 35,036 347,264 Total balance sheet liabilities 7,851,206 5,749,945 17,356,736 4,273,005 35,230,892 Delivery obligations from spot exchange, forward forex and forex options transactions 9,642,703 5,941,755 13,942,298 9,737,106 39,263,862 Total liabilities 31.12.2018 17,493,909 11,691,700 31,299,034 14,010,111 74,494,754 Net currency positions 31.12.2018 –613,085 422,357 118,110 76,479 4,131 70 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated notes – Information on off-balance-sheet transactions Breakdown and explanation of contingent assets and liabilities CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Guarantees to secure credits and similar 334,352 297,545 Performance guarantees and similar 226,084 323,352 Irrevocable commitments arising from documentary letters of credit 0 0 Others 103,190 117,924 Total contingent liabilities 663,626 738,821 Contingent assets arising from tax losses carried forward 21,243 22,965 Other contingent assets 0 0 Total contingent assets 21,243 22,965 Breakdown of credit commitments CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Commitments arising from deferred payments 0 0 Commitments arising from acceptances (for liabilities arising from acceptances in circulation) 0 0 Other credit commitments 0 0 Breakdown of fiduciary transactions CHF 000 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Fiduciary investments with third-party banks 1,252,213 883,163 Fiduciary investments with linked companies 0 320,829 Fiduciary loans 386,215 5,552 Fiduciary transactions arising from securities lending and borrowing, which the Group conducts in its own name for the account of customers 0 0 Other fiduciary transactions 0 0 Total fiduciary transactions 1,638,428 1,209,544 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 71 Breakdown of managed assets and presentation of their development CHF million 2018 2017 Type of managed assets Assets in collective investment schemes by the Group 17,530 18,673 Assets under discretionary asset management agreements 24,324 26,739 Other managed assets 122,755 124,608 Total managed assets (including double-counting) 164,609 170,019 Of which double-counted items 15,408 16,645 Development of managed assets Total managed assets (including double-counting) at beginning 170,019 148,461 +/net new money inflow or net new money outflow 4,650 4,592 +/price gains/losses, interest, dividends and currency gains/losses –10,381 15,179 +/other effects 321 1,787 Total managed assets (including double-counting) at end 164,609 170,019 Assets under management mainly comprise amounts due to customers in the form of savings and investments, along with term accounts, fiduciary investments, all duly valued assets in custody accounts and linked sight accounts. Assets under management also include assets held for investment purposes by institutional investors, companies and individual clients, along with investment funds. Discretionary managed accounts include clients’ assets with signed discretionary management mandates in favour of an entity of the Group. Other managed assets include client assets for whom one of the entities of the Group provides all services arising from stock exchange and foreign exchange transactions on the basis of instructions received, as well as safekeeping, loans and payments. Net new inflows/outflows comprise all external inflows and outflows of cash and securities recorded on client accounts. 72 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated notes – Information of the income statement Breakdown of the result from trading activities and the fair value option CHF 000 2018 2017 Breakdown by business area Trading profit with market risk 59,322 49,729 Trading profit without market risk 98,252 102,083 Trading profit from treasury activities 58,231 53,295 Total result from trading activities 215,805 205,107 Breakdown by underlying risk and based on the use of the fair value option Result from trading activities from: Interest rate instruments 86,808 14,338 Equity securities (including funds) 36,761 95,383 Foreign currencies 90,574 91,730 Commodities/precious metals 1,662 3,656 Total result from trading activities 215,805 205,107 of which, from fair value option –69,983 27,349 Disclosure of material refinancing income in the item “Interest and discount income” as well as material negative interest CHF 000 2018 2017 Material refinancing income in the item “Interest and discount income” 0 0 Material negative interest 37,372 31,947 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 73 Breakdown of personnel expenses CHF 000 2018 2017 Salaries 441,326 407,519 of which, expenses relating to share-based compensation and alternative forms of variable compensation 118,448 94,053 Social charges 66,962 68,220 Changes in book value for economic benefits and obligations arising from pension schemes 0 0 Other personnel expenses 16,002 18,307 Total personnel expenses 524,290 494,046 Breakdown of general and administrative expenses CHF 000 2018 2017 Office space expenses 31,828 36,083 Expenses for information and communications technology 16,853 18,761 Expenses for vehicles, equipment, furniture and other fixtures, as well as operating lease expenses 793 794 Fees of audit firm 3,556 3,744 of which, for financial and regulatory audits 3,325 3,450 of which, for other services 231 294 Other operating expenses 94,353 97,369 of which, compensation for any cantonal guarantee 0 0 Total general and administrative expenses 147,383 156,751 Explanations regarding material losses, extraordinary income and expenses, as well as material releases of hidden reserves, reserves for general banking risks, and value adjustments and provisions no longer required No material comments. (2017: Extraordinary expenses reflect the creation of additional reserves for general banking risks recognised at consolidated level.) Disclosure of and reasons for revaluations of participations and tangible fixed assets up to acquisition cost at maximum No revaluations of participations and tangible fixed assets up to acquistion cost have taken place. 74 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements Presentation of the operating result broken down according to domestic and foreign origin, according to the principle of permanent establishment 2018 2017 CHF 000 Swiss Foreign Total Swiss Foreign Total Net result from interest operations 169,186 236,668 405,854 177,982 212,362 390,344 Subtotal result from commission business and services 270,161 311,829 581,990 264,771 301,303 566,074 Result from trading activities and the fair value option 80,129 135,676 215,805 111,328 93,779 205,107 Subtotal other result from ordinary activities 7,485 –1,911 5,574 15,278 10,482 25,760 Operating income 526,961 682,262 1,209,223 569,359 617,926 1,187,285 Personnel expenses –286,277 –238,013 –524,290 –276,307 –217,739 –494,046 General and administrative expenses –73,817 –73,566 –147,383 –72,717 –84,034 –156,751 Subtotal operating expenses –360,094 –311,579 –671,673 –349,024 –301,773 –650,797 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets and value adjustments on participations –64,625 –50,922 –115,547 –49,217 –17,927 –67,144 Changes to provisions and other value adjustments, and losses –37,698 107 –37,591 –30,481 –6,491 –36,972 Operating result 64,544 319,868 384,412 140,637 291,735 432,372 Presentation of capital taxes, current taxes, deferred taxes, and disclosure of tax rate CHF 000 2018 2017 Current income and capital tax expenses 46,154 48,822 Allocation to provisions for deferred taxes –15,072 –11,278 Recognition of deferred income taxes 6,274 2,774 Total 37,356 40,318 The weighted average tax rate amounts to 7.8% (2017: 9.2%). In 2018, the ordinary net tax expense effect of the use of losses carried forward was CHF 7.4 million (2017: CHF 1.6 million). J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 75 Consolidated Financial Statements Deloitte AG an-Quai 38 General-Guis 8022 Zurich Switzerland 00 (0)58 279 60 Phone: +41 )58 279 6600 Fax: +41 (0 .ch www.deloitte al Meeting of To the Gener Ltd., Basel ra S ar as in Holding tatements J. S af so lid at ed Financial S the Con Auditor on ts th e Statutory cial statemen R ep or t of in g co ns ol idated finan la nc e company idated ba w e ha ve au dited the ac ch co m pr is e the consol ed auditor, Ltd., whi consolid at As statutory sin Holding t of income, to 75 ) of J. Safra Sara co ns ol id at ed statemen d no tes to the (pages 40 be r 31 , 20 18, and the ch an ge s in equity, an Decem atement of sheet as at nsolidated st en t of ca sh flows, co th e year then en ded. statem an ci al st at ements for fin consolidated cial nsibility olidated finan ar d of D ir ectors’ Respo ep ar at io n of these cons s an d the Bo e for the pr for bank D irec to rs is responsibl g pr in ci pl es applicable g an d The Board of s accountin signing, impl ementin ce with Swis y includes de ancial at em en ts in accordan re sp on si bi lit n of co nsolidated fin st la w . Th is pr ep ar at io e ts of Swiss vant to the or error. Th requiremen al co nt ro l system rele t, w he th er due to fraud un tin g an intern statemen riate acco maintaining fr ee fr om material mis g an d ap pl ying approp that ar e for selectin stance s. statements responsible in the circum of D ir ec to rs is further es th at ar e reasonable Board at unting estim making acco policies and ts based cial statemen di to r’s Re sponsibility es e co ns ol idated finan di tin g Au inion on th d Swiss Au lit y is to ex press an op an ce w ith Swiss law an in re as onable Our responsi bi te d ou r au dit in accord rf or m th e audit to obta t. We conduc an and pe om materia l on our audi e that we pl os e st an dards requir st at em en ts are free fr Th anci al Standards. nsolidated fin hether the co assurance w s and misstatemen t. the amount au di t ev id ence about nd on the to obtain lected depe pe rf or m in g procedures ts . Th e pr ocedures se t of the An audit invo lves al statemen misstatemen e co ns ol id ated financi th e ri sk s of material e ri sk disclosures in th ment of ing thos g the assess error. In mak r’s ju dg m ent, includin he th er du e to fraud or nt to the entity’s audi to w va an ci al statements, al co nt ro l system rele ocedures th at consolidated fin r co ns id er s the intern or de r to de sign audit pr on , the audito ancial statem ents in pressing an opinion assessments nsolidated fin purpose of ex n of th e co no t fo r th e ud es evaluating preparatio ci rc um st ances, but . An au dit also incl g ate in th e ntrol syst em of accountin are appropri e en tit y’s internal co d th e re asonableness an ci al ess of th licies used an olidated fin the effectiven of th e ac counting po es en ta tio n of the cons atenes s e overal l pr d the appropri evaluating th fficient an tained is su at es m ad e, as well as t ev id en ce we have ob estim that the audi We believe r audit opin ion. statements. e a basis for ou to pr ov id appropriate 76 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements sin Holdin g Ltd. J. Safra Sara utory auditor e stat Report of th ements ol id ated financial stat on the co ns r th e ye ar ended fo ce m be r 31 , 2018 De ended for the year Opinion fin an ci al statements si tio n, the results of in io n, th e consolidated vi ew of th e financial po pl es ap pl icable for In our op gi ve a true and fair Sw is s ac co unting princi , 2018 ce with December 31 in accordan io ns an d th e cash flows operat iss law. mply with Sw Banks and co ts tor Requiremen g to the Audi ep or t on Other Legal ts on lic en sing accordin d ar ticle 11 R quiremen ns (CO) an w e m ee t the legal re 72 8 Co de of Obligatio . th at ce (artic le pendence We confirm independen with our inde vers ig ht Ac t (AOA) and st an ce s in compatible O no circum at there are rd 890, we AOA) and th d Sw is s Au diting Standa ation m 3 CO an r the prepar tic le 72 8a para. 1 ite ha s be en designed fo ec tors. ce with ar ists, which ard of D ir In accordan al co nt rol system ex in st ru ct ions of the Bo an in te rn ing to th e confirm that ents accord ancial statem proved. of cons ol id at ed fin to you be ap st at em en ts submitted ancial nsolidated fin re co m m en d that the co We Deloitte AG Anick Fleury nenberger Sandro Schö dit Expert Licensed Au di to r in Ch arge Au 19 uary 27, 20 Zurich, Febr J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 77 Renewal Sustainability Report Japanese Cherry Tree | “Prunus serrulata” Sustainability Report 2018 As a thought-leader in sustainability, Bank J. Safra In the Sustainability Report 2018, J. Safra Sarasin is proactively adapting its strategy and reporting Sarasin Group documents how forwardto new global developments and standards. As such, we looking decisions help to guarantee comare among the first institutions in the financial industry mercial success. This is achieved thanks to implement the reporting recommendations from the to a first-class team of employees and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)1 in our annual report. We are convinced that risks the Group’s sustainable corporate policy, and opportunities stemming from climate change are which strives for an acceptable ecological material to our business, and have set out to consider footprint. them throughout our sustainable investments approach. We are also a member of the UN Global Compact and have decided not only to report on the Ten UN Global Compact Principles, but also on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are increasingly used as a framework by international institutions to drive the agenda towards sustainable development. The information provided in this Sustainability Report is selected and presented according to principles of completeness, balance, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. In general, the figures published in the Sustainability Report cover the J. Safra Sarasin Group as a whole, including branches and consolidated affiliates. The meaning of Corporate Sustainability for J. Safra Sarasin For J. Safra Sarasin, Corporate Sustainability means responsible and proactive governance, considering and integrating the interests of all the Group’s stakeholders into its decision-making process. Focusing on its clients, while balancing the needs of its employees as well as the requirements of the society for long-term prosperity and the integrity of the environment, is paramount for the long-term strategy of the Group. From this understanding, J. Safra Sarasin has developed five strategic Corporate Sustainability objectives. The Sustainability Report is structured in accordance with these objectives. 1) Reporting recommendations to be fully implemented over time. 80 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report 1. We embed sustainability in our corporate strategy J. Safra Sarasin and the Sustainable and governance Development Goals 2. We incorporate sustainability considerations in our The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) core investment offering adopted by all member states of the United Nations 3. We live a sustainable corporate culture (UN) in 2015 form a core element of the UN Agenda 4. We are part of the society 2030 for Sustainable Development. These goals are 5. We manage resources efficiently the plan of action for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. All Figure: The meaning of Corporate Sustainability countries and stakeholders, acting in collaborative for J. Safra Sarasin partnership, recognise that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequalSociety ity, and spur economic growth – all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests. Not only states are asked to stimulate action, but companies, the finance industry, NGOs, Employees Client and the wider society. J. Safra Sarasin contributes to the realisation of the SDGs in various ways. As one of the market Environment leaders in the Swiss sustainable investment market, the Bank integrates the concept of sustainable development into the investment process (see pages 86ff.). The Bank can now report on the impact of a specific portfolio to reach the SDGs (see pages 89-90). This report demonstrates the progress achieved in The Bank also takes its responsibility as an employ2018. er (see pages 99ff.), and acts as a responsible citizen (see pages 101ff.). Additionally, the Bank takes Bank J. Safra Sarasin becomes member its environmental footprint seriously (see pages of the UN Global Compact 103ff.). Bank J. Safra Sarasin has signed up as a member of the UN Global Compact, a principles-based framework for businesses, with a commitment to fulfil the Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. In 2018, the Swiss network of this Initiative launched the “Tour de Suisse” roadshow, featuring a documentary video to promote Corporate ResponJ. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 81 Table: J. Safra Sarasin Group’s sustainability indicators 2018 at a glance 2018 2017 2016 Financial CET1 ratio (%) 31.8 28.8 28.1 Total assets under management (billion CHF) 165 170.0 148.4 Sustainably managed assets (billion CHF) 10.7 11.5 10.9 Responsibly managed assets (billion CHF) 15.4 17.5 16.1 Volume of J. Safra Sarasin sustainable investment funds (billion CHF) 2.8 3.0 2.4 Volume of J. Safra Sarasin responsible investment funds (billion CHF) 1.5 2.0 1.0 Social Total number of employees (FTEs1) 2,151 2,155 2,095 Part-time jobs 160 177 190 Proportion of women (%) 35.4 35.4 36.1 Proportion of women in management positions (%) 15.8 13.7 12.8 Turnover rate (%) 13.9 16.8 12.4 Environmental Electricity consumption (kWh per employee) 4,599 4,631 4,662 Proportion of energy from renewable sources (%) 58 58 64 Heating energy consumption (kWh per employee) 549 466 862 Paper consumption (kg per employee) 61 63 64 Proportion of recycled paper (%) 84 86 80 Greenhouse gas emissions (kg CO 2 per employee) 1,954 1,719 2,334 Note: As a rule, all offices with more than 15 employees are integrated into the environmental indicator reporting system. At local level, estimates are used if no exact figures are available. sibility and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) sustainable investment funds (objective 2). In order in Switzerland. Bank J. Safra Sarasin participated in this to foster a sustainable corporate culture (objective 3), film to showcase the central message of the UN Global the Bank has chosen a two-pronged approach: first, Compact, i.e. that “Sustainable Business is Smart Busiby further deepening the knowledge of its employees ness”. In the short movie, which was also shown at the regarding compliant and competitive banking services, UN General Assembly in New York, the Bank describes and second, by strengthening employee relations by how sustainable investments foster innovation and viorganising employee events and awarding prizes to its able business models while mitigating risks and overloyal and highly motivated workforce. J. Safra Sarasin coming global challenges. We have included the Comhas once again also been an active sponsor in its social munication on Progress towards the Ten Principles at environment (objective 4). The Bank sponsors projects the end of this Sustainability Report. mainly in the field of philanthropy, arts and sports. Several energy efficiency-enhancing projects have been Corporate Sustainability at a glance launched in order to steadily improve the carbon footBank J. Safra Sarasin’s Corporate Sustainability Manprint of the Group (objective 5). ager serves as a facilitator and catalyst for embedding sustainability in the Group’s corporate strategy Objective 1: We embed sustainability in (objective 1). The Corporate Sustainability Board (CSB), our corporate strategy and governance which reports directly to the Group Executive Board, has Commitment to Sustainability – since 1841 rallied all major decision-makers of the Group behind Sustainability has been a firm component of J. Safra this single goal throughout the year 2018. Once again, Sarasin’s identity and stability as a Swiss private Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s Asset Management division banking group for over 175 years. J. Safra Sarasin offered its expertise to clients and launched six new does not view sustainability as an end in itself, but 1) FTE stands for full-time equivalent. 82 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report rather as a key factor in its success. Sustainability overall business strategy, identify strategically relevant enables the Group to project a distinctive image on environmental, especially climate-related, and social the market and creates continuity across time and themes, and monitor the operational implementation generations. of the strategically developed initiatives and measures J. Safra Sarasin is committed to operating its core based on environmental and social Key Performance business in a consistently sustainable manner. This Indicators (KPIs). For the Group’s business, especially is a commitment for the future. The associated princlimate-related transition risks are important over ciples and rules of corporate governance provide the the medium and long term. Policy makers all over the framework for every aspect of our business activity. world discuss possible regulatory changes to tackle The sustainability strategy is strictly implemented at climate change as a consequence of the global climate management and operational levels in order to ensure agreement. At the same time, J. Safra Sarasin sees credibility and reliability. these developments as opportunities. As pioneer in the field of sustainable investments, the Bank is The sustainability strategy of J. Safra Sarasin already at the forefront of innovating and forwardlooking products described in this report. Figure: Pyramid of sustainability strategy The mission statement of the Corporate Sustainability Board is derived from the Group’s Mission Statement. Mission statement It summarises how the J. Safra Sarasin Group regards of the Group itself in the context of sustainability, how it sets out its Mission statement environmental and social goals and how these are to be of the Corporate achieved. The mission statement consists of the five Sustainability Board strategic Corporate Sustainability objectives mentioned above. Strategic objectives The Corporate Sustainability Board was responsible for the implementation of the “Controversial Weapon Annual objectives and Guidelines of J. Safra Sarasin Group” that belong to operational actions effective risk management, where all risks and the relevant risk drivers are accurately identified, measured and assessed. The quality of risk management is not The mission statement of the J. Safra Sarasin Group, merely a question of adhering to formal internal and the mission statement of the Corporate Sustainability Board, the Group’s strategic goals as well as its annual Controversial Weapon Guidelines objectives and operational actions constitute the pyraof J. Safra Sarasin Group mid that demonstrates how J. Safra Sarasin organises J. Safra Sarasin actively meets its responsibility its sustainability strategy. when it comes to controversial weapons, and has therefore implemented a policy outlining the Group’s The Corporate Sustainability Board (CSB) principles in this area. Controversial weapons are To ensure that high sustainability standards, including those types of weapons that have become controclimate-related issues, are firmly embedded in the versial because of their humanitarian impact and/or core business strategy, the Group Executive Board the large numbers of civilian casualties they cause, set up the internal Corporate Sustainability Board, often for many years after the conflicts in which they comprising members of the Group Executive Board, were deployed have ended. They include biological, the Executive Committee and top managers from chemical and nuclear weapons, cluster munitions different divisions across the Bank. Annually, there and anti-personnel mines. J. Safra Sarasin has are several meetings to define and monitor progress committed itself not to invest its treasury in compaagainst defined strategic objectives. The Corporate nies that are active in the domain of controversial Sustainability Board’s responsibilities are to develop weapons. the sustainability strategy as part of the Group’s J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 83 external regulations. The risk awareness of decision Counsel, thereby ensuring their independence from makers is just as important. Quantitative approaches the operating business. represent only one component of a comprehensive The Group’s Code of Compliance defines the key risk management system. The development of an principles and rules of conduct which lay the foundation appropriate risk culture as part of the Group’s corporate for irreproachable business activity that demonstrates culture is of equal significance. integrity and complies with the relevant regulations. Every member of staff is required to meet the standards The Sustainability Advisory Council (SAC) set out in the Code of Compliance. Employees joining The Corporate Sustainability Board is advised by J. Safra Sarasin are obliged to submit written confirmathe external Sustainability Advisory Council. It has tion in this regard. All the key business processes are been set up to ensure that the investment division governed by internal directives and procedures and are receives regular guidance and advice relating to recent conducted in a standardised form. In the 2018 reporting developments in sustainable investment of experienced year, there were no incidents of corruption and no legal international experts. There are two to three formal actions on the basis of anticompetitive conduct or the meetings every year. The SAC provides access to the formation of cartels or monopolies. latest academic research in the field of sustainable investing. Joint presentations at internal educational Changes in the regulatory environment sessions and external client events are also part of the The rapid pace of change in the regulation of the financial SAC’s responsibilities. Furthermore, joint investment services industry has an impact on internal business research projects are conducted in order to further processes, control and monitoring systems and on improve the investment approach and benefit from the development and introduction of new products external specialist know-how and experience. and services. Projects involving all stakeholders were implemented to tackle such changes. The Group has Figure: The interaction between also put in place a training concept to ensure the the Group Executive Board, required education and ongoing training of staff, for the Corporate Sustainability Board example in the area of money-laundering prevention. and the Sustainability Advisory Council The regulatory efforts in the area of sustainable investments, particularly in the European region, deserve Group Executive special mention. The European Union has decided to Board launch a host of regulations in the field of sustainable finance. They will move from a voluntary to a compulsory basis to touch all aspects of life in financial institutions, Corporate Sustainability from the services they provide to the management of Sustainability Advisory offices, staff, etc. Depending on how extensive and farBoard Council reaching the legal basis will be, it may have a strong influence on sustainable investment activities. Legal & Compliance ISS-oekom Prime Rating J. Safra Sarasin conducts its business activities within the scope of the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions and in compliance with rules of business conduct for the banking industry. The Group Executive Board and the management of the business The Bank was awarded the ISS-oekom Prime Status. The divisions and branches/affiliates are responsible for sustainability rating agency ISS-oekom research AG ascompliance with all legal and regulatory provisions. sesses the companies’ responsibility towards persons Legal & Compliance provides support to the affected by corporate activities and the natural environmanagement in meeting this responsibility. Legal & ment. Out of a pool of 700 indicators, an average of 100 Compliance units functionally report to the General indicators is selected for each company from this pool on 84 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report an industry-specific basis so that a targeted evaluation of from macro research to constructing the investment the problems specific to that company can be carried out. universe, through to stock selection and client portfolio ISS-oekom research awards Prime Status to those comreporting. Embedding sustainability has the clear panies that are among the leaders in their industry and objective to improve investment decisions and results, which meet industry-specific minimum requirements. reduce the adverse environmental and social footprint of clients’ portfolios, generate positive impact and “Best Private Bank for Social Responsibility” promote sustainable financial markets. The Bank takes by Global Finance the United Nations supported Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) literally. Besides incorporating sustainability into every stage of the investment process, Bank J. Safra Sarasin has further developed investment-supporting activities such as the exercising of voting rights (also by retaining speIn 2018, Bank J. Safra Sarasin received the “Best cialised firms) and engaging in a strategic dialogue with Private Bank for Social Responsibility” award from decision makers of invested companies. One key aspect Global Finance. It selects the World’s Best Private of the Bank’s offering is the ability to discuss with Banks with the “wealth management teams that are clients their specific requirements across a broad specresponding most effectively to the mix of challenges trum of sustainable investing approaches and criteria, and opportunity that characterises private banking at which enables it to provide customised client solutions. the start of the 21st century.” Objective 2: We incorporate sustainability Figure: Integration of Environmental, considerations in our core investment activities Social and Governance (ESG) aspects in traditional investment analysis The basis of J. Safra Sarasin’s success is also E Environment founded on its sustainable investment strategy and its solid, sustainable know-how gleaned from 30 years of Volatility experience. A series of events in quick succession from S Social 1986 onwards – starting with the Chernobyl nuclear disaster and the spill from the Swiss chemical plant that polluted the Rhine around Basel for years – made Traditional the analysts of the Bank acutely aware that the value Investment of company shares is not determined purely by financial numbers, and that other determinant factors need to be taken into account. The first sustainability analysis in 1989 heralded a new era in company analysis. Return Liquidity Bank J. Safra Sarasin still believes that the identification, analysis and management of companyand sector-specific environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities enhance its G Governance investment decisions. This forms an integral part of its fiduciary duty vis-à-vis its advised clients as well as the discretionarily managed assets. Bank J. Safra Sarasin strives to demonstrate added value to clients in each step of the investment process: J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 85 1989 1989 1994 1994 1998 1998 2003 2003 2006 2006 2008 2008 2010 2010 2013 2013 2015 First asset First assetLaunch of world’s Launch of world’sExtension of Extension of Launch of sustainability Launch of sustainability Implementation Implementation of first Launch of first Launch of several of several Launch of Launch Launch of of Sustainable Launch of Sustainable International Intern management management first eco-efficiency first eco-efficiency sustainability sustainability ratings for sovereign ratings for sovereign sustainable mandates sustainable mandates single and multi single and multi sustainable sustainable Investing 2.0 Investing – imple2.0 – implevisibility with joint visibility wit mandates mandates fund (listed fund (listed analysis to analysis to bonds and public financial bonds and public financial for private clients for private and clients thematic and equity thematic equity emerging emerging mentation alongmentation the along the PRI ReP defined by ecodefined byequities eco& bonds) equities & bonds) small & mid-capsmall & mid-cap institutions institutions managed fundmanagedportfoliosfund portfolios strategies strategies markets fund markets investment fund process investment process search & Inno-search logical criterialogical criteria equity universeequity universe 2009 2009 2009 2009 2014 2014 vation events vation Private clients’ Private mandates mandates clients’Launch of Launch of New Corporate Sustainability Corporate Sustainability New Board andBoard and Respo Responsible managed along sustainability managed along sustainability direct chaired by Executive chaired Management direct by Executive Management Investor In criteria sustainability sus tainability estate funds real criteria Member; NewMember; external New real estate funds external Sustainability Sustainability Pension Fund Pensio Advisory CouncilAdvisory Council Awards 1960 1970 1970 1980 1980 1990 1990 2000 2000 2010 2010 Key events, objectives Key events, Illustration: Key events, objectives and approaches andobjectives approaches and approaches World events World triggering events of sustainable risetriggering rise ofinvesting sustainable investing 1986 1986 1992 1992 1997 19972000 2000 2005 2005 2008 2008 2010 2011 2010 2011 2013 2013 Nuclear meltdownNuclear in Chernobyl Fire and in Chernobyl meltdown(Russia); (Russia); Fire and First UN-led First UN-led Signing of Signing 189ofcountries189 countries of of international Introduction ofIntroductionStart Deepwater Horizon Start of international Deepwater Horizon Fukushima Fukushima Rana Plaza disaster Rana Plaza disaster related chemical related spill chemical fire in Basel (Switzerland) spill(Switzerland) fire in Basel Conference onConference the global CO2 on the global adopt CO2 the UN adopt the UN first world’s first world’s banking and banking and explosion andexplosion Daiichi and Daiichi in textile factory in textile factory 1987 1987 Environment and Environment andreduction reduction Millennium Millennium carbon emissions carbon emissions financial crisisfinancial large crisis large oil spill nuclear oil spill in in nuclear left (Bangladesh) (Bangladesh) left Brundtland Report: Brundtland commonlyReport: agreed commonly agreed in Development Development in Kyoto KyotoDevelopment Development in trading systemtrading system in Gulf of MexicoGulf of disaster Mexico more disaster than 1100more than 1100 dead dead definition ofdevelopment definition of sustainable sustainable development Rio de JaneiroRio Protocol de Janeiro (Brazil) (Brazil) Protocol Goals (MDG) Goals (MDG) the European the Union European Union and 3000 injuredand 3000 injured International milestones International in milestones sustainableininvesting sustainable investing 1970 1970 1994 1994 early 2000 early 2000 2006 2006 2006 2006mid-2000 mid-2000 2014 2014 First ethical First ethical “Triple Bottom“Triple Bottom Line Investing”: Line Investing”: Launch of Launch of Launch of newLaunch terminology terminology of new Launch of the UN Launch Double-digit of the UN sustainDouble-digit sustainFossil fuel divestment Fossil fuelcampaigns divestment gain campaigns gain investment investment Investment concept Investment concept considering considering sustainable sustainable for sustainableforinvesting sustainable investing by PRI: sponsored by PRI:Princisponsored able investing Princiablemarket investing market momentum inmomentum Anglosaxonincountries Anglosaxon countries funds funds economic, environmental economic, environmental thematic listedthematic listed Environmental,Environmental, Social and ples for and Social Responsiples for growth growth in all world in all world Responsi2014 2014 and social factors and social factors equity funds equity funds Governance (ESG) Governance Investing(ESG) bleInvesting ble Investing Investing (PRI) regions (PRI) led byregions Europe led by Europe Launch of UN Launch PRI Montreal of UN Carbon PRI Montreal PledgeCarbon Pledge Sustainable Sustainable investing at Bank J. Safra investing at Bank SarasinJ. Safra Sarasin 1989 1989 1994 1994 1998 1998 2003 2003 2006 2006 2008 2008 2010 2010 2013 2013 First asset First assetLaunch of world’s Launch of world’sExtension of Extension of Launch of sustainability Launch of sustainability Implementation Implementation of first Launch of first of several Launch of several Launch of Launch Launchof of Sustainable Launch of Sustainable management management first eco-efficiency first eco-efficiency sustainability sustainability ratings for sovereign sustainable mandates ratings for sovereign sustainable mandates single and multi single and multi sustainable sustainable Investing 2.0 Investing – imple2.0 – implemandates mandates fund (listed fund (listed analysis to analysis to bonds bonds and public financial and public financial for private clients and clients for private thematic and equity thematic equity emerging emerging mentation alongmentation the along the defined by ecodefined byequities eco& bonds) equities & bonds) small & mid-capsmall & mid-cap managed fundmanaged institutions institutions portfoliosfund portfolios strategies strategies markets fund markets investment fund process investment process logical criterialogical criteria equity universeequity universe 2009 2009 2009 2009 2014 2014 Private clients’ mandates clients’Launch mandates Private of Launch of New Corporate Board Corporate Sustainability Sustainability New Board managed along sustainability managed along sustainability direct chaired by Executive chaired Management direct by Executive Management criteria sustainability sus tainability estate funds real criteria Member; NewMember; external New real estate funds external Sustainability Sustainability Advisory CouncilAdvisory Council 1970 1970 1980 1980 1990 1990 2000 2000 2010 2010 J. Safra Sarasin’s Sustainable Investment Process ratings) which can be combined and displayed in the Bank’s proprietary Sarasin Sustainability Matrix® (see page 88). In exposed industries with low sustainability ratings, such as oil and gas or materials, companies must achieve a high company rating to be included in the sustainable The investment process comprises the following four steps: investment universe, whereas in less-exposed industries (e.g. telecommunication, IT) companies must only achieve 1. Industry Analysis an average company score to be included. The x-axis of the The Industry Analysis identifies long-term investment Sarasin Sustainability Matrix® displays the industry rating drivers, which differ between industries. It focuses on score between 0 (low) and 5 (high). The y-axis displays the understanding how industry structure and demand or company rating score between 0 (low) and 5 (high). supply dynamics drive competitiveness, assessing The shaded area contains Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s susthe industry’s drivers of profitability and identifying tainable investment universe. The white area underneath the key industry metrics. These include sustainability contains the companies which the Bank excludes from mega trends such as climate change or demographical the universe due to insufficient sustainability ratings. change. Among the ESG key issues of each industry, we identify those that are potentially financial material. Figure: Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s Sustainable Investment Process at a glance 2. Sustainability Analysis The Sustainability Analysis assesses and compares a Industry Sustainability Sustainable Portfolio Analysis Analysis Investment Construction company’s ability to manage its Environmental, Social and (Industry Key and sustainability (Sarasin Sustainability Analysis (Coverage List) (Fund or Mandate Governance (ESG) risks and opportunities, (such as those issues) Matrix®) Portfolio) arising from climate change), relative to its industry peers. Several ESG key issues are common to all industries: in particular the governance issues such as board structure, 3. Sustainable Investment Analysis remuneration, shareholder ownership & control rights. Other The third step of the investment process, the Suskey issues are more important in some industries and/or tainable Investment Analysis, draws on the fundamenspecific to only a few industries (e.g. carbon footprint or tal understanding of the industry which Bank J. Safra water risk). The methodology takes these differences into Sarasin acquires in the first step “Industry Analysis”. In account by selecting and weighting key issues by sector this step, Bank J. Safra Sarasin identifies the industryon the basis of Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s Industry Analysis. specific financially material sustainability aspects which The Sustainability Analysis allows the Bank to produce the Bank integrates into its investment analysis. It uses two scores (company ratings and respective industry both qualitative and quantitative tools. 86 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 2016 2016 2017 2018 Launch of Relaunch of the Active Introduction 6 additional Portfolio ESG Ownership-approach, of the Impact sustainable Analysis & incl. Customized Proxy Monitoring funds launched Reporting Voting Policy for Private & Sustainability Report Institutional Clients List of exclusion criteria 2015 VW “Diesel2015 Launch of UN Sustain2017 Publication of the final FSB Task 2018 Adoption of the action A preliminary step of the Sustainability Analysis is the Scandal” able Development Goals & Force on Climate-related Financial plan on sustainable with grossly the UN Climate Change Disclosures (TCFD) finance by the Europescreening for controversial business activities and understated Agreement COP 21 Recommendations report an Commission emissions practices. Bank J. Safra Sarasin applies several stan2015 Release of Pope 2016 Volume of sustain2017 ¼ of all AuM globally are invested dard criteria in order to exclude business practices Francis Encyclical on climate change able in vestments in Switzerland exaccording to sustainability criteria which are in breach of global norms and/or highly conand the environment ceeds CHF 195 bln troversial business activities. The standard set for 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 International Launch of Relaunch of the Active Introduction 6 additional controversial business activities screening is embedvisibility with joint Portfolio ESG Ownership-approach, of the Impact sustainable PRI Research & InnoAnalysis & Reporting incl. Customised Proxy Voting Policy Monitoring funds launched ded in all our Sustainable Investment Strategies. vation events for Private & and Responsible InstitutioBank J. Safra Sarasin introduced the exclusion Investor nal Clients Pension Fund Awards criterion “coal”. This exclusion is part of the Bank’s commitment to address climate change and building on a 2°C scenario as outlined at the Paris Summit on Climate Change (COP21). 4. Portfolio Construction In particular, the Bank excludes companies that The Portfolio Construction process relies on a quantitahave a significant involvement in coal-mining or coaltive multifactor risk model to construct portfolios and to power-generation activities while lacking an approcontrol external risks. priate climate and transition strategy to tackle the resulting physical risks. “4-pillar climate strategy for managing climate-related A list of exclusion criteria is applied to all sustainrisks & opportunities in the portfolios” able and responsible investment strategies. They In December 2015, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) reflect the relevant ethical and financial risks. Comestablished the industry-led Task Force on Climatepanies with the following activities are excluded from related Financial Disclosures (TCFD or Task Force) to the investment universe: develop a set of recommendations for voluntary and consistent climate-related disclosures in mainstream Short description filings. As short-, mediumand long-term climate-related risks and opportunities are material for any organisation, Criterion Short description companies will be better guided in providing information to Nuclear Companies that own or operate nuclear power Energy plants (utilities) and companies that supply investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders. As key nuclear-specific products or services to sustainable investors, we are convinced of the financial the nuclear power industry (suppliers) materiality of transition and physical risks arising from Coal Companies that simultaneously have a significant climate change while embracing the opportunities from its involvement in the coal business and lack a solid transition strategy towards a low-carbon economy mitigation efforts. To fulfil this pledge, we have developed GMO – Companies that genetically modify organisms for a comprehensive strategy based on 4 pillars: Agriculture agricultural use GMO – Human cloning and other manipulations of the 1) Smart Divestment: selectively excluding companies Medicine human gene line Defence and Producers of civilian firearms, conventional The Bank’s approach, based on companies’ exposure to Armament weapons (systems and critical components) and coal and their mitigation strategies, led it to formalise weapon support systems & services (e.g. weapon the exclusion of a number of firms from its investable control systems, target navigation systems, etc.) universe. As a starting point, we screen our universe and Tobacco Producers of tobacco products identify companies with a significant share of revenues Adult Producers of adult entertainment materials Entertainment and/or activity related to coal. We have defined an Violation of Companies involved in severe violations of ambitious threshold of 20% considering coal’s current Human Rights human rights. This criterion takes into account share in the global energy mix and its trajectory in a established international standards and principles (e.g. UN Global Compact) 2°C scenario. In sectors such as mining, we consider companies’ sales exposure to coal, while the generation J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 87 Case study ABB: A Leading European Clean Tech Player resource stewardship to ensure continuity, quality and In an interconnected and energy-intensive world, power efficiency of the business while avoiding reputational networks are the most critical infrastructures. damage and related (legal) costs. Finally, the compaThe future of power grids is defined by key sustainnies operate in a global context and also have public ability trends: entities as clients, and face corruption-related risks. Thorough business ethics rules and implementation · Increasing share of electricity from renewable mechanisms are therefore critical to develop and mainsources with irregular supply and storage needs tain the license to operate. These elements are integral · Electrification of transport and mobility reshaping to Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s sustainability ratings which demand serve as a basis to define our investment universe. · Energy efficiency, management of complexity and For example, ABB, a Swiss-based industrial company, interconnected objects and services from industrial addresses the full scope of sustainability issues automation to consumer experience typical to its business with convincing measures. Indeed, on the operational side, environmental impact For electrical equipment companies this implies major of operations and working safety risks are mitigated technological evolutions and renewed business models through adequate mechanisms including independent with strong services components to address energy external reviews and certifications. Likewise, ABB’s management challenges and complex applications. broad clean tech positioning, notably around clean Simultaneously, companies embracing these trends will mobility and industrial automation, provides significant benefit from increased opportunities, for example with sustainability opportunities already accounting for half electric mobility: from grids extensions and upgrades of the company’s revenue. Progress is nevertheless to charging stations and services through to demand/ possible to better manage operational continuity and supply management. quality risks related to labour issues. The company To benefit from such opportunities, electrical equipis indeed compliant in this regard but faces higher ment companies must also address material sustainchallenges given its scale (ca. 140,000 employees ability risks that are inherent to their business, e.g. worldwide). Finally, governance practices are in line by reducing the footprint of the production process with its peers. Overall, and on a relative basis, ABB from sourcing to waste management. From a social displays high sustainability credentials and is therefore perspective, labour-intensive and relatively hazardous eligible to the sustainable investment universe. operations require a high level of safety and human Figure: Criteria and weightings applied to assess Figure: Sarasin Sustainability Matrix® of the companies in the electrical-equipment industry electrical-equipment industry Operations Costs Revenues 5 Environment (50%) ABB Schneider Electric Se Business Opportunities in Clean Tech Development Osram Licht Capex 4 Toxic Emissions and Waste Legrand Extraordinary Social (20%) Rockwell Automation Nidec Company Rating Continuity 3 Labour Management Opex Quality Capex Health and Safety Extraordinary 2 Governance (30%) Corporate Governance Quality Cost of Capital Extraordinary Business 1 Corruption and Instability Preservation Potential impact on the related value driver Null or Limited Medium High 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 Source: J. Safra Sarasin, 2018 Industry Rating 88 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report mix provides the best insight for utilities. The second J. Safra Sarasin’s climate investment strategy is mix provides the best insight for utilities. The second J. Safra Sarasin’s climate investment strategy is step of our divestment process is a qualitative review complemented by an in-depth climate portfolio step of our divestment process is a qualitative review complemented by an in-depth climate portfolio of companies crossing the threshold. We analyse the analysis. By conducting this analysis, we make carbon of companies crossing the threshold. We analyse the analysis. By conducting this analysis, we make carbon importance of coal within a company’s overall activity risks tangible to our clients and are able to tackle importance of coal within a company’s overall activity risks tangible to our clients and are able to tackle (a company may own a coal plant but it could represent them differently. If, for example, we deem the risk of (a company may own a coal plant but it could represent them differently. If, for example, we deem the risk of only a small fraction of revenues), their exposure potentially stranded assets too high, this might lead to only a small fraction of revenues), their exposure potentially stranded assets too high, this might lead to to renewable energies and, most importantly, their a divestment action (pillar 1). to renewable energies and, most importantly, their a divestment action (pillar 1). strategies to combat climate change. strategies to combat climate change. Portfolio ESG Analysis and ESG Reporting for Portfolio ESG Analysis and ESG Reporting for 2) Best-in-Class & Integration: Beyond divestment institutional and private banking clients 2) Best-in-Class & Integration: beyond divestment institutional and private banking clients Companies are compared within their peer group on their Companies are compared within their peer group on ability to reduce their negative climate impact. The industry their ability to reduce their negative climate impact. The leaders are then analysed further and material climate industry leaders are then analysed further and material issues are being integrated into the nancial analysis, while climate issues are being integrated into the financial underperformers are discarded. This approach, known as analysis, while underperformers are discarded. This Best-in-Class, is described in more detail on page XX. approach, known as Best-in-Class, is described in more detail on pages 86ff. 3) Active Ownership: Engagement and Voting activities We actively engage with companies to foster their efforts 3) Active Ownership: engagement and voting activities in aligning with a 2°C world in pillar 3. We see engagement We actively engage with companies to foster their efforts as a dialogue between investors and companies with the in aligning with a 2°C world in pillar 3. We see engagement dual objective of impacting how companies operate and as a dialogue between investors and companies with the enhancing shareholder returns. Overall, around 47 % of dual objective of impacting how companies operate and our direct company dialogues related partially or solely to enhancing shareholder returns. Overall, around 47% of climate change topics in 2018. In addition, Bank J. Safra our direct company dialogues related partially or solely to Sarasin contributes to different collaborative engagement climate change topics in 2018. In addition, Bank J. Safra initiatives. For example, the Bank participated at the Sarasin contributes to different collaborative engagement Investor Decarbonisation Initiative led by ShareAction. initiatives. For example, the Bank participated in the For more information, please refer to page XX. Investor Decarbonisation Initiative led by ShareAction. For more information, please refer to pages 93-94. 4) Opportunities: related to climate solutions Beyond the risk perspective, we perceive and actively 4) Opportunities: related to climate solutions look for opportunities in companies that provide Beyond the risk perspective, we perceive and actively look solutions to climate challenges. Specically, such for opportunities in companies that provide solutions to companies should have answers to issues caused by climate challenges. Specifically, such companies should climate change and/or help this trend to happen more R Reporting ti g off the tf li based th portfolio b d on a standard t d format have answers to issues caused by climate change and/ Reporting of the portfolio based on a standard smoothly in general. follows the ve-four step investment process. Having or help this trend to happen more smoothly in general. format follows the four-step investment process. Having integrated sustainability and risk management along the integrated sustainability and risk management along the BankJ. J.Safra Bank Sarasin’s 4-pillar climate investment entire Safra Sarasin’s investment process, Bank J. Safra Sarasin can entire investment process, Bank J. Safra Sarasin can climate investment strategy strategy provide clients with an attribution across the full set of provide clients with an attribution across the full set of risk factors as well as the factor sustainability. Client risk factors as well as the factor sustainability. Client Exclude companies Best-in-Class Select companies reporting is seen as an integral step in the investment to avoid potentially Smart & that manage climate reporting is seen as an integral step in the investment Divestment stranded assets Integration risks best. process. (e.g. coal). process. Climate In addition, Bank J. Safra Sarasin offers a detailed Portfolio In addition, Bank J. Safra Sarasin offers a detailed Analysis ESG Analysis for a client’s entire portfolio. The analyESG Analysis for a client’s entire portfolio. The analyEngage with Target companies sis provides more concrete ESG insights to clients companies and Active Opportunities that offer climate sis provides more concrete ESG insights to clients Ownership exercise voting solutions. and holdings profile of their investments from a rights to advance and holdings profile of their investments from a climate action. sustainability point of view. It includes for example sustainability point of view. It includes for example J.|Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 89 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 89 the portfolio’s carbon footprint compared with a required to expedite sustainable development. Resource benchmark portfolio, or an aggregated portfolio efficiency covers four key elements: controversy score that shows the controversy and i. Human capital: including population structure and negative reputational news exposure; or a summary educational qualifications of the active ownership actions performed for the ii. Overall economic conditions: including distribution holdings in the specific portfolio. Bank J. Safra Sarasin of income and business climate responds to the trend towards increased disclosure iii. Financial governance: including level of debt and on corporate ESG factors and the strength of voluntary foreign trade investor initiatives, stock exchange requirements, the iv. Political governance: including institutions and TCFD recommendations and stricter legal regulations corruption throughout the world. Clients benefit from this Bank J. Safra Sarasin plots the 198 countries analysed service, which provides a complimentary portfolio across the two dimensions resource availability and reanalysis beyond traditional performance discussions. source efficiency on the Sarasin Sustainability Matrix®. In addition, it is a good basis for an interactive and The countries in the shaded area are relatively better strong bank-client relationship. positioned and can be invested in, while the countries in Bank J. Safra Sarasin can now also provide clients the grey area are not investable (status November 2017). with an Impact Monitor, measuring and demonstrating Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s sustainability rating for the impact of a specific portfolio on the Sustainable countries is based upon 98 data points from publicly Development Goals. Therefore, the Bank is able to available sources, including Amnesty International, measure the respective impact return of a portfolio as a United Nations, World Bank, Economist Intelligence percentage of total corporate revenues. Unit, Freedom House, IMF, OECD and the US Central Intelligence Agency. Country Sustainability Ratings The main benefit of the sustainability rating to the The fully integrated sustainable investment approach client is the ability to identify structural changes at an is not limited to corporations, but also extends to early stage. Although the country rating serves as a countries: as issuers for sovereign bonds, they complimentary tool for credit ratings based on financial collectively account for more than a quarter of all debt criteria, it is not a substitute for them. issued on international capital markets. Bank J. Safra Sarasin measures the sustainable economic performance of a country based on the Figure: Sarasin Sustainability Matrix®of countries availability of natural resources and the efficiency 5 with which these resources are put to use. Here the availability of natural resources provides the Norway Netherlands foundation for sustained economic growth (illustrated 4 Germany Sweden on the horizontal axis in the next figure). These include Japan France Canada USA four key elements: Resource Efficiency i. Water: including freshwater availability and water 3 Italy Spain stress ii. Land: including availability/use of forests and China Brazil 2 arable land iii. Energy: including renewable energy quota and India energy efficiency 1 iv. External environmental costs: including biodiversity and air pollution The other dimension (resource efficiency illustrated on 0 0 1 Availability 2 of Resources 3 4 5 the vertical axis in the next figure) includes the assessment of economic, social and political aspects and general Source: J. Safra Sarasin conditions which, building on the available resources, are 90 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainable Real Estate research Step 1: Initial examination The examination starts with the initial universe and serves as a general screen to filter out properties which do not fit the fund’s investment strategy and sustainable criteria. The initial universe is reduced by up to 60% being eligible for the next step of the assessment. The fully integrated sustainable investment approach is not limited to corporations and sovereigns, but also Step 2: Analysis extends to real estate. All properties are subjected to The filtered properties should satisfy the financial an initial and ongoing sustainability audit in accordance criteria, and the expected yield under consideration with ecological, social and economic aspects that of risk. All properties are subjected to an initial meet Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s sustainability standards. and ongoing sustainability audit in accordance with The Bank is convinced that especially physical risks ecological, social and economic aspects that meet the resulting from climate change are material for real Bank’s sustainability standards. estate investments. A good management of these risks The sustainability analysis focuses on the following is key for future success. elements from a top-down perspective: At the beginning of the assessment there is the determination of the investment universe. The metropolitan • Macro location, international connectivity & perspective cities are predefined based on the following ratings: • Micro location, regional connectivity, social aspects • Property level quality & comfort • Country Rating based on sustainable criteria from • Building future orientation & multitenant perspective Bank J. Safra Sarasin. For more information, please • Operational costs & future tradability see page 90. • Energy consumption & CO2 output • Metropolitan Rating based on sustainable and • Green elements and surrounding nature economic criteria from Bank J. Safra Sarasin. European city centres that are sustainable, economically Step 3: Detailed due diligence prospering and offer a good social surrounding Only 50% of the screened properties achieve a sufficient allowing a high quality of life and environmental safety rating to continue in the assessment process. With this are evaluated. shortened list, individual property analyses can start, • Real Estate Market Analysis based on financial focusing on the main factors such as occupancy rate, criteria. This rating looks at major central European yield, energy requirements and supply, public transport investment locations, and uses financial indicators, network to mention a few. This leads to a further such as market liquidity, new construction activity, concentration of the property universe. vacancy, level of employment, market availability and new rental activity, for its assessment. A risk Step 4: Viewing premium is calculated for each investment location, Viewings are then organised, during which a careful which includes an implicit risk premium on a loan individual evaluation of the building itself, its that reflects the volatility of the markets, as well as surroundings, the location’s demographics as well as currency risks, liquidity risk and market transparency. regional economy are analysed during an intensive due diligence process. In a second step, properties within these predefined metropoles are assessed. The sourcing of prospect Step 5: Negotiation acquisitions is primarily done by the Bank’s external The sustainability-integrated assessment is the basis partners. The assessment phase comprises the for a valuation which is used for negotiations with the following steps: other party. Step 6: Purchasing Finally in this last step the properties are acquired. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 91 Sustainable real estate research: Energy optimisation meter for 2017 of an exemplary portfolio. The size of with a material role the circles indicates the rentable area per property. Energy optimisation can lower costs and increase returns Bigger circles have higher influence on portfolio level. while reducing carbon emissions when investing in real All properties are benchmarked according to the aver­ estate for the long term. The relevant physical risks must age portfolio CO2 output and their energy consumption. be monitored closely. Moreover properties that have consumption above their expected value according to local regulations or The importance of energy costs green building certificates are controlled to determine The total rent paid from tenants consists of two comoptimisation measures. The local energy consumption ponents: the net rent and the additional costs. According regulations for different time periods are indicated on to the Swiss Federal Office for Statistics the additional the above diagram as grey vertical lines. costs are 12.6% of the total rent. Real Estate funds that can reduce the additional costs provide positive impact Better ventilation and heating for the tenants and may over the long term increase Properties with extended ventilation systems or high the net rent received and thus their performance. The energy intensity office buildings may also be monitored analysis, based on the Swiss residential sector, shows on a quarterly basis to identify further potential. The that a 10% reduction of the additional costs including related measures concentrate on the ventilation and energy consumption costs could result in 5 basis points heating configurations, as well as energy consumption per year higher fund performance over the long term. The at the hours that the property is not used during the costs related to the consumption of electricity, water and night and the weekend. heating surpass 50% of the total additional costs. Reducing electricity consumption Energy monitoring in practice Our energy monitoring report indicated that a residenIn the diagram below, the Bank presents the methodology tial property had very high consumption of electricity on how to efficiently control and optimise the variable costs that was caused from the wrong configuration of the of a property via an energy and CO2 monitoring system. heating pump. After the identification of the inefficiency Properties should be monitored based on annual bookand the appropriate correction, the consumption of the keeping numbers for heating, electricity and water confollowing year was reduced by 10%. sumption. The results are analysed in three dimensions: Overall, good management of CO2 emissions and energy • Benchmarked over a portfolio average consumption are essential to control the physical risks • Intensity compared with previous years of these investments and to be successful in the long • Controlled according to local design regulations term. In the future, funds with a current buy-and-hold of the year constructed. strategy should be transformed into a buy-and-activelymanage strategy in order to reduce further costs, CO2 The illustration below also shows the CO2 emissions and emissions, engage with the tenants and increase the the energy consumption on a property level per square value of the properties. Figure: Energy monitoring 92 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report Figure: The sustainable investment process The approach is aligned with Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s for sustainable real estate sustainable investment methodology and takes into account numerous international guidelines and standards Actual Universe Property Management Macro Perspective Energy Monitoring such as the United Nations Global Compact or the OECD Initial Universe Micro Due Diligence Continuous Cost Reduction Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The Bank’s Active Quality Assurance Reporting Ownership activities can be split into four relevant areas. 100 40 20 10 2 2 Figure: Overview of Active Ownership Potential Universe Acquisition Future Orientation Direct dialogue Collaborative investor Sustainability Policy JSS Sustainability Matrix Long Term Strategy with companies engagement Metropolitan Rating Scenario Analysis Potential Renovations Strategic Fit Identify measurements Risk Reduction Public policy (Proxy) Voting Initial Analysis Viewing Negotiation Purchasing Property Examination Management! engagement activities Active Ownership strategy Engagement Proxy voting Source: J. Safra Sarasin As far as investors are concerned, Bank J. Safra Sarasin sees its role as a sustainable asset manager with a long-term perspective. Active Ownership, comprising of Direct dialogue with companies engagement and proxy voting, is an important compoEvery year, Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s sustainable investnent of this process. The Bank’s approach is not only ment analysts and portfolio managers meet with the mandesigned to encourage robust corporate governance agement of around 500 companies to discuss material structures but also to ensure that the rights of shareESG issues relevant to the specific business case. In holders are protected. In the same vein, we aim to addition, there are concrete, more extensive dialogues over encourage forceful initiatives in the social and environa longer period to provide a more detailed understanding mental domain, together with greater transparency, so of strategically relevant ESG issues or to improve investor as to produce a positive impact. communication in the area of sustainability. In cases In 2018, Active Ownership has gained further where companies are not aware of relevant ESG risks and/ prominence among investors and in the media. The 2018 or manage them insufficiently, Bank J. Safra Sarasin would Annual General Meeting (AGM) season has brought new downgrade their sustainability rating and refrain from an topics to the fore, notably increasing activist investor investment as the last step. An example for a recent campaigns and growing support for environmental and successful engagement is an industrial company that has social shareholder resolutions. In Switzerland, Active adjusted its pay practices significantly throughout 2018 Ownership – consisting of engagement and proxy following a vote against the board’s recommendation voting – is one of the fastest growing sustainable during the company’s last AGM. The proposal within the investment strategies, with growth rates of 27% and context of the 2018 AGM appears to be in line with Bank 140%, respectively. Also in other countries, Active J. Safra Sarasin’s expectations. Ownership experiences strong growth numbers. This continued rise of Active Ownership is still partially driven Collaborative investor engagement by regulatory requirements, such as the Ordinance Against Bank J. Safra Sarasin collaborates with other investors Excessive Compensation in Public Corporations (VegüV) in in order to maximise the impact of engagement response to the “Minder Initiative” in Switzerland, or the initiatives and is currently active in various initiatives revision of the Occupational Pension Fund Directive (IORP through the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) directive) in the European Union. Bank J. Safra Sarasin that offers the largest global platform for collaborative has its own Active Ownership approach (comprehensively investor engagement activities. Bank J. Safra Sarasin is revised in 2016) which includes elements such as the a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). These Active Ownership Policy, the operational Guidelines and organisations help investors to build up knowledge client-specific reporting. and skills and give broader access to information. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 93 Overall, the Bank was part of the following collaborative Table: Overview of voting activity (meetings, ballots, engagement activities in 2018: proposals) of Bank J. Safra Sarasin • Access to Medicine Index 2018 2017 • Carbon Disclosure Project – Non-disclosure Number of meetings 263 227 engagement Number of proposals 4,031 3,346 • Chemical Footprint Project “Against” the management 25% 24% • FAIRR – Global Investor Statement on Antibiotic Use E and S proposals 36 21 • Open letter to Global Index Providers • PRI – Engagement Initiative on Water Risks in Agricultural Supply Chains Figure: Global voting map of Bank J. Safra Sarasin • PRI – Engagement on Cyber Security with number of meetings by country • ShareAction – Investor Decarbonisation Initiative • ShareAction – Workforce Disclosure Initiative 86 26 Public policy engagement 87 58 Bank J. Safra Sarasin actively participates in political dialogue in various ways. Through involvement in leading sustainable investment initiatives and organisations 1 such as Eurosif and Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF), the Bank fosters contacts with politics and other stake5 holders to promote the consideration and integration of Europe ex Switzerland relevant ESG themes on a regulatory level as well. The Switzerland Bank is also committed to promoting a better underAsia North America standing of sustainable investments. Africa Australia Rest of the world Exercising voting rights at Bank J. Safra Sarasin For numerous sustainable investment funds as well as for institutional mandates, voting rights are exercised by J. Safra Sarasin taking into account environmental, of the management’s recommendations in 25% of all social and corporate governance criteria. Although the cases. Common topics which the Bank voted against majority of votes concern corporate governance issues, management recommendations included executive pay J. Safra Sarasin also considers social and environmental practices or lack of cultural and gender diversity in the issues. In the year under review, J. Safra Sarasin voted composition of the Board. for shares equivalent of CHF 12.4 billion. Looking specifically at the results of the asset management of Bank J. Safra Sarasin, 75% of the proposals were voted “For” by Bank J. Safra Sarasin. In so doing, the Bank receives operational support from Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS). The votes, however, are always cast in line with the Bank’s own customised operational Proxy Voting Guidelines. Based on this document, which has been developed by the Bank to reflect its own sustainable investment approach, the asset management of Bank J. Safra Sarasin has voted on 4,031 agenda items at 263 AGMs on a global level in 2018. At these AGMs, Bank J. Safra Sarasin voted “Against” one or several 94 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Launch of Innovative Sustainable clear corporate governance structure. The new strategy Investment in 2018 targets European shares of small and medium-sized In 2018, Bank J. Safra Sarasin made its innovative industry leaders that distinguish themselves through their strength and expertise available to its clients in the form of strategic focus on environmentally friendly, eco-efficient distinct new sustainable investment strategies for thematic management and proactive relations with key shareholders. equities, regional equities and fixed income. 4) Sustainable Equity – Global Multifactor Thematic Equities The strategy targets a global sustainable equity portfolio 1) Sustainable Global Lifestyle Brands that provides exposure to factors that tend to outperform The growing middle class in emerging markets and the over the economic cycle, such as Value, Momentum, ever-increasing demand for luxury goods give the market Quality and Low Volatility. Given that no factor outperforms long-term tailwinds. Driven by this trend, the strategy at all times, the Bank’s approach dynamically allocates to invests in strong global lifestyle companies from our factors based on our quantitative model. The exposure to sustainable investing universe with a significant degree the four factors is predefined for each of the four economic of brand awareness in the field of entertainment, fashion, cycle stages: Early, Mid, Late and Recession. sports, cosmetics, or travel. It holds an actively managed, high-conviction portfolio of around 50 carefully selected Fixed Income sustainable stocks. 5) Sustainable Green Bonds Strategy In 2007, the European Investment Bank issued the first 2) Sustainable Technology Disruptors green bond for the purpose of financing environmentally A series of technological breakthroughs, ranging from big friendly infrastructure projects. Since 2012, this market data processing to robotics and automation, are changing niche has enjoyed impressive percentage growth rates current business models and entire industries. The averaging in the high double digits. This trend received application of technological innovations in many sectors a significant boost in 2015 when 195 nations signed is reaching a tipping point, offering very high economic an agreement at the UN climate conference in Paris to rewards but also posing substantial risks. The Bank’s gradually scale back global greenhouse gas emissions actively managed, benchmark-agnostic equity strategy to zero between 2045 and 2060. Green bonds not only with a global scope strikes a sensible balance. It focuses give investors access to investments with potentially on companies that are either developing or harnessing low volatility and attractive returns, but also allow them innovations in information processing, connectivity and to make an active contribution towards financing the high-tech products. Investors gain exposure to emerging energy transition worldwide. The Sustainable Green Bonds and transformational technological trends and benefit from Strategy provides an interesting solution for risk-averse, in-depth cross-sector insights of an experienced team of sustainably minded private clients as well as institutional sustainable investment analysts. clients looking for impact-investing opportunities. Regional Equities 6) Sustainable Global High-Yield Strategy 3) Sustainable European Smaller Companies The global universe of high-yield bonds qualifying as Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have a sustainable has achieved higher-than-average growth. In a distinct advantage over larger companies when it comes persisting climate of low interest rates, the realisation of to sustainability. Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s research shows higher yields demands a more comprehensive analysis of that the performance of SMEs is actually much better in the associated risks. A sensible way to reduce potential terms of ESG criteria. SMEs are good at transferring green downside risks is to combine sustainability analysis with technologies from niche markets over to the mass market. fundamental credit analysis. Following these lines, the Often family-owned, and hence based on family values, Sustainable Global High-Yield Strategy targets high-yield SMEs tend to have a more sustainable corporate culture bonds of sovereign, private or public-private entities that enhances the motivation, loyalty and productivity of globally. It is suitable for long-term-oriented investors the workforce while at the same time benefitting from a looking to complement their traditional investments. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 95 Bank J. Safra Sarasin continues to reign as one of the Figure: Development of assets managed sustainably and market leaders in Switzerland responsibly by J. Safra Sarasin (billion CHF) Sustainably managed assets at Bank J. Safra Sarasin reached CHF 10.7 billion as of 31 December 2018, while 11.3 3 10.9 11.5 10.7 responsibly managed assets reached CHF 15.4 billion on the same date. The sustainable investment market in 15.0 Switzerland has continued to develop positively. With a 17.7 4 16.1 17.5 15.4 market share of 11.4% in 2018, the Bank continues to 8.1 reign as one of the market leaders in sustainable investments in Switzerland.2 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sustainably managed assets 5 Responsibly managed assets Figure: Market Shares Swiss Private Banks % J. Safra Sarasin 11.4% Bank A 8.9% Private banking discretionary mandates Bank B 8.1% Bank J. Safra Sarasin offers not only institutional inBank C 8.1% vestors but also private clients an innovative and sustainBank D 6.7% able product range catered to their individual investment Bank E 3.2% needs while enabling them to benefit from customised management of their assets. In the field of mandates, the offer ranges from pure sustainable mandates to classic sustainable mandates that differentiate between Transparency Logo for Sustainability Funds the ratio of fully sustainable investment selection. Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s sustainability funds bear Clients can also sign up to customised mandates where the European Transparency Logo for Sustainability they freely select asset classes and the respective Funds. This label is awarded to the signatories of the share of sustainable assets individually according to European Transparency Code for Sustainability Funds their motivation and needs. and is intended to enable investors to determine quickly and reliably whether detailed information on the sustainable investment strategy of an investment product is available, and where to find it. The transparency code and transparency logo make the investment strategy of a fund easier to understand for both the general public and also other interested groups such as asset managers and rating agencies. 2) Swiss Sustainable Finance, Market Report 2018. Market shares do not include UBS and CS. 3) Due to reclassification, the formerly sustainable assets from Sarasin & Partners have been reclassified as “responsible”. 4) Sarasin & Partners have developed a responsible investment approach which integrates ESG factors into their investment process across all assets. Their formerly sustainable mandates have therefore also been reclassified as “responsible”. 5) The assets under management in the private banking classic sustainable mandates are based on the Bank J. Safra Sarasin sustainable investment approach. All direct holdings of equities and bonds have to be rated “sustainable”. 96 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report A sset management products Only sustainable Sustainable and responsible Only responsible Investment Equity funds ––Theme: Water, Lifestyle Brands, ––Multi-themes –– Brazil funds and Tech Disruptors securities products ––Real Estate/REITS shares –– Switzerland (also Small & Mid Caps) ––Europe (also Small & Mid Caps) ––USA ––Emerging markets ––Global Balanced funds ––Neutral asset allocation ––Defensive asset allocation Bond funds ––EUR ––CHF ––EUR Corporate ––Global High Yield ––Green Bond Global Tracker certificates ––Sustainable Actively Managed on sustainable strategies6 Certificates: Sustainable Technology Disruptors, Sustainable Technology Trends, Sustainable Demography Health, Sustainable Entrepreneurial, Sustainable North America J. Safra Sarasin Equity investment products ––Emerging Markets ––Switzerland Investment ––International excl. Switzerland Foundation Balanced investment products ––Defensive asset allocation ––Dynamic asset ––Neutral asset allocation allocation Bond investment products ––International excl. CHF ––CHF Property investment products ––Swiss Real Estate Alternatives – Commodities ex. Agro/Livestock J. Safra Sarasin Shares ––International excl. Investment Switzerland Foundation 2 Mandates For private clients ––Defensive asset allocation7 ––Premium mandates ––Bond mandates ––Balanced asset allocation 7 ––Equity mandates with Emerging Markets ––Dynamic asset allocation7 focus on dividends For institutional clients ––Bonds ––Balanced ––Equities Multi-Manager ––Dynamic asset allocation ––Balanced asset allocation ––Defensive asset allocation Advisory services Third-party funds and ––Equities (classic and thematic) advisory mandates ––Balanced (defensive and defensive with risk limitation) ––Real Estate Europe ––Convertibles 8 Advisory and joint management ––Different mandates for institutional customers ––Portfolio Sustainability Analysis and Reporting 6) These certificates are approved for distribution in Switzerland. 7) Some of the mandates are managed mainly sustainably due to non-existent or insufficient sustainable alternatives in different asset classes. 8) At least 80% of the fund’s securities must be rated as sustainable. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 97 STOXX® made by Bank J. Safra Sarasin sustainable investment methodology and investment Since March 2011, Bank J. Safra Sarasin has been universe to one of its partner firms. We were therefore responsible for the composition of the STOXX® Susvery pleased that the advised fund obtained this covtainability Indices. The constituents of the STOXX® eted label. Europe 600 Index are assessed regarding their ESG (environmental, social and governance) opportunities Investment Innovation Benchmark (IIB) and risks using the Bank J. Safra Sarasin research methodology. If the issuers show a good enough sustainability rating, they are admitted to the STOXX® Sustainability Indices.9 Bank J. Safra Sarasin was awarded by the IIB for its innovative ESG integration process “as an innovative process to construct ESG-focused equity universes usJ. Safra Sarasin’s awards ing a data-driven calculation engine and the largest susAUSTRIAN FONDSPREIS 2016 for Bank J. Safra Sarasin tainable investment analyst team in Europe” (IIB 2016). Sustainable Equity Water Fund10 The Investment Innovation Benchmark project aims to enhance the incentives for innovation among investment professionals and thereby induce the regenerative functions of financial markets to create a more sustainable financial system for the beneficiaries of pension The AUSTRIAN FONDSPREIS 2016 was awarded to the funds and anyone else. J. Safra Sarasin Sustainable Water Fund EUR P dist in the category Sustainable Investment. The fund was MSCI Fund ESG Quality Score rated as having “Outstanding” investment results by the independent testers of FONDS professionell and its media partner Die Presse. DEUTSCHER FONDSPREIS 2016 for J. Safra Sarasin The MSCI ESG Fund Quality Score measures the overall Sustainable Equity Water Fund10 ESG quality (for example of the holdings of mutual funds) as measured by the ability of constituent companies to manage mediumto long-term risks and opportunities arising from ESG exposures. It assesses funds on a scale from 0 to 10. A score of 10 reflects underlying holdings The DEUTSCHER FONDSPREIS 2016 was awarded to that rank best in class globally based on their exposure to the J. Safra Sarasin Sustainable Water Fund EUR P dist and management of ESG risks and opportunities. A score in the category Sustainable Investment. The fund was of 0 reflects holdings that generally rank worst in class rated as having “Outstanding” investment results by the globally based on their exposure to similar factors. Since independent testers of FONDS professionell and its inception in 2016, numerous flagship strategies of Bank media partner Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. J. Safra Sarasin were ranked in the top 10% of funds globally on the basis of their ESG credentials, even more stratForum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (FNG) Seal egies were ranked in the top 10% of their fund peer group. In November 2018, the FNG Seal, the quality standard for sustainable investment funds, was awarded in Berlin for the fourth time. Bank J. Safra Sarasin provides its 9) The STOXX® Sustainability Indices are the intellectual property of STOXX Ltd. STOXX makes no investment recommendations and shall not be held liable for any errors or delays in the index calculation or data distribution. 10) This fund is approved for distribution in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 98 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report Passing on knowledge about sustainability-related Pension Fund of Bank J. Safra Sarasin signs the investment topics Principles for Responsible Investment J. Safra Sarasin compiles and shares leading sustainBy signing the internationally recognised and UN-supable investment analysis to clients either in the form ported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), of publications or in the form of knowledge-sharing the Pension Fund of Bank J. Safra Sarasin emphaevents. In 2018, Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s sustainability sises its long-standing commitment to be an active investment research team released the following two owner and to integrate environmental, social and govpublication formats: Sustainable Investment Spotlight ernance considerations into its investment decisions. and The Sustainable Investments Newsletter. These The PRI has grown constantly since it began in spring publications provide clients, employees and the public 2006. Currently, it has more than 1,960 signatories with interesting information and deeper knowledge about from over 50 countries, representing approximately sustainable issues relevant for asset management. USD 82 trillion assets under management. Bank J. In 2018, the following publications were released by Safra Sarasin acted as a founding signatory of the Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s sustainability investment reinitiative back in April 2006. search team: • Decarbonisation: how to avoid a financial crisis locations in Germany, and shared their expertise in • Technology can overcome global challenges the field of sustainable investing. Moreover, the Bank • Can emerging economies be sustainable? held the keynote on sustainability at the Institutional • Millennials are the world’s most powerful consumers Investor Forum 2018 in Cologne and spoke at the • Living among robots Annual Conference of the FNG (Forum for Sustainable • Global challenges and investment themes Investments) in Frankfurt. Additionally the Sustainable • Active Ownership – Reaching Record Levels in 2018 Investment Research Team shared its expertise at the • Hazardous chemicals – or the new carbon AFP Prima Conference on Sustainable Finance in Lima, Peru. The Bank’s Outlook Events 2018 dealt with water At the same time, different authors made their and other sustainability issues in the investment process expertise widely available in various specialist articles. in Asia and Europe. Additionally, J. Safra Sarasin contributed strongly to the English Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) Handbook Objective 3: We live a sustainable corporate culture published by Swiss Sustainable Finance together with the CFA Institute Research Foundation. The Head of Sustainable Investment Research sat on the committee advising the editors while two sustainableinvestment research analysts contributed to the content as authors. The handbook intends to provide an J. Safra Sarasin’s most valuable capital is its employees. introduction to sustainable investment for institutional They are essential to the success of the organisation, now investors especially. It gives a comprehensive and and in the future. Their technical expertise, professional practical overview of existing approaches and current qualifications and social skills are highly valued by the developments in the field of sustainable investments. Group’s clients and business partners. The success of Throughout 2018, several events to share knowledge J. Safra Sarasin depends on the enthusiasm and were organised by Bank J. Safra Sarasin. These events commitment from every one of its employees worldwide were organised for private clients, institutional clients, and J. Safra Sarasin is particularly keen to ensure that and professional audiences. In November, the Chief they are treated in a fair manner. At J. Safra Sarasin, Strategist & Head Sustainability participated at the employees are very much aware of their entrepreneurial Petersberger Meeting in Cologne, and held the keynote responsibilities. on sustainability. Various specialists spoke at the The Group is an attractive employer thanks to its IPE (Investment Pensions Europe) roadshow in four clear positioning. It attracts first-rate applicants both in J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 99 Table: Number of employees as per 31.12.2018 Code of Business Conduct as a mandatory guide (full-time equivalents) The foundation for the Group’s success is the trust it instils in existing and potential clients. This trust depends 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 on how the Group is perceived on a daily basis. A GroupTotal 2,151 2,155 wide Code of Business Conduct covers the underlying Abroad 1,003 1,008 principles, which have to be observed by all the Group’s Switzerland 1,148 1,147 employees as well as by the members of the Board of Directors as part of their business-related activities. These principles provide the basis for daily behaviour in dealing Table: Age structure of employees with clients, colleagues, and all other stakeholders. (full-time equivalents in %) Men Years Women Attractive terms of employment and social benefits 2 <25 3 The staff regulations for each J. Safra Sarasin Group 18 25–34 23 Company specify employees’ rights and obligations, 34 35–44 33 working hours and holiday entitlements as well as social 36 45–54 31 and other fringe benefits. The rules form an integral part 10 >55 10 of employment contracts and apply to all employment relationships. The employee benefits offered by J. Safra 40 32 24 16 8 0 8 16 24 32 40 Sarasin Group Companies are at least equivalent to the legal requirements at individual locations, or exceed them. Table: Headcount by job title (full-time equivalent in %) Remuneration within the J. Safra Sarasin Group Men Title Women is determined by the demands of the position, the 8 Managing Director4 qualifications, performance and conduct of the employee, 15 Executive Director4 and the performance of the Group and its subsidiaries. 20 Director 9 Compensation and reward structures are following the 20 Vice President 18 principles of performance, conduct and risk awareness, 13 Assistant Vice President 25 client orientation, conflicts of interest, and malus or 9 Authorised Officer 16 clawback. 15 Staff 24 Respectful working environment 25 20 15 10 5 0 5 10 15 20 25 Switzerland and abroad. As of 31 December 2018, the headcount decreased by 4 full-time equivalent positions (–0.19%) totalling 2,151 full-time equivalent positions, of which 160 employees worked part-time. The proportion The Group pursues a strict policy of equal opportunities of women in management positions (female employees and encourages a working environment characterised by in the two uppermost management levels with the title a dignified and respectful atmosphere. The Group reManaging Director or Executive Director) stood at 15.8%. lies on the diversity of its employees with their variety The percentage of women working in the Group totalled of skills and talents. Discrimination or harassment of 35.4% in 2018. The employees at J. Safra Sarasin any kind, for example due to gender, ethnic background, originate from 64 different countries, displaying a high religion, age, nationality or sexual orientation, is degree of cultural diversity. The majority of employees not tolerated. This policy is anchored in the Code of are between 45 and 54 years old. The table “Headcount Business Conduct as well as the directive “Protection by job title” shows the respective splits. against Sexual Harassment, Bullying and Discrimination in the Workplace” applicable to the entire Group. 100 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report Employee representation at Bank J. Safra Sarasin Since many years, Bank J. Safra Sarasin in Switzerland in Switzerland participates in the “bike to work” challenge launched For the protection of the common interests of by Pro Velo Schweiz: 46 individual cycling fans from employees, Bank J. Safra Sarasin has a Staff the Swiss locations cycled to their offices and travelled Representative Council (Arbeitnehmervertretung, ANV) 10,404 kilometres altogether. 47 employees from to represent employees in the Bank’s domestic market. the Bank also participated in the nationwide company The Regulations on Employee Participation through the run “B2RUN” in Basel and recently also in Geneva Staff Representative Council forms the foundation of the and Zurich. Colleagues from various business areas ANV. These regulations are based on the Swiss Federal participated in the six-kilometre runs. Act on Information and Consultation of Employees in the In December 2018, 12 employees represented Bank Workplace. The members of the ANV are elected for three J. Safra Sarasin’s colours in the “Course de l’Escalade” years. Depending on the respective matter, the ANV in Geneva. In doing so, they not only increased their own has information or consultation rights. The aim of this fitness, but also sent a positive message on sustainable cooperation is to promote a dialogue between the top mobility and showed a strong team spirit. management and Bank J. Safra Sarasin’s employees, In Monaco, Banque J. Safra Sarasin (Monaco) SA thus contributing to a good working relationship. Wellparticipated in the “No Finish Line” race organised informed employees tend to identify more closely with by the Principality’s Children and Future Association. the company, which in turn can have positive effects on For each kilometre, donations were made in favour of motivation and productivity. the association’s aid projects. In 2018, the J. Safra Sarasin team, with 23 engaged runners, ran over 851 Learning and development kilometres and transformed them into donations for the J. Safra Sarasin emphasises the importance of charity. continuous training and education to realise the full potential of its global staff and to ensure its employees Participation in the “Zukunftstag” in Switzerland act in a fully compliant way at all times. The Learning The “Zukunftstag” (Future Day) builds on collaboration Committee, the ongoing enhancements of the Bank’s between schools, employers and parents. It is an learning curriculum along business-relevant training annual event that allows children of employees in categories and a Learning Management System ensure Switzerland to gain first impressions of their parents’ the Group’s ability to deliver online learning programmes, working environment. Bank J. Safra Sarasin has been classroom and blended training opportunities. The participating for a number of years by organising an person responsible for sustainability regularly conducts interesting programme for its employees’ children. In sustainability training courses at the three major 2018, 37 boys and girls joined the event which promotes locations in Switzerland. gender equality at a young age. Healthy and sustainable employees Women network The J. Safra Sarasin Group views the promotion of health In 2015, Bank J. Safra Sarasin created the “women@ as an important element of its corporate culture. In jss” network in Zurich. The aim of the initiative is to Switzerland, the focus this year was on the prevention of create and develop awareness for the challenges facing psychosocial risks. A new “Health at Work” Intranet site employed women in Switzerland. The focus lies on focuses on physical and psychological health. At Bank networking, exchange of knowledge and experiences, J. Safra Sarasin in Switzerland, free flu vaccinations and sharing of different perspectives. The founding are offered every year. Employees in Switzerland have members and Human Resources continue to organise the opportunity to benefit from a group rebate on informative meetings, round tables and joint events with supplementary insurance coverage that exceeds the an external women network organisation. basic coverage required by law. In some locations, fitness studios offer membership discounts to employees. Objective 4: We are part of the society With targeted activities, the Group continues to The entire J. Safra Sarasin Group and its employees have a encourage employees to exercise more in everyday life. natural desire to make an active contribution to sustained J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 101 social development. This can be done by entering into the children’s confidence, strengthens their character, various commitments. It is important for the Group to and enables them to express themselves through music. uphold an ongoing dialogue with all its stakeholders. For Additionally it offers an opportunity for children to develop business policy decisions made at corporate management their talents in music alongside their academic studies. level, management strives to take account of the interests As part of its cultural sponsorship of institutions of all stakeholders connected with the Group. promoting art, Bank J. Safra Sarasin is continuing its long-standing partnership with the Beyeler Foundation Sustainable events and procurement in Riehen near Basel in support of Classical Modernism. Bank J. Safra Sarasin has developed and introduced the In the area of sports, the Bank sponsored the ATP “Handbook of Sustainability” that includes standards World Tour 500 tennis tournament Swiss Indoors in for events and hospitality, donations and sponsorships, Basel and the Sky Lounge at the FC Basel Stadium. procurement and guidelines for suppliers. The Bank J. Safra Sarasin was also the sponsor of the handbook ensures that corporate activities do not Longines CSI Basel horse-riding event in January and support projects or partners whose values diverge from the Swiss Open Gstaad tennis event in July. those of the J. Safra Sarasin Group. The principles set forth therein include, for example, minimum standards for the procurement of paper and wood products as well as office equipment within the scope of building management and in the automotive segment. The Bank invests in its social environment by engaging in sponsoring partnerships. To ensure that these activities do not support projects or partners whose values diverge from those of the J. Safra Sarasin Group, the “Handbook of Sustainability” applies to the entire Group. Sustainability in sponsoring Philanthropy, art and sports were the main strategic focuses for the Group’s sponsoring activities in 2018. These included, for example, financial support for the Esmeralda Charity Golf Cup 2018, organised by the Limmat Foundation in Zurich. Children’s art competition In the UK, the Group was fundraising for “The For the tenth consecutive year, the Bank supported the Connection” at St Martins, a local homeless charity that children’s art competition organised by the Swiss Asworks with approximately 4,000 homeless people every sociation for Quality and Management Systems (SQS) year. The charity helps people to get away from a life in April 2018. The topic of this year’s competition was on the streets and back into full independence. They dedicated to our nature, our home, and our future: “The do this in various ways. The financial support from the world – here I am at home. Draw a picture” Group has gone to the guidance and advice department The Bank supported this to help get people back into work or education. This competition by offering three covers everything from CV workshops, to help applying special prizes and for the first for jobs, to mock interviews. The idea is to help people time created a calendar out of getting the skills they need to go back into the workforce the 12 rewarded paintings. The which is often the final thing to regain independence. Bank seeks to encourage the In Hong Kong, the Group gave used office equipment appreciation of art and develop (PC monitors, old iPhones and electronic hardware) to the child awareness in environmenMusic Children Foundation. This foundation provides e.g. tal and sustainability issues. an early music education for underprivileged children in Hong Kong, making it an enjoyable experience that builds 102 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report Public engagement: Together for more sustainability Bank J. Safra Sarasin is a founding member J. Safra Sarasin also supports social and environmental of Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) concerns through participation in company boards. The Bank J. Safra Sarasin is a founding member of this members of the Board of Directors and the Group Exrelatively new platform set up in Switzerland in 2014. ecutive Board hold a number of different mandates Its mission is to promote Switzerland in the global and official functions in these organisations. J. Safra marketplace as a leading centre for sustainable fiSarasin supports employees who work voluntarily on nance by informing, educating and catalysing growth. behalf of the Company. For many years, J. Safra Sarasin has been actively involved in numerous initiatives and organisations • Sustainable Finance Geneva (SFG) which work for sustainable development. This is another • UN Global Compact way in which the Bank is fulfilling its responsibility to • UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment make a contribution to sustainable development. The (PRI) Bank participates exclusively in political opinion forming via these initiatives and its membership in various orgaTogether with other Swiss banks, Bank J. Safra nisations. Sarasin sponsors the Swiss Finance Institute (SFI). By establishing this foundation, the Swiss banks, the • Business Energy Agency (EnAW) Swiss Federal government and leading universities • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) have expressed strong commitment to strengthening • CDP Water Disclosure Project research and teaching in the field of banking and • European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif) financing in Switzerland. The Swiss Finance Institute is • Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (FNG) active in both research and executive education. Both • Global Footprint Network areas aim to strengthen the attraction of Switzerland • öbu – Network for sustainable business to outstanding researchers, teachers, students, and • Swiss Climate Foundation participants in executive education programmes. • Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) Objective 5: We manage resources efficiently Table: Overall table of environmental Key Performance Indicators* Indicator 2018 2017 2016 Electricity consumption (MJ/FTE) 16,557 16,672 16,785 Heating energy consumption (MJ/FTE) 1,976 1,678 3,104 Other energy consumption (district heating, MJ/FTE) 1,269 1,123 1,204 Paper (kg/FTE) 61 63 64 Business travel (km/FTE) 7,623 6,856 5,306 Greenhouse gas emissions (kg CO 2-equivalent/FTE)** 1,954 1,719 2,334 FTE = full-time equivalent; MJ = Megajoule (1MJ = 0.278 kWh) * Revision of calculation and data collection methodology in 2017. The system boundary was adjusted in 2017. ** The greenhouse gas emissions are based on the GHG-protocol in 2015. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 103 The Group’s fifth objective is to achieve commercial Bank J. Safra Sarasin committed to reducing success with an acceptable ecological footprint. It carbon emissions therefore seeks to contain energy consumption and Bank J. Safra Sarasin has agreed targets with the use resources carefully. J. Safra Sarasin uses the SoFi Business Energy Agency (EnAW) in Switzerland to software developed for financial service providers in reduce its carbon emissions by 2022. It intends to drawing up its environmental performance report. The achieve this through annual energy efficiency measoftware makes it easier to record and analyse the data sures and by giving preference to renewable energies. material and then identify suitable measures to improve It will liaise with EnAW to regularly monitor the annual performance on an ongoing basis. measures and their effectiveness. Climate protection Over the course of 2018, total CO2 emissions increased Bank J. Safra Sarasin supports to 1,954 kg CO2-equivalent per employee. The average “The Paris Pledge for Action” business travel activity per employee increased to The signatories affirm their strong commitment to a 7,623 kilometres. As in the past, the Group seeks to safe and stable climate in which temperature rise use ecologically appropriate means of transport for is limited to less than two degrees Celsius. Takbusiness travel wherever possible (staff commuting to ing strong action to reduce emissions can not only and from work is not included). reduce the risks of climate change but also deliver Besides the absolute level of energy consumption, the better growth and sustainable development. The amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) depends crucially on greenhouse gas emissions are based on the Greenhow electricity is generated. In most countries, power house Gas (GHG) Protocol in 2015. generation involves far higher CO2 emissions than in Switzerland. In this regard, we are pleased to register a slight decrease in the total electricity consumption to 16,557 megajoule per employee. Lastly, heating energy consumption per employee slightly increased. All employees in Geneva have received a special glass drinking water bottle. They are required to drink mineral water from tap water and thus reduce waste on plastic bottles and cups. This is already common practice in the rest of Switzerland. Energy from renewable resources Systematic and ongoing promotion of energy As a pioneer in environmental protection, the Bank efficiency measures showed its colours as early as 1993 when it installed J. Safra Sarasin regularly implements appropriate its own photovoltaic system on the roof of its Basel measures in its efforts to become more energy efficient. head office. Each year, the system produces power In 2018, all Swiss locations received new printers. The for several four-person households. In 2018, the new printers bring energy savings and reductions in the production amounted to 24,590 kWh, an improvement area of heat generation. In addition, the output of further of 16% over 2017. Renewable sources account for emissions and the noise level could be significantly 58% of the electricity consumed in the Group. At the reduced. Swiss sites, the figure is already 100%. The Basel In addition, the Bank has replaced the circulating air office uses only district heating as a source of heating cooling units in its printing centre with more energyenergy. This comes from process heat generated by efficient units. This will reduce energy consumption in the nearby refuse incineration plant in Basel and is the long term. Further, existing lighting is increasingly 100% renewable. being replaced by LED light sources in the Bank’s own offices. 104 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report Increasing share of recycled paper Participation in the EARTH HOUR initiative In 2018, the paper use per employee decreased to 61 in Hong Kong in March 2018 kilogrammes, whereby 84% came from recycled sources. Switching off all lights in the offices to be part of To further reduce the absolute paper consumption, the global EARTH HOUR initiative is a strong visual duplex printing is the default setting in most offices. reminder of the globe’s determination to tackle the Finally, careful management of print runs for internal planet’s biggest environmental challenge – climate and external publications pays off both ecologically and change. The Bank’s participation is a gesture higheconomically. Numerous publications are published lighting its commitment to sustainability as a key difprimarily in electronic format and paper versions are ferentiator of J. Safra Sarasin and our pioneering role provided to interested parties only upon request. in the area of sustainability. Bank J. Safra Sarasin as part of the successful Swiss Climate Foundation Bank J. Safra Sarasin has been a founding member of the Swiss Climate Foundation which celebrated its 10-year anniversary in 2018. Catering to its claim “Protecting the climate. Strengthening SME”, the Climate Foundation supports projects of small and mediumsized enterprises that help to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The Foundation is a voluntary initiative by the Swiss financial sector which has benefited from the reimbursement of the proceeds of the CO2 levy introduced by the Swiss Federal Government in 2008. As service providers consume little CO2, Bank J. Safra Sarasin and 26 other financial service companies decided to use the proceeds to make an active contribution to mitigating climate change. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 105 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies around the world to align their strategies and operations with ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of broader UN goals. It is the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative with more than 8,000 signatories in more than 135 countries. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Implementation at J. Safra Sarasin Report reference Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and Bank specific: respect the protection of internationally proclaimed • Code of Business Conduct 100 human rights; and • Staff Regulation 100 • Directive “Protection against Sexual Harassment, Bullying 100 and Discrimination in the Workplace” Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in humanBank specific: rights abuses. • Code of Business Conduct 100 • Staff Regulation 100 • Directive “Protection against Sexual Harassment, Bullying 100 and Discrimination in the Workplace” Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Bank specific: association and the effective recognition of the right to • Regulations on Employee Participation 100–101 collective bargaining; • Swiss Collective Labour Agreement (Agreement on 100–101 Conditions of Employment for Bank Employees, VAB) Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Bank specific: compulsory labour; • Code of Business Conduct 100 Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Bank specific: • Code of Business Conduct 100 Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of Bank specific: employment and occupation. • Code of Business Conduct 100 • Employee Rules and Regulations Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd 100 • Directive “Protection against Sexual Harassment, Bullying 100 and Discrimination in the Workplace” Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 106 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Implementation at J. Safra Sarasin Report reference Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Bank specific: approach to environmental challenges; • Handbook of Sustainability 102 • Objective 5 of the Corporate Sustainability Strategy 103–105 – Energy consumption within the organisation – Reduction of energy consumption – Reduction of greenhouse gas emission – Reduction of the use of materials Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 • 4-pillar climate strategy 86–95 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Bank specific: environmental responsibility; and • Handbook of Sustainability 102 • Objective 5 of the Corporate Sustainability Strategy 103–105 • Sustainability training 101 Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 • 4-pillar climate strategy 86–95 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Bank specific: environmentally friendly technologies. • Objective 5 of the Corporate Sustainability Strategy 103–105 – Reduction of energy consumption – Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emission Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 • 4-pillar climate strategy 86–95 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Bank specific: in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Code of Business Conduct 100 • Code of Compliance 84 Financial sector-specific indicators: product portfolio and active ownership: • Portfolio-based commitment to social and environmental 86–95 issues • Assets subject to environmental or social screening 86–95 J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 107 Deloitte AG an-Quai 38 General-Guis 8022 Zurich Switzerland 00 (0)58 279 60 Phone: +41 )58 279 6600 Fax: +41 (0 .ch www.deloitte agement of To the man , Basel asin Group J. Safra Sar ance key perform t w in g quantitative ising Our engagemen of the fo llo Group (com pr pe rf or m a limited review rt of J. Sa fra Sarasin d us to bility re po You engage the sustaina rs (K PI s) disclosed in idia ries): ary 1 to indica to d. and subs period Janu fr a Sa ra si n Holding Lt en ts fo r th e reporting J. Sa ble investm bility report ; and responsi the sustaina K PI s on sustainable an d 96 of es 82 and , 2018 on pa ges 82 , 2018 (pag December 31 ar y 1 to D ecember 31 g period Janu the reportin e so cial KPIs for . The Th stainability report). r conclusion 100 of the su ra nc e as a basis for ou ta in limited as su ed to ob d to obtain scope requir oc ed ur es were planne ce d, co m pared to the at a lo wer degree of Our pr re du th ob ta in evidence is ci al st at em ents) such k to t of finan scope of wor ., in an audi on ab le as surance (e.g reas ed. nce is obtain audit assura the ent not assessed at io n s of the engagem Is lis te d ab ove. We have Limit of the KP d to a review bility report : ge m en t was limite the sustaina Our en ga n di sc lo se d in plicitly listed; in g KP Is or informatio D ec em be r 2018 not ex follow January to 31 ing period 1 ment; r the report r this engage K PI s fo s w er e no t reviewed fo rting peri od previous repo KPIs for the nability repo rt ; in the sustai . e st at em en ts g statements All qualitativ vi ew of fo rward-lookin t include a re ment did no Our engage t anagemen ra S ar as in Group M ation of the po n si b ili ty of J. Saf on si bl e fo r the prepar Res roup is re sp ce with the t of J. S af ra Sarasin G ne d th er ei n in accordan d The Managem en ion contai ementing an re po rt an d the informat ud es de ve loping, impl re po rt that is y cl aration of a sustainabilit Th is re sp onsibility in r th e pr ep ying ned criteria. portance fo ing and appl aforementio co nt ro ls of material im si bi lit y in cludes sele ct su ita ble internal the respon es deemed safeguarding at em en ts . In addition, m et ho ds and estimat ial misst suremen t free of mater well as mea re po rt in g standards as suitable ces. e circumstan in view of th y sustainabilit si b ili ty at io n di sc losed in the Our respon nclusion on the inform and perform ed our lit y is to express a co su ra nc e. We planned FA C) bi in limited as (I Our responsi view to obta ration of Acc ountants d on ou r re at io na l Fe de ev ie w s of Historical report base ce w ith the Intern er th an Audits or R hich t in acco rd an ments O th countants, w engagemen rd fo r As su rance Engage hi cs fo r Pr ofessional Ac gem en t l Standa e Code of Et the enga Internationa (I SA E3 000) and th . In ac cordance with J. Sa fra format io n en ce t of Financial In la tio n to ou r independ nd s to th e Managemen re t only exte irements in engagemen includes requ of care for this ou r du ty agreement, ra si n G ro up. Sa 108 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Sustainability Report our ble basis for h ff ic ie nt and suita s Our approac ensure a su sample ba si e pr oc ed ur es need ed to ta in ed ev idence on a th e ed all of th ent, we ob surance on We perform e sc op e of our engagem sk to ob ta in limited as e of our Within th gement ri re and sc op conclusion. y an d as surance enga d cr ite ri a. The natu in materia lit an ed considering g principles essional judg ment us the reportin ia nc e of th e KPIs with w er e ba se d on our prof compl , ate samples ing appropri work, includ conclusion. procedures: forming our ud ed th e following ation; gagement in cl istent applic rf or m an ce of our en cr ite ri a an d their cons The pe ng the underlyi y report to as sess suitability of sustainabilit As se ss ment of the ar in g th e ta ca pture ble for prep em, the da em pl oy ees responsi rt , th e re porting syst r a re vi ew ith po fo Interviews w in g the sustai nability re to the extent re levant of pr ep ar co nt ro ls the process ternal as well as in tion methods and compila alysing and st ai na bi lit y report; es se s fo r compiling, an of the su and proc basis; the systems on a sample th e do cu m entation of g su ch do cumentation Review of stin sis with y data and te a sample ba sustainabilit cuments on aggregating vi ew of do iews and re ations, interv antitative da ta; An al yt ical consider re porting of qu ion and e compi la tion an d to the collect respect to th sa m pl e ba sis relating ments on a view of docu the site in Ba sel. In te rv iews and re kt hroughs at ri ng w al KPIs du reporting of e lieve that th n cl u si on io n th at ca uses us to be Our co r attent s come to ou ned criteria. ou r re vi ew , nothing ha ts w ith th e aforementio Based on spec l material re comply in al KPIs do not Deloitte AG Anick Fleury nenberger Sandro Schö dit Expert Licensed Au arge Auditor in Ch 19 uary 27, 20 Zurich, Febr J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 109 Structure Address List Birch | “Betula” Address List 4 Dublin Poznan 16 9 London 21 Warsaw 7 Guernsey 5 Frankfurt 10 Luxembourg 13 Munich 20 Vienna 1 SWITZERLAND 12 Monaco SWITZERLAND Basel Zurich 6 Gibraltar Lucerne Bern Geneva Lugano Tel Aviv 19 Doha 2 Hong Kong 14 Nassau 3 8 Mexico 11 Dubai 15 18 Panama Singapore 17 São Paulo 112 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Address List Switzerland (1) Basel Geneva Lucerne Zurich J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. Banque J. Safra Sarasin SA Bank J. Safra Sarasin AG Bank J. Safra Sarasin AG Wallstrasse 1 Quai de l’Ile 3 Schwanenplatz 4 Bleicherweg 1/Paradeplatz 4051 Basel Case postale Postfach Postfach Schweiz 1211 Genève 11 6002 Luzern 8022 Zürich T: +41 (0)58 317 44 44 Suisse Schweiz Schweiz F: +41 (0)58 317 44 00 T: +41 (0)58 317 55 55 T: +41 (0)58 317 50 50 T: +41 (0)58 317 51 51 www.jsafrasarasin.com F: +41 (0)58 317 55 00 F: +41 (0)58 317 50 00 F: +41 (0)58 317 51 00 www.jsafrasarasin.ch www.jsafrasarasin.ch www.jsafrasarasin.ch Basel Bank J. Safra Sarasin AG Geneva Lugano Zurich Elisabethenstrasse 62 Banque J. Safra Sarasin SA Banca J. Safra Sarasin SA Bank J. Safra Sarasin AG Postfach Rue de la Corraterie 4 Via Marconi 2 General Guisan-Quai 26 4002 Basel Case postale Casella postale Postfach Schweiz 1211 Genève 11 6901 Lugano 8022 Zürich T: +41 (0)58 317 44 44 Suisse Svizzera Schweiz F: +41 (0)58 317 44 00 T: +41 (0)58 317 55 55 T: +41 (0)58 317 58 58 T: +41 (0)58 317 33 33 www.jsafrasarasin.ch F: +41 (0)58 317 55 00 F: +41 (0)58 317 58 00 F: +41 (0)58 317 33 00 www.jsafrasarasin.ch www.jsafrasarasin.ch www.jsafrasarasin.ch Bern Bank J. Safra Sarasin AG Geneva Waisenhausplatz 10 J. Safra Sarasin Asset Management Postfach (North America) Ltd 3001 Bern 4 Rue de la Corraterie Schweiz 1204 Geneva T: +41 (0)58 317 59 59 Switzerland F: +41 (0)58 317 59 00 T: +41 (0)58 317 64 00 www.jsafrasarasin.ch F: +41 (0)58 317 64 49 northamerica.jsafrasarasin.com International Doha (2) Guernsey (7) Monaco (12) Singapore (18) Bank J. Safra Sarasin (QFC) LLC Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Banque J. Safra Sarasin Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Suite 702, Level 7 Guernsey Branch (Monaco) SA Singapore Branch Qatar Financial Centre, Tower 1 P.O. Box 348 La Belle Epoque 8 Marina View Ambassadors Street 1st Floor, Frances House 15 bis/17 Avenue d’Ostende #25-01 Asia Square Tower 1 Al Corniche Area Sir William Place BP 347 Singapore 018 960 P.O. Box 22728 St. Peter Port MC-98006 Monaco Cedex T: +65 6536 6848 Doha Guernsey GY1 3UY Principauté de Monaco F: +65 6536 3866 State of Qatar Channel Islands T: +377 (0)93 10 66 55 www.jsafrasarasin.sg T: +974 (0)4 496 8018 T: +44 (0) 1481 76 11 11 F: +377 (0)93 10 66 00 F: +974 (0)4 496 8020 F: +44 (0) 1481 76 11 00 www.jsafrasarasin.mc Tel Aviv (19) www.jsafrasarasin.com www.jsafrasarasin.gg Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd Munich (13) Representative Office in Israel Dubai (3) Hong Kong (8) J. Safra Sarasin Sarona Azrieli Tower Bank J. Safra Sarasin Asset Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd (Deutschland) GmbH Derech Menachem Begin 121–123 Management (Middle East) Ltd Hong Kong Branch Ottostraße 3 40th Floor Burj Daman, Level 12 40/F Edinburgh Tower 80333 München Tel Aviv 6701203 P.O. Box 506774 The Landmark Deutschland Israel Dubai International 15 Queen’s Road Central T: +49 (0)89 558 999 497 T: +972 76 531 5555 Financial Centre Hong Kong F: +49 (0)89 558 999 499 F: +972 76 531 5500 Dubai T: +852 2287 9888 www.jsafrasarasin.de www.jsafrasarasin.co.il United Arab Emirates F: +852 2501 4001 T: +971 (0)4 381 26 26 www.jsafrasarasin.hk Nassau (14) Tel Aviv (19) F: +971 (0)4 381 26 00 Bank J. Safra Sarasin Banque J. Safra Sarasin www.jsafrasarasin.ae London (9) (Bahamas) Ltd (Luxembourg) SA Bank J. Safra Sarasin 204 Church Street, Sandyport Representative Office in Israel Dublin (4) (Gibraltar) Ltd CB-10 988 Nassau Sarona Azrieli Tower Sarasin & Partners LLP London Branch The Bahamas Derech Menachem Begin 121–123 120 St Stephen’s Green 47 Berkeley Square T: +1 242 601 64 00 40th Floor Dublin 2 London W1J 5AU F: +1 242 601 64 01 Tel Aviv 6701203 D02 C858 United Kingdom www.jsafrasarasin.bs Israel Ireland T: +44 (0) 20 7514 1000 T: +972 76 531 5555 T: +353 (0)1 424 4004 F: +44 (0) 20 7514 1001 Panama (15) F: +972 76 531 5500 F: +353 (0)1 425 1100 www.jsafrasarasin.com.gi J. Safra Sarasin www.jsafrasarasin.co.il www.sarasin.ie Asset Management S.A. London (9) Avenida Balboa y Tel Aviv (19) Frankfurt (5) Sarasin & Partners LLP Calle Aquilino de La Guardia J. Safra Sarasin J. Safra Sarasin Juxon House BICSA Financial Center, Piso 39 Asset Management (Israel) Ltd (Deutschland) GmbH 100 St Paul’s Churchyard Panamá Sarona Azrieli Tower Kirchnerstraße 6–8 London EC4M 8BU Rep. de Panamá Derech Menachem Begin 121–123 60311 Frankfurt am Main United Kingdom T: +507 380 70 70 40th Floor Deutschland T: +44 (0) 20 7038 7000 www.jsafrasarasin.com.pa Tel Aviv 6701203 T: +49 (0)69 714497 300 F: +44 (0) 20 7038 6850 Israel F: +49 (0)69 714497 399 www.sarasinandpartners.com Poznan (16) T: +972 76 531 5555 www.jsafrasarasin.de Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd S.A. F: +972 76 531 5500 Luxembourg (10) Przedstawicielstwo w Polsce am-il.jsafrasarasin.com Gibraltar (6) Banque J. Safra Sarasin ul. Śląska 4 Bank J. Safra Sarasin (Luxembourg) SA 60-614 Poznań Vienna (20) (Gibraltar) Ltd 17–21, Boulevard Joseph II Polska J. Safra Sarasin Fund Management First Floor, Neptune House, L-1840 Luxembourg T: +48 (0) 22 596 52 72 (Luxembourg) S.A. – Austria Branch Marina Bay T: +352 45 47 81 1 F: +48 (0) 22 596 52 80 Kärntner Ring 5–7, 7. Stock P.O. Box 542 F: +352 45 47 81 555 www.jsafrasarasin.pl 1010 Wien Gibraltar GX11 1AA www.jsafrasarasin.lu Österreich T: +350 2000 2500 São Paulo (17) T: +43 (0)1 205 1160 1255 F: +350 2000 2501 Mexico (11) JSS Administradora F: +43 (0)1 205 1160 1008 www.jsafrasarasin.com.gi JSS Servicios S.A. de C.V. de Recursos Ltda. am.jsafrasarasin.com Edificio Forum Avenida Paulista, 2150 Andres Bello, 19th floor 15º andar Warsaw (21) Polanco Bela Vista Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd S.A. 11520 México D.F. CEP 01310-300 Przedstawicielstwo w Polsce México São Paulo, SP ul. Mysia 5 T: +52 55 52 946 155 Brasil 00-496 Warszawa F: +52 55 52 944 000 T: +55 (11) 3550-1111 Polska www.jsafrasarasin.com www.jssadm.com.br T: +48 (0)22 596 52 70 F: +48 (0)22 596 52 80 www.jsafrasarasin.pl J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 113 This page intentionally left blank. 114 | J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 Imprint Impressum Concept, design, layout and text: Bank J. Safra Sarasin Ltd, ­Cabinet Privé de C ­ onseils s.a. Photos: J. Safra ­Sarasin Holding Ltd., iStock, fäm Properties © J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. Links to third-party Internet sites J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. accepts no responsibility for the information provided on the third-party Internet sites mentioned in this publication and does not endorse their content. Precautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements may include specific assumptions about J. Safra Sarasin Group’s future business performance and development of income as well as general assumptions underlying such statements. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific. There is therefore a risk that predictions, forecasts and other expectations described or implied in the forward-looking statements will not be achieved. A number of factors can lead to actual outcomes and developments that are materially different from those described in the forward-looking statements. These factors include the economic situation, the state of the financial markets worldwide and possible loan losses or potential defaults of trading counterparties. J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd. does not assume any responsibility for updating such forward-looking statements and adapt them to new information or future events. www.jsafrasarasin.com J. Safra Sarasin Holding Ltd., Annual Report 2018 | 115
