Taste, Goodness, Purpose DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Contents Performance Highlights 2018/19 | 4 Human Capital | 42 Financial Reports About Dilmah | 6 Social and Relationship Capital | 53 Independent Auditor’s Report | 96 Board of Directors | 10 Intellectual Capital | 63 Statement of Financial Position | 100 Our Team | 13 Natural Capital | 66 Statement of Comprehensive Income | 101 Chairman’s Review | 15 Corporate Governance | 72 Statement of Other Comprehensive Income | 102 Value Creation Model | 18 Report of the Board of Directors | 83 Statement of Changes in Equity | 103 Stakeholder Engagement | 20 Report of the Audit Committee | 90 Statement of Cash Flows | 105 Determining Material Issues | 21 Report of the Remuneration Committee | 91 Notes to the Financial Statements | 107 Risk Management | 23 Report of the Related Party Transactions Five Year Summary | 145 Review Committee | 92 Sustainability at Dilmah | 26 Information to Investors | 146 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in GRI Context Index | 148 Operating Environment | 32 Relation to the Preparation of Financial Statements | 93 Notice of Meeting | 154 Capital Management Form of Proxy | Enclosed Financial Capital | 35 Manufactured Capital | 40 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪1 Taste, Goodness, Purpose Dilmah represents the ingenuity and artisanal commitment of our Founder. Born out of passion, driven by purpose our business transcends beyond the pleasure of fine teas for our customers to delivering value to the community through our strong commitment towards humanitarian and environmental initiatives. We maintain our uncompromising commitment to our founding values in integrating to the heart of our business, respect for nature and future life on earth. Our business ethos is founded on our passion to provide quality, freshness and goodness with overarching integrity by caring for our workers and sharing the success of our efforts with the less privileged. The philosophy that defines Dilmah is that business is a matter of human service, where earnings from the sale of Dilmah Tea is being shared with workers, and the less privileged in the wider community. Through our products, workforce and willingness to adapt and explore, we strive to combine tradition and innovation to create a healthier, happier and better world by bringing the best from bush to cup. These attributes form our assurance of Taste, Goodness and Purpose. 2▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Welcome to our DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC 1st Integrated Annual Report Annual Report This year, we mark an important milestone in our corporate reporting as we embark on the journey of Integrated Reporting. Since inception, the Dilmah 2018/19 Group has been deeply committed to social and environmental sustainability Scope and Boundary Materiality and the adoption of Integrated The Report covers the operations In determining the content to be Reporting has enabled us to showcase of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC included in this Integrated Report this integrated thinking in a coherent (“DCTC”) and its subsidiary MJF we have adopted the principle of and structured manner. Through this Beverages (Private) Limited (collectively materiality. The material topics listed Report, we have sought to put in place referred to as the “Group”) for the on pages 21 and 22 form the anchor a solid foundation for progressing period from 1st April 2018 to 31st of this Report and have been selected further on the journey of Integrated March 2019. The Group adopts an following feedback received from Reporting and have attempted to annual reporting cycle and its latest Dilmah’s stakeholders, the Group’s provide a balanced and concise annual report for the financial year strategic aspirations and risks and assessment of how we utilise our capital ending 31st March 2018 is available opportunities stemming from the inputs in the creation of value for our for download at www.dilmahtea.com. operating landscape. diverse stakeholders. This Annual There were no significant changes Report has been prepared based on to the Group’s size, structure or the guidelines issued by the Integrated supply chain during the year, nor any Reporting Framework published by material restatements of non-financial the International Integrated Reporting information published in previous years Council (IIRC). unless specifically mentioned. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪3 Applying the <IR> Principles Reporting Standards Financial statements: Sri Lanka Completeness Strategic Orientation Financial Reporting Standards The scope of the material topics has Dedicated chapter on the Group’s Narrative Report: <IR> been widened to include factors specific strategic orientation Framework to the Group and the industry, in addition to the topics prescribed by the Sustainability Reporting: GRI GRI Framework Standards, In accordance ‘Core’ Materiality Connectivity Sustainable Development Content included in the Report is Signposting and navigation icons Goals Reporting of the determined and structured based on throughout the Report to show Colombo Stock Exchange the principle of materiality connectivity of information Reporting Improvements External Assurance The Group previously published two separate reports, the Annual Report and the Assurance on the financial Sustainability Report. This report attempts to combine all material information statements have been provided by relevant to stakeholders to one integrated document, providing a balanced, concise Messrs. Ernst and Young. and clear assessment of Dilmah’s value creation. We have not sought assurance on our sustainability reporting this year. Print Available on request DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CD-Rom Posted to all Shareholders Taste, Goodness, Purpose Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC. 111 Negombo Road, Peliyagoda, Sri Lanka DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC 0114822000 info@dilmahtea.com www.dilmahtea.com ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Online Available as PDF Feedback We understand that Integrated Reporting is a journey and a process of continuous Increased disclosure of quantitative information relating to the Group’s nonimprovement. We welcome your financial performance comments, suggestions and feedback on our Report. Kindly Improved structure of the narrative report to present information in a clear and direct your feedback to, meaningful manner sustainability@dilmahtea.com 4▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Performance Highlights 2018/19 Metric 2018/19 2017/18 Y-O-Y Financial Performance Revenue Rs. Mn 10,713 9,205 16% Operating profit Rs. Mn 1,582 1,129 40% Profit before tax Rs. Mn 1,694 1,281 32% Profit after tax Rs. Mn 1,591 1,193 33% Return on equity % 14.50 11.55 26% Return on capital employed % 14.50 11.55 26% Working Capital Ratios Inventory days Days 57 59 -4% Debtor days Days 133 138 -3% Payable days Days 24 28 -14% Current ratio Times 9.5 8.3 14% Quick asset ratio Times 8.3 6.9 20% Financial Position Total assets Rs. Mn 12,805 11,619 10% Total liabilities Rs. Mn 1,283 1,294 -0.8% Shareholders’ funds Rs. Mn 11,522 10,326 12% Non-controlling interest Rs. Mn Total debt Rs. Mn Shareholder Information No of shares in Issue Number 20,737,500 20,737,500 Earnings per share Rs. 76.71 58.74 30% Dividends per share Rs. 35.00 45.00 -22% Net asset value per share Rs. 555.65 497.89 12% Closing price Rs. 619.90 554.90 12% Market capitalization Rs.Mn 12,855 11,507 12% P/E ratio No.of times 8.08 9.45 -15% Dividend pay out % 45.63 76.61 -40% Dividend cover No.of times 2.19 1.31 68% Dividend yield % 6.0 8.0 -25% DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪5 2018/19 2017/18 Y-O-Y Human Capital Total employees – permanent No. 644 675 -4% Payments to employees Rs. Mn 1,080 878 23% New recruits – permanent No. 56 84 -33% Employee retention rate % 82 81 1% No. of promotions No. 10 9 11% Female representation % 44 49 -10% Investment in training Rs. Mn 36 59 -39% Total training hours Hours 5,850 5,400 8% Average training hours/employee Hours 9 8 12% Workplace injuries No. 7 10 -30% Union representation % N/A N/A Instances of disruption to work No. Nil Nil Manufactured Capital Investment in capex Rs. Mn 3,944 4,057 -3% Property, plant and equipment Rs. Mn 2,994 3,098 -3% Highest performing equipment efficiency % 91 90 1% Capacity utilisation % 77 77 Intellectual Capital R&D investment Rs. Mn 39.8 48.4 -18% New products launched No. 65 30 117% Tea standards No. 208 190 9% Social and Relationship Capital No of distributors No. 97 95 2% Payments to suppliers Rs. Mn 8,117 7,055 15% Proportional spending to local suppliers Rs. Mn 5,542 4,936 12% Investment in CSR Rs. Mn Rs. 170 Rs. 100 70% Natural Capital Material tea, flavours & herbs (Mt) 5,190 5,106 2% Energy consumption GJ 13,574 14,205 Energy intensity GJ per Unit 2.6 2.8 -7% Water consumption M3 21,420 19,002 12% Water consumption per unit M3/unit 4.1 3.7 11% Solid waste generation MT 267 420 -36% Carbon footprint tCO2e 31,315 2,816 101% Spending on environmental initiatives Rs.Mn 40.1 60.1 -33% 6▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 About Dilmah Business Overview Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC is a globally renowned Sri Lankan tea company, with an unparalleled reputation for producing authentic, natural and ethical Sri Lankan tea of the finest quality. The Company pioneered the concept of single origin tea in 1988 offering tea which was ‘picked, perfected and packed’ at origin. As the first producer-owned global tea brand, the Dilmah Group is the only fully vertically integrated tea company with presence along the entire value chain including ownership in several of Sri Lanka’s finest tea gardens, factories, printing and packaging facilities. Dilmah products are sold in over 100 countries supported by an extensive global distribution network. The Group has remained true to its founder’s vision of extending business as a matter of human service, with significant investments directed every year towards supporting the humanitarian and environmental initiatives of Dilmah Conservation and MJF Charitable Foundation. The Company, DCTC is 86% owned by MJF Group of companies – MJF Teas (Pvt) Ltd and MJF Exports (Pvt) Ltd. Dilmah in numbers 2,700 890 31,315 Products 105 644 Supply chain Rs.11.5 Bn Rs.1.6 Bn tCO2eq across 49 Markets Employees Equity Profit after tax Carbon partners Ranges Footprint Artistry of our tea Dilmah Dilmah First value Pioneered Dilmah pledges a core added t-Lounges single origin in overseas School of Sri Lankan tea Tea commitment to owned global markets brand sustainability Commitment to Taste, Goodness and Purpose Rainforest SMETA ISO:17025 Alliance ISO 9001: FSSC BRC ISO 14001: 2015 22000 2015 CoC SEDEX Chemical and & Global Environmental Quality Food Safety Members Microbiological Carbon Management Management Standard for Management Ethical Trade Laboratory Neutral system System Food Safety Systems Audit Accreditation Certification (Cradle to Gate) DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪7 Sustainable Organisation The Company is the key contributor to the MJF Group’s charitable and conservation arms, MJF Charitable Foundation and Dilmah Conservation which engages in island-wide humanitarian and environmental sustainability initiatives. 10% of PBT Rs. 170 Mn directed towards social spend on and environmental community sustainability initiatives 40 Rs. Mn Over Sri Lanka’s 19,000 first private sector climate change lives impacted Spend on environmental directly and indirectly research station initiatives 14 environmental publications Carbon neutral status 8▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 About Dilmah Our Impact The Dilmah Group has been instrumental in enhancing the brand value of Ceylon Tea in the global area, with significant investments directed every year towards global marketing efforts, research and development, communications and industry thought leadership. The Group conducts signature international events and competitions such as the Dilmah Thé Culinaire, Dilmah Tea Sommelier, Chefs & the Teamaker, School of Tea among others aimed at engaging industry stakeholders in inspiring new tea experiences. Dilmah also publishes a series of #teainspired publications aimed at raising awareness on industry innovations, health benefits of tea and tea gastronomy and mixology among others. In commemorating 150 years of Sri Lanka’s tea industry, the Group also launched a dedicated website on the History of Ceylon Tea which includes numerous publications on the fascinating evolution of the industry. Economic Impact Publications Promotional and engagement initiatives Foreign exchange income Over 25,000 publications aimed generated : USD 65 Mn at raising awareness on exciting Dilmah tea inspired culinary, themes such as tea gastronomy, mixology and hospitality Tax contributions: Rs.138 Mn tea mixology, food service and competitions sustainability among others. Employment Dilmah tea fusion experiences generated: 644 numbers around the world Payments to Value Distribution History of Ceylon Tea website employees: Rs.1,080 Mn The Teagram newsletter Payments to 31% suppliers: Rs.8,117 Mn Global distributor conference 48% and various global events Market capitalisation: Rs.12.8 Bn 12% 4% 5% ● To Employees R&D and Innovation ● To Shareholders ● Tax Contributions ● To Development Rs. 39 million average annual Interventions & Environmental Initiatives investment in R&D ● Retention for Growth 2,700 product varieties across 49 Dilmah School of Tea categories/ranges The World’s first consumer and hospitality tea school, the Dilmah School of Tea offers programmes that seek to inspire passion in tea amongst hospitality A library of over 200 tea professionals, consumers and industry stakeholders. The school offers tea standards programmes around the world, with over 5,100 participants successfully completing programmes since inception. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪9 Brand Reach Our products are sold in over 100 countries around the world through an extensive network of sales agents and distributors. These partners are a critical element of our value chain, engaging proactively with consumers, pursuing new opportunities and identifying emerging consumer preferences. 10 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 11 for plantation workers, underprivileged 1 4 children, elders and society’s victims. Mr. Merrill J. Fernando Mr. Malik J. Fernando Chairman His primary objective is to make tea Executive Director a sustainable industry and to make Merrill J. Fernando is the founder of the business a matter of human service. Mr. Malik J. Fernando is Director MJF Group of Companies and the global Operations of the MJF Group. He brand, DILMAH which re-launched was appointed to the Board of Dilmah 2 Ceylon Tea globally. He developed Ceylon Tea Company PLC (Formerly the first ever tea brand from a tea Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera Ceylon Tea Services PLC) in September producing country, which is competing Deputy Chairman 1991 as an Executive Director. successfully with multinational brands to become the most respected brand Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera worked Mr. Fernando had his secondary name for freshness and quality of tea. with the MJF Group of Companies education at Stonyhurst College, for 28 years and is now its Deputy England and obtained a B.Sc. in He pioneered value addition, packaging Chairman. He was appointed to the Management from Babson College, shelf ready tea at origin which Board of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company Boston. combined with branding and marketing, PLC (Formerly known as Ceylon enabled Sri Lanka to retain profits Tea Services PLC) in April 1998. He joined the MJF Group as a which enrich foreign traders, while our Mr. Ranaweera has over 40 years Management Trainee nearly 34 years tea producers remain exploited. Dilmah experience in Operations Management ago. demonstrated how the colonial trading in Sri Lanka and overseas. Malik spearheads Resplendent Ceylon, culture of exploiting producers of raw the first Sri Lankan luxury resort material, can be broken. Value addition, 3 brand, developing a collection of small, branding and marketing are the only profitable segments of the tea industry. Mr. Dilhan C. Fernando luxury resorts offering discriminating Executive Director/CEO travelers a remarkable circuit across He showed producers of raw material Sri Lanka, with a range of authentic the way out of the commodity trap. Mr. Dilhan C. Fernando is the CEO of experiences, while contributing towards He drove relentlessly to re-establish Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC. He was local communities & the environment the image of Ceylon Tea as the world’s appointed to the Board of Dilmah Ceylon through the MJF Charitable Foundation finest, by marketing high quality tea at Tea Company PLC (Formerly Ceylon & Dilmah Conservation. premium prices which would enhance Tea Services PLC) in September 1991 Sri Lanka’s foreign exchange earnings, as an Executive Director and appointed 5 quite substantially, if the rest of the as the CEO of the company in August 2017. Mr. Fernando had his secondary Mr. Roshan C. Tissaaratchy industry followed the example of DILMAH. education at Stonyhurst College, England Executive Director and graduated from the London School In his commitment to care for the poor of Economics with a BSc (Hons) in Mr. Roshan C. Tissaaratchy, is Director and share his business success in making Economics. He joined the MJF Group as a Sales of the MJF Group and was this a better world, he established the Management Trainee nearly 29 years ago. appointed to the Board of Dilmah MJF Charitable Foundation, a charity Ceylon Tea Company PLC (Formerly that works to create better conditions Mr. Fernando currently chairs UNGC Ceylon Tea Services PLC) in April 2005 Network in Sri Lanka and Biodiversity as an Executive Director. Sri Lanka. 12 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Board of Directors Mr. Tissaaratchy is a Graduate of the International Law of the Sea Tribunal, 7 University of Colombo and a Fellow of Hamburg, in which capacity he was The Chartered Institute of Marketing Mr. Rajan Asirwatham its Chief Executive and Head of legal of UK. He also has a MBA from the Non Executive, Independent Director affairs (1996 2001). He was in law University of Sri Jayawardenapura. He practice in Sri Lanka from 1968 and has over 30 years working experience Mr. Rajan Asirwatham was appointed joined the United Nations, New York, in in all aspects of Sales and Marketing to the Board of Dilmah Ceylon Tea 1975 serving for over 20 years. He was and in a number of industries and in Company PLC (Formerly Ceylon Tea Principal Legal Officer in the UN Office advertising. He has now completed 21 Services PLC) on 04th September of Legal Affairs. years of International Marketing with 2008 as a Non Executive Director. He Dilmah Tea. is a Fellow member of the Institute He has been an Adviser to the Sri Lanka of Chartered Accountants of Sri Delegation to the UN. He has served Lanka. After a distinguished career at as an adviser to the Inter Ministerial 6 Ford Rhodes, now known as KPMG, Committee on Oceans and the Law of Ms. Minette Perera he retired as its Senior Partner and the Sea, Member of the Appeals Board Non Executive Director Country Head on 31st March 2008. of the International Sea Bed Authority; a Member of the Editorial Board of the Ms. Minette Perera was appointed Mr. Asirwatham is the Chairman of Law Journal “The Law and Practice of to the Board of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Financial System Stability Committee International Courts & Tribunals”; a Company PLC (Formerly Ceylon Tea of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. Mr. practitioner before the UN Disputes Services PLC) in September 2000 as Asirwatham is also the Chairman of Tribunal and the UN Appeals Tribunal, an Executive Director. She is a Fellow Audit committee of the Institute of and a Trustee of the Weeramantry member of the Institute of Chartered Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. International Centre for Peace Accountants of Sri Lanka, the Chartered Education and Research. Institute of Management Accountants 8 of UK and the Association of Chartered In 2016, Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty was Certified Accountants of UK. After Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty appointed by the cabinet as Chairman of serving the Company as the Group Non Executive, Independent Director the National Ocean Affairs Committee. Finance Director for over 12 years, Ms. Perera retired from her post on 31st Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty was appointed Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty is a Life March 2013 and continues on the Board to the Board of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Member of the Bar Association of Sri as a non-executive Director. Company PLC (Formerly known as Lanka and Member, American Society Ceylon Tea Services PLC) on 04th of International Law. Ms. Perera has over 40 years working August 2010 as a Non Executive experience as a qualified accountant Director. Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty, having worked in leading local and Attorney-at-Law and Advocate of international companies, and she has the Supreme Court since 1968, is a held board positions before joining the former Assistant Secretary-General Company. and founding Registrar of the UN DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 13 Our Team We leverage the talent, commitment and expertise of our self-motivated team to drive innovation, facilitate the customer experience and to achieve our strategic aspirations. 14 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 15 Chairman’s Review Dilmah is well placed to benefit from its emphasis on Quality, Single Origin Tea, packed Garden Fresh Your company maintains an at source. The company continues to innovate with uncompromising and sincere commitment to the values on which a continuous new product development programme it was established. Complementing that emphasizes innovation with tea, herb and Taste and Goodness as one of three spice ingredients, as well as a strong commitment core principles, the Purpose of Dilmah continues to drive the business, over to sustainability in product packaging and across 30 years since its inception. Whilst business operations generally. Purpose has become a trend, adopted on the insistence of consumers, it is Corporate Social Responsibility and a founding principle of Dilmah and I am pleased to present the Annual Alleviation of Poverty therefore defines your company. With Report and Audited Financial the objective of offering dignified Statements of Dilmah Ceylon Tea In fulfilling its commitment to its empowerment to the most social and Company PLC for the year ended founding principles and family values, economically marginalised segments 31st March 2019. Dilmah is firmly demonstrating the of our community, earnings from the role of business in a changing world. sale of Dilmah Tea fund the work of Tea Crop and Tea Prices Earnings from the MJF Group the MJF Charitable Foundation in The tea crop improved during the primarily from Dilmah tea provide several hundred projects that care year compared to previous year. As funds to the MJF Charitable Foundation for the elderly, for differently able a result, tea prices also stabilized for its work in fulfilling the philosophy children, youth and their families, & reached sustainable levels when of making business a matter of human whilst educating, training and enabling compared with last year. service. The Foundation completed entrepreneurs. Sri Lanka’s largest private sector humanitarian project, the MJF Amongst its conservation and Performance Centre East, which provides dignity restoration programmes, Dilmah As expected, the company and empowerment to thousands of Conservation initiated its Climate performed extremely well during women, men, youth and children Reality programme in collaboration with the period under review. Revenue in the Eastern province through its UNGC Sri Lanka, to build collaboration grew by 16% and Gross profit entrepreneurship, training, therapy, and amongst academia, government increased by 30% over previous other programmes. The facility mirrors and business in comprehending the year. Benefits in exchange showed the work of MJF Centres around Sri challenges of climate change and its a remarkable gain of 106% over Lanka which also support children with profound implications, whilst adapting the previous year. Net profit before different ability, marginalized youth and harnessing the opportunity tax increased by 32%. Net profit and communities. The centre shares with climate smart technology and after tax is 15% of the Revenue, an knowledge of sustainable agriculture, agricultural methods in a changing increase of 33% over previous year. climate change adaptation and helps environment. It continues to support small farmers align with the market to the Biodiversity Sri Lanka initiative, secure better prices for their produce. which was established in collaboration with IUCN and the Ceylon Chamber of 16 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Chairman’s Review Commerce to encourage and support Exporters who lack comprehension of Sadly, our tea industry remains largely, the private sector in understanding the realities of the global market or the in the colonial culture and mind set, but biodiversity issues which are at the national interest of Sri Lanka are again far less efficient. Plantations are remain heart of the environmental and actively pursuing a proposal for a tea still, with rare exceptions. Exports sustainability challenges our world hub. On numerous occasions over the are dominated by traders whose only faces, and translate that knowledge into years suggestions on the same lines objective is, PROFIT, how and where it action. supported by misinformation have been comes from, is not their concern. Any scrutinized and abandoned as only advice from entrepreneurs is suspect Retailers & Multinationals being in the interest of the few traders and rejected. There are pundits who who propose the hub. The integrity of pursue a tea hub and free imports for Retailers and Traders both, Ceylon Tea must be protected even their own benefit. Institutions fully multinationals and others, continue to if that protection is enshrined in the capable of advice and guidance, remain exploit producers and consumers alike, constitution to protect our nation’s dormant. Government does not realise ruthlessly, pursuing their sole objective assets and from predatory traders. the enormous potential in the tea of enhancing profits, disregarding industry which, is capable of generating poverty, they create in among their Current auction prices of tea reflect $3 / $5 billion an year, if it is left suppliers. Several suppliers are driven to what I stated last year. Let us hope entirely, to private sector management, bankruptcy by Retailers’ unreasonable, the tide will turn soon. Tea is 100% without any form of government unfair demands for lower prices managed, in all aspects, by the private control. disregarding higher cost of inputs and sector. Government regulations, framed falling exchange rates. to support the industry, are archaic. I have advocated establishment of a Implementation of these regulation are TEA AUTHORITY under a small team of Plight of the Tea Industry in the hands of government. However senior, successful private business men Our tea industry is in difficulty as good, well intentioned and committed and respected, knowledgeable public a result of neglect & interference. they may be, politicians appointed officials to rehabilitate the industry by Every possible abuse is in place from to head the Ministry do not possess developing a ten year plan and pursuing plantations to exports. Illegal imports of any knowledge of our very important, it aggressively. cheap tea is rampant. How such tea is primary industry. They turn to others exported under prevailing regulations is in the industry for advice and guidance, Dividends just a mystery. The price of Ceylon tea is while existing regulations are not The company has declared an interim under severe attack by some exporters. implemented for fear or favour. dividend Rs. 20/per share during the If authorities continue to ignore these year and your Directors propose to pay fraudulent activities by some, the Tea and Tourism are 100% private a Final dividend of Rs. 15/per share country’s economy will sufferheavily. sector operated and managed industries making the total dividend Rs. 35/per All manner of abuse goes undetected by and they perform very well on their share for the year ended 2018/19. the authorities although it is common own steam. If application of government knowledge to the public. Imports of regulations are also, entrusted to them, cheap tea from India are creating a expected revenues will be forthcoming situation where soon our exports may without delay or abuse. Present system be larger than production,victim of leaves room for delays, fraud and abuse the same fate as Sri Lankan pepper. of authority. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 17 Outlook for the Current Year Dilmah is well placed to benefit from its emphasis on Quality, Single Origin Tea, I am confident of reporting satisfactory packed Garden Fresh at source. The results in the year 2019/20 despite company continues to innovate with a continued losses from the Australian continuous new product development business. First quarter sales are as programme that emphasizes innovation expected and I believe this trend will with tea, herb and spice ingredients, continue. Marketing our own brand as well as a strong commitment to DILMAH, loved and respected for sustainability in product packaging and its consistent quality and integrity across business operations generally. will ensure good returns, even when tea auction prices are below cost of I thank my colleagues on the Board for production. That is why I have for years their advice and guidance; our staff, tried to impress upon the Tea Board our global distributors, customers and to discourage bulk tea exports and suppliers for their support, cooperation incentivize Sri Lankans to develop their and goodwill. own brands of good quality Pure Ceylon Tea. Neither government nor exporters understand this vital marketing strategy. The company is investing heavily in Merrill J Fernando further modernizing its production Chairman facilities, to enhance operational efficiency. As premiumization amongst 25th July 2019 a new generation of tea drinkers boosts prospects for quality tea in many territories, 18 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Value Creation Model Dilmah is committed to giving its consumers the best cup of tea which can only be made from the finest Ceylon teas that have been picked, perfected and packed at source. It has passionately committed to quality, authenticity and human service and 10% of the Group’s proceeds are allocated for Dilmah Conservation and the MJF Charitable Foundation. This is a graphical summary of the the Company’s business model explaining how it uses its capitals to deliver value to its stakeholders. OUR CAPITALS VALUE CREATING PROCESSES VISION MISSION DILMAH VALUES FINANCIAL CAPITAL Tea Standards Grading and Tasting Sourcing See page 35 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL See page 40 HUMAN CAPITAL Formulated by our team of Selection based on samples Procuring tea, herbs, spices, globally renowned tea experts obtained from plantations/ flavours and packing materials See page 42 and approved personally by brokers to meet company the Chairman/CEO, our unique standards collection of Tea standards determine the elevation,region Evaluate 10,00012,000 and quantity of teas to be samples weekly SOCIAL & procured. RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL See page 53 Leaf evaluation Internal quality using all sensory control procedures impacts including for stringent sample visual,sound, feel and testing INTELLECTUAL taste CAPITAL See page 63 Quality Assurance across our process NATURAL CAPITAL Financial Legal and HR Management Engineering Management Administration See page 66 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 19 VALUE CREATING PROCESSES VALUE DELIVERED STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CUSTOMERS Collection, Storage, Production & Packaging Marketing & Distributing Tea 5,200 MT Cleaning & Bulking See page 40 SHAREHOLDERS PAT Rs.1.6 Bn See page 35 EMPLOYEES Value created Stocks Cleaning & Bulking of the Based on the confirmed orders in Marketing and Distribution to Rs.1,080 Mn fresh stock in hand to expected i-store, production will take place over 100 countries through consumption levels of the using our high-tech packaging agents/ distributors and also via See page 42 relevant blends. machines online sales State of the art cleaning & COMMUNITY bulking system Investment Rs.170 Mn See page 53 Quality checks prior to Sample tasting, with After-sales customer production (through a trial approximately 1,000 engagement and batch), during production tea cups tasted daily feedback mechanisms GOVERNMENT (through samples) and prior including customer to packaging (Individual silo samples) and market surveys Taxes Rs.138 Mn See page 08 Quality Assurance across our process SUPPLIERS Purchases Social and Environmental Rs.8.1 Bn Procurement and Information Sustainability/ Logistics Technology See page 59 Conservation 20 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder feedback is the barometer to gauge the expectations of the stakeholders and perceived gaps in value delivered to them. Engaging with stakeholders is a responsibility shared across the organisation with multiple channels for obtaining feedback which is a key input to Dilmah’s strategic planning processes. The table below provides a summary of how the Group engages with its stakeholders, their concerns and how they have responded to them. Stakeholders Engagement Concerns Employees Open-door policy (ongoing) Remuneration Our team comprises of 644 motivated Individual performance reviews Opportunities for skill and career individuals and we are committed to (Biannual) progression inspiring our employees to contribute Meetings and internal mailers (ongoing) Job security towards our value creating process. Awareness campaigns (ongoing) Equal opportunities Sports and cultural activities (ongoing) Conducive work environment Customers One-to-one interactions (ongoing) Product quality and Food safety Our customers comprise of Customer Service and relationship Product affordability distributors, agents, end-customers management teams (ongoing) Compliance to relevant regulations and the HORECA channel. Social media interaction (ongoing) Ease of transactions Mailers & Newsletters (ongoing) Ethical Production Environmental sustainability Shareholders Annual General Meeting Shareholder returns Our shareholding base consists of Publication of quarterly accounts Strategic aspirations 867 individual shareholders and 52 Press releases (ongoing) Prudent risk management institutional shareholders. Annual Report Corporate governance practices Suppliers Vendor Review (ongoing) Price and profitability We support livelihoods of over 15,000 Regular dialogue and interactions Credit period and ease of transactions suppliers across our value chain. (ongoing) Capacity and demand planning Visits to ensure compliance(ongoing) Climate change and sustainable production Communities MJFCF community projects (ongoing) Community Investments We support livelihoods of over 15,000 Interactions with local authorities Employment Opportunities suppliers across our value chain. (ongoing) Environmental Impact Through NGO interaction (ongoing) Community Support Government and policy makers Statutory audits (ongoing) Regulatory & Legal Compliance The government is the regulator of Meetings with Treasury, TRCSL, BOI, Timely payment of taxes markets and the environment. The Customs (ongoing) Product Safety & Quality government also levies taxes on our Dialogue through intermediaries Profitability and growth products sold and profits. (ongoing) DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 21 Determining Material Issues In improving the relevance and meaningfulness of this Annual The material topics which are considered most critical to Report, the Group adopted the principle of materiality in the Group’s business is listed below; it also demonstrates determining the content that is included here, this year. how the Group’s selected material topics correspond to the Material matters are defined as the issues that have the most topics recommended by the GRI standards its sustainability ability to impact the Group’s performance and value creation reporting. The process for determining material topics is also and is of the greatest importance to its stakeholders. The in line with the guidelines prescribed by the IR Framework. material topics presented below represent emerging issues in the industry, factors relevant to the Group’s strategic agenda and its value creation model. The process adopted to determine these issues is illustrated below; 1,2,3,4,5,8,9 Significance to Stakeholder Emerging industry Strategic Stakeholder 6 7,10,11,13,14 trends priorities feedback 12 Significance to Group Identification Assessment Prioritise of material of relative matters issues importance Material Topic Corresponding GRI Topic Corresponding Sustainable Development Goal 1 Sustainable growth in earnings 2 Managing our people GRI 401: Employment GRI 403: Occupational health and safety GRI 404: Training and education 3 Innovation 4 Customer satisfaction 5 Managing our distribution network 6 Manufacturing capabilities 7 Implications of climate change 22 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Determining Material Issues Material Topic Corresponding GRI Topic Corresponding Sustainable Development Goal 8 Geopolitical conditions in buying markets 9 Product responsibility GRI 416: Customer health and safety GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 10 Brand 11 Manging our supply chain GRI 204: Procurement practices 12 Exchange rate fluctuations 13 Preserving the environment GRI 301: Raw materials GRI 302: Energy GRI 303: Water GRI 305: Emissions GRI 306: Effluents and waste GRI 306: Environmental compliance 14 Community engagement GRI 413: Local communities DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 23 Risk Management Board of Directors The Board of Directors hold ultimate responsibility for identifying and managing the Group’s risk exposures. They are assisted by the Board Audit Committee who Audit Chief Executive have oversight responsibility for the same. Risk identification is an ongoing process Committee Officer and follows stakeholder engagement and persistent evaluation of the internal and external business environments. Risk grids are updated on an ongoing basis and presented to the Board for review. Corporate Management The following table provides a high-level overview of the Group’s principal risks in 2018/19. Risk Potential Impact and Developments in 2018/19 Mitigating Activities As an export-oriented Group, economic and geopolitical The Group’s focus and presence in conditions in buying markets have a significant impact on diverse markets limit its dependence Geopolitical demand and pricing trends. Sri Lankan tea exports declined by on countries/regions conditions in 7% in 2018, reflecting trade restrictions following international buying markets sanctions on Iran and trade barrier imposed by Russia on Ceylon Focus on expanding value-added tea. The average export price of tea and the volume of tea products through innovation exported declined during the year. Tea prices are dependent on a range of factors outside the Tea buying strategy incorporates price Group’s control including weather patterns, demand conditions fluctuations and seasonal trends and labour productivity among others. As the primary raw material, fluctuations in tea prices have a direct impact on the Ongoing monitoring of emerging Fluctuations in Group’s profitability. During the year, Sri Lankan tea prices tea prices industry trends declined by 6%. Pursuing product differentiation through innovation Customer preferences are changing rapidly with the increasing Proactive and ongoing engagement number of health-conscious consumers, competition from with customers through numerous Changing alternative beverages and more sophisticated customer platforms customer demands. Inability to cater to these emerging preferences could preferences affect the relevance of the Group’s products, ultimately affecting Ongoing monitoring of emerging its competitive edge. industry trends and preferences through Euromonitor. Fluctuations in exchange rates have a direct impact on the Efficient treasury management Group’s profitability margins. During the year under review, the procedures and use of appropriate Sri Lankan Rupee depreciated by 12% against the US Dollar currency risk mitigation strategies. Exchange rate reflecting the broad-based strengthening of the US Dollar and impacts capital outflows towards the latter part of 2018. As a Group which is dependent on the agriculture sector, the Sourcing from diverse regions and increasingly pronounced effects of climate change have a direct elevations impact on its operations through adverse weather and natural Implications of disasters which affect the quantity and quality of tea. The climate change Conducting research through owned drought conditions which prevailed in tea growing areas during climate change research station and the year resulted in the country’s tea production declining educating farmers on adaptation during the year under review. methodology. 24 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Risk Management Risk Potential Impact and Developments in 2018/19 Mitigating Activities The Group is exposed to credit risk through the potential loss of Customer profiles are carefully earnings and cashflow arising from distributors’/ clients’ inability evaluated before credit terms are Credit risk to fulfill their financial obligations. offered. SLECIC cover / bank guarantees /secured payment terms are established when there is a default risk. The organisational tacit knowledge of its employee base is a Maintain close relationship with critical factor in sustaining its competitive edge, and the Group’s employees, training & development Employee inability to attract and retain the right talent would affect the attraction and programmes, remuneration in line with fulfilment of strategic objectives. industry. Maintain healthy working retention environment through effective twoway communication system. Issues relating to product responsibility and/or quality will Compliance to a range of product directly impact the Group’s brand and reputation, thereby quality related certifications affecting its competitive edge. Product Stringent quality assurance across responsibility/ the sourcing, manufacturing and quality related distribution process risks Ongoing monitoring of emerging customer preferences Strategic focus on product innovation Increasing interest rates have a direct impact on the profitability The company is mostly equity financed through rising costs of capital. Interest rates were on an upward and does not contain any significant Financial risk trend during the year under review. arising from debt obligations having exposure to interest rate interest rate risks. Interest rate risk is fluctuations managed by constant monitoring and negotiating the rates with the banks where applicable. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 25 Strategy & Measuring Success A well-articulated strategy is a pre-requisite for success. This is a summary of the Group’s strategy and the progress it made during the year under review; Corporate Vision, Mission & Objectives Strategy What we did Measuring Success Page Reference for Further Information Earnings Launch of 65 new products Revenue growth of 16% 35 Growth Entry into new markets Profit growth of 17% 35 Focus on expanding the premium segment New client acquisition Proactive marketing efforts Focus on Ongoing focus on the three brand 65 new products launched 35, 55, 63 Quality attributes of taste, goodness and purpose Full compliance to systems and product quality ISO 9001: 2015, FSSC 22,000, 6, 29, 55 certifications BRC, SMETA, ISO:17025, ISO 14001: 2015, Rainforest Alliance, Organic Certifications Innovation led product offering Innovation Timeline 65 An Inspired Ongoing focus on training and skill development Rs. 36 million investment in 42 Team training for over 450 training programmes Multiple engagement mechanisms and an Retention: 82% 42 open-door policy Initiatives towards creating a healthy Injury rate: 0.78% and safe working environment Driving towards Investment in high-tech tea bagging machines with 730 Mn in CAPEX including 5, 121, 134 production necessary infrastructure to facilitate the transition. Capital Commitments for the automation next F/Y Conservation and Ongoing investments in MJFCF with focus Total investment: Rs. 210 5 community on empowering marginalised/disadvantaged million engagement communities, capacity building, and education among others. Beneficiaries Concerted efforts towards achieving carbon MJF Youth empowered: 958 25, 30, 61 neutral status MJF Rainbow centre: 276 25, 30, 61 Investments in renewable energy Curtiss Institute of Design: 228 25, 30, 61 Carbon sequestration through use of biochar Greening Batticaloa programme Achieved 100% carbon 55, 63, 67 Numerous programmes to raise environmental neutrality awareness among diverse stakeholders 26 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Sustainability at Dilmah The founder’s vision of building a truly sustainable tea industry which benefits people, communities and the environment, is deeply instilled into the Group’s ethos and organisational culture. Sustainability considerations are therefore embedded into the business strategy, resource allocation and day-to-day decision-making to drive sustainable development within and outside the organisation. The sustainability agenda is articulated and driven through comprehensive policy frameworks, governance structures and monitoring mechanisms which ensure the efficient allocation and optimisation of resources. Our Commitment and Approach The Group’s approach towards sustainability embodies balancing economic success, environmental preservation and social responsibility. In addition to propagating this message across all the Group’s employees, business units and functions, it has Our Commitment to encouraged its distributors, customers and other value chain partners to embrace Sustainability these principles thereby widening the Group’s impact. Since the Group continuously strives to make its business sustainable, the Group’s Humanitarian approach in all Sustainability Strategy (which is graphically illustrated below) was revised to projects incorporate a holistic and comprehensive approach to justify its objectives, Minimise environmental impacts incorporate wider initiatives, and allow stronger collaborations on sustainability of our operations across its entire value chain. The strategy is reflective of the Group’s 12 commitments to sustainability (summarised alongside), which articulate the Group’s Holistic projects which accrue long-term vision in fostering a harmonious coexistence between man and nature. long-term benefits Create awareness that will lead to the eventual elimination of conflicts between man and wildlife Corporate Stakeholder Make business a matter of human Governance Engagement service Philosophy Maintain highest standards of Business is a Matter corporate best practice and of Human Service compliance Employee Vision Supply chain Environmental conservation is an Empowerment sustainability To deliver premium quality extension of our commitment to ethical products that manifest human service from a passion to improve Assessing and monitoring people’s lives and the planet environmental impacts Responsible Products Operations and services Transparency and open communication Engage partners and customers Be an employer of choice Nurture meaningful relationships Drivers: PEOPLE | PLANET | PRODUCTS | PARTNERS | PERFORMANCE with all communities Outcomes: Economic, Social and Environmental Sustainability DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 27 The six pillars of our sustainability strategy are as follows; Corporate Governance Employee Empowerment Responsible Operations Stakeholder Engagement G1 Board Oversight E1 Training and R1 Climate Adaptation S1 Consumer Engagement G2 Management Development R2 Facilities and Buildings S2 Strategic Collaboration Accountability E2 Diversity R3 Sustainable Transportations S3 Engagement of & Logistics Merchants & Ambassadors G3Corporate Policies and E3 Sustainable Lifestyles R4 Safeguard Natural and Management Systems S4 Platforms for Cultural Ecosystems G4 Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Dialogue R5 Water Management G5 Public Policy R6 Waste Reduction R7 Human Rights R8 Development Interventions for a better society Supply Chain Product and Services Sustainability P1 Product Design and SC1 Policies and Codes Packaging Innovations SC2 Procurement Practices P2 Business Model Innovation, R&D and SC3 Supplier Engagement Capital SC4 Verification and Disclosure Sustainability structure and identified, related to environmental DCTC is the largest financial contributor Governance and social sustainability are realized to both these entities, contributing 10% through Dilmah Conservation, the of the profit before tax (PBT). The implementation of the dedicated environmental conservation Sustainability agenda is governed by arm and MJF Charitable Foundation, Dilmah Operations and is carried out the dedicated philanthropic arm of the primarily through the Sustainability Group, complementing the founder’s function, thereby ensuring the company philosophy of ‘making business a matter caters to the standards and evolving of human service.’ requirements of the international market. Further, the initiatives 28 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Sustainability at Dilmah Sustainability Governance Structure Board of Directors Affiliations and Partnerships Chief Executive Officer with Organizations Environmental Operations Unit Biodiversity Sri Lanka Department of Wildlife Sustainability Conservation Unit Dilmah MJF Charitable Conservation Foundation International Union for Conservation of Nature Responsible Care Universities – Colombo, MJF Charitable Foundation: The Foundation is the Peradeniya, Moratuwa, philanthropic arm of Dilmah and operates with the mission of Sabaragamuwa, Rajarata, driving long-lasting positive change and improving the lives Eastern & Jaffna of marginalised communities. At present, the Foundation has impacted over 19,000 lives. Sri Lanka Climate Fund Dilmah Conservation: Established in 2007, Dilmah Economic Conservation was established to drive environmental and Sri Lanka Tea Board wildlife conservation efforts under the four focus areas of sustainability, biodiversity, heritage and knowledge Ceylon Chamber of Commerce dissemination. International Chamber of Commerce Collaborating for success Given the increasing complexity of sustainability issues around the world, we are Banks, insurance and financial cognisant of the vital importance of partnering with like-minded organisations in institutions driving shared solutions. We engage in both consulting and collaborative initiatives Social with a range of organisations driving cooperation along value chains, financing project level partnerships and forming industrylevel business alliances to fulfil World Chefs Organisation common objectives. Organizations in which the Group holds affiliations and United Nations Global Compact partnerships are listed alongside. World Vision DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 29 Contribution to the SDGs The United Nations SDGs aims to galvanise global efforts to end poverty, promote prosperity and protect the environment. Governments, organisations and individuals are expected to collectively contribute towards the achievement of the goals and as an organisation the Group has explored the role it could play. In order to drive strategic and concerted efforts towards the achievement of these goals, the Group has sought to incorporate selected SDGs to its Sustainability Strategy, as graphically illustrated on page 27 of this Report. The infogram depicts the goals that are of greatest relevance to the Group and how it is currently contributing towards these targets. Equal opportunity employer Stringent quality assurance at ISO 9001:2015 44% female representation every stage of the FSSC 22000 Capacity development through the production process BRC Women’s Development Programme Global Standard for Supplier IT training for 25 women Sewing and Food Safety assessments for healthy cooking: 20 women ISO 17025 quality and food safety Over 1300 women entrepreneurs supported through the Small Production and distribution of 5190 Entrepreneurship Programme and kgs of teaconsidered to be one of the Women’s Development Programme healthiest beverages available in the market. Achieved 100% carbon neutrality for all 2267 products in 2019 Total water consumption of 21,420 m3 The headquarter achieved carbon neutrality in 2017 Established two hydropower units 136090 KwH 24 water related initiatives with in the supply generated through chain with a net capacity of 150 solar units KwH Over 70% of waste recycled 101.34 MT of Biochar applications for biosequestration 3% upcycling of waste packaging material ‘Climate Reality’ initiative with the aim of creating a multistakeholder dialog on the consequences of climate change Generation of Water and energy and formulate solutions to address these challenges 136090 Kwh of stewardship renewable energy 100% carbon neutrality 30 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Sustainability at Dilmah Supported 6 Over 3000 special needs children & 1 million cashew initiatives of youth supported. 276 supported in 2018. trees planted in Biodiversity Batticaloa 320 wheelchairs donated in 2018. Sri Lanka Cave biodiversity Research Empowered 4th biospeleological study in Sri Lanka 2036 small to survey 18 caves. 17 maps of caves entrepreneurs to Over 5800 developed. date. children supported through 15 centres dedicated towards 89 small Initiating Partner of Biodiversity Sri Lanka in collaboration with child development Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and IUCNSri Lanka entrepreneurship Dilmah Conservation facilitated the identification of 41 faunal grants distributed species that were previously unknown to science; driving in 2018. research and awareness on species conservation 4500 individuals have received training Endana Nature Corridor aims to create a biological corridor across our tea estate in Endana which borders the Sinharaja in IT through the Curtiss Institute of Rainforest a World Heritage Site and a Man & Biosphere Design. 228 beneficiaries were trained Reserve in 2018 14 publications on biodiversity and heritage conservation to 958 youth empowered through the encourage biodiversity and heritage conservation are made Youth Development Programmes in available at affordable prices. 2018 Selected publications are prescribed for academic programmes in Sri Lankan educational institutes. 82% retention rate 5,850 training hours 10% increase Equal opportunity in employee payments employer A safe workplace DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 31 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group transforms its diverse capital inputs through its value creating activities, ultimately resulting in the generation of shared value across its stakeholder universe. The subsequent section of this Annual Report provides a comprehensive overview of how we utilised our six capital inputs during the year to create value in line with the Group’s strategic aspirations. 32 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Operating Environment Global Economic Growth Sri Lanka’s tea industry witnessed 3.9 6 a year of numerous challenges and 3.8 5 3.7 volatility in 2018. Adverse weather 3.6 4 conditions in growing areas and wage% 3.5 3 related trade union action resulted 3.4 3.3 2 in the country’s total tea production 3.2 1 declining by 1% 3.1 3.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  Global Growth Advanced Economies USA Euro region Emerging markets and developing economies Global Economic Growth Source: IMF Global economic growth moderated to 3.6% in 2018, with momentum softening particularly in the 2nd half of the year. Commodity Prices Escalating trade tensions between USA and its key trading Commodity prices saw downward pressure towards the end of partners, tighter credit policies in China and a subdued 2018 reflecting moderating global growth and a slowdown in investor and consumer sentiments in the European region trading activity. Supply factors including a temporary waiver in affected overall growth. USA recorded robust growth US sanctions on Iranian oil exports and record-high US crude expanding by 2.9% supported by strong consumption growth oil production added to the downward pressure on prices, and reducing unemployment. Growth in Euro was limited to although some recovery was seen during the first quarter of 1.8% reflecting weaker sentiments and disruptions to the 2019 due to production cuts by oil-exporting countries. auto sector in Germany while natural disasters in Japan led to a growth of merely 0.9%. Emerging market and developing Sri Lankan Economy economies grew by 4.5% (compared to 4.7% in 2017) as growth in China slowed in view of a regulatory tightening and Sri Lanka’s GDP growth moderated to 3.2% in 2018 (from efforts to drive a more sustainable growth agenda. Growth 3.4% in 2017) due to cascading effects of global dynamics in the CIS region was also subdued at 2.8% largely reflecting and monetary and fiscal policy measures adopted by sluggish conditions in Russia which was weighed down by the Government to drive macro-prudential stability. The weaker oil prices and structural headwinds. The downward Agriculture sector posted recovery after several years of pressure on oil prices, US sanctions in Iran and conflict across contraction to expand by 4.8% supported by conducive several regional economies such as Iraq, Syria and Yemen weather conditions in paddy cultivation regions. The resulted in the Middle Eastern region expanding by just 1.8% cultivation of tea and rubber, however declined during the in 2019. year due to adverse weather conditions. The slowdown in the Industries sector (+0.9%) on the backdrop of a subdued construction sub-sector had an impact on overall growth. Meanwhile the Services sector grew by 4.7% during the year reflecting broad-based expansion of several sub-sectors including financial services and telecommunications. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 33 Global Economic Growth Exchange Rate 8 The Sri Lankan rupee recorded sharp depreciation against 7 the US Dollar during the year, falling by 12% in 2018 to close 6 5 the year at Rs. 176.09. The decline reflected broad-based 4 strengthening of the US Dollar against regional currencies % 3 together with political instability in the last few months of the 2 year. The Central Bank largely allowed demand and supply 1 0 forces to determine the level and direction of the exchange -1 rate of the rupee in the foreign exchange market, intervening -2 only to prevent disorderly adjustments. Meanwhile the first -3 -4 quarter of 2019 saw the Rupee strengthening somewhat, as -5 government efforts to curtail import expenditure came to Agriculture Industrial Services Overall Growth fruition.  2016  2016  2017 Exchange Rate Monetary Policy and Interest Rates 185 180 Despite a relaxation of the relatively tight monetary 175 policy stance adopted by the Government, lending rates 170 of commercial banks remained high for most part of 2018 165 160 Rs/USD reflecting tight liquidity conditions. Persistent deficits of rupee 155 liquidity in the domestic money market compelled the Central 150 Bank to cut the Statutory Reserve Ratio (SRR) applicable on all 145 rupee deposits of commercial banks in November 2018, while 140 135 increasing policy interest rates to neutralise the impact on interest rates. This approach was adopted with the objective Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 Apr-18 May-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 of stabilising inflation at mid-single digit levels and anchoring inflation expectations to enable the economy to reach its Industry Environment potential in the medium term. Sri Lanka’s tea industry witnessed a year of numerous AWPR challenges and volatility in 2018. Adverse weather conditions 13.0 in growing areas and wage-related trade union action resulted in the country’s total tea production declining by 1% to 303.8 12.5 million KGs in 2018. Low grown tea which accounts for the 12.0 bulk of Sri Lanka’s production declined by 2.7% while the % 11.5 production of high and medium grown teas increased by 1.3% and 3.0% respectively during the year. Production continued 11.0 to be on a declining trend in 2019, with total volumes falling 10.5 by 7% during the period from January to March 2019 against 10.0 the last quarter. Low labour productivity and declining yields Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 Apr-18 May-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 continue to impact Sri Lanka’s production levels, underscoring the critical importance of driving productivity improvements and investing in replanting to ensure the sustainability of the industry. 34 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Operating Environment Meanwhile, tea prices recorded a declining trend for most of Tea exports also declined by 6.6% to US 1,428 million in 2018 the year, reflecting weaker demand due to subdued oil prices affected by the dual impacts of lower average export prices in major tea importing economies as well as an increase in and a volume reduction. Weaker demand conditions, trade global production. US sanctions on Iran in May 2018 had a restrictions with Iran and Russia and higher volume of black cascading impact on auction prices while the weakening of tea production from Africa resulted in the average export currencies against the US Dollar in tea importing countries price of tea declining by 4% during the year. Meanwhile also deterred demand. On average prices at the Colombo following the ban on Glyphosate by the Government of Sri Auction declined by 6% during the year, with broad-based Lanka, tea growers and large plantations were compelled to reductions across all elevations. Medium grown tea prices use alternative weed control products resulting in a residue of declined by 8% while high-grown and low-grown tea prices fell MCPA levels which were higher than the level permitted for by 6% during the year. Prices have continued to decline during exports to Japan. Meanwhile the volume of tea exported also the year first half of 2019, falling by approximately 8% from declined by 2.3% reflecting the relatively lower production January to June 2019. levels. Bulk exports continue to account for the largest portion of export earnings, with a share of 51% during the Tea Producon Trends year. Turkey, Iraq and Russian maintained their positions as Sri 400 Lanka’s largest export markets. 350 Trends in Export Price of Tea 300 650 250 Mn Kg 200 600 150 550 US$ per kg 100 500 50 450 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  Total Producon Low Grown 400 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 Apr-18 May-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 Apr-19 May-19 Jun-19 Medium Grown High Grown DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 35 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Financial Capital Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC (DCTC) achieved another year of commendable performance amidst challenging industry 15,000 50 conditions. Sales volumes grew 11%, 12,000 40 while corresponding revenue grew by Rs. Mn 9,000 30 16%, largely underpinned by favourable % currency movements. Strong top line 6,000 20 growth and margin expansion drove PBT 3,000 10 by 32% to Rs. 1.6 Bn (2017/8 Rs. 1.3Bn) 0 0 and EPS by 31% to Rs. 76.71 per share. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  PBT (LKR Mn) GP margin (%) DCTC’s healthy financial position reflects consistent asset  Revenue (LKR Mn) Return on Equity (%)  Total Assets (LKR Mn) Current rao (mes) growth, high equity, strong liquidity and provides the financial flexibility to effectively execute its future strategies. Revenue: Naonal Tea Exports vs Dilmah Product Mix Naonal Dilmah 250,000 12,000 1% 2% 15% 15% 10,000 200,000 39% 8,000 150,000 Rs. Mn 6,000 Rs. Mn 100,000 Naonal Dilmah 4,000 50,000 2,000 44% 83% 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue -Dilmah Naonal Tea Exports ● Bulk ● Packets ● Tea bags ● Others Source : Central Bank of Sri Lanka Annual Report 2018 Dilmah’s performance outshone national tea exports which dipped during the year, underscoring DCTC’s successful business strategy branding and marketing, value added, single origin, pure Ceylon tea. Dilmah accounts for nearly 20% of national tea bag exports. Group Revenue PAT Total assets GP margin Gearing 10,713 1,591 12,805 Nil 44% Rs. Mn Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 36 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Financial Capital Revenue Gross Profit Margin Revenue & GP Growth Average Tea Aucon Price LKR 12,000 45 800 44 10,000 43 600 42 8,000 41 Rs. Mn % Rs. 400 6,000 40 39 4,000 38 200 37 2,000 36 0 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 0 35 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Apr-18 May-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19  Revenue (LKR Mn) GP margin (%) GP margin (%) Gross Profit margin expanded considerably from 39% to 44% due to gains in currency and also price management initiatives Revenue grew 16% largely on the back of the sharp executed during the year. depreciation of LKR against the USD during the year, combined with volume growth of 11%. Country specific revenue growth management initiatives (sensitive to the Operating Expenses stressed economic environments in many of our markets), new client acquisitions and targeted in-market executions in all Operang Expenses segments and key categories enhanced market penetration. 5,000 The Group continued to innovate its product portfolio, rolling out new recipes and packaging mix to meet emerging 4,000 consumer trends. Despite downward pressure on commodity 3,000 Rs. Mn prices and the prevalent culture of discount pricing adopted by large retailers, it maintained pricing, driving the brand 2,000 proposition of guaranteeing customers high quality, ethical, pure Ceylon teas at premium prices. 1,000 Growth in volume is also partly attributed to 2017/18 0 2018 2019 reflecting only 5 months figures of MJF Teas as the acquisition  Administraon Expenses  Selling & Distribuon Costs of its business by DCTC took place in November 2017. Administration expenses increased 30% and Selling and Distribution increased 38% to Rs. 2,354Mn. Finance costs were nominal. High levels of cost consciousness curtailed growth in operating expenses. Donation of Rs. 170Mn ( 2017/18 – Rs. 100Mn) to the MJF Charitable Foundation (activities are described on pages 61 and 62) and accelerated amortization of software were key contributors to the increase in administration expenses. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 37 Selling and Distribution costs increased considerably following Total assets grew 10% to Rs. 12,805 Mn underpinned by continued investments in nurturing the brand in over 100 growth in current assets by 18%, largely attributed to currency countries it operates in, its key market Australia, where depreciation, in translating USD/AUD based reserves held at competition is strife against other retail tea brands who year end, to LKR. Although trade receivables increased 9% to engage heavily in discount culture compromising quality for Rs. 3,896Mn at year end, the corresponding increase in USD price. The Group engages in advertising and marketing in denominated trade receivables was 2%. collaboration with its extensive network of distributors and direct sales customers. Dilmah is ranked within the top 5 tea Advances and prepayments include advance paid in USD for brands in the world. the import of state-of-the-art tea bagging machines whilst cash and cash equivalents are primarily foreign currency Foreign Exchange Gain denominated fixed deposits. Foreign exchange gains doubled during the year to Rs. 762Mn. Non-current assets dipped marginally to Rs. 4.456Mn, on the DCTC engaged in currency risk mitigation mechanisms to back of higher depreciation and amortization of software. minimize any loss from the sharp depreciation of LKR against the USD on imports, while maximizing the benefit from Non-Current Assets arbitrage. The Company excelled in treasury management to secure substantial gains from on currency fluctuations and Investment in PPE anticipated trends. DCTC regularly upgrades equipment to keep abreast of modern manufacturing technology, improving product PBT, Taxation and PAT quality, flexibility, operational efficiency and environment Profit before tax grew substantially by 32% to Rs. 1,694 sustainability. Mn (2017/18 –Rs. 1,281 Mn) and profit after tax by 33% to Rs. 1,591 Mn (2017/18-Rs. 1,193Mn). Tax was computed Capital work in progress reflects construction of the building on a higher tax rate of 14% (2017/18 – 10%) for companies for the proposed state of the art factory within the Peliyagoda predominately (80%) engaged in the business of exports, premises. The factory is expected to be operational by according to the First Schedule of the Inland Revenue Act end 2019/20. An advance paid for the import of four fully No.24 of 2017, from the Year of Assessment 2018/19. automated tea bagging machines equipped with latest cutting-edge technology, is reflected under Advances and Assets Prepayments. Asset Growth Investment in PP&E 15,000 1200 12,000 1000 800 9,000 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn 600 6,000 400 3,000 200 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  Non-Current Assets  Current Assets  Investment in PP&E 38 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Financial Capital Investment Property increase in trade receivables at year end, in comparison to increase in sales. Increase in Investment Property stems from on-going construction which commenced last year, of a warehouse on Of total trade receivables outstanding at year end, 38% the Wattala land. The building is almost complete and will be (2017/18 – 48%) is due from the subsidiary, Dilmah Australia ready for use in 2019/20. (Pty) Limited, company which manages the sales and marketing of Dilmah Tea in Australia. The reduction in Intangible Assets debt in Dilmah Australia is attributed to improved in-market The company is in the process of moving to a new ERP system collections. Sales to Dilmah Australia are on commercial terms. which will cover the entire operational processes, budgets, financial reporting and business intelligence. The existing ERP All debts, including those of related parties have been will be fully amortized by end of 2019/20. considered for impairment and prudently provided for where applicable. Current Assets Current Liabilities Inventories Current liabilities grew marginally against a provision for income tax and increase in provisioning for marketing and 20% advertising expenses. The marketing spend increase of 17% 36% includes translation of AUD/USD into LKR and the impact of LKR depreciation. 11% Liquidity, Working Capital and Cash Flows 2,000 20 18 33% 16 1,500 14 ● Raw Materials ● Packing Materials 12 Rs. Mn ● Finished Goods ● Consumables and Spares % 1,000 10 8 Inventories reduced 10% on lower stock holding of raw 6 500 materials and finished goods. Most materials are purchased to 4 2 order. 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  Cash flows from operang acvies Current rao Trade and Other Receivables Trade receivables account for 30% of total assets. The higher value is attributable to the trade policies of DCTC which is DCTC’s liquidity position is very strong, with improvements comparable with the industry. Lead time to ship and clear to current ratio and quick assets ratio, driven by increases in goods in foreign countries; and credit allowed to retailers and trade receivables and cash and cash equivalent balances. By supermarkets largely dictates the credit policy of DCTC. A year end, Cash and cash equivalents increased by Rs. 870Mn robust debt collection system underpinned by the adoption to Rs. 2,807Mn. Operating cashflows grew 2.5 times to Rs. of a stringent customer selection process, strong customer 1,608Mn (2017/18 -Rs. 635Mn) stemming from improved relationship management and strict follow up and monitoring profitability, realized exchange gain, inventory management of debt, drives prompt settlement of dues. Efficient credit and debt collection. Cash generated was invested in capital management is demonstrated in the substantially lower DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 39 expenditure nurturing future growth, and dividends. 800 100 700 80 12,000 20 600 18 10,000 Rs. Mn 500 % 16 60 14 400 8,000 12 40 300 Rs. Mn 6,000 10 % 200 8 20 4,000 6 100 4 2,000 0 0 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 0  Net Asset Value Per Share (LKR) Earnings Per Share (LKR) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019  Market Price Per Share (LKR) Dividend Cover (mes)  Equity (LKR Mn) Return on Equity Dividend Per Share (LKR)  Borrowings The Company’s dividend policy seeks to balance needs of Capital Structure shareholders whilst ensuring there is sufficient capital for DCTC has zero borrowings. Capital structure strengthened planned business expansion. Accordingly, the Company paid on the back of higher profits. Return on Equity (ROE) rose to an interim dividend of Rs. 20/per share and proposes a final 14.5% by year end (2017/18 – 11.55%). dividend of Rs. 15/per share for the FY 2018/19. Return to shareholders As at 31st March 2018/19 2017/18 ROE % 14.50 11.55 Earnings per share Rs. 76.71 58.74 Net assets per Rs. 555.65 497.89 share Share price (closing) Rs. 619.90 554.90 P/E ratio Times 8.08 9.45 Dividend per share Rs. 35.00 45.00 Dividend yield % 0.06 0.08 Dividend payout Times 45.63 76.61 Market Value Rs. Mn 12,855 11,507 40 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Manufactured Capital The Group’s Manufactured Capital comprises of the physical infrastructure such as production facilities, manufacturing equipment, plant and machinery which ensure the uninterrupted production of high-quality products. Advanced manufacturing Rs. 3,944 million PPE 5.5 billion tea bags per year technology Value Delivered Highlights of 2018/19 Rs. 305 million capital investment 100% product customisation based in new production facility on country/customer requirements Commencement of a state-ofProduction volume the-art manufacturing facility – 122,000 sqft 5,190 MT Production wastage Efficiency New warehouse facility -70,000 at the factory improvements 2.8% sqft Overall highest performing in tea bagging Green architecture and interior equipment efficiency machines 91% designing introduced for Tea by Dilmah Tasting and Grading area Engineering team Capacity Utilisation Indicator The Group’s ability to consistently manufacture superior PPE (Rs. Mn) 3,944 quality products which are at times customised to fulfil specific customer needs is dependent on the Group’s Overall highest performing equipment 91% efficiency ratio manufacturing capabilities. At our 300,000 square feet, Production wastage at the factory 2.8% production facility in Peliyagoda we have deployed over 74 advanced blending and packaging machines. Production Capacity utilisation 77% efficiency is consistently monitored through a range of indicators such as equipment efficiency and rejects ratio. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 41 Capital Value Addition Value Addion Capital expenditure for the period under review amounted Land and to Rs. 305 million, consisting of new investments and building regular maintenance to its manufactured capital. During Plant and machinery the year we commenced construction of a fully automated Factory equipment factory equipped with artificial intelligence robotic process Furnitre and automation and state-of-the-art machinery, including tea fings Office and store bagging machines. With an anticipated total investment of equipment Rs. 1,000 million, the factory is expected to remediate the Computer hardware predicted scarcity in man power while reducing manual errors Motor vehicle in production. 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Rs.mn 42 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Human Capital The Group leverages the talent, commitment and expertise of its 644 strong human capital are key to drive innovation, facilitate the customer experience and achieve its strategic aspirations. Employee Performance 44% female 644 employees 82% Retention Rate Management System with representation Real-Time feedbacks Value Delivered Highlights of 2018/19 170 individual training on Training investment Total payments to Rs. 36 million enhancing technical competencies & 45 group training sessions employees Employee productivity (defined as Rs. 1,080 revenue per employee) increased million by 22% Optimised the staff cadre through High level automating several manual of employee Retention rate processes engagement Total training Transformation and enhancement 82% hours during the year 5,850 of the Employee Performance Management System Management Approach ▪ GRI 103 a holistic employee value proposition. We optimized our workforce during the year, curtailing replacements and new Your cup of tea is flavoured by our valued human capital, recruitments as a result of automating manual processes playing a pivotal role in instilling the Group’s six pillars of by implementing a fully-fledged ERP system. However, we values – quality, our customer, tradition, ethics, integrity and maintained a relatively low attrition rate of 18%. Our value sustainability. We nurture this vibrant capital by ensuring delivery system is reflected by the Increase in the total that their personal and career aspirations are met by adopting training hours by 8% and increase in the total payout, by 24%. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 43 Human Capital Priorities Attraction Development Retention Employee Occupational Engagement Health and Safety By Knowledge State of the art Rewards and By Skills & evaluation system recognition Sustainable lifestyles Immediate Expertise Management Prioritising Health Fitness and sports corrective actions Via an Online & Technical and safety Accident Employee’s kids systems competencies Updated HR free working engagement Tailor made Policy environment Engaging in cultural development plan Events for each employee Team Profile Our self-motivated team comprises of 644 high-performing and dedicated employees. As an equal opportunity employer, The strength of diversity we do not discriminate based on gender, ethnicity, age or We recognize the value of a diverse team and seek any other form of diversity when attracting, remunerating or to empower our female employees by nurturing their promoting employees. capacity building and personal development. Equal Employees by Age and Gender female representation at all categories in ensured. 500 400 56% 44% 300 No. 200 Our family is enriched by a young and energetic team with 69% between 25 years to 40 years of age. 100 0 Over 50 40yrs 50yrs 25 yrs 40yrs 20yrs-25yrs HR Governance and Policies  Male  Female Our Human Resource governance framework consists of robust HR, Grievance and Ethics policies centered on Recruitement by Gender attracting, stimulating, developing and retaining our human 8 capital. Our governance policies focus on capitalizing and 7 augmenting employee interest based on stakeholder and 6 organizational goals. The Board, Human Remuneration 5 Committee and Heads of Departments constantly review and No. 4 update policy framework and compliance with the policies. 3 Our comprehensive HR policy framework is designed to comply with local and international regulations, standards and 2 industry best practices. 1 0 Non-execuive Execuve Senior management  Male  Female and above 44 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Human Capital Board Regulatory frameworks DMC Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children Act HR Convention against Dept Torture and other Cruel, Inhumane or Degrading Treatment or Punishment Human Right HOD s Po Act lic y | E th ic s Convention on the Po li Suppression of Terrorist cy Financing Act | Gr International Covenant i ev an on Civil and Political Company Standing Orders P & Code of Conduct ce Rights (ICCPR) Act o lic y Protection of the Conditions of Employment | Human Resource P Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act Classification of Employee Maternity Benefits Employee Security Ordinance Disciplinary Inquiry Procedure Shop and Office o lic Employees (regulation y of employment and | H remuneration) Act e a lt h Workmen’s an d Compensation Ordinance fe Sa ty Po lic y DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 45 Attraction and Onboarding A systematic process is in place for attracting and onboarding employees. Each department develops appropriate job analyses depending on its scope of operations and position descriptions are formulated describing the required competencies to deliver the expected targets. All new recruits undergo an induction program covering all departments. During the year we were able to reduce our cadre by automating majority of the manual work through implementing a new ERP System resulting in low replacements. Candidates best suited for the job are recruited based on knowledge, Skills, abilities and behavior providing an equal opportunity in line with organizational goals. The requirements of the Employment of Women, Young Persons and Children Act is firmly adhered to in our recruitment process. Employees by Age and Gender Recruitments during the year by age & gender 500 50 400 40 300 30 No. No. 200 20 100 10 0 0 Over 50 40yrs 50yrs 25 yrs 40yrs 20yrs-25yrs Non-execuive Middle management Senior management and execuve and above  Male  Female  Male  Female Recruitment Procedure Request by HOD with the Compilation of JDs based Approval for Selection and description of required on the job prerequisite by recruitment of cadre recruitment internally expertise HRD by Board or DCC or externally Engagement and Grievance Handling Long Service Awards We maintain a high level of employee engagement facilitated International Women’s Day Celebrations through numerous mechanisms and engagement initiatives. Sports Meet These initiatives include development initiatives, sporting and recreational events and cultural activities among others. Blood Donation Program The team also benefits from a transparent and streamlined Religious Activities grievance handling procedure resulting in a happy workforce. Staff Get-together Employee Engagements activities during the year Employees Kids Party Christmas Party New Year Celebrations Weekly Fitness Sessions 46 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Human Capital Report to HOD: Human Resource Manager Human Resource Manager Direct access to their : Direct access to HRM : Direct access to HRM Open door Policy HOD regarding both regarding both professional regarding both professional professional and and personal grievances. and personal grievances. personal grievances. The JCC which has representation from each department will periodically discuss Joint Consultative Committee their grievances directly with the Chairman , Deputy Chairman and the CEO. Townhall Meetings Held once a month in attendance with staff across all categories to open their voice Professional Counselling A nominated senior counsellor is assigned to attend to any level of grievance related Service to employee personal or professional health Performance Evaluation Remuneration and Benefits ▪ GRI 405-1 / 405-2 Rewards and remuneration are based on a transparent and An in-depth industry salary survey is conducted by the well-defined performance evaluation system to nurture Remuneration Committee prior to commencement of the a performance driven culture. Performance is appraised performance review process. Industry salary norms, living biannually for executives and non-executives through a state cost analysis based on national data and results of the of the art HRIS and competency evaluation. The Employee performance appraisals are taken into consideration when Performance Management System (EPMS) evaluates the determining remuneration. Remuneration Committee details employee on individual Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), the findings of the above survey to the CEO and Board, Competencies and Dilmah Values during the assessment subsequently salary increments are defined with the approval period. The EPMS facilitates evaluation process as one-to-one of the Board. discussion and provides a continuous feedback among the appraisee and the appraiser. Remuneration Distribution by Gender Promoons by Category and Gender 8 7 6 60% 40% 5 4 3 2 1 0 Execuve and Above Non-Execuve  Male  Female DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 47 Remuneraon by Category categories in our workforce, in addition to on the job training through a culture of mentoring and job rotation. During the year 9 groupexternal training programs were conducted by reputed industry experts and 36 groupinternal programs 40% were conducted by our in-house knowledge bank, consisting of experienced and renowned personnel in the industry. 60% Main training programs identified through the performance evaluation in 2018/19 460 training programs for individuals and groups were ● Execuve ● Non-execuve recommended by the HODs, for the year 2019/20. All the trainings have been clustered to 08 categories in-line with the business requirement, 1. Business and Communication Benefits offered to our permanent cadre 2. Compliance and System Requirements Bonus Free Tea Quota 3. Finance and Accounting Production Incentives Staff Tea Sales 4. Information Technology Attendance Allowance Evening Snack 5. Leadership and Management Medical Leave Night Shift Meal 6. Professional Trainings Death Donation Scheme Hostel Facility for Thrift Society Female Employees 7. Food Hygiene and Safety/OHS Housing Loans Staff Transport 8. On the job trainings/Technical Welfare Loan Scheme Laundry Service Hospitalization Further, Cross Functional Training Programs are conducted to Medical Clinics Insurance provide insights to the processes and the functions between Sports Club OPD Reimbursement departments. School Books/ Uniforms Distribution Special Grants from the Empathy Fund Scholarship Scheme for Children Development ▪ GRI 405-1 / 405-2 Training and development of our human resources is based on the strategic aspirations of the organization. During the year we conducted over 170 individual trainings and 45 group programs focusing on technical and soft skill development, with a total beneficiary base for all employees. Individual development plans are formulated for the staff based on the functional/technical competencies gaps identified by the HODs. Training and development program lineups are offered to the individuals after a stringent evaluation process. External and internal training programs are conducted for all 48 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Human Capital External Training Programs Internal Training Programs Training on PLC Controls Computer Skills Awareness Programme on ISO 17025:2015 Uncertainty in Hygiene Trainings Chemical Testing Laboratories Food Safety/Quality and 5S implementation Courses on Occupational Health & Safety Export Shipping Procedure Fundamentals in Creating a Great Workplace FTD Functions Accounting and Financial reporting new School of Tea standards and trends Food Safety Requirements Advanced Data Analytic areas & New technology Training on Quality/Attitude and Behaviors Training on Basic Electronics Change in FSSC22000 V 4.1 Operations and Maintenance of Forklifts Food Defense and Threat Assessment Training on laboratory safety VACCP team training Leadership skills HACCP team training Training on Mechatronics Vulnerability Assessment Criteria Basic course on industrial hydraulic Security Procedure of Employee Searching Training on communicating product sustainability Carbon Neutral Dilmah CPD Course on Vertical Transportation Basic Excel Training Session EU Legislation on labeling Advanced Excel Training session Quality of Bees Honey Workshop RA Requirements Competency and Value awareness Washroom Etiquette First Aid Training Food Safety Certification Types/Quality & Food Safety Policy Power of Positive Attitude Basic knowledge on First Aid Personnel Fire Crew Training GRI reporting sustainability Introduction to Business Human Rights Cross Functional Trainings Excel Training session Training on Quality Attitude Behaviors Training on FSSC 22000 New version Sustainability Training Global trends/Concepts in Beverages Hardware & Networking Develop on supervisory skills Training on Laboratory Maintenance DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 49 Training Hours during the Last 2 Years Investment in Training 6,000 65 60 5,800 55 50 5,600 45 Rs.mn Rs.mn 40 5,400 35 5,200 30 25 5,000 20 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 Attrition ▪ GRI 401-1 A unique employee value proposition, characterized by above average remuneration, ongoing opportunities for skill and career progression and a conducive and dynamic work environment has enabled us to maintain a relatively low attrition rate. During the year, 115 employees left employment resulting in an attrition rate of 18 % . Attrition analysis Turnover by Gender Turnover by age Turnover by category Male 47 <30 66 Non-executive 86 Female 68 30-50 44 Executive 20 >50 05 Middle Management 08 Senior Management 01 Employee rewards and recognitions has been decided based on their performance and Benefits has been spread amongst the employees based on the transparency and company HR policy. 50 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Human Capital Training Programme Annual Religious Activities Weekly Fitness Sessions Supervisory Development Programme Workers’ Talent Show DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 51 Executive Development Programme at PIM Annual Sports Day Medical Sessions 52 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Human Capital Health and Safety ▪ GRI 403-1 specialists in the medical field. The Health and Safety committee with As a manufacturing company, we worker representation reviews the focus on eliminating and managing safety and hazardous situations on hazards and injuries, ensuring a secure a monthly basis. During the period and healthy work environment. Our under review we had zero injuries and packing and bagging factory situated in hazards proving the effectiveness and Peliyagoda is equipped with a fullystrong implementation of our Health fledged medical facility with medical and Safety policy across the Company. clinics conducted every weekend by Salient Points of Our Health and Safety Policy Providing a healthy and safe working environment by focusing on good manufacturing practices and establishing a safety culture, systems and procedures. Providing necessary infrastructure and education necessary to achieve aforementioned objective while emphasizing the importance of housekeeping, industrial hygiene, and ensuring maintenance of established health and safety systems. Comply with all regulatory and statutory provisions, governing health and safety of the individual and the work environment. HR follow up procedure in case of injuries If the period of disablement in HSO will conduct an Take immediate working days is more than three Accident is reported investigation to find corrective action days, HR will inform the District to the safety out the root cause for to prevent future Factory Inspecting Engineers committee by the the accident occurred probabilities Office within 10 days from the HSO date of the accident occurred Way forward with your cup of tea Our primary focus in respect of our Human capital is strengthening and enriching our employee value proposition by continuously updating our HR related policies and refining the performance evaluations model. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 53 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Social and Relationship Capital The relationships that Dilmah Tea has nurtured with its diverse stakeholders is vital in driving the Group’s commercial and sustainability objectives. It is thus committed to creating mutually beneficial, meaningful and long-term relationships with its stakeholder universe through proactive engagement and collaboration to drive shared goals. 2.6 billion tea cups served Over 19,000 beneficiaries in 890 Suppliers 97 Distributors each year globally community engagement Value Delivered Highlights of 2018/19 MJF Centre for Dignified Highest Social media reach per Empowerment and Sustainable month was recorded as 38.6 Mn with Development in the East a monthly average of 30 Mn established Dilmah Tea founder awarded Rs. 8,117 by World Association of million 19,195 Advocacy and Affiliation with Chefs’ Societies with Lifetime Payments to Suppliers CSR United Nations achievement award beneficiaries Investment in community Global Compact supported through Dilmah Tea founder honoured engagement initiatives (UNGC) Sri Lanka island-wide by the International Chamber of and Biodiversity Commerce as one of the three Rs. 170 million programmes Sri Lanka (BSL) Most Admired Leaders in Sri Lanka Dilmah facilitates Colombo Development Dialogue Management Approach Our key stakeholders comprise of distributors, customers, suppliers, business partners and communities, who are a vital part of our value creation process and share similar corporate and ethical values as our organisation. We strive to nurture meaningful and mutually constructive relationships with our diverse stakeholder base, with the objective of generating shared value. 54 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Social and Relationship Capital Priorities 2018/19 Ensuring highest standards Economic and societal Enhance community and of product quality and development of organizational involvement responsibility communities in sustainability Customers Dilmah Tea caters to a global customer base in 107 countries across 8 regions. The Group has successfully carved a niche in a highly competitive market through its unique product proposition which centres on single-origin, authentic, natural and ethical tea. Customers can be categorised as Retail (comprising supermarkets, hypermarkets, traditional trade, convenience stores and online retail) and HORECA (hotel groups, restaurants, cafés and airlines), with around 80% of sales generated through the former. During the year strong consumer relationships were formed through active participation in trade fairs, queries from existing distributors, and engagement in the hospitality industry and social media platforms. The Group is a strong player in the HORECA segment, catering to a number of leading hotel groups in the world and 17 leading air lines. Dilmah’s global presence DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 55 Customer Value Proposition INNOVATION PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ENGAGEMENT Innovative and exciting 3 Quality Management Numerous customer products catering to Food Safety & engagement initiatives, emerging customer Management Certifications tea promotion events, requirements competitions, publications First ISO:17025 and 65 products introduced in accredited Chemical and AND QUALITY 2018/19 Microbiological laboratory Strong social media presence for tea industry in Sri with 2.4 million brand Lanka followers 3 Organic Certifications Consumer reached through Tea Radio, specialized apps 4 Ethical Sourcing & and e-commerce platforms Responsible Operations related certifications Innovation specified recipes. Manufacturing, packaging and marketing processes are guided by the statutory requirements of the Factories Ordinance, the Tea Control Act and the Development of new products occurs Group’s stringent internal quality standards. Dilmah also obtained and continue to under the direct guidance of the comply with a range of international certifications on food safety as listed below. Group’s Chairman and/or CEO and the During the year under review there were no instances of non-compliance to any Group has over the years built a strong product responsibility/customer health and safety related laws or regulations. reputation for formulating unique and innovative recipes in presenting Ceylon tea to the world. The Group invested approximately Rs. 39 million in R&D Quality ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Standard annually and during the year under Management and Food Safety FSSC 22000 – Food Safety System Certification review, launched 65 new products Management BRC Global Standard For Food Safety to its discerning customers. Dilmah’s Certifications reputation for innovation and its ability to deliver customized product solutions Laboratory ISO:17025 Chemical and Microbiology laboratory Accreditation has enabled it to emerge as a leader in Certificate of Accreditation Certification the HORECA segment. Organic Organic Certification to USDA, AMS 7 CFR Part 205, Certifications Quality and Product Responsibility National Organic Program Stringent quality assurance throughout Organic Certification to Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 and our sourcing, production and Regulation (EC) No 889/2008 distribution processes ensure that Organic Certification to Japanese Agricultural Standard of we maintain the highest standards of Organic Agricultural Products (JAS) product safety and responsibility. Our Ethical Sourcing SMETA SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit team of veteran tea tasters ensure & Responsible the buying of superior quality tea Operations related Carbon Neutral Product Certification according to the unique and customer certifications Carbon Neutral Facility Certification Rain Forest Alliance Certification 56 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Social and Relationship Capital Engagement School of Tea (SOT) for Sligro 2018 Proactive and ongoing engagement with our customer base has enabled us to elevate our brand not only as a beverage but at a gastronomical delight Regional SOT Amsterdam 2018 and experience. These engagement initiatives are aimed at promoting Regional SOT Saudi Arabia 2018 our products, obtaining customer feedback and acquiring new customers and Dilmah’s efforts to strengthen its brand reputation globally has SOT Sri Lanka Feb 2019 also directly contributed towards elevating the position and brand of Tea Appreciation Jordan 2018 Ceylon Tea in general. Annually the Group invests close to Rs. 2 billion in Tea Master class Sweden 2018 marketing, promotion and brand building initiatives. A few engagement activities held during the year are listed below; DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 57 Tea Experiences Digital Engagement Online platform: Tea inspired music Online Customers 24,297 Customer Service Responses 1,202 Shop.dilmahtea.lk Tea inspired through mobile apps Social media engagement # of 2,287,700 75,302 Videos Brand B2B t-Lounge 02 01 01 3,652 13,785 905 3,150 1,106 Gastronomical tea experiences through 12 t-lounges spread across the world 58 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Social and Relationship Capital Sharing the tea experience Programmes held in Australia and other major markets in promoting and raising awareness on the health benefits of tea, including tea mixology. Dilmah also aims at promoting tea as a popular beverage among the milennials. Given the rise of the health-conscious consumer, we have sought to promote the health benefits of tea as a beverage. To this end, the Group launched the publication “Tea & Your Health” and conducts ongoing awareness building programmes. Tea mixiology promoted through culinary demonstrations with world renowned Chefs. The Dilmah School of Tea is a tea program that seeks to inspire passion in tea through knowledge of the artisanal aspects of tea amongst hospitality professionals, tea aficionados and consumers. The emphasis is on the importance of Real Tea and the versatility of this natural herb in Tea Gastronomy, food pairing and Tea Mixology. The certificate issue through the SOT is recognized by the World Association of Chef’s Societies (WACS) DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 59 Tea Inspired Competitions in 2018/19 Global Real High Tea Challenge which involved 1000 contestants across the world commenced in Colombo in 2015 and continues around the world with professional and amateur level contests in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and the Americas. Our first engagement in Chile where various cafes and restaurants took part in redesigning tea in gastronomy and mixology. Suppliers At Dilmah, every cup of tea is brewed with Local Foreign carefully selected ingredients hand-picked from suppliers and suppliers and service providers service providers its tea gardens. The majority of the Group’s suppliers are tea smallholders and regional 670 220 plantation companies through whom it procures tea. Almost 100% of tea is purchased from the Colombo tea auction in line with the Tea Control Act and a few specialized varieties of tea such as Darjeeling and Assam which are not available in Sri Lanka are imported. The Group’s suppliers are selected following a stringent evaluation process which includes parameters on quality, business practices, ethics, social and environmental practices among others. A Supplier Code of Conduct ensures that all suppliers comply with a fundamental set of guidelines which reflect the Group’s approach towards business and sustainability goals. During the year we initiated valuing our social accountability through SMETA which is the SEDEX standards for labour standards, health and safety practices, environmental practices and business ethics. Total value created to suppliers in the form of payments amounted to Rs. 8.1 billion during the year, an increase of 15% compared to the previous year. 60 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Social and Relationship Capital Business Partners Strong relationships with numerous business partners including distributors, service providers and regulators facilitate Dilmah Tea’s global presence and ensures that it remain commercially viable and socially relevant. The Group’s focus on transparent and ethical practices is extended towards its dealings with its business partners. Distributors Distributorsby Length Of Rela onship Dilmah Tea delivers its products to a global base of customers through a network of 97 distributor base spread across 107 countries in 8 regions. The Group maintains a high level of 0 to 10 engagement with its distributors which enables it to identify years customer preferences and obtain effective feedback for its products. The engagement is facilitated through numerous events, conventions and the Dilmah Partner App. During the year, Dilmah Tea sought to deepen relationships with its 10 to 20 years distributors. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Catering to Leading Air Lines DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 61 Service Providers Philanthropic initiatives are driven through the MJF Charitable We have tied up with numerous Fund (MJFCF), which is funded entirely by DCTC. partners and service providers in fulfilling our passion promoting tea as MJFCF is committed to empowering and uplifting the living standards of marginalised a beverage in the global arena. Tea communities including disabled children, women and poverty-stricken families gastronomy and mixology is promoted through providing opportunities for livelihood development. The Foundation has through collaborations with world created meaningful change in the lives of over 19,195 from its inception in 2002 and renowned Chefs, culinary experts and aims to reach to a further 18,000 lives by 2020. hotel chains. During the year, over 7 engagement initiatives including Detailed information on the Group’s community engagement initiatives is available competitions and other events were for download at https://www.dilmahtea.com/tea-inspired-ebooks/free/purpose/. The held through collaborations with 27 following discussion provides a high-level overview of our ongoing projects and the world renowned personalities. positive impacts we generate across communities. The Group’s CSR projects can be broadly classified into the following long-term purposes; Community Our CSR in numbers The Group’s Philosophy Investment in CSR (Rs. Million) Rs.170 Mn Business is a Matter of Total beneficiaries 19,195 Human Service is reflected Contribution as a % of profits 10% in its extensive community MJF Centres 15 engagement initiatives, which Number of beneficiaries in Centres 5,800 collectively benefit over Beneficiaries with Disabilities 596 19,000 lives across the country. Beneficiaries Vocational Training 958 Capacity Tea Changing Entrepreneurship MJF Kids & Youth Building Estates Lives The Prison Reform & Integrate Programme Entrepreneurship Upliftment of War Widows We encourage individuals from The Local Heroes programme in recognizing unique SMEs all walks of life to start-up small Grants Programs– providing financial and technical assistance to SMEs businesses and help communities grow by generating employment and Community based organisations – supporting natural and organic farming creating opportunities Youth and first-time entrepreneurs provided with mentoring, coaching, tools and other resources as well as start-up capital to set up their own enterprise 62 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Social and Relationship Capital Capacity Building Culinary and Hospitality school We believe that through providing opportunities for capacity building Curtiss Institute of Design – Equipping the youth with IT skills and education we can strive to Swashakthi Bakery & Tea room – Initiated for enterprising women providing eliminate poverty and create a meals at an affordable price society with self-esteem. Key Women’s Development Program – guiding women in dire circumstances emphasis is on upliftment of women with of skill and grants. and the differently abled. Estate Workers School bags for plantation children The life style and development of the Mid-day meal programs for Child Development Centres tea estate workers and families are Childcare Development nurtured and elevated through our Healthcare for plantation communities programs. Kytes hospitalOutpatient Department and Administrative Block for the Kayts Base Hospital, in the North of Sri Lanka Changing Lives Blind Hospital – encouraging the visually handicapped Changing lives project is a unique Partnerships – partnering with like-minded organisations and individuals in task we have undertaken to our re-budding task reconstruct the downtrodden war Sustainability agriculture – promoting and funding organic based farming in and tsunami affected North and East the North and east areas of the country Empowering Sri Lanka’s East – Post tsunami reconstruction MJF Kids Peliyagodaoffers educational support sessions for maths, science, MJF Kids English, commerce and dancing Drives holistic development among Educational trips and sessions on environmental awareness underprivileged and differently abled Rainbow Centresfree special education, speech and language therapy, kids through 8 centres island-wide occupational therapy and life skills programmes for children with disabilities. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 63 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Intellectual Capital The Group’s ability to consistently deliver superior customer experiences through innovative and exciting products is underpinned by the unparalleled tea expertise of the founding family and the Dilmah team. This tacit knowledge, together with other elements of its intellectual capital such as its vast library of over 200 unique tea standards and value of the Dilmah brand represent key sources of competitive edge and is a critical input to its value creation process. 31 years of brand Most recognized Over 200 Tea Standards The only tea company presence led by the World’s Sri Lankan owned and over 2,000 products with 100% carbon neutral most experienced teamaker global brand products Value Delivered Highlights of 2018/19 Rs. 40 million investment in R&D Presented with the Voted New Zealand’s most trusted tea efforts Product Innovation brand for the 5th consecutive year award at SIAL Paris Launch of 65 new products in 2018 for Dilmah including first ever natural tea Natural Infusions concentrateElixir of Ceylon Tea, Exclusive tea Teamaker Private Reserve partner for 17 Numerous brand development World’s only leading global air initiatives including ‘Tea Inspired vertically lines for the 21st century’ and Tea partner for 06 of the integrated tea “Afternoon Tea for the 21st world’s largest hotel groups brand – (from tea Century” plant to tea cup) Dilmah Tea Lounge launched in Glasgow, Scotland Collection of tea standards The inimitable flavour, aroma and taste of each of our tea stems from unique recipes, each of which is carefully formulated, tested and ultimately approved by the Group’s Chairman or Chief Executive. This commitment has Dilmah to maintain consistency across its product portfolio, offering the exceptional quality, freshness and authenticity that the brand is renowned for. The Group’s library exceeds over 200 tea standards with approximately 45 new products generated every year. Our range includes Specialty gourmet and premium tea, herbal infusions, green teas, fun flavoured teas, spiced chais, organic teas and exclusive Teamaker’s private reserves among others. 64 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Intellectual Capital The Dilmah Brand The Dilmah brand is present in over 100 countries and it probably the most well-known Sri Lankan brand in the international market. The brand is built on the three attributes of Taste, Goodness and Purpose and is globally reputed for the authenticity and quality it embodies through offering unblended, garden fresh, pure Ceylon tea. Significant investments are made every year in enhancing the brand value through targeted promotions, customer engagement initiatives, competitions and numerous publications. The Group’s ability to command a price premium averaging 250% over bulk tea attests to the strength of its brand. Taste Brand Recognition in 2018/19 Unique recipes reflecting the Group’s unmatched expertise in tea Voted New Zealand’s most trust tea brand for the 5th consecutive yearNew Zealand Readers Digest Brand Awards Goodness Promotes the health benefits of tea Product Innovation Award at SIAL Paris in 2018 for Dilmah natural infusion natural infusion Purpose Dilmah selected as one of Sri Lanka’s Most Admired Companies by the International Chamber of Underpinned by the philosophy that Commerce in Sri Lanka. ‘Business is a Matter of Human Service’ Dilmah was presented the “Most Globally Outreached Brand in Sri Lanka” at the Presidential Export Awards 2018 Innovation Dilmah is an industry leader in innovation. Having pioneered and actively promoted the concept of single origin tea, the Group has sought to consistently expand its range through exciting and innovative product propositions. Innovation is supported by a dedicated Research and Development team and a proactive marketing team which is attuned to the emerging needs of our global customer base. Dilmah’s ability to customise and differentiate its offering based on the requirements of specific customers has enabled the Company to emerge as a leader in the HORECA segment, catering to 06 of the largest international hotel groups. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 65 New product development has been a key strategic priority over the last few years, and the Group invests close to Rs. 40 million annually in R&D efforts. Within the last 3 years the Group has introduced 175 new products, enhancing the brand’s reputation as an industry leader in innovation. Key innovations in recent years are given below; Highlights Dilmah’s Innovation Timeline Dilmah teaDilmah Launches The total product Lounges overseas. the Tea Gastronomy range of Dilmah Revolution with “The becomes Carbon Culinaire”. Neutral. 2005 2007 2015 2018 Dilmah Launches Launch of the Dilmah the first ever tea Exceptional Range of concentrateElixir Teas. of Ceylon Tea. Packaging Innovation The Group looks towards achieving the following targets in the next financial Dilmah is currently using minimalist year packaging that complies with food safety regulations in its product designs. Launch a plastic free and Further, it is constantly sampling other biodegradable product line by the packaging material with the aim of end of 2019. reducing the non recyclable content of its packaging. Replace the packaging material used presently with more R&D conducted by the Group included environmentally friendly materials. 4 research projects on filter paper, 6 projects on pouches, caddies and foil Increase close loop collaborations packages, and 1 on outer carton, to for packaging innovations by 50% identify sustainable packaging options. 66 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Natural Capital The Group is an industry leader in environmental conservation, with substantial investments directed every year towards preserving natural resources and generating national level dialogue on environmental sustainability. Dilmah has played a pivotal role in raising awareness and propagating best practices in biodiversity conservation, emission management and addressing implications of climate change. 3770 MWh Energy 21,420 M³ water 19,000 hectares of tea in 31,315 tCO2e discharge of consumption consumption subsidiary/associated companies emissions Value Delivered Highlights of 2018/19 339 MWh renewable energy generation Achieved 100% carbon neutral within premises status Rs. 40 million investments in environmental conservation 70.7% of total waste recycled 14 publications 82 knowledge Increased reliance on renewable on environmental sharing sessions energy and heritage of which 2 were through Numerous multi-stakeholder 6 ongoing biodiversity conservation related projects Biodiversity Sri engagement initiatives on Lanka biodiversity and climate change Atmospheric Management Approach emissions and climate change Dilmah’s environmental commitment is clearly articulated Energy & Fuel Waste Management in a comprehensive Environmental Management Policy. Management Environmental Management system addresses different areas of priority as graphically illustrated below. The Group also complies with the requirements of ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems and Rainforest Environmental Management Alliance. Environmental compliance is monitored by internal Framework departments ongoing basis and it was concluded that there were no instances of non-compliance to any environmental Materials Water laws/regulations during the year. The Group’s environmental Management Management agenda is driven primarily through Dilmah Conservation, which is funded entirely by DCTC. Noise Management DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 67 Emissions and Climate Change The sustained reduction in emissions was achieved through focus on the four key areas of energy, transport, water and The Group marked a significant milestone waste. Comprehensive plans detailing goals, milestones during the year under review, achieving and mitigation strategies were identified in order to reduce 100% carbon neutrality for its entire emissions. Key initiatives adopted included; product range being the first Sri Lankan Tea Company to achieve such a status . This was achieved Energy efficiency in plant operations following concerted organisation-wide efforts towards Energy efficiency in transportation reducing the Group’s emissions. The Group engages an independent third party in measuring carbon footprint, which Substitution of fossil energy with renewable energy is computed based on the GHG Protocol published by the Recycling of waste World Resource Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The computation represents GHG During the year under review, the Group’s total carbon emissions associated with the production of Dilmah Tea from footprint increased by 14% reflecting a broadening of the cradle to gate as graphically demonstrated below. In addition scope of computation and higher operational activity. The to reducing dependence on fossil fuels the Group purchased Group’s computation had previously been limited to the carbon credits through UN approved Cleaner Development institutional carbon footprint; however, this year the company Mechanisms (CDM) thereby offsetting its carbon footprint. sought to expand the scope of the computation by including the product carbon footprint on a cradle to gate basis. Scope 1 emissions, which can be directly controlled by the organisation Journey to Carbon Neutrality declined by 4%. The construction of a building with 122,000 sqft within the premises has led to an increase in the scope 2017: Peliyagoda factory and head two emissions. office certified as carbon neutral 2013: Comprehensive analysis of Dilmah’s tCO2e 2018/19 2017/18 Change carbon footprint with y-o-y (%) the University of Colombo Scope 1 645 673 -4 Development of carbon Scope 2 1,806 1,432 +21 neutral action plan. Scope 3 371 333 +10 Total GHG emissions 2,822 2,438 +14 (institutional footprint) Emission intensity 2018: Dilmah 2015: Dilmah pledged achieves carbon to achieve carbon neutrality for neutrality by 2017, all products and as UNFCCC Paris factories Agreement pledged to limit increase of global warming to 1.5C. 68 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Natural Capital Dilmah Conservation Centre for Climate Change Research Raw material usage during the year under review is given and Adaptation (CCCRA) : In October 2017, Dilmah below; Conservation inaugurated this research and adaptation centre, the first private sector initiative of its kind. The centre is Material Unit Quantity proactively working towards increasing climate awareness Adhesive Paper Strip KILOGRAM 15,612 and resilience in communities through education and capacity building, driving novel research and facilitating timely climate Aluminium Wire KILOGRAM 4,060 interventions. METER 2,516 Cardboard NUMBER 54,940,912 Energy and Fuel Management Ceramic NUMBER 27,294 Cloth NUMBER 15,953 A key element of the Group’s carbon neutral program was the focused reduction of its Flavors KILOGRAM 57,488 dependence on fossil fuels. The Group operates Foil NUMBER 419,402,044 2 hydropower plants with a combined capacity of 122kw REEL 4,040 and 2 solar plants with a combined capacity of 250 kw which Glass NUMBER 158,164 collectively account for 9% of the Group’s total energy Glue KILOGRAM 22,165 consumption. During the year under review, the Group’s total Herbs KILOGRAM 305,498 energy consumption decreased by 4.4%. INK NUMBER 2,539 REEL 2,436 2018/19 2017/18 Metal NUMBER 17,752 Non-renewable energy Palstic NUMBER 706 Grid Electricity GJ 11,332.0 11,412.0 Paper KILOGRAM 719,983 Diesel GJ 1,021.8 1,517.0 METER 6,104,360 Renewable energy NUMBER 1,517,545,825 Solar GJ 1,220.9 1,276.0 REEL 95 Total GJ 13,574.8 14,205.0 Porcelain NUMBER 168,576 % reliance on renewable energy 9% 9% Rubber KILOGRAM 50 Sticker NUMBER 23,629,216 Materials Management Thread KILOGRAM 45,706 METER 13,749,933 The primary raw material is tea which is purchased during Tins NUMBER 1,684,380 tea auctions and directly from the tea estates affiliated to the group. Packaging material consists of range of constituents Wooden NUMBER 55,231 which include filter paper, inner cartons, envelopes, tags, and corrugated outer boxes are procured through different large and SME suppliers. In recent years we have pursued methods Waste Management for using recyclable and biodegradable packaging material. Key types of waste generated from the Group’s operations include packaging waste, production waste and general waste. It is committed to the responsible disposal of waste and the adoption of the 3R approach of reduce, reuse and recycle along with energy recovery, DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 69 treatment and disposal. ‘Dilmah Recycling’ is a dedicated Key points of the Water Management Policy facility which was set up to engage in R&D efforts to develop sub-products like notebooks, plant pots and bags from waste Measuring the Building an material. The Group distributed 300+ Dilmah recycled future impact Stakeholder awareness on with the current engagement notebooks at the Dilmah Global Partner Conference and water wastage usage 2019 School of Tea, during the year. Meanwhile, tea waste generated during the tea packaging process is converted through a biochar kiln, the output of which can be used for carbon sequestration. Biodiversity Waste by method of disposal Preserving Sri Lanka’s biodiversity and natural habitats is a key focus area of Dilmah Conservation. The Group has Waste Method of Volume % played a pivotal role in generating a national-level dialogue on material disposal (MT) biodiversity through the initiation of Biodiversity Sri Lanka, Cardboard Recycle 181.8 a platform which encourages information and knowledge and paper sharing on environmental conservation among the corporate 68% sector. The platform currently has a membership of 34 patron members, 39 general members, 5 SMEs and 3 associate Food waste Animal feed 20.04 7.50% members. Packaging Upcycled/ 0.6 0.22% waste reprocessed Other projects carried out by Dilmah Conservation on an Wood waste/ Reuse 5.46 2.04% ongoing basis include the following. Please refer to the Dilmah Pallet Conservation Annual Report for more detailed information. Polythene Recycle 52.54 19.65% Joint Activities with Biodiversity Sri Lanka 2018/19 Composite Energy Material recovery Marine and Coastal conservation in the Eastern Tea waste Reprocess/ 6.455 2.41% Coast Biochar Celebration of International Day for Biological Sanitary Incineration 0.3 0.11% Diversity 2018 Total waste 267.255 Total re-used 5.46 2.04% Learning event on Biochar Total 188.915 70.7% Life project Malti Partner initiative in Kanneliya recycled/ reprocessed Water Management The Group’s core operations of blending and packing is not largely water-intensive. Thus, the Group’s water consumption is limited to cleaning of manufacturing operational units, drinking and sanitation requirements of employees. Water is sourced primarily through the National Water Supply and Drainage Board. 70 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Natural Capital Project Objectives and Activities Results Greening Batticaloa Distribution of cashew plants Target of 1 million trees completed in Sri Lanka’s Eastern Coast to providing sustainable livelihood increase green cover and provide opportunities to a community that alternative livelihood option for local was affected by conflict and natural communities disaster Cave Biodiversity Conducted a biospeological study to Developed maps for 17 caves build capacity for biological research 100 taxonomic groups of fauna and cave conservation at local and recorded from 18 caves national levels. Endana Nature Corridor Establishment of a biological corridor A baseline survey was conducted to preserve natural habitats and which assessed the floral and enhance the biodiversity of tea faunal diversity and spatial soil estates. variability of the area Novel Species Programme To drive research and create Identified 65 species previously awareness on Sri Lankas lesse known unknown to science, of which 41 have taxa. been confirmed as new discoveries. In depth field studies and taxonomy surveys conducted island wide. Amphibian Conservation Initiative to include Sri Lankan Preliminary round of discussion with amphibian species into the Global stakeholders conducted IUCN Red List Elephant Conservation Encouraging conservation of Knowledge sharing on elephants elephants through education and with 3000+ individuals including awareness programmed conducted undergraduates annually through though Dilmah Conservation’s the information centre of the Transit Elephant Information Centre Home. Sponsoring two baby elephants and Strengthening scientific research on the Elephant Transit Home at the Elephant behaviour in partnership Udawalwe National Park with Centre for Conservation and Research and Department of Wildlife Conservation Sri Lanka. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At Dilmah, the creation of value is underpinned by robust corporate governance practices which ensure that our operations are conducted with the highest level of integrity and transparency. The Corporate Governance discussion from page 72 to 82 provides a high-level overview of how we comply with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements and industry practices in governing the Group. 72 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Corporate Governance Our Approach to Corporate Governance Key Statutes, Regulatory Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC’s (DCTC) is listed on the Diri Savi Board of the Requirements and Standards Colombo Stock Exchange with a public holding of 12.81% as the Company remains Complied with largely a family owned business with highly specialized inputs from the family who are passionate about the art of tea making. Yet, in the belief that high standards of Companies Act No.7 of 2007 corporate governance is fundamental to sustainability of the business, the Board Sri Lanka Accounting and has set in place a governance framework and structure that balances the interests Auditing Standards Act No.15 of the Company and its stakeholders and ensures effective and ethical decisionof 1995 making within a culture of professionalism, integrity and fair play. This approach to Continuing Listing corporate governance has underpinned DCTC’s success and recognition locally and Requirements of the Colombo internationally. Stock Exchange Framework and Structure Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law No. 04 of 1978 DCTC’s Governance framework is bound by external regulations and internally Customs Ordinance No. 17 of formulated policies, that define how we do business. 1869 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Exchange Control Act No. 22 of 2017 Inland Revenue Act No.27 of External 2017 Internal Employees’ Provident Fund Act Companies Act Employees’ Trust Fund Act Payment of Gratuity Act Listing Requirements Shop and Office Act Code of Conduct Policies, of the CSE Industrial Disputes Act Articles of procedures and Factories Ordinance Association practices Other laws and Workmen’s’ Compensation regulations Ordinance Environmental Management Systems (ISO 14001:2015, ISO 14064:-1:2006, EPL) DCTC’s Compliance with provisions of the Listing rules of the Colombo Stock Integrated Reporting Exchange (CSE) is disclosed on pages 80 to 82. Framework Global Reporting Initiative Standards Codes of regulatory authorities, professional institutions and trade associations DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 73 The Board, led by the Chairman, bears ultimate responsibility for the performance of the Group and is accountable to the shareholders who appoint the directors. As the highest decision-making authority, the Board determines the strategic direction of the Group integrating financial, economic, social and environmental sustainability, provides leadership, manages risk without stifling innovation and entrepreneurship and sets in place a sound governance framework that defines scope. To assist in the discharge of responsibilities, the Board has established three (3) Board Sub-Committees and two (2) Executive committees, delegating certain matters with oversight responsibility, driving accountability through reporting obligations. Terms of Reference for the Committees outlines their respective roles and responsibilities. CHAIRMAN AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS Deputy Chairman Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer / Director Remuneration Committee Related Party Transactions Review Committee Executive Management Team Group Internal Audit Decentralize Management Committee Management Council Group Legal Group HR The Executive Management Team lead by the Chairman and comprising of the Deputy Chairman, CEO and all other executive Directors formulates and oversees the execution of strategies Group IT within the policy framework set out by the Board. The Executive Management Team is supported by executive committees and sub committees responsible for operational management of the Group Finance Company. The Group CFO and Company Secretary attend Team meetings by invitation. 74 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Corporate Governance The Management Council, chaired by The Board one or few members of the Board either Chairman or Deputy Chairman to dominate the Board processes gathers senior management staff Board Composition or decision making. Although three to discuss common Group matters, Chairman (Executive) 1 executive directors Mr. Merrill J. including policy direction, areas of Executive 4 Fernando (Chairman) Mr. Dilhan C. concern in business line performance, Non Executive 1 Fernando and Mr. Malik J. Fernando are strategic planning and pursue of related to each other, they act in the Non Executive company objectives and standards. 2 best interest of the Group in intention, Independent Concerns raised are escalated to the purpose and attitude. Executive Management Team for Composition deliberation and resolution. The Council The Board is diverse in its experience, meets monthly. The Board comprises eight (8) members age and expertise contributing as at March 31, 2019, whose profiles are varied perspectives to boardroom The Board delegates functions given on pages 11 and 12. deliberations and exercising warranting greater attention, to the independent judgment to bear on Audit Committee, Remuneration Three Directors are Non-Executive of matters set before them. Committee and Related Party whom two are deemed independent. Transactions Review Committee with NED are eminent professionals in their oversight responsibility for same, respective fields. Sufficient balance enabling the Board to allocate sufficient of power minimizes the tendency for time to matters within its scope. GENDER BOARD EXPERTISE AGE 13% Business 3.5 3.0 Legal Plantations 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 Finance Economics 0.5 87% 0.0 Sales and 45+ 55+ 65+ 75+ Marketing Years Years Years Years ● Male ● Female All Directors possess financial acumen and knowledge gained through experience from leading large enterprises. Two directors including the Chairman of the Audit Committee, are finance professionals. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 75 Directors Independence In compliance with Section 24 of Board Responsibilities the Articles of Association, a single Directors exercise their independent The Board determines the overall director will retire from office at judgement, promoting constructive strategy to enhance long term each Annual General Meeting and on board deliberations and objective value of the Group and oversees recommendation by the Board, be evaluation of the performance of the implementation. Providing independent, eligible to stand for re-election by the Company. Independence of Directors informed and effective judgment shareholders at the AGM. Accordingly, is determined by the Board, based and leadership to decision making, Mr. Malik J Fernando will retire by on annual declarations submitted they ensure strategy, risk, internal rotation in terms of the Articles of by Directors and having considered controls, performance and sustainable Association of the Company and being the possibility of any impairment in development considerations are eligible, offer himself for re-election at independence due to extended board effectively integrated and appropriately the AGM. tenures, where applicable. balanced. The Board also ensures all stakeholder rights and obligations are Determination of Directors’ safeguarded whilst complying with Mr. Rajan Asirwatham The independence due to extended Board laws, regulations and ethical standards. Board is of the view that tenures, is discussed and evaluated by All Directors contribute meaningfully the period of service of Mr. the Board prior to nomination of Board to leading the Company and commit Asirwatham as a Board Member, members for re-election. sufficient time to fulfill their duties. which exceeds nine years does not compromise his independence A director appointed by the Board Regular presentations by Executive and objectivity in discharging his to fill a casual vacancy arisen since Management on matters including functions as a Director. Therefore, the previous AGM, will offer himself progress in implementation of the the Board determined that Mr. for election at the next AGM. strategic goals, financial, social and Asirwatham is ‘independent’ as Appointments are communicated to environmental performance, changes per the Listing Rules. the CSE and shareholders through and challenges presented by the press releases. These communications operating environment ensure that Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty Mr. include a brief résumé of the director the Board is apprised of developments Chitty meets all the criteria of disclosing relevant expertise, key impacting the Company. independence set out in Rule appointments, shareholding and 7.10.4 of the Listing Rules of the whether he is executive, independent or The Board seeks independent Colombo Stock Exchange. non-independent. professional advice from external parties when necessary, in the discharge Resignations or removal, if any, of of their duties. Appointment, Re-Election and Directors and the reasons thereof are Resignation informed promptly to the Colombo Stock Exchange together with a Directors are appointed by the statement confirming whether or shareholders at the Annual General not there are any matters that need Meeting (AGM), following a formal to be brought to the attention of process and based on recommendations shareholders. made by the Board. Recommendations are made on consideration of the combined skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and any gaps thereof. 76 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Corporate Governance Board Committees KEY AREAS OF BOARD FOCUS DURING THE YEAR The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee FINANCE and Related Party Transactions Review Overview and preparation of financial statements Assessment of financial impact of regulatory changes on taxation Committee to assist in the discharge Approval of Financial Statements and Annual Report of its duties and in pursuance of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Areas of oversight and the STRATEGY composition of these committees are Approval of strategic plan and budget Review of performance against key metrics given below. Approval of significant investments Review of local and global trends shaping tea industry RISK & OVERSIGHT Review of Local and global political and economic landscape Compliance with regulations Optimizing the internal control framework GOVERNANCE Review of shareholder communications and AGM Review of director eligibility for re-election Review of Board sub-committee minutes Board Committee Areas of Oversight Composition Report Reference Audit Committee (AC) Financial Reporting 2 Independent non-executive Page 90 Internal Controls directors including the Chairman Internal Audit External Audit Remuneration Formulating Remuneration policy for 2 Independent non-executive Page 91 Committee (RC) Directors and Key Management Personnel directors including the Chairman (KMP) Formulating HR Policy Related Party Review of related party transactions 2 Independent non-executive Page 92 Transactions Review directors including the Chairman Committee (RPTRC) and one non-executive director DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 77 The Related Party Transactions Review Meetings & Minutes Committee considers all transactions ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS that require approval, in line with the Directors Group’s Related Party Transactions Status Board AC RPTRC RC Policy and in compliance with regulations. Mr. Merrill J Fernando Chairman E 4 Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera Deputy Chairman E 4 Company Secretary Mr. Dilhan C Fernando Chief Executive Officer E 3 The Company Secretary Ms. Jayanga Mr. Malik J Fernando E 4 Wegodapola, Attorney-at-law, guides Mr. Roshan C Tissaaratchy E 4 the Board on discharging its duties and Ms. Minette D A Perera N 3 3 3 1 responsibilities and keeps members Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham I 3 3 3 1 abreast of relevant changes in legislation. All Directors have access to Mr. Gritakumar E Chitty I 4 3 3 1 the services of the Company Secretary. Total No of meetings 4 3 3 1 I Independent Director, N Non-Executive Director and E Executive Director The Company Secretary maintains the minutes of Board meetings, which are open for inspection by any Director at Agenda and Board papers are sent 7 days before the meeting, allowing members any time. Appointment and removal of sufficient time to review same. The CEO/Director sets the Board Agenda, assisted by the Company Secretary is a matter for the Group Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary. the Board as a whole. Board meetings are held on a quarterly basis with the flexibility to arrange additional Roles of Chairman and CEO/Director meetings when required. The Board met 04 times during the year. The role of Chairman is separate from that of the CEO/Director ensuring no All board minutes are circulated to members within two weeks of the meeting being one Director has unfettered power held, and formally approved at the subsequent Board meeting. and authority. The Chairman leads Resolutions concerning business matters are passed by circulation, within the Board, preserving good corporate regulations. However, if a single Director deems it necessary that such resolution governance and setting the ethical must be decided at a Board meeting not by circulation, the director shall put the tone for the Board and Group. The resolution to be decided in a meeting. CEO/Director leads the executive management and is accountable to the Board for the performance of the Other Business Commitments / Directors Interests Group. All Directors allocate sufficient time to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities. Directors declare their outside business interests at appointment Board access to information and and annually thereafter. The Company Secretary maintains a Register of Directors’ resources Interests, which is tabled to the Board annually. The Register is available for inspection in terms of the Companies Act. Key appointments of the Directors are Directors have unrestricted access included in their profiles on pages 11 & 12 in Note 28.2 of the financial statements. to management and organization Related Party Transactions are given in Note 28 to the financial statements on pages information, as well as to resources 135 to 137. required to carry out their duties and responsibilities, independently and 78 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Corporate Governance effectively. Executive Management Directors’ remuneration in respect make regular presentations with regard GROUP’S CODE OF ETHICS / of the Company and the Group for to the business environment and in BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY the Financial Year ended 31st March relation to Group operations. Access 2019 are disclosed on page 137 of the Principles of Conduct to independent professional advice, Financial Statements. co-ordinated through the Company Financial reporting Secretary, is available to Directors at Risk Management & Internal Control the Company’s expense. Compliance The Board is responsible for formulating Confidentiality and implementing effective risk Induction and On-going Training for Fair Dealing management and internal control Directors systems to safeguard shareholder On appointment, directors are provided Resources interests and the assets of the with an orientation pack with all Company. These systems cover Discrimination relevant external and internal regulation all controls, including financial, documents and a tour of the factory. Anti-Bribery and Corruption operational and compliance and are The Directors are kept abreast of local monitored and regularly reviewed for Intellectual property and global developments affecting effectiveness by the Board. Group business , including regulatory changes, Sustainability Internal Audit supports the Audit economic movements and industry Committee, reviewing the adequacy Whistle blowing trends. They undertake training and and effectiveness of the internal professional development by attending control systems and reporting to seminars/workshops/conferences, the Audit Committee on a regular Remuneration participating as speakers at events, basis. Further, as required by the using web based learning resources and The Group Remuneration Policy seeks certification/ accreditation process of reading business updates etc. to motivate and reward performance the Group, trained internal auditors while meeting regulatory requirements, conduct regular system audits and Code of Conduct market expectations and corporate verifications based on the requirements values. No Director is involved in of certification standards including DCTC culture is shaped by the Group’s determining his/her own remuneration. ISO9001:2015, ISO14001:2015, FSSC Code of Ethics / Business Ethics Policy The Remuneration Committee in 22000 and BRC Global Standard for which articulates the standards of consultation with the CEO/Director Food Safety. The findings are reported conduct expected of all Directors and makes recommendations to the to the management and any nonemployees. It enshrines principles Board regarding the remuneration compliance attended to immediately. of honesty and integrity in creating of the Key Management Personnel. a responsible workplace founded on The Board as a whole, agrees on the Accountability ethical, professional and legal standards fees of Non-Executive Directors. of conduct. Executive Remuneration comprises two The Board strives to provide components, fixed remuneration and stakeholders with a balanced and A whistle blowing policy provides comprehensive account of the financial variable remuneration encompassing an a direct communication line to the position, performance and prospects annual performance bonus aligned to Chairman, for employees to report of the Group. This is the Company’s corporate and individual performance. in good faith any genuine suspicions first Integrated Annual Report, and of fraud, bribery or malpractice. The it complies with the requirements policy provides for anonymity and of widely accepted standards, codes protection of the reporting employee. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 79 and frameworks which have been Group’s financial position, performance External Auditor voluntarily adopted to ensure corporate and prospects. Any queries and The External Auditor is appointed reporting is in line with international concerns to Directors or Management subject to the provision of the best practice. of the Company should be addressed to Companies Act. The Audit Committee the Company Secretary who will deal makes recommendations to the Board Major or Material Transactions with the matter. for the appointment, re-appointment During the year, there were no major or removal of the External Auditor The AGM is the main mechanism for the or material transactions as defined by in-line with professional & ethical Board to interact with and account to Section 185 of the Companies Act No. standards and regulatory requirements. shareholders and affords an opportunity 07 of 2007 which materially affect the It monitors and reviews the External for shareholders’ views to be heard. net asset base of the Company. Auditor’s independence, objectivity It is the key forum for shareholders and effectiveness of the audit process to engage in decision making matters Compliance considering relevant professional and reserved for the shareholders which regulatory requirements. Directors are conscious of their duty include approval of the Annual to comply with the laws, regulations, Report and Financial Statements and In assignment of non-audit services codes, internal controls and approved appointment of Directors and External to External Auditors, the Audit policies. DCTC is compliant with Auditors. Board members, SubCommittee ensures that the external all relevant legal and statutory Committee Chairmen, Key Management auditor has the necessary skills and requirements. Personnel and External Auditors on experience for the assignment and the request of the Board Chairman, ascertains that independence and are present and available to answer Shareholder Relations objectivity in carrying out his duties and questions. responsibilities will not be impaired. At the close of the financial year 2018/19, DCTC had 919 shareholders. All Shareholders are encouraged to On the recommendation of the The Directors directly and indirectly participate at the AGM and exercise Board, the shareholders approved held 88% of shares whilst the their voting rights. Notice of the the reappointment of Messrs. Ernst Employees Provident Fund, the next AGM, the Annual Report and Financial & Young (Chartered Accountants) as largest shareholder held 8%. Statements and any other resolution the External Auditor for 2018/19 at together with the corresponding the last AGM. In compliance with the The Company encourages effective information, are circulated to Companies Act, the External Auditors communication with shareholders who shareholders not less than 15 working submitted an annual statement are engaged through multiple channels days prior to the Annual General confirming their independence in of communication, including the Annual Meeting. A separate resolution for each relation to the external audit. General Meeting (AGM) , Annual item of business is proposed, giving Report, Interim Financial Statements shareholders the opportunity to vote on and announcements to the Colombo each of such issue, separately. Stock Exchange. The Board recognizes its responsibility to present a balanced Our 2018 AGM was well attended and understandable assessment of the and all proposed resolutions passed with majority of shareholders voting in favour. 80 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Corporate Governance Appendix Compliance with the Listing Requirements Sections 7.6 and 7.10 on Corporate Governance Rules for Listed Companies issued by the Colombo Stock Exchange. Rule No. Requirement Disclosure Compliant 7.10 (a) Statement confirming compliance with the Corporate Annual Report of the Board Governance Rules of Directors 7.10.1(a) Non-Executive Directors (NED) composition Composition At least two or one third of total Directors, whichever is higher, 7.10.2(a) Independent Directors composition Composition Two or one-third of Non-Executive Directors, whichever is higher, 7.10.2(b) Independence of Directors Directors Independence Each Non-Executive Director should submit a declaration of Independence/ Non-Independence 7.10.3(a) Disclosure relating to Directors An Effective Board The names of Independent Directors should be disclosed in the Annual Report 7.10.3 (a)/ (b) Independence of Directors Directors Independence The Board shall make a determination annually as to the Independence or Non-Independence of each Non-Executive Director 7.10.3(c) Disclosure relating to Directors Board profiles A brief resume of each Director including the Director’s areas of expertise. 7.10.3(d) Appointment of new Directors Appointment, Re-Election and Resignation Provide a brief resume of any new Director appointed to the Board 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Report A listed company shall have a Remuneration Committee 7.10.5(a) Composition of Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Report Shall comprise of Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom shall be Independent 7.10.5(b) Functions of Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Report The Remuneration Committee shall recommend the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors to the Board, for approval DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 81 Rule No. Requirement Disclosure Compliant 7.10.5(c) Disclosure in the Annual Report relating to Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee Report The Annual Report should set out; Names of the Directors comprising the Remuneration Committee Statement of Remuneration policy Aggregate remuneration paid to Executive and NonExecutive Directors 7.10.6 Audit Committee Audit Committee Report A listed company shall have an Audit Committee 7.10.6(a) Composition of Audit Committee Audit Committee Report Shall comprise of Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom are Independent Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer should attend Audit Committee Meetings The Chairman of the Audit Committee or one member should be a member of a professional accounting body 7.10.6(b) Audit Committee Audit Committee Report Functions Should be as outlined in the Section 7.10 6 (b) 7.10.6(c) Disclosure in the Annual Report relating to Audit Committee Audit Committee Report Names of the Directors comprising the Audit Committee Basis for determining the independence of the Auditors Report of the Audit Committee in the prescribed manner 9.3.2 Related Party Transactions Review Committee Related Party Transactions Review Committee Report Details pertaining to Non-Recurrent Related Party Transactions Details pertaining to Recurrent Related Party Transactions Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Declaration by the Board of Directors as an affirmative statement of compliance with the rules pertaining to Related Party Transactions, or a negative statement otherwise 82 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Corporate Governance Rule No. Requirement Disclosure Compliant 7.6 Contents of the Annual Report i) Names of directors of the entity Board profile ii) Principal activities of the entity and its subsidiaries during About us the year under review iii) 20 largest holders of voting and non-voting shares and the Investor Information percentage of shares iv) The Public Holding percentage etc Investor Information v) Directors and CEO’s holding in shares of the entity at the Investor Information beginning and end of each year vi) Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors Risk Management vii) Details of material issues pertaining to employees and Human Capital industrial relations viii) Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of Note 4 and 5 to the the entity’s land holdings and investment properties Financial Statements – Property, Plant and Equipment and Investment Properties, respectively, . ix) Number of shares representing the stated capital Investor Information x) Distribution schedule of the number of shareholders and Investor Information the percentage of their total holding xi) Ratios and market price information Investor Information xii) Significant changes in the entity’s or its subsidiaries fixed Note 4 to the Financial assets and the market value of land Statements Property , plant and Equipment xiii) If during the year the entity has raised funds either through N/A N/A a public issue, rights issue and private placement xiv) Employee share option/purchase schemes N/A N/A xv) Corporate Governance Disclosures Disclosures relating to Directors, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee xvi) Related Party Transactions Note 28 to the Financial Statements Related Party Transactions DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 83 Report of the Board of Directors 1. General re-registered as required under the provisions of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 on 13th October 2008. The The Board of Directors of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company re-registration number of the Company is PQ 209. PLC (DCTC) are pleased to present its Annual Report for the financial year ended 31st March 2019, together The ordinary shares of the Company were listed on the with the audited financial statements of the Company, main board of the Colombo Stock Exchange on 01st consolidated financial statements of the Group and January 1982 and subsequently transferred to the Diri Savi the Auditor’s Report on those financial statements, in Board on 16th August 2017. conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 and Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock The registered office is located at 111, Negombo Road, Exchange (CSE). Peliyagoda, Sri Lanka. DCTC was incorporated as a public limited liability The annual financial statements were reviewed and company in Sri Lanka on 29th May 1981 under the approved by the Board of Directors on 30th May 2019. Companies Ordinance No 51 of 1938. The Company was In compliance with Section 168 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the following information is disclosed in the Annual Report published for the year ended 31st March 2019. Disclosure requirements Reference to the Disclosure reference for compliance Page Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 The nature of the business of the Company Section 168 (1) (a) About Dilmah 107 Financial statements for the accounting Section 168 (1) (b) The Financial Statements of the Company 100 to Period completed and signed in accordance with and Group for the year ended 31st March 144 section 152 2019 Auditor’s report on the financial statements of the Section 168 (1) (c) Independent Auditors’ Report. 96 to 99 Company Any change in accounting policies made During Section 168 (1) (d) Note 3 to the Financial Statements Changes 115 the accounting period in Accounting Policies Particulars of entries in the interests register made Section 168 (1) (e) Directors’ Interest in Contracts with the 88 during the accounting period Company Details of the Directors’ shareholdings. Investor Information 88 Changes to the Directors’ shareholding during the financial year. Remuneration and other benefits of directors Section 168 (1) (f) Note 28.2 to the Financial Statements 137 during the accounting period Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax Total amount of donations made by the Company Section 168 (1) (g) Note 20 to the Financial Statements Profit/ 128 during the accounting period (Loss) Before Tax 84 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Report of the Board of Directors Disclosure requirements Reference to the Disclosure reference for compliance Page Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Names of the persons holding office as Section 168 (1) (h) Board Profiles 11 & 12 Directors of the company as at the end of the In terms of Article 24 of the Articles of accounting period and the names of any persons Association of DCTC, Mr. Malik J. Fernando who ceased to hold office as directors of the retires by rotation and being eligible offers company during the accounting period himself for re-election Amounts payable by the company to the Section 168 (1) (i) Note 20 to the Financial Statements Profit/ 128 Person or firm holding office as auditor of the (Loss) Before Tax company as audit fees and as a separate item, fees payable by the company for other services provided By that person or firm ; Particulars of any relationship (other than that of Section 168 (1) (j) External Auditors 88 auditor) which the auditor has with or any interests which the auditor has in, the company or any of its subsidiaries Signed on behalf of the board by two directors and Section 168 (1) (k) 89 the Company Secretary 2. Principal activities of the Group 5. Financial Statements The principal activity of the company is to manufacture, The financial statements of the Company and the export and market tea bags and packets under the brand Group have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka name. “Dilmah”. The principal activity of the Subsidiary Accounting Standards laid down by the Institute of Company is to manufacture, export and market tea in the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and form of liquid tea concentrate and ready to drink tea. comply with the requirements of Companies Act No 7 of 2007. The financial statements of the Company and the 3. Review of Operations Group for the year ended 31st March 2019 duly signed by the Chief Financial Officer and two Directors of the A review of the operations of the Group and results of its Company are given in pages 100 to 144. performance during the financial year are contained in the Chairman’s Message (pages 15 to 17) and Financial Capital 6. Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Reporting Report (pages 35 to 39). The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 4. Future Developments financial statements of the Group and to present a true and fair view of its state of affairs. The Directors are of the An overview of the future developments of the Group is view that these financial statements have been prepared given in the Chairman’s Message (pages 15 to 17). in conformity with the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, (SLFRSs and LKASs), Companies Act No 7 of 2007, Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No 15 of 1995 and Listing Rules of the CSE. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 85 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for Financial 10. Corporate Donations Reporting is given on page 93. We continue with the Company philosophy that business is a matter of human service. For the current year, the 7. Going Concern Company made a donation of Rs. 170.0 million (2017/2018 The Board has made an assessment of the Group’s ability Rs. 100.0 million) to the MJF Charitable Foundation. The to continue as a going concern and is satisfied that it has activities of the Foundation are given on the pages 61 the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable & 62. Other Donations by the Company during the year future. amounted to Rs. 2,871,922/(2017/18 Rs. 1,167,540/-). 8. Group Results and Appropriations 11. Taxation According to the First Schedule of the Inland Revenue Act For the year ended 2019 2018 No.24 of 2017, with effect from the Year of Assessment 31st March 2018/19 concessionary rate of 14% is applicable for the Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Taxable Income of the Company predominately (80%) Revenue 10,713,364 9,204,616 engaged in the business of exports. Gains from realization of investment assets shall be taxed at the rate of 10%. Profit for the Year 1,590,728 1,192,933 Other Comprehensive 20,708 32,360 12. Human Resources Income Net of Tax Total Comprehensive 1,611,436 1,225,293 The Group continues to invest in human capital Income Net of Tax development and implement effective human resource Interim dividend for 414,750 933,188 practices and policies to improve workforce efficiency, the current year effectiveness and productivity and offer equal career opportunities regardless of gender, race or religion. There Proposed final 311,063 were no material issues pertaining to employees and dividend industrial relations of the Company that occurred during the year under review which requires disclosure. As at 31st 9. Dividends March 2019, 644 persons were employed by the Company (31st March 2018 – 675) An interim dividend of Rs. 20/per share was paid in February 2019. The Directors recommend paying a final 13. Statutory Payments dividend of Rs. 15/per share, resulting in a total dividend of Rs.35/per share for the year ended 31st March 2019. The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, all statutory payments in relation to taxes The Board of Directors provided the Statements of and duties and in relation to employees have been made Solvency to the Auditors and obtained Certificates of promptly on the due dates. Solvency from the Auditors in respect of each dividend payment in terms of Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act 14. Compliance with Laws & Regulations No. 07 of 2007. The Board also fulfilled the requirement of the Solvency Test in terms of Section 56 (3) of the To the best of the knowledge and belief of the Directors, Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 immediately after the Group has not engaged in any activities contravening the payment of interim dividends and will ensure the the laws & regulations of the country. compliance of Solvency Test after the payment of the aforesaid final dividend proposed. 86 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Report of the Board of Directors 15. Capital Expenditure 20. Reserves Capital expenditure incurred on acquisition of Property, The total reserves as at 31st March 2019 stand at Rs. Plant & Equipment during the year of the Company and 10,880 million (2017/18 – Rs. 9,683 million) including the Group amounted to Rs. 83.7 million and Rs. 85.3 million Available Sale Reserve of Rs. 272 million (2017/18 – Rs. respectively (2017/18 Company: Rs 832.7 million and 264 million). Group: Rs 832.7 million). Details are given in Note 4 of the Notes to the Financial Statements. Capital expenditure 21. Events occurring after the Balance Sheet Date approved and contracted for and not contracted for as at No significant events have occurred after the Balance Balance Sheet date are given in Note 25 to the financial Sheet date, which require adjustments to or disclosure in statements on page 134. the Financial Statements. 16. Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) 22. Risk management and system of internal controls Details of property, plant and equipment are given in Note The Group has an ongoing process in place to identify, 4 to the financial statements on pages 117 to 120. The net evaluate, and manage the risks that are faced by the book values of freehold properties owned by the Company Group, as detailed in the Risk Report on pages 23 & and the Group as at 31st March 2019 are included in the 24. An effective and comprehensive system of internal accounts at Rs.2,206.8 million and Rs. 2,252.5 millioncontrols is in place comprising internal checks, internal respectively (2017/18 Company: Rs. 2,418.2 million and audit, and financial and other controls required to carry Group: Rs. 2,482.8 million). The market value of Property, out the Group business and safeguard assets. The Audit Plant & Equipment is considered not materially different to Committee Report, Risk Management Report and the the values stated. Independent Auditors’ Report thereon are given on pages 90 & 96. 17. Investments Investments made by the Company are detailed in Notes 7 23. Sustainability and 8 of the Notes to the Accounts. The Group is an early champion of adopting sustainability practices and sustainability reporting. Economic, 18. Stated Capital environment and social sustainability is ingrained into The Stated Capital of the Company is Rs. 642,500,000/business strategies as detailed in the Sustainability at divided into 20,737,500 Ordinary Shares. Dilmah on pages 26 to 30. 19. Shareholding 24. Directorate As at 31st March 2019, there were 919 (912 as at 31st The following Directors held office as at the Statement of March 2018) registered shareholders and their distribution Financial Position date and their brief profiles appear on is given on page 146. The twenty major shareholders as at pages 11 to 12 of the Annual Report. 31st March 2019 and the number of shares held and their percentage shareholding are disclosed on page 147. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 87 25. Directors of the Subsidiary – MJF Beverages (Pvt) Ltd Name of the Director Status Mr. Merrill J. Fernando Chairman ED Name of the Director Status Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera – Deputy ED Mr. Merrill J Fernando Chairman ED Chairman Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera – Deputy ED Mr. Dilhan C. FernandoChief ED Chairman Executive Officer Mr. Dilhan C FernandoChief Executive ED Mr. Malik J. Fernando ED Officer Ms. Minette D. A. Perera NED Mr. Malik J Fernando ED Mr. Roshan C. Tissaaratchy ED Mr. Roshan C. Tissaaratchy ED Mr. Daya P. Wickramatunga IND Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham IND Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty IND 26. Interests’ Register The Company maintains an Interests Register as required (IND Independent Director, NED Non Executive Director and ED by the Companies Act No 7 of 2007. All Directors have Executive Director) made general disclosures relating to share dealings and Mr. Merrill J Fernando, Mr. Gritakumar E Chitty, Mr. indemnities and remuneration to the Board of Directors Rajanayagam Asirwatham and Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera as permitted by Section 192 (2) of the Companies Act No retire in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No.7 7 of 2007. The related entries were made in the Interests of 2007. Separate resolutions are proposed respectively, to Register during the year under review and is available at re-appoint the Director in terms of Section 211 (1) of the the registered head office of the Company, in keeping said Companies Act No.7 of 2007. with the requirements of the section 119 (1) (d) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007. Mr. Malik J Fernando retires by rotation in terms of section 27. Board Sub-Committees 24 of the Articles of Association of the Company and being eligible offers himself for re-election at the Annual General The Board delegates functions warranting greater Meeting. attention, to three (3) Board Sub-Committees with oversight responsibility for same. Accordingly, the following mandatory SubCommittees have been constituted by the Board in compliance with the Listing Rules of the CSE. Committee Members Audit Committee Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham Chairman Report of the Audit Committee is given Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty on page 90 Remuneration Committee Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty Chairman Report of the Remuneration Committee Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham is given on page 91 Related Party Transactions Review Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham Chairman Report of the Related Party Committee Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty Transactions Review Committee is given on page 92 Ms. Minette D. A. Perera 88 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Report of the Board of Directors 28. Related Party Transactions The indirect shareholdings of Directors, Mr. Merrill J Fernando, Mr. Malik J Fernando & Mr. Dilhan C Fernando, Relevant disclosures made by the Directors on contracts together with that of their spouses & dependent children and proposed contracts with the Company or any of the are as follows: subsidiaries within the Group appear under note No. 28 in Related Party Disclosure to the Financial Statements on pages 135 to 137 of the Report. These interests have been As at 31st March 2019 2018 declared at Directors’ meetings in compliance with the MJF Teas (Private) 13,812,882 13,812,882 requirements on Related Party Transactions of the Listing Limited Rules of the CSE and Section 192(1) of the Companies Act MJF Exports (Private) 4,256,712 4,256,712 No 7 of 2007. Limited MJF & Sons (Private) 25,300 25,300 The Related Party Transaction Review Committee is Limited responsible for reviewing the Related Party Transactions of the Company. Committee Report is given on page 92. 31. Corporate Governance The Directors are responsible for the formulation and 29. Directors’ Emoluments implementation of overall business strategies, policies During the year under review, total remuneration of the and setting standards in the short, medium and long term Executive Directors amounted to Rs. 108,910,024/and basis adopting good governance in the management of the Non Executive Directors amounted to Rs. 1,950,000/-. affairs of the Company. Accordingly system and structures (2017/18 – Executive Directors Rs. 98,985,000/-, Non have been introduced and improved from time to time Executive Directors Rs. 1,980,000/-) to enhance risk management measures and to improved accountability and transparency. A separate report on 30. Directors’ Interests in Shares and Shareholding Corporate Governance Practices adopted by the Company is given on pages 72 to 82 of this Annual Report. The Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries who Company has complied with Section 7.10 of the Continued have relevant interests in the shares of the respective Listing Rules of Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Companies have disclosed their shareholding and any Corporate Governance. acquisitions/disposals to their respective boards in compliance with Section 200 of the Companies Act No 7 32. Group Auditors of 2007. The direct shareholdings of Directors together with that of their spouses & dependent children are as Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, served as the follows: Group Auditors during the year under review and the Auditors’ Report is given on pages 96 to 99 of the report. As at 31st March 2019 2018 The Auditors have confirmed that they have no interest in or relationship with the Company or it’s Subsidiary other Mr. Merrill J. Fernando 8,200 200 than that of Auditors. They also confirm that they are Mr. Malik J. Fernando 24,200 24,200 independent in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the Mr. Dilhan C. Fernando 24,200 24,200 Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera 22,984 22,984 Ms. Minette D. A. Perera 200 200 Mr. Roshan C. Tissaaratchy 4,000 4,000 Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham 4,800 4,800 Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 89 The Audit Fees payable and fees for other services 35. Notice of Annual General Meeting rendered are noted hereunder:The 38th Annual General Meeting is convened on 06th September 2019, at 3.00 pm at No. 111, Negombo Road, Fees payable to Auditors for the current financial year Peliyagoda. The Notice of the Annual General Meeting Rs. 965,520/(2017/18 – Rs. 973,000/-) appears on page 154. Fees payable for other services rendered Rs. 1,012,303/(2017/18 – Rs. 1,294,848/-) 36. Acknowledgment of the Contents of the Report As required by Section 168 (1) (k) of the Companies Auditors Ernst & Young have expressed their willingness Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors hereby to continue in office. A resolution to reappoint them acknowledges the contents of this Annual Report. as Auditors and to authorize the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General For and on behalf of the Board of Directors. Meeting. 33. Transfer Pricing Regulations It is certified that the Company has complied with the transfer pricing regulations issued under Section 104 of Dilhan C. Fernando the Inland Revenue Act No.10 of 2006. The information Director pursuant to these regulations are given under certificate produced under Section 107 (2) (a) of the said Act. We believe that the transactions entered into with related parties during the period 01.04.2018 to 31.03.2019 are at the arms length and not prejudicial to the interests of the Company. The transactions are entered into on the Minette Perera basis of transfer pricing policy adopted by the Company. Director All transactions have been submitted to the independent auditor for audit and no adverse remarks have been made in their report on the audit of such transactions. 34. Outstanding Litigation Ms. Jayanga Wegodapola There is no litigation against the Group that will have a Company Secretary material impact on the reported financial results or future 25th July 2019 operations. 90 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Report of the Audit Committee Committee Composition Internal Audit Financial Reporting The Audit Committee appointed by the The Committee regularly reviews The Committee reviewed and Board of Directors of Dilmah Ceylon the scope of the internal audit recommended the Group’s interim and Tea Company PLC, comprises of two function and reviews audit programs annual financial statements for approval Non Executive Directors, both of whom proposed. The internal audit findings of the Board prior to submission to are ‘Independent’ as per the Listing are discussed and follow up reviews the Colombo Stock Exchange and Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. of audit findings are undertaken to shareholders. ensure that audit recommendations are The members of the Committee being implemented. The Committee The Committee reviewed and certified during the year under review were Mr. also assesses the effectiveness of the the profit reconciliation based on Rajan Asirwatham (Chairman) and Mr. internal audit function. The Committee SLFRS/ LKAS rules and directions and Gritakumar E. Chitty. The Chairman is of the view that the internal controls impact to the prudential ratios with of the Audit Committee is a qualified prevalent within the Group are regard to dividend declarations in Chartered Accountant. satisfactory and provides reasonable compliance with relevant regulations. assurance that the financial position of Committee Meetings the Company is well monitored and the The Committee reviewed the internal assets are safeguarded. controls on financial reporting system The Committee held Three meetings to ensure the reliability and integrity during the financial year under of information provided, the review External Audit review. Mr. Rajan Asirwatham and included the extent of compliance Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty attended The Committee is empowered to with SLFRS/LKAS and applicable laws all three meetings. Ms. Minette recommend the appointment of the and regulations, review of critical Perera Non Executive Director, External Auditor in compliance with accounting policies and practices Chief Financial Officer, the External the relevant statues, the service and any changes thereto, alternative Auditors (representatives of E&Y) period, audit fee and any resignation or accounting treatments, going concern and the Company Secretary attended dismissal of the Auditor. The Committee assumptions, major judgmental areas the meetings of the Committee by is satisfied that there is no conflict of and material audit judgments. invitation. interest between the Company and the Auditor, other than for the payment Role of the Committee: of audit fees. The Committee is thus satisfied that there is no cause to The primary function of the Committee compromise on the independence and is to assist the Board in fulfilling Rajan Asirwatham objectivity of the Auditor. its responsibilities, overseeing Chairman – Audit Committee management’s conduct of the The Committee has recommended to Company’s financial reporting process 25th July 2019 the Board of Directors that Messrs and systems of internal accounting Ernst & Young be re-appointed as the and financial controls, monitoring the Auditors for the year ending 31st March independence and performance of 2020 subject to the approval of the the Company’s External Auditors and shareholders at the Annual General providing an avenue of communication Meeting. The Committee has also made among the External Auditors, the its recommendations to the Board of management and the Board. Directors on the fees payable to the Auditors for approval by the Board. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 91 Report of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for The Committee is responsible for setting the Company’s policy on determining the compensation of compensation and benefits, overseeing the senior management and to lay its implementation. It is also mandated down guidelines and parameters for to review significant Human Resource the compensation structure of all policies that influence the Company’s management staff of the Company. In performance. The Committee its decision making process necessary specifically reviews remuneration of information and recommendations are the Chief Executive Officer, Executive obtained from the Deputy Chairman. Directors and Senior Members of the management as it is designated to The remuneration packages of the consider. Company are aligned to individual performance and to strategic priorities. Committee Composition The Committee, appointed by and responsible to the Board comprises of two Independent Non Executive Directors. The members of the Gritakumar E. Chitty Committee during the year under Chairman – Remuneration Committee review were Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty (Chairman) and Mr. Rajan Asirwatham. 25th July 2019 Committee Meetings The Committee held one meeting during the year under review and both committee members attended the meeting. Chief Financial Officer and Ms. Minette Perera a Non Executive Director attended the meeting of the Committee by invitation. Policy The remuneration policy of the company is formulated to attract and retain high caliber personnel and motivate them to develop and implement the business strategy in order to optimize long term shareholder value creation. 92 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Committee Related Party Transactions Review Committee Meetings Related Party Transactions during the Committee is a board sub-committee. year 2018/19. The Committee held three meetings The Committee has been established during the year under review and During the year 2018/19, there in compliance with the “Code of attended by all members and Chief were no non-recurrent related party Best Practices on Related Party Financial Officer attended the meetings transactions that exceeded the Transactions” issued by the Securities by invitation. respective thresholds mentioned in and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock The objective of the Committee is to • The Committee reviews in advance Exchange. Details of other related review all related party transactions all related party transactions of the party transactions entered into by other than those transactions explicitly Company except those explicitly the Company during the period under exempted by the Code. exempted in the Code. review is disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements. Committee Composition • The Committee ensures that written The Related Party Transaction Review policies and procedures of the Declarations Committee appointed by the Board Company are in conformity with rules and regulations governing The Committee quarterly reviews of Directors of Dilmah Ceylon Tea related party transactions. the disclosures made by each of the Company PLC, comprises of three members of the Board on transactions Non Executive Directors, and two • The Committee communicates their in which he is interested or which is of them are ‘Independent’ as per the observations on the related party proposed to be entered into with a requirements of the Code. transactions if any to the Board of related party. The declarations made the Directors. by them on compliance with regulatory The members of the Committee during requirements as set out in the Listing the year under review were Mr. Rajan • The Committee also ensures that Rules pertaining to Related Party Asirwatham (Chairman), Mr. Gritakumar immediate market disclosure of any Transactions are recorded in an Interest E. Chitty and Ms. Minette Perera. related party transaction is made Register maintained by the Company. The Chairman of the Committee is a in accordance with the Code to the qualified Chartered Accountant. Colombo Stock Exchange. Purpose of the Committee • The Committee identifies persons The purpose of the Committee as set who shall be considered as “Key Rajan Asirwatham out its Terms of Reference (TOR), is Management Personnel” of the Chairman –Related Party Transactions to review in advance all proposed Company and self-declarations are Review Committee Related Party Transactions other than obtained from each such person those transactions explicitly exempted for the purpose of identifying 25th July 2019 in the TOR which are in conformity related parties to them. Based on with the Listing Rules. The Committee the information furnished on these adopts policies and procedures to declarations, the Company has review Related Party Transactions of developed a system that enables the the Company and determines whether Company to retrieve data on related Related Party Transactions that are party transactions. to be entered into by the Company require the approval of the Board or Shareholders of the Company. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 93 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in Relation to the Preparation of Financial Statements The following statement sets out the It is the responsibility of the Directors together with all other financial records, responsibilities of Directors, in relation to ensure that the Financial Statements minutes of shareholders’ and directors’ to the Financial Statements. This should have been prepared in conformity with meetings and related information, and be read in conjunction with the Auditors Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKAS/ have expressed their opinion which responsibility in relation to the Financial SLFRS), Companies Act No.07 of 2007 and appears on page 96 of this annual report. Statements, set out in the report of the the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Auditors on page 96 of this report. Exchange and be certified by the Chief The Directors confirm that to the best Financial Officer of the Company and of their knowledge all taxes, duties and The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 signed by the two Directors as required by levies payable by the Company and all requires the Directors to prepare Financial the Companies Act No.07 of 2007. contributions, levies and taxes payable on Statements for each year giving a true behalf of and in respect of the employees and fair view of the state of the affairs of The Directors consider that in preparing of the Company and all other known the Company as at end of the financial the Financial Statements exhibited on statutory dues as were due and payable year and the financial performance for the pages 100 to 144 they have adopted by the Company as at the Balance Sheet year. The Directors are also responsible appropriate accounting policies on a date have been paid, or where relevant to ensure that proper accounting books consistent basis, supported by reasonable provided for. and records are maintained, to prepare and prudent judgment, assumptions and the Financial Statements with reasonable estimates. The Board of Directors confirm that they accuracy. The Financial Statements have authorized distribution of dividends comprise of the statement of financial The Directors are required to prepare upon being satisfied that the Company position as at 31.03.2019, the statement these Financial Statements on a going satisfies the solvency test immediate after of comprehensive income, statement of concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to such distributions are made in accordance changes in equity and statement of cash presume that the Company will continue with Section 57 of the Companies Act flows for the year ended together with the as a going concern. No.07 of 2007 and as required by Section notes thereto. 56(2) of the said Companies Act, have The Directors are required to take obtained solvency certificates from the The Directors confirm that the reasonable steps to safeguard the assets Auditor, prior to authorizing interim consolidated Financial Statements of the of the Company and to prevent and detect dividends for this year. Company give a true and fair view of frauds and other irregularities. In this regard, the Directors have instituted an The Directors are of the opinion that the • The state of affairs of the Company as effective and comprehensive system of Financial Statements presented in the at 31st March 2019 internal controls comprising of internal report from pages 100 to 144 have been checks, internal audit and financial and prepared in accordance with the above • The profit or loss of the Company and other controls required to carry on the and that they discharged their duties as its subsidiary for the financial year Company’s business in an orderly manner set out in this statement. then ended. and to safeguard its assets and ensure as far as practicable the accuracy and By order of the Board, The Board accepts the responsibility reliability of records. for the integrity and objectivity of the Financial Statements and the Directors The Directors confirm that the Auditors of are responsible to ensure that in preparing the Company, Messrs Ernst & Young were the Financial Statements, appropriate provided every opportunity to undertake accounting policies have been selected whatever inspections they considered Ms. Jayanga Wegodapola and applied in a consistent manner and necessary to enable them to form their Company Secretary that material departures, if any, have been opinion on the Financial Statements. disclosed and explained. 25th July 2019 Messrs Ernst & Young have examined the Financial Statements made available 94 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 95 FINANCIAL REPORTS The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements set out by the Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards. External assurance on the financial statements have been provided by Messrs. Ernst and Young. 96 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Independent Auditor’s Report WRHDS/YR INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DILMAH CEYLON TEA audit of the financial statements section of our report. We COMPANY PLC are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code of Ethics) and we have Report on the audit of the financial statements fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we Opinion have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis We have audited the financial statements of Dilmah Ceylon for our opinion. Tea Company PLC (“the Company”) and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary (“the Key audit matters Group”), which comprise the statement of financial position Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional as at 31 March 2019, and the statement of profit or loss, judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in financial statements of the current period. These matters equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, significant accounting policies. and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of addressed the matter is provided in that context. the Company and the Group give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and the Group as at 31 We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s March 2019, and of their financial performance and cash responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accounting Standards. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material Basis for opinion misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing audit procedures, including the procedures performed to Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under those standards address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the opinion on the accompanying financial statements. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 97 Key Audit Matter Group How Our Audit Addressed the Key Audit Matter Revenue recognition Revenue is a key driver of business performance. The group Our audit approach included substantive procedures and has various customers across the globe where revenue understanding controls related to the revenue process, which recognition occurs at the point of transfer of control of the covered the following; goods to the customer and also export occurs at various shipping terms. We obtained an understanding and tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls focused on timely We consider there to be a risk of misstatement of the recording of sales transactions; financial statements related to transactions occurring close We selected the invoices raised within proximity of the to the year end, as transactions could be recorded in the financial year end and agreed to underlying evidence to incorrect financial period due to timing differences arising support revenue is recognised in the correct reporting between invoicing and the point of transfer of control of the period. goods to the customer. We examined and obtained support for material journal entries focusing on postings during the months of March and April 2019. We also assessed the adequacy of disclosures made in relation to the recognition of revenue in Note 2.6 to the financial statements. Impairment of Trade Receivables As at 31 March 2019, the Group held Rs. 3,925,773 (‘000) of Our audit approach included a combination of test of controls trade receivables which contributed to 30% of the Group’s relating to the receivables process and substantive audit total assets. These amounts were receivable from customers procedures which included the following; across the globe. Majority of these trade receivables do We obtained direct confirmation from customers for not have any form of security. As disclosed in the Group’s amounts payable by them as at 31 March 2019 reconciling financial statements, trade receivables net of allowance confirmations received to underlying accounting records. for impairment was Rs. 3,896,109 (‘000). Allowance for impairment of these financial assets were estimated by We verified the subsequent receipts of money for management. outstanding invoices on a sample basis. For long overdue trade receivables, we inquired reasons The determination of whether trade receivables will be for being long overdue, and assessed whether the risk of realized at the stated amounts requires management to impairment has been considered by management in their exercise judgement and apply assumptions relating to impairment assessment. expectations of recovery from past due customers also considering the market in which the customers operate due We evaluated the appropriateness of the assumptions to which this matter was considered as a key audit matter. used by the management in evaluating the provision for impairment of trade receivables based on our knowledge. We also assessed the adequacy of disclosures made in relation to impairment of trade receivables in Note 2.6 to the financial statements. 98 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Independent Auditor’s Report Other information included in the 2019 Annual Report Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial Other information consists of the information included in the statements Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about auditor’s report thereon. Management is responsible for the whether the financial statements as a whole are free from other information. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee the other information and we do not express any form of that an audit conducted in accordance with SLAuSs will always assurance conclusion thereon. detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken so, consider whether the other information is materially on the basis of these financial statements. inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other throughout the audit. We also: information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, Responsibilities of the management and those charged with design and perform audit procedures responsive to those governance risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and Management is responsible for the preparation of financial appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk statements that give a true and fair view in accordance of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and for such internal fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud control as management determines is necessary to enable the may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, preparation of financial statements that are free from material misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to In preparing the financial statements, management is the audit in order to design audit procedures that are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting internal controls of the Company and the Group. unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing related disclosures made by management. the Company’s and the Group’s financial reporting process. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 99 audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or exists related to events or conditions that may cast regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty matter should not be communicated in our report because exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be report to the related disclosures in the financial statements expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our communication. opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, Report on other legal and regulatory requirements future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of to continue as a going concern. 2007, we have obtained all the information and explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content our examination, proper accounting records have been kept by of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and the Company. whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner presentation. responsible for signing this independent auditor’s report is 4107. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. 25 July 2019 We communicate with those charged with governance Colombo regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with ethical requirements in accordance with the Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We 100 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Statement of Financial Position GROUP COMPANY As at 31 March 2019 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 4 2,994,583 3,097,878 2,943,485 3,032,933 Investment Property 5 640,838 516,074 640,838 516,074 Intangible Assets 6 308,601 442,928 308,601 442,928 Other Non-Current Financial Assets 8 512,294 503,846 512,294 503,846 Total Non-Current Assets 4,456,316 4,560,726 4,405,218 4,495,781 Current Assets Inventories 9 1,074,127 1,194,625 1,064,627 1,190,786 Trade and Other Receivables 10 4,091,504 3,736,788 4,046,498 3,716,623 Advances and Prepayments 376,335 148,948 365,857 148,254 Income Tax Receivables 41,323 41,308 Amounts Due from Related Party 11 97,368 81,462 Cash and Cash Equivalents 12 2,807,177 1,937,083 2,802,927 1,928,802 Total Current Assets 8,349,143 7,058,767 8,377,277 7,107,235 Total Assets 12,805,459 11,619,493 12,782,495 11,603,016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and Reserves Stated Capital 13 642,500 642,500 642,500 642,500 Other Components of Equity 272,584 264,136 272,584 264,136 Retained Earnings 10,607,395 9,419,157 10,600,343 9,419,157 Total Equity 11,522,479 10,325,793 11,515,427 10,325,793 Non-Current Liabilities Deferred Tax Liabilities 21 161,865 218,597 158,106 207,945 Retirement Benefit Obligations 14 242,043 223,238 237,076 218,942 403,908 441,835 395,182 426,887 Current Liabilities Trade and Other Payables 15 338,928 440,326 335,593 440,060 Provisions and Accrued Expenses 482,244 411,539 478,334 410,276 Income Tax Payable 21 57,900 57,959 879,072 851,865 871,886 850,336 Total Liabilities 1,282,980 1,293,700 1,267,068 1,277,223 Total Equity and Liabilities 12,805,459 11,619,493 12,782,495 11,603,016 These financial statements are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Darshana Gunasekera Chief Financial Officer The Board of Directors is responsible for these financial statements. Signed for and on behalf of the Board by: Himendra S. Ranaweera Dilhan C. Fernando Deputy Chairman Director/Chief Executive Officer The accounting policies and notes on pages 107 through 144 form an integral part of these financial statements. 25th July 2019 Colombo DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 101 Statement of Comprehensive Income GROUP COMPANY Year ended 31 March 2019 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Revenue 16 10,713,364 9,204,616 10,676,761 9,177,758 Cost of Sales (6,018,659) (5,569,222) (5,962,985) (5,516,779) Gross Profit 4,694,705 3,635,394 4,713,776 3,660,979 Other Income 17 31,492 21,629 19,429 21,526 Administrative Expenses (1,520,780) (1,166,732) (1,527,109) (1,202,465) Selling and Distribution Costs (2,353,652) (1,708,688) (2,353,124) (1,708,530) Foreign Exchange Gain 762,093 368,884 760,885 368,301 Finance Costs 18 (14,454) (34,418) (14,451) (34,417) Finance Income 19 95,047 164,705 95,046 164,704 Profit Before tax 20 1,694,451 1,280,774 1,694,452 1,270,098 Income Tax Expense 21 (103,723) (87,841) (110,638) (77,219) Profit for the year 1,590,728 1,192,933 1,583,814 1,192,879 Earnings per Share (Rs.) 22 76.71 58.74 Dividend per Share (Rs.) 23 20.00 60.00 The accounting policies and notes on pages 107 through 144 form an integral part of these financial statements. 102 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Statement of Other Comprehensive Income GROUP COMPANY Year ended 31 March 2019 Notes 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Profit for the year 1,590,728 1,192,933 1,583,814 1,192,879 Other Comprehensive Income Other Comprehensive Income to be reclassified to Profit or Loss in subsequent periods; Change in Fair Value of FVOCI/Available-for-Sale Investments 8 8,448 12,063 8,448 12,063 Net Other Comprehensive Income to be reclassified to Profit or Loss in subsequent periods; 8,448 12,063 8,448 12,063 Other Comprehensive Income not to be classified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Re-measurement Gain on Employee Retirement Benefit Obligation 14 14,148 23,618 13,988 23,510 Deferred Tax attributable to re-measurement Gain on Employee Retirement Benefit Obligation 21 (1,888) (3,321) (1,866) (3,291) Net Other Comprehensive Income not to be reclassified to Profit or Loss in Subsequent periods; 12,260 20,297 12,122 20,219 Other Comprehensive Income for the year, Net of Tax 20,708 32,360 20,570 32,282 Total Comprehensive Income for the year, Net of Tax 1,611,436 1,225,293 1,604,384 1,225,161 The accounting policies and notes on pages 107 through 144 form an integral part of these financial statements. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 103 Statement of Changes in Equity Group OTHER COMPONENT OF EQUITY Year ended 31 March 2019 Stated Available for FVOCI Retained Note Capital Sale Reserve Reserve Earnings Total Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Group As at 01 April 2017 200,000 252,073 9,629,011 10,081,084 Profit for the Year 1,192,933 1,192,933 Other Comprehensive Income 12,063 20,297 32,360 Total Comprehensive Income for the year 12,063 1,213,230 1,225,293 Issued during the year 13 442,500 442,500 Business Combination of Entities under Common Control 13 (189,896) (189,896) Final Dividend 2016/17 23 (300,000) (300,000) Interim Dividend 2017/18 23 (311,063) (311,063) Final Dividend 2017/18 23 (622,125) (622,125) As at 31 March 2018 642,500 264,136 9,419,157 10,325,793 Impact of Adoption of SLFR 9 As at 1st April 2018 (264,136) 264,136 Profit for the Year 1,590,728 1,590,728 Other Comprehensive Income 8,448 12,260 20,708 Total Comprehensive Income for the year 272,584 1,602,988 1,611,436 Interim Dividend 2018/19 23 (414,750) (414,750) As at 31 March 2019 642,500 272,584 10,607,395 11,522,479 104 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Statement of Changes in Equity Company OTHER COMPONENT OF EQUITY Year ended 31 March 2019 Stated Available for FVOCI Retained Note Capital Sale Reserve Reserve Earnings Total Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Company As at 01 April 2017 200,000 252,073 9,629,143 10,081,216 Profit for the Year 1,192,879 1,192,879 Other Comprehensive Income 12,063 20,219 32,282 Total Comprehensive Income for the year 12,063 1,213,098 1,225,161 Issued during the year 13 442,500 442,500 Business Combination of Entities under Common Control 13 (189,896) (189,896) Final Dividend 2016/17 23 (300,000) (300,000) Interim Dividend 2017/18 23 (311,063) (311,063) Final Dividend 2017/18 23 (622,125) (622,125) As at 31 March 2018 642,500 264,136 9,419,157 10,325,793 Impact of Adoption of SLFR 9 As at 1st April 2018 (264,136) 264,136 Profit for the Year 1,583,814 1,583,814 Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax 8,448 12,122 20,570 Total Comprehensive Income for the year 272,584 1,595,936 1,604,384 Interim Dividend 2018/19 23 (414,750) (414,750) As at 31 March 2019 642,500 272,584 10,600,343 11,515,427 The accounting policies and notes on pages 107 through 144 form an integral part of these financial statements. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 105 Statement of Cash Flows GROUP COMPANY Year ended 31 March 2019 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Cash Flows From / (Used in) Operating Activities Profit before Income Tax Expense 1,694,451 1,280,774 1,694,452 1,270,098 Adjustments for Depreciation 283,348 262,756 267,915 243,570 Amortisation of Intangible Assets 217,082 43,415 217,082 43,415 Unrealised Foreign Exchange (Gain) / Loss 28,914 (52,738) 30,120 (52,154) Interest Expenses 18 14,454 34,418 14,451 34,417 Dividend Income 17 (123) (119) (123) (119) Interest Income 19 (95,047) (164,705) (95,046) (164,704) Profit on disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment 17 (7,934) (9,848) (7,336) (9,848) Profit on disposal of Investment (145) (145) Provision for Defined Benefit Plans 14 41,041 36,000 40,151 35,189 Unclaimed Dividend Forfeited (160) (160) Write-off Trade Receivables 11,313 Impairment Loss on Trade Receivables 29,061 29,061 Impairment Loss on Amounts due from Related Party 8,098 17,210 Impairment Loss on Investment in Subsidiary 31,661 Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes 2,176,041 1,470,167 2,169,619 1,477,636 Working Capital Changes: Inventories 120,499 (249,208) 126,159 (249,428) Trade and Other Receivables (353,054) (524,599) (329,094) (512,519) Advances and Prepayments (227,387) (65,443) (217,604) (66,259) Amounts Due from Related Party (24,004) (16,522) Trade and Other Payables (100,615) (18,734) (103,381) (18,737) Provisions and Accrued Expenses 70,703 135,216 68,058 134,981 Cash Flows from Operations 1,686,187 747,399 1,689,753 749,152 Retirement Benefit Obligation Paid 14 (8,087) (8,947) (8,029) (8,947) Interest Paid (14,455) (34,418) (14,451) (34,417) Income Tax Paid (55,298) (68,526) (55,255) (68,522) Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities 1,608,347 635,508 1,612,018 637,266 106 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Statement of Cash Flows GROUP COMPANY Year ended 31 March 2019 Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Investing Activities Acquisition of Property, Plant and Equipment (180,329) (672,360) (178,735) (672,340) Acquisition of Investment Properties (124,764) (255,399) (124,764) (255,399) Acquisition of Intangible Assets (82,754) (39,458) (82,754) (39,458) Proceeds from disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment 8,209 10,793 7,603 10,793 Proceed of Investment 146 146 Dividend Received 123 119 123 119 Interest Received 95,047 164,705 95,046 164,704 Net Cash Flows used in Investing Activities (284,322) (791,600) (283,335) (791,581) Financing Activities Dividend Paid (414,750) (1,233,188) (414,750) (1,233,188) Proceeds from Interest Bearing Loans and Borrowings 1,536,176 1,536,176 Repayment of Interest Bearing Loans and Borrowings (1,536,176) (1,522,000) (1,536,176) (1,522,000) Net Cash Flows used in from Financing Activities (414,750) (2,755,188) (414,750) (2,755,188) Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents (39,181) 4,661 (39,808) 4,334 Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 870,094 (2,906,619) 874,125 (2,905,169) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,937,083 4,843,702 1,928,802 4,833,971 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year 12 2,807,177 1,937,083 2,802,927 1,928,802 The accounting policies and notes on pages 107 through 144 form an integral part of these financial statements. Non-cash activities: The following transactions have no impact in the Statement of Cash Flows; Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC has acquired value-added tea export business along with the operational assets of MJF Teas (Private) Limited (“MJFT”) for consideration of Rs. 442.5 million during the 2017/18 financial year. The Company has settled the consideration by way of Private Placement, of 737,500 ordinary voting shares of the Company at Rs. 600 per share, to MJFT. MJFT transferred property, plant and equipment of Rs. 305.5 million, intangible assets of Rs. 2.2 million and employees related to the acquired operations of MJFT with gratuity liability of Rs. 55.1 million. The Company has recorded net outcome of Rs.189.9 million under retained earnings of the Company as this transaction involve entities under common control as further disclosed in Note 13 to the Financial Statements. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 107 Notes to the Financial Statements 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. 1.1 General Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC (“the Company”) is 2.2 Basis of Preparation a public limited liability Company, incorporated and The Financial Statements have been prepared on a domiciled in Sri Lanka and listed on the Colombo Stock historical cost basis, except for the following material Exchange. The registered office of the Company and items in the Statement of Financial Position; the principal place of business is situated at No. 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda. ²² Fair Value through other comprehensive income investment are measured at fair value. 1.2 Principal Activities and Nature of Operations The principal activities of the Company are to ²² Retirement Benefit Obligation at present value of the manufacture, export and market tea bags and packets obligation. under the brand name “Dilmah”. 2.3 Functional and Presentation Currency MJF Beverages (Private) Limited is a private limited The Financial Statements are presented in Sri Lankan liability company incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka Rupees, which is also the Group’s functional currency and and is engaged in manufacture, export, and market tea in all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (Rs. 000), the form of liquid tea concentrate and ready to drink tea. except when otherwise indicated. 1.3 Parent Entity and Ultimate Parent Entity 2.4 Basis of Consolidation The Company’s parent undertaking is MJF Teas (Private) The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Limited. In the opinion of the Directors, the Company’s Financial Statements of the Group and its subsidiary as at ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is MJF the reporting date. Control is achieved when the Group Holdings Limited, which is incorporated in Sri Lanka. is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect 1.4 Date of Authorization for Issue those returns through its power over the investee. The Financial Statements of the Group as at and for the year ended 31 March 2019 were authorized for issue in Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only if accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors the Group has: on 30th May 2019. ²² Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee) 2.1 Statement of Compliance The Financial Statements of the Group comprise ²² Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its the Statement of Financial Position Statement of involvement with the investee, and Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows, together with ²² The ability to use its power over the investee to affect the Accounting Policies and Notes to the Financial its returns Statements. The country of incorporation, effective shareholding and These Financial Statements are prepared in accordance principal activities of the subsidiary incorporated in the with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards comprising Financial Statements are as follows: SLFRS and LKAS (hereafter “SLFRS”) as issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, and also 108 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements Name of the Country of Effective ²² No new goodwill is recognised as a result of the subsidiary incorporation shareholding combination. Net outcome of the net assets acquired 2019 2018 and the shares issued is reflected within equity. MJF Beverages Sri Lanka 100% 100% (Private) Limited 2.6 Changes in Significant Accounting Policies The Group applied SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15 which are The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are January 2018, for the first time. The Group has not changes to one or more of the three elements of control. adopted early any other standard, interpretation or Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective. obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, SLFRS 15 : Revenue from Contracts with Customers income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for Financial Statements from the date the Group gains determining whether, how much and when revenue is control until the date the Group ceases to control the recognized. Under SLFRS 15, revenue is recognized when subsidiary. a customer obtains control of the goods or services. Determining the timing of the transfer of control – at a Profit or loss and each component of other point in the time or over timerequires judgement. comprehensive income are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the nonThe adoption of SLFRS 15 does not have a significant controlling interest, even if this results in the noneffect on the Group’s Financial Statements. controlling interest having a deficit balance. All intragroup assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash SLFRS 9: Financial Instruments flows relating to transactions between members of the Under SLFRS 9 to determine their classification and Group are eliminated full on consolidation. measurement category, it requires all financial assets, except equity instruments and derivatives, to be assessed If the Group losses control over a subsidiary, it based on a combination of the entity’s business model derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), for managing the assets and the instruments’ contractual liabilities and other components of equity while any cash flow characteristics. resultant gain or loss is recongnised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss. The LKAS 39 measurement categories of financial assets The Financial Statements of the subsidiary is prepared [fair value through profit or loss (FVPL), available for sale for the same reporting period as the holding company. (AFS), held-to-maturity and loans and receivables (L&R) The accounting policies set out below have been applied ] have been replaced by, Debt and other instruments at consistently by the Group entities to all periods presented amortised cost. in the Financial Statements. Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI), with gains or losses 2.5 Common Control Business Combinations recycled to profit or loss on derecognition. Business combinations between entities under common control are accounted for using pooling of interest Equity instruments at FVOCI, with no recycling of gains or method. Accordingly, losses to profit or loss on derecognition. ²² The assets and liabilities of the combining entities are The adoption of SLFRS 9 has fundamentally changed the reflected at their carrying amounts. Group’s accounting for loan loss impairment by replacing DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 109 LKAS 39’s incurred loss approach with a forward-looking Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the expected credit loss (ECL) approach. estimated useful lives of the assets except land, as follows: The adoption of SLFRS 9 does not have a significant effect Buildings on Leasehold Land Over the lease period on the Group’s financial statements. Plant and Machinery Over 10 to 33 years Factory Equipment Over 5 years 2.7 Comparative Information Furniture and Fittings Over 7 years The accounting policies have been consistently applied Office and Stores Equipment Over 5 years by the Group and, are consistent with those used in the Computer Hardware Over 3 years previous year. Previous year’s figures and phrases have Motor Vehicles Over 5 years been re-arranged whenever necessary to conform to The carrying values of property, plant and equipment current presentation. are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not 2.8 Foreign Currency Translation be recoverable. If any such indication exists and where The Financial Statements are presented in Sri Lanka the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable Rupees, which is the Group’s functional and presentation amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially amount being the higher of their fair value less costs to recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the sell and their value in use. date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at An item of property, plant and equipment and any the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the significant part initially recognised is derecognised reporting date. All differences are taken to profit or loss. upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of on derecognition of the asset (calculated as the difference historical cost in a foreign currency are translated between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial amount of the asset) is included in the Statement of Profit transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value or Loss when the asset is derecognised. in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined. The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 2.9 Property, Plant and Equipment reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of prospectively, if appropriate. accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of 2.10 Investment Property the property, plant and equipment. Other subsequent Investment property is property held either to earn rental expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future income or for capital appreciation or both, but not for sale economic benefits of the related item of property, plant in the ordinary course of business, use in the production and equipment and the cost can be reliably measured. or supply of goods or services or for administrative The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost purposes. Investment property is measured at its cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly less accumulated impairment losses, if any. Cost includes attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and of the investment property. removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located. All other expenditure is recognised in profit Investment properties are derecognised when either they or loss as incurred. have been disposed of or when the investment property is 110 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic Research and Development Costs benefit is expected from its disposal. The difference Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying expenditures on an individual project are recognised as an amount of the asset is recognised in the Statement of intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: Profit or Loss in the period of derecognition. ²² The technical feasibility of completing the intangible Transfers are made to or from investment property asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale only when there is a change in use. For a transfer from investment property to owner-occupied property, the ²² Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to deemed cost for subsequent accounting is the fair value use or sell the asset at the date of change in use. If owner-occupied property becomes an investment property, the Group accounts ²² How the asset will generate future economic benefits for such property in accordance with the policy stated under property, plant and equipment up to the date of ²² The availability of resources to complete the asset change in use. ²² The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during 2.11 Intangible Assets development Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, Following initial recognition of the development intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development costs, are not capitalised and the related development is complete and the asset is available for use. expenditure is reflected in profit or loss in the period in It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. which the expenditure is incurred. The useful lives of Amortisation expense is recorded in the Statement of intangible assets are assessed as finite. Profit or Loss. During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and intangible assets is as follows: the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of Software each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful Useful lives Finite life or the expected pattern of consumption of future Amortisation method used 05 years economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered Internally generated or acquired Acquired to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting 2.12 Inventories estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net assets with finite lives is recognised in the Statement of realisable value. Costs are those expenses incurred Profit or Loss in the expense category that is consistent in bringing each product to its present location and with the function of the intangible assets. condition and are determined as follows: Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an ²² Raw Material are valued on a first in first out (FIFO) intangible asset are measured as the difference between basis the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss when the asset is derecognised. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 111 ²² Finished Goods are valued at weighted average costs, (a) The asset is held within a business model whose which includes all direct expenditure and appropriate objective is to hold assets in order to collect share of production overhead based on normal contractual cash flows and operating capacity (b) The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on ²² Packing materials are valued at weighted average costs specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount ²² Consumables and spares are valued at weighted outstanding. average costs A financial asset shall be measured at fair value unless ²² Goods-in-transits are valued at actual costs it is measured at amortised cost in accordance with above criteria. The Group measures Trade and Other Provision for inventory obsolescence is estimated on a Receivables at amortised cost and fair value through systematic basis and deducted from the gross carrying other comprehensive income at Fair value and fair value value of the inventory. changes recognized to other comprehensive income. Net realisable value is based on the estimated selling price Fair value through other comprehensive income in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred on completion and disposal. If both of the following conditions are met, 2.13 Impairment of Non-Financial Assets a) the financial asset is held within a business model The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there whose objective is achieved by both collecting is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such contractual cash flows and selling financial essential indication exists, or when annual impairment testing assets for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely unit’s fair value less costs to sell or its value in use and is payments of principal and interest on principal amount determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does outstanding not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or group of assets. Where Derecognition of financial assets the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable The Group derecognise a financial asset when and only amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the down to its recoverable amount. financial asset expire, or it transfers the financial asset as and the transfer qualifies for derecognition. 2.14 Financial Instruments A gain or loss on a financial asset that is measured at Initial recognition of Financial Assets and Financial amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship Liabilities be recognised in profit or loss when the financial asset is The Group shall recognise a financial asset or a financial derecognised, impaired or reclassified in accordance and liability in its statement of financial position when, and through the amortisation process. only when, the entity becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial Liabilities Recognition The Group measured the financial liability at fair value, Measurement of Financial Assets including the costs of the transaction which can be A financial asset be measured at amortised cost if both of directly assigned financial liability, when these are the following conditions are met: 112 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements designated at their fair value in the profit and loss For the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and account. cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and at banks and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or The Group assessed that the fair value of loans and less. borrowings, bank overdrafts, and trade and other payables. When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through The Group has the following non-derivative financial arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained liabilities loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts, and substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset nor trade and other payables. transferred control of it, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in it. Financial Liabilities Subsequent measurement All financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, Impairment except for financial liabilities at fair value through profit Financial Assets or loss. ImpairmentRecognition of expected credit losses Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses on a Trade Receivables to which the impairment The Group derecognizes a financial liability (or a part of a requirements apply. financial liability) from its statement of financial position when, and only when its contractual obligations are At each reporting date, the Group measure the loss discharged or cancelled or expire. allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on The difference between the carrying amount of a financial that financial instrument has increased significantly since liability (or part of a financial liability) extinguished or initial recognition. transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities The objective of the impairment requirements is to assumed, shall be recognised in profit or loss. recognise lifetime expected credit losses for all financial instruments for which there have been significant A gain or loss on a financial liability that is measured at increases in credit risk since initial recognition — whether amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship be assessed on an individual or collective basis — considering recognised in profit or loss when the financial liability is all reasonable and supportable information, including that derecognised and through the amortisation process. which is forward-looking. Offsetting of Financial Instruments Simplified approach for trade receivables Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net The Group always measure the loss allowance at an amount is presented in the Statement of Financial amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for Position when, and only when, the Company has a legal trade receivables or contract assets that result from right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle transactions that are within the scope of SLFRS 15, and on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability that: simultaneously. (i) do not contain a significant financing component (or Cash and Cash Equivalents when the entity applies the practical expedient for Cash and Cash Equivalents in the Statement of Financial contracts that are one year or less) in accordance with Position comprise cash on hand and at banks and shortSLFRS 15; or term deposits which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 113 (ii) contain a significant financing component in the payment is received. Revenue is measured at the fair accordance with SLFRS 15, if the entity chooses as its value of the consideration received or receivable, net of accounting policy to measure the loss allowance at an trade discounts and sales taxes. amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. That accounting policy shall be applied to all such trade Revenue is recognized when the Company satisfies receivables or contract assets but may be applied a performance obligation by transferring a promised separately to trade receivables and contract assets. good or services to a customer. For each performance obligation identified, the company determines at 2.15 Retirement Benefit Obligations contract inception whether it satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. If the company Defined Benefit Plans Retirement Gratuity does not satisfy a performance obligation over time, the The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time. An Position is the present value of the defined benefit asset is transferred when the customer obtains control obligation at the reporting date using the projected of that asset and when evaluating whether a customer unit credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses obtains control of an asset, the company considers any arising are recognized immediately in the Statement agreement to repurchase the asset. of Comprehensive Income. The Group is liable to pay gratuity in terms of the relevant statute. The gratuity Control transition point to recognize the revenue on liability is not externally funded. export sales is determined based on the international commercial terms applicable for the respective Defined Contribution Plans – Employees’ Provident transactions. Fund and Employees’ Trust Fund (“EPF and ETF”) Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund Gains and Losses Contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund Contributions Net gains and losses of a revenue nature arising from the in line with the respective statutes and regulations. The disposal of other non-current assets, are accounted in the Group contributes 12% and 3% of gross emoluments of Statement of Profit or Loss, after deducting the carrying employees to Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ amount from proceeds on disposal of such assets and the Trust Fund respectively, which are externally funded. related selling expenses. 2.16 Provisions Gains and losses arising from activities incidental to the main revenue generating activities and those arising from Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present a group of similar transactions, which are not material are legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, aggregated, reported and presented on a net basis. it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of Interest Income the obligation. If the effect of the time value of money is Interest Income is recognized as the interest accrues material, provisions are discounted using a current preunless collectability is in doubt. tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in Dividend Income the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right to finance cost. receive the payments is established. 2.17 Revenue Others Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable Other income is recognized on an accrual basis. that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when 114 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.18 Expenditure Recognition Taxable Income of the company predominately (80%) Expenses are recognised in the Statement of Profit or engaged in the business of exports. Gains from realization Loss on the basis of a direct association between the cost of investment assets shall be taxed at the rate of 10%. incurred and the earning of specific items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in Subsidiary maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state MJF Beverages (Private) Limited has entered into an of efficiency has been charged to the Statement of Profit agreement registered under the terms of section 17 or Loss. (2) of the Board of Investment Law No. 4 of 1978 with the Board of Investment Sri Lanka, under which the For the purpose of presentation of the Statement of Profit subsidiary’s profit and income are exempted from Income or Loss, the Directors are of the opinion that “function Tax for a period of 8 years from the year in which the of expenses” method presents fairly the elements of subsidiary commences to make profits or any year of the Group’s performance, and hence such presentation assessment not later than 2 years reckoned from the method is adopted. date of commencement of commercial operations or production whichever is earlier. Accordingly, the said Finance Costs exemption period commences from the Y/A 2010/2011. Finance costs comprise interest expense on bank Deferred Taxation overdrafts. Interest expense is recorded as it accrues using the effective interest method. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial Operating Leases reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized Operating lease payments are charged to the Statement for all temporary differences, except: of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. ²² Where the deferred tax liability arises from an asset or liability in a transaction that affects neither the Others accounting profit nor the taxable profit. Other expenses are recognized on an accrual basis. Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible 2.19 Taxation differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable Current Income Tax that taxable profits will be available against which the Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured deductible temporary differences and the carry forward at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used utilized, except: to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. ²² Where the deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary differences arises from the initial Management periodically evaluates positions taken recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that in the tax returns with respect to situations in which affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation profit. and establishes provisions where appropriate. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is According to the First Schedule of the Inland Revenue Act no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be No.24 of 2017, with effect from the Year of Assessment available to allow the deferred tax assets to be utilized. 2018/19 concessionary rate of 14% is applicable for the DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 115 Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each ²² It is held primarily for the purpose of trading reporting date and are recognized to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the ²² It is due to be settled within twelve months after the deferred tax assets to be recovered. reporting period, or Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the ²² There is no right to defer the settlement of the liability tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the for at least twelve months after the reporting period. assets are realized or the liabilities are settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. substantially enacted at the reporting date. 2.21 Segment Reporting Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the A business segment is distinguishable component of Statement of Profit or Loss is recognised outside the an enterprise that is engaged in providing an individual Statement of Profit or Loss. Deferred tax items are product or service or a group of related products or recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction services that is subject to risk and returns that are either in the Statement of Profit or Loss or Statement of different from those of other business segments. The Comprehensive Income. accounting policies adopted for segment reporting are the same accounting policies adopted for preparing and Turnover Based Taxes presenting Consolidated Financial Statements of the Turnover based taxes include Value Added Tax, Nation Group. Building Tax and Economic Service Charge. The Company and its subsidiary pay such taxes in accordance with the An operating segment is a component of the Group respective statutes. that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues 2.20 Current versus Non-Current Classification and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments’ The Group presents assets and liabilities in the Statement operating results are reviewed regularly by the Senior of Financial Position based on current/non-current Management to make decisions about resources to be classification. An asset is classified as current when it is: allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. ²² Expected to be realised or intended to sold or consumed in normal operating cycle Segment results that are reported to the Chairmen include items directly attributable to a segment as well as ²² Held primarily for the purpose of trading those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. ²² Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period, or 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS ²² Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being The preparation of the Financial Statements requires exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least management to make judgements, estimates and twelve months after the reporting period. assumptions that affect the reported amounts of income, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of All other assets are classified as non-current. contingent liabilities, at the reporting date. However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could A liability is current when: result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in ²² It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle future periods. 116 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed Employee Defined Benefit Plan – Gratuity regularly. Revisions to accounting estimates are The employee benefit liability of the Group is based recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, on the actuarial valuation carried out by Independent if the revision affects only that period or in the period actuarial specialists. The actuarial valuations involve of the revision and future periods, if the revision affects making assumptions about discount rates and future both current and future. salary increases. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long term nature, the Impairment of Fair Value of Other Comprehensive Income defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in Investments these assumptions. Management reviews all assumptions The Group treats equity securities designated at fair at each reporting date and revised assumptions where value through other comprehensive income/ available appropriate. for sale as impaired when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below its cost or where Deferred Taxes other objective evidence of impairment exists. The Deferred tax asset of Rs. 5.8 million (2018 Rs. 12.5 determination of what is “significant” or “prolonged” million) as at 31 March 2019 has not been recognized on requires considerable judgment. The Group treats the carried forward tax losses of the Subsidiary of the “significant” generally as 20% or more and ‘prolonged’ Group as it is unable to assess with reasonable certainty greater than six (6) months. In addition, the Group that taxable profits would be available to recover the evaluates other factors, including normal volatility in deferred tax asset in the foreseeable future. If the Group share price for quoted equities and the future cash flows recognize deferred tax asset, profit and equity would have and the discount factors for unquoted equities. increased by Rs. 5.8 million (2018 Rs. 12.5 million) for the year ended 31 March 2019. Impairment of Trade Receivables From 01 April 2018, the Group assess on a forwardGoing Concern looking basis the expected credit loss associated with its The Group’s management has made an assessment of debt instruments carried at amortized cost and FVOCI. the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and is The impairment methodology applied depends on satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue whether there has been a significant increase in credit in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the risk for trade receivables the Group applies the simplified management is not aware of any material uncertainties approach permitted by SLFRS 9 which requires expected that may cast significant doubt upon the Group’s ability lifetime losses to be recognize from initial recognition of to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the Financial the receivables. Statements continue to be prepared on a going concern basis. At the reporting date, gross trade receivables of the Group were Rs. 3,926 million (2018 Rs. 3,606 million) with allowance for impairment of trade receivables amounting to Rs. 30 million (2018 – 29 million) and gross trade receivables of the Company were Rs. 3,903 million (2018 Rs. 3,589 million) with allowance for impairment of trade receivables amounting to Rs. 30 million (2018 29 million). DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 117 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 4.1 Group Balance Balance As at Additions/ Disposals/ As at 01.04.2018 Transfers Transfers 31.03.2019 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Gross Carrying Amounts At Cost Land 702,444 702,444 Buildings on Leasehold Land 67,474 67,474 Plant and Machinery 3,233,251 16,157 3,249,408 Factory Equipment 7,139 265 (545) 6,859 Furniture and Fittings 14,275 640 (921) 13,994 Office and Store Equipment 97,704 19,916 (800) 116,820 Computer Hardware 81,829 11,110 (3,215) 89,724 Motor Vehicle 220,572 37,276 (15,133) 242,715 Total Value of Depreciable Assets 4,424,688 85,364 (20,614) 4,489,438 In the Course of Construction Capital Work In Progress 497,656 94,965 592,621 497,656 94,965 592,621 Total Gross Carrying Amount 4,922,344 180,329 (20,614) 5,082,059 Balance Charge for Disposals Balance As at the year As at 01.04.2018 31.03.2019 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Accumulated Depreciation At Cost Buildings on Leasehold Land 16,859 1,824 18,683 Plant and Machinery 1,503,502 239,785 1,743,287 Factory Equipment 6,796 286 (545) 6,537 Furniture and Fittings 8,597 1,215 (648) 9,164 Office and Store Equipment 43,508 12,684 (800) 55,392 Computer Hardware 72,249 5,974 (3,212) 75,011 Motor Vehicle 172,955 21,580 (15,133) 179,402 Total Depreciation 1,824,466 283,348 (20,338) 2,087,476 118 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Net Carrying Amounts Land 702,444 702,444 Buildings on Leasehold Land 48,791 50,615 Plant and Machinery 1,506,121 1,729,749 Factory Equipment 322 343 Furniture and Fittings 4,830 5,678 Office and Store Equipment 61,428 54,196 Computer Hardware 14,713 9,580 Motor Vehicle 63,313 47,617 2,401,962 2,600,222 Capital Work In Progress 592,621 497,656 592,621 497,656 Total Net Carrying Amount 2,994,583 3,097,878 4.1.1 During the financial year, the Group acquired Property, Plant and Equipment to the aggregate value of Rs. 85,364,244/(2018 Rs.832,721,538/-). Cash payments amounting to Rs. 85,364,244/(2018 Rs. 672,360,005/-) were made during the year for purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment. 4.1.2 Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC has acquired value-added tea export business along with the operational assets of MJF Teas (Private) Limited (“MJFT”) for consideration of Rs. 442.5 million during the 2017/18 financial year. The Company has settled the consideration by way of Private Placement, of 737,500 ordinary voting shares of the Company at Rs. 600 per share, to MJFT. MJFT transferred property, plant and equipment of Rs. 305.5 million, intangible assets of Rs. 2.2 million and employees related to the acquired operations of MJFT with gratuity liability of Rs. 55.1 million. The Company has recorded net outcome of Rs.189.9 million under retained earnings of the Company as this transaction involve entities under common control as further disclosed in Note 13 to the Financial Statements. 4.1.3 Property, Plant and Equipment includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount of Rs. 592,990,149/(2018 Rs. 425,608,311/-) and continue to be in used by the Group. 4.1.4 The Subsidiary of the Group has entered in to a long-term operating lease agreement with Kahawatte Plantations PLC from 01 January 2006 to 14 June 2045 for the use of land situated at Rilhena Estate. Buildings on leasehold land as reflected above represent buildings constructed by the Subsidiary of the Group on the said leased land. 4.1.5 Details of Group’s land and buildings stated at valuation are indicated below; Land Location Extent 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda 279 P Buildings Location Number of Buildings 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda 01 (WIP) Rilhena Estate, Pelmadulla 01 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 119 4.2 Company Balance Balance As at Additions/ Disposals/ As at 01.04.2018 Transfers Transfers 31.03.2019 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Gross Carrying Amounts At Cost Land 702,444 702,444 Plant and Machinery 3,063,595 15,137 3,078,732 Furniture and Fittings 13,838 612 (902) 13,548 Office and Stores Equipment 97,166 19,650 (800) 116,016 Computer Hardware 81,397 11,095 (3,215) 89,277 Motor Vehicles 220,576 37,276 (15,133) 242,719 Total Value of Depreciable Assets 4,179,016 83,770 (20,050) 4,242,736 In the Course of Construction Capital Work In Progress 497,656 94,965 592,621 497,656 94,965 592,621 Total Gross Carrying Amount 4,676,672 178,735 (20,050) 4,835,357 Balance Charge for Disposals Balance As at the year As at 01.04.2018 31.03.2019 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Accumulated Depreciation At Cost Plant and Machinery 1,347,786 226,500 1,574,286 Furniture and Fittings 8,182 1,211 (637) 8,756 Office and Stores Equipment 42,970 12,680 (800) 54,850 Computer Hardware 71,842 5,944 (3,212) 74,574 Motor Vehicles 172,959 21,580 (15,133) 179,406 Total Depreciation 1,643,739 267,915 (19,782) 1,891,872 120 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Net Carrying Amounts Land 702,444 702,444 Plant and Machinery 1,504,446 1,715,809 Furniture and Fittings 4,792 5,656 Office and Stores Equipment 61,166 54,196 Computer Hardware 14,703 9,555 Motor Vehicles 63,313 47,617 2,350,864 2,535,277 Capital Work In Progress 592,621 497,656 592,621 497,656 Total Net Carrying Amount 2,943,485 3,032,933 4.2.1 During the financial year, the Company acquired Property, Plant and Equipment to the aggregate value of Rs. 83,769,647/(2018 Rs. 832,701,639/-). Cash payments amounting to Rs. 83,769,647/(2018 Rs. 672,340,005/-) were made during the year for purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment. 4.2.2 Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC acquired value-added tea export business previous with the operational assets of MJF Teas (Private) Limited (“MJFT”) for consideration of Rs. 442.5 million during the 2017/18 financial year. The Company settled the consideration by way of Private Placement, of 737,500 ordinary voting shares of the Company at Rs. 600 per share, to MJFT. MJFT transferred property, plant and equipment of Rs. 305.5 million, intangible assets of Rs. 2.2 million and employees related to the acquired operations of MJFT with gratuity liability of Rs. 55.1 million. The Company recorded net outcome of Rs.189.9 million under retained earnings of the Company as this transaction involved entities under common control as further disclosed in Note 13 to the Financial Statements. 4.2.3 Property, Plant and Equipment includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount of Rs. 423,932,368/(2018 Rs. 418,211,036/-) and continue to be in used by the Company. 4.2.4 Details of Company’s land and buildings stated at valuation are indicated below; Land Location Extent 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda 279 P. Buildings Location No. of Buildings 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda 01 (WIP) DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 121 5. INVESTMENT PROPERTY GROUP/COMPANY 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Land As at 1 April 234,064 234,064 As at 31 March 234,064 234,064 In the Course of Construction Building As at 1 April 282,010 Additions 124,764 282,010 As at 31 March 406,774 282,010 640,838 516,074 5.1 Investment Property of the Group/Company relates to land acquired by the Company in February 2012. The land with an extent of 2 Acres, 3 Roods and 23 Perches is situated at No 480, Handala, Wattala. 5.2 Level 3 fair value of the Investment Property as at 31 March 2019 is estimated to be Rs. 463,000,000/(2018 Rs. 463,000,000/-), and have been derived by considering the prevailing prices of similar lands in the same locality. Accordingly, price per perch of Rs. 1,000,000/(2018 Rs. 1,000,000/-) has been taken to arrive at the said fair value. 6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS GROUP/COMPANY 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Computer Software At Cost As at 1 April 462,583 460,382 Transferred/Acquired during the year 579 2,201 As at 31 March 463,162 462,583 In the Course of Construction As at 1 April 138,706 99,248 Acquired during the year 82,176 39,458 As at 31 March 220,882 138,706 684,044 601,289 Amortisation As at 1 April 158,361 114,946 Amortisation for the year 217,082 43,415 As at 31 March 375,443 158,361 Net Book Value 308,601 442,928 122 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.1 During the financial year, the Group/Company acquired Intangible Assets to the aggregate value of Rs.82,754,668/(2018Rs. 41,658,885/-). Cash payments amounting to Rs. 82,175,169 /(2018Rs. 39,457,826/-) were made by the Group/Company during the year for purchase of Intangible Assets. 6.2 Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC acquired value-added tea export business previous with the operational assets of MJF Teas (Private) Limited (“MJFT”) for consideration of Rs. 442.5 million during the 2017/18 financial year. The Company settled the consideration by way of Private Placement, of 737,500 ordinary voting shares of the Company at Rs. 600 per share, to MJFT. MJFT transferred property, plant and equipment of Rs. 305.5 million, intangible assets of Rs. 2.2 million and employees related to the acquired operations of MJFT with gratuity liability of Rs. 55.1 million. The Company recorded net outcome of Rs.189.9 million under retained earnings of the Company as this transaction involved entities under common control as further disclosed in Note 13 to the Financial Statements. 7. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY HOLDING % COMPANY % % Value Value 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Non-quoted MJF Beverages (Private) Limited 100% 100% 300,750 300,750 Provision for Impairment of Investment in Subsidiary (300,750) (300,750) 7.1 An impairment assessment on investment in MJF Beverages (Private) Limited were carried out by the Board of Directors as the carrying value of the investment exceeds the net assets attributable of the Subsidiary as at 31 March 2019. Based on that assessment, the investment has been fully provided for as at 31 March 2019. 8. OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS QUOTED INVESTMENTS UNQUOTED INVESTMENTS TOTAL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Group/Company Equity Securities designated as fair value through other comprehensive income/available for sale At the beginning of the year 486,469 474,406 17,377 17,377 503,846 491,783 Gain/(Loss) on Change in Fair Value 8,448 12,063 8,448 12,063 At the end of the year 494,917 486,469 17,377 17,377 512,294 503,846 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 123 8.1 Quoted Investments NO. OF SHARES 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Kahawatte Plantation PLC 12,571,800 12,571,800 490,300 481,500 Renuka City Hotels PLC 17,500 17,500 4,375 4,686 Watawala Plantation PLC 6,000 173 John Keells Holdings PLC 1,476 1,553 230 92 Maskeliya Plantation PLC 800 800 9 15 Hapugastenna Plantation PLC 100 100 2 3 494,916 486,469 The Group/Company mainly holds a non-controlling interests of 15.74% (2018 15.74%) in Kahawatte Plantations PLC. The fair value of quoted equity shares is determined by reference to published prices in the Colombo Stock Exchange. 8.2 Unquoted Investments NO. OF SHARES 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rainforest Ecolodge (Private) Limited 2,500,000 2,500,000 17,377 17,377 The Group/Company holds a non-controlling interest of 5.25% (2018 5.25%) in Rainforest Ecolodge (Private) Limited – a Resort Company incorporated in Sri Lanka. The fair value of unquoted investment in Rainforest Ecolodge (Private) Limited has been estimated considering the fair value of net assets held by Rainforest Ecolodge (Private) Limited as at 31 March 2019 and potential returns expected through its future operation. 9. INVENTORIES GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Raw Materials 381,999 444,711 380,131 444,593 Packing Materials 359,791 270,339 354,410 266,897 Finished Goods 116,048 232,179 113,797 231,900 Goods in Transit 58,135 58,135 Consumables and Spares 216,289 189,261 216,289 189,261 1,074,127 1,194,625 1,064,627 1,190,786 124 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Trade Recivables Related Party (Note 10.1) 1,488,555 1,727,516 1,478,033 1,711,093 Others 2,407,555 1,849,337 2,395,581 1,849,121 3,896,110 3,576,853 3,873,614 3,560,214 Other Recivables Related Party (Note 10.2) 27,551 36,645 27,551 36,645 Other 167,843 123,290 145,333 119,764 195,394 159,935 172,884 156,409 4,091,504 3,736,788 4,046,498 3,716,623 10.1 Trade Receivables Related Party Relationship Dilmah Australia (Pty) Limited Fellow Subsidiary 1,488,555 1,727,304 1,478,033 1,711,093 MJF Exports (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary 212 1,488,555 1,727,516 1,478,033 1,711,093 10.2 Other Receivables Related Party Relationship MJF Exports Limited Fellow Subsidiary 27,551 22,128 27,551 22,128 Resplendent Ceylon (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary 14,517 14,517 27,551 36,645 27,551 36,645 As at reporting date, trade receivables of the Group/Company at nominal value of Rs. 29,663,814/(2018 Rs. 29,061,110/-) were impaired. As at reporting date, the ageing of unimpaired trade receivables is as follows: Neither past due Past due but Total nor Impaired not Impaired Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Group 2019 3,896,110 3,354,432 541,678 2018 3,576,853 2,523,369 1,053,484 Company 2019 3,873,614 3,331,937 541,677 2018 3,560,214 2,510,349 1,049,865 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 125 11. AMOUNTS DUE FROM RELATED PARTY 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Company MJF Beverages (Private) Limited 161,018 137,014 Provision for Impairment of Amounts due from Related Party (63,650) (55,552) 97,368 81,462 12. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents included in the Statement of Cash Flows include the following Statement of Financial Position amounts: GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Favorable Cash and Cash Equivalents Balances Cash on Hand 545 899 410 839 Bank Balances 819,132 666,634 815,017 658,413 Short-term Deposits 1,987,500 1,269,550 1,987,500 1,269,550 2,807,177 1,937,083 2,802,927 1,928,802 13. STATED CAPITAL GROUP/COMPANY 2019 2018 Number Rs. ‘000 Number Rs. ‘000 Fully Paid Ordinary Shares 20,737,500 642,500 20,000,000 200,000 Issued during the year (Note 13.1) 737,500 442,500 20,737,500 642,500 20,737,500 642,500 13.1 Business Combination of Entities under Common Control Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC acquired value-added tea export business along with the operational assets of MJF Teas (Private) Limited (“MJFT”) for consideration of Rs. 442.5 million during the financial year 2017/18. The Company settled the consideration by way of Private Placement, of 737,500 ordinary voting shares of the Company at Rs. 600 per share, to MJFT. MJFT transferred property, plant and equipment of Rs. 305.5 million, intangible assets of Rs. 2.2 million and employees related to the acquired operations of MJFT with gratuity liability of Rs. 55.1 million. The Company recorded net outcome of Rs.189.9 million under retained earnings of the Company as this transaction involved entities under common control as both company and MJFT ultimately owned by MJF Holdings Limited. 126 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 2018 Rs. ‘000 Total Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 305,539 Intangible Assets 2,201 307,740 Total Liabilities Retirement Benefit Obligation 55,136 55,136 Total Net Assets Transferred 252,604 Shares issued during the year 442,500 Total Net Assets Transferred (252,604) Net outcome of Business Combination of Entities under Common Control 189,896 14. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 As at 1 April 223,238 164,667 218,942 161,074 Transferred from Related Party (Note 13.1) 55,136 55,136 Interest Cost 22,238 16,467 21,810 16,107 Current Service Cost 18,802 19,533 18,341 19,082 Actuarial Gain (14,148) (23,618) (13,988) (23,510) Benefits Paid (8,087) (8,947) (8,029) (8,947) As at 31 March 242,043 223,238 237,076 218,942 The employee retirement benefit liability of the Group/Company is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by Smiles Global (Private) Limited (2018 Smiles Global (Private) Limited), Independent actuarial specialists as at 31 March 2019. The principal assumptions used are as follows: GROUP/COMPANY 2019 2018 Discount Rate 11% 10% Future Salary Increment rate 10% 10% Sensitivity of Principal Assumptions used A one percentage change in the assumptions would have the following effects: GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 1% increase (8,724) (6,814) (8,514) (6,649) 1% decrease 8,213 5,550 8,019 5,369 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 127 GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Salary Increment Rate 1% increase 7,108 6,260 6,931 6,071 1% decrease (7,685) (7,597) (7,490) (7,421) 15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Trade Payables Related Party (Note 15.1) 60,822 43,317 60,822 43,317 Other 209,787 198,707 209,617 198,449 270,609 242,024 270,439 241,766 Other Payable 68,319 198,302 65,154 198,294 338,928 440,326 335,593 440,060 15.1 Trade Payables Related Party Relationship Printcare Universal (Private) Affiliate Company Limited 14,101 12,088 14,101 12,088 Packages Lanka (Private) Limited Affiliate Company 6,556 8,580 6,556 8,580 Timber Concepts (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary 7,508 8,048 7,508 8,048 Forbes and Walker Tea Brokers Fellow Subsidiary (Private) Limited 13,673 7,308 13,673 7,308 Print Care PLC Affiliate Company 10,110 6,058 10,110 6,058 PCL Solutions (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary 5,529 1,235 5,529 1,235 Dilmah Australia (Pty) Limited Fellow Subsidiary 3,345 3,345 60,822 43,317 60,822 43,317 GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 16. REVENUE Export Sales 10,711,448 9,198,276 10,676,761 9,177,758 Local Sales 1,916 6,340 10,713,364 9,204,616 10,676,761 9,177,758 17. OTHER INCOME Profit on Disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment 7,934 9,848 7,336 9,848 Income on Hire of Vehicles 3,464 6,436 3,464 6,436 Dividend from Equity Securities 123 119 123 119 Other Income 19,971 5,226 8,506 5,123 31,492 21,629 19,429 21,526 128 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 18. FINANCE COSTS Interest Expense on Short Term Loans 14,081 34,133 14,081 34,133 Interest Expense on Early Settlements 373 285 370 284 14,454 34,418 14,451 34,417 19. FINANCE INCOME Interest on Deposits and Saving Accounts 94,547 164,210 94,546 164,209 Other Interest 500 495 500 495 95,047 164,705 95,046 164,704 20. PROFIT BEFORE TAX Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following: GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Included in Cost of Sales: Consumption of Tea and Packing Material 4,976,284 4,684,060 4,966,268 4,675,991 Employee Benefits including the following; 514,241 429,793 495,229 412,511 Defined Benefit Plan Costs Gratuity 13,614 14,480 12,723 13,669 Defined Contribution Plan Costs EPF and ETF 37,892 30,779 35,991 29,063 Depreciation 250,379 226,939 236,808 207,818 Included in Administrative Expenses: Employee Benefits including the following; 584,931 461,781 584,931 461,781 Defined Benefit Plan Costs Gratuity 27,427 21,520 27,427 21,520 Defined Contribution Plan Costs EPF and ETF 37,021 29,433 37,021 29,433 Directors’ Fee and Emoluments 110,860 100,965 110,860 100,965 Donations 172,875 101,168 172,872 101,168 Amortisation of Intangible Assets 217,082 43,415 217,082 43,415 Depreciation 31,145 35,817 31,106 35,752 Impairment Loss on Trade Receivables 29,061 29,061 Write-off Trade Receivables 11,313 Auditors Remuneration 1,052 973 966 894 Impairment Loss on Amounts due from Related Party 8,098 17,210 Impairment Loss on Investment in Subsidiary 31,661 Included in Selling and Distribution Costs: Export Promotion 1,897,389 1,349,527 1,897,389 1,349,527 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 129 21. INCOME TAX EXPENSE The major components of income tax expense for the year ended 31 March are as follows : GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Statement of Profit or Loss Current Income Tax Current Income Tax Expense 162,343 29,976 162,343 29,976 Over Provision of Current Income Tax in respect of prior years (2,279) (2,279) Deferred Income Tax Deferred Taxation Charge (Reversal) (58,620) 60,144 (51,705) 49,522 Income Tax Expense recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss 103,723 87,841 110,638 77,219 Statement of Comprehensive Income Deferred Tax attributable to re-measurement Gain on Employee Defined Benefit Liabilities 1,888 3,321 1,866 3,291 Deferred Tax Charge recongnised in Statement of Comprehensive Income 1,888 3,321 1,866 3,291 21.1 Reconciliation between Current Tax Expense and Accounting Profit The reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable corporate tax rate for the financial year ended 31 March are as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Profit before Tax 1,686,353 1,280,774 1,694,451 1,270,102 Disallowable Expenses 808,690 541,389 791,952 536,669 Allowable Expenses (439,117) (1,946,046) (433,782) (1,924,843) Allowable Income (159) 11,559 (159) 11,559 Tax Losses of Subsidiary 5,808 Taxable (Loss)/Profit 2,055,767 (106,516) 2,052,462 (106,513) Other Sources of Income Business profit 2,055,767 2,052,462 Interest Income 95,047 164,705 95,046 164,705 Tax Losses Brought Forward and Utilised (991,218) (57,647) (987,912) (57,647) Taxable Other Income 1,159,596 107,058 1,159,596 107,058 Income Tax at 28% on Taxable Other Income 29,976 29,976 Income Tax at 14% on Taxable income 162,343 162,343 Current Income Tax Expense 162,343 29,976 162,343 29,976 130 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 21.2 Income Tax (Receivable)/Payable At the beginning of the year (41,323) (524) (41,308) (482) Income tax on current year profit 162,343 29,976 162,343 29,976 Income tax paid/setoff (63,120) 11,871 (63,076) (70,802) At the end of the year 57,900 41,323 57,959 (41,308) Income tax Receivable 41,323 41,308 Income tax Payable 57,900 57,959 57,900 41,323 57,959 41,308 21.3 Tax Losses At the beginning of the year 1,026,715 977,846 987,912 939,046 Loss incurred during the year 106,516 106,512 Loss set-off for the current year (991,218) (57,647) (987,912) (57,646) At the end of the year 35,497 1,026,715 987,912 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR STATEMENT OF POSITION LOSS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Group Deferred Tax Liability Accelerated Depreciation for Tax Purposes 195,844 264,157 (68,313) 92,918 Deferred Tax Assets Defined Benefit Plans (33,979) (31,855) (4,012) (19,069) 1,888 3,322 Tax Losses (13,705) 13,705 (13,705) Deferred Income Tax Charge (58,620) 60,144 1,888 3,322 Net Deferred Tax Liability 161,865 218,597 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 131 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR STATEMENT OF POSITION LOSS COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Company Deferred Tax Liability Accelerated Depreciation for Tax Purposes 191,389 252,302 (60,913) 81,063 Deferred Tax Assets Defined Benefit Plans (33,283) (30,652) (4,497) (17,836) 1,866 3,291 Tax Losses (13,705) 13,705 (13,705) Deferred Income Tax Charge (51,705) 49,522 1,866 3,291 Net Deferred Tax Liability 158,106 207,945 22. EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit after taxation over the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Given below is the computation of earning per share: GROUP 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Amount Used as the Numerator: Profit for the year 1,590,728 1,192,933 Number’000 Number’000 Number of Ordinary Shares Used as the Denominator: Weighted Average Number of Ordinary Shares * 20,738 20,307 132 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 23. DIVIDEND PER SHARE COMPANY 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Dividend paid on Ordinary Shares during the year Interim Dividend for 2019 Rs. 20.00 (2018 Rs. 15.00) per share 414,750 311,063 Final Dividend for 2017 Rs. 15.00 per share 300,000 Final Dividend for 2018 Rs. 30.00 per share 622,125 414,750 1,233,188 Dividend per Share (Rs.)* 20.00 60.00 *Dividend per share is calculated by considering the dividend paid for the year divided by the number of shares in issue which ranked for those divided. Proposed for approval at AGM (not recongnised as liability as at the statement of financial position date) 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Equity Dividend on Ordinary Shares: Dividend 2018/19 Rs. 15.00 per share 311,063 24. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The Group does not have separately distinguishable components within the enterprise that is engaged in providing individual products or services or a group of related products or services that is subject to risk and returns that are different from those of other business segments. For management purposes, the Group monitors the sales and the costs associated with the different product types offered in evaluating the profitability of the same as follows; 24.1 Business Segment Group TEA BAGS TEA PACKETS OTHER* TOTAL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Revenue 8,935,734 8,030,075 1,611,194 898,419 166,436 276,122 10,713,364 9,204,616 Cost of Sales (4,989,567) (4,813,345) (897,913) (538,588) (131,179) (217,289) (6,018,659) (5,569,222) Segment Gross Profit 3,946,167 3,216,730 713,281 359,831 35,257 58,833 4,694,705 3,635,394 24.2 Business Segment Company TEA BAGS TEA PACKETS OTHER* TOTAL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Revenue 8,935,734 8,030,075 1,611,194 898,419 129,833 249,264 10,676,761 9,177,758 Cost of Sales (4,989,567) (4,813,346) (897,913) (538,588) (75,505) (164,845) (5,962,985) (5,516,779) Segment Gross Profit 3,946,167 3,216,729 713,281 359,831 54,328 84,419 4,713,776 3,660,979 *Other Sales include Bulk Tea and Other Value Added Teas. Management considers that there is no suitable basis for allocating assets, related liabilities and operating expenses to business segments. Accordingly, segment assets, segment liabilities, segment operating expenses and other segment information by business segment is not disclosed. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 133 134 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 25. CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS As at reporting date, the Group and Company has following commitments and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise. GROUP/COMPANY 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Capital Expenditure Commitments Estimated capital expenditure contracted but not provided for; Factory Buildings and Warehouses 47,000 205,000 Tea Bagging Machines 380,616 427,616 205,000 GROUP/COMPANY 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Contingencies Guarantees 10,235 10,494 GROUP 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Operating Lease Commitments Buildings under operating lease agreements: Within one year 1,531 1,531 After one year but not more than five years 6,124 6,124 More than five years 32,536 34,065 40,191 41,720 26. ASSETS PLEDGED There are no material assets pledged as at the reporting date. 27. EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING DATE After satisfying the solvency test in accordance with Section 57 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Directors recommended the payment of a final dividend of Rs. 15/per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2019. However, in accordance with Section 32 – Events After the end of the Reporting Period of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for Small and Medium sized Entities, the proposed final dividend has not been recognized as a liability as at 31 March 2019. This would result in a total outflow of Rs. 311,062,500/subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. There have been no material events occurring after the reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. 28. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES Related parties represent the shareholders and key management personnel of the Company and entities controlled or jointly controlled by such parties. Pricing policies and terms of transactions with these related parties are approved by the Company’s management. 28.1 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with related parties are as follows: Group TRANSACTION VALUE 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Recurrent Transactions exceeds 10% of Revenue Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction Terms Dilmah Australia (Pty) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Export Sales Note (a) 2,621,135 2,851,519 Note (a) Export sales to Dilmah Australia (Pty) Limited are made on commercial terms. Recurrent Transactions not exceeds 10% of Revenue Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction MJF Teas (Private) Limited Parent Company Transfer of Tea and Packing 340,459 Materials Vehicles Hire Income 878 MJF Exports (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Local Sales 1,916 6,340 Transfer of Tea and Packing 458,283 845,664 Materials Vehicles Hire Income 1,543 844 Print Care Universal (Private) Limited Affiliate Company Purchase of Packing Materials (292,160) (324,859) Printcare PLC Affiliate Company Purchase of Packing Materials (170,778) (166,077) Timber Concepts (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of Packing Materials (87,966) (87,179) Vehicles Hire Income 34 74 PCL Solutions (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of Packing Materials (41,651) (36,465) Vehicles Hire Income 258 383 Packages Lanka (Private) Limited Affiliate Company Purchase of Packing Materials (342,326) (292,954) DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Dilmah Properties (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Rent Expenses (74,140) (55,077) Kahawatte Plantations PLC Fellow Subsidiary Rent Expenses (1,531) (1,531) Forbes and Walker Tea Brokers (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 960 960 The Ceylon Spice Company Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 7 MJF Tea Gardens (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 307 307 Wild Coast Lodge (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 272 MJF Charitable Foundation Affiliate Oraganisation Vehicles Hire Income 65 Affiliate Oraganisation Donations (170,000) (100,000) ▪ 135 TRANSACTION VALUE 136 ▪ 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Non-Recurrent Transactions not exceeds 10% of Equity or 5% of Total Assets Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction MJF Teas (Private) Limited Parent Company Transfer of Fixed Assets 305,539 Transfer of Intangible Assets 2,201 Transfer of Gratuity (55,136) Issue of Shares (442,500) (189,896) Company TRANSACTION VALUE 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Recurrent Transactions exceeds 10% of Revenue Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction Terms Dilmah Australia (Pty) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Export Sales Note (a) 2,621,135 2,832,458 Note (a) Export sales to Dilmah Australia (Pty) Limited are made on commercial terms. Notes to the Financial Statements Recurrent Transactions not exceeds 10% of Revenue Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction MJF Teas (Private) Limited Parent Company Transfer of Tea and Packing 340,459 Materials Vehicles Hire Income 878 MJF Exports (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Transfer of Tea and Packing 458,283 845,664 Materials Vehicles Hire Income 1,543 844 Print Care Universal (Private) Limited Affiliate Company Purchase of Packing Materials (292,160) (324,859) Printcare PLC Affiliate Company Purchase of Packing Materials (170,778) (166,077) Timber Concepts (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of Packing Materials (87,966) (87,179) Vehicles Hire Income 34 74 PCL Solutions (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of Packing Materials (41,651) (36,465) Vehicles Hire Income 258 383 Packages Lanka (Private) Limited Affiliate Company Purchase of Packing Materials (342,326) (292,954) DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Dilmah Properties (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Rent Expenses (74,140) (55,077) Forbes and Walker Tea Brokers (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 960 960 The Ceylon Spice Company Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 7 Wild Coast Lodge (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 272 MJF Tea Gardens (Private) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Vehicles Hire Income 307 307 MJF Charitable Foundation Affliate Oraganisation Vehicles Hire Income 65 Affliate Oraganisation Donations (170,000) (100,000) TRANSACTION VALUE 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Non-Recurrent Transactions not exceeds 10% of Equity or 5% of Total Assets Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction MJF Teas (Private) Limited Parent Company Transfer of Fixed Assets 305,539 Transfer of Intangible Assets 2,201 Transfer of Gratuity (55,136) Issue of Shares (442,500) (189,896) The transactions with related parties are made on ordinary course of business. Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and interest free. No corporate guarantees provided to/received from related parties. Amounts due from and due to related party balances are disclosed in Notes 10, 11 and 15. 28.2 Transactions with Key Management Personnel of the entity or parent Key Management Personnel include the Board of Directors of the Company and its Subsidiary. GROUP/COMPANY 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Key Management Personnel Compensation Short-term Employee Benefits 110,860 100,965 Post Employment Benefits 7,230 7,142 118,090 108,107 No material transactions have taken place during the year with the parties/entities in which key management personnel or their close family members have control or jointly control, which require disclosure in these Financial Statements other than those disclosed under 28.1. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 137 138 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 29. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise trade payables, amounts due to related parties and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal financial assets include bank balances and cash, short-term deposits, trade receivables, amounts due from related parties and other receivables that derive directly from its operations. The Group also holds equity securities. The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk of the Group comprises interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and equity price risk. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s financial assets and liabilities with floating interest rates. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Statement of Profit or Loss to reasonably possible changes in interest rates by 25 basis points, with all other variables held constant. The sensitivity of the statement of profit or loss is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates for one year, based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities.As at the reporting date there were no interest bearing loans and borrowing and therefore Group is not exposed to interest rate risk. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s operating activities. Trade receivables of the Group include an amount of Rs. 2,407 Mn (2018 Rs. 1,849 Mn) and the Company include an amount of Rs. 2,395 million (2018 Rs. 1,849 million) due in foreign currencies, mainly in Australian Dollars and United States Dollars. Amounts due from related parties of the Group include an amount of Rs. 1,516 Mn (2018 Rs. 1,764 Mn) and the Company include an amount of Rs. 1,506 million (2018 Rs. 1,747 million) due in foreign currencies, mainly in Australian Dollars and United States Dollars. Bank balances of the Group include an amount of Rs. 819 million (2018 Rs. 667 Mn) and the Company include an amount of Rs. 815 million (2018 Rs. 658 Mn) due in foreign currencies, mainly in Australian Dollars and United States Dollars. Short-term deposits of the Group include an amount of Rs. 1,987 million (2018 Rs. 1,269 Mn) and the Company include an amount of Rs. 1,987 million (2018 Rs. 1,269 Mn) due in foreign currencies, mainly in Australian Dollars and United States Dollars. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the United States Dollars exchange rates by 5%, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s/Company’s profit due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities held as at reporting date. The effect of decreases in foreign exchange rates is expected to be equal and opposite to the effect of the increases shown. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 139 GROUP COMPANY EFFECT ON PROFIT FOR THE EFFECT ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR YEAR 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 United States Dollars 225,545 159,391 224,846 159,114 Australian Dollars 92,481 101,502 91,955 100,691 Other 10,416 8,191 10,410 8,189 328,442 269,084 327,211 267,994 Equity Price Risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the equity price and key assumptions used to fair value listed and unlisted equity securities. At the reporting date, the unlisted equity security is fair valued at Rs. 17 Mn (2018 Rs. 17 Mn). The fair value of unquoted investment has been estimated considering the fair value of net assets held by investee as at 31 March 2019 and potential returns expected through its future operations. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the cumulative changes in fair value to reasonably possible changes in equity prices, with all other variables held constant. The effect of decreases in equity prices is expected to be equal and opposite to the effect of the increases shown. GROUP/COMPANY Change in Effect on Change in Effect on Equity Price Equity Equity Price Equity 2019 2019 2018 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income Investments Quoted Investments +10% 49,492 +10% 48,647 Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily trade receivables and amounts due from related parties and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and other financial instruments. The Group trades only with recognised creditworthy third parties. It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. With respect to credit risk arising from the deposits with banks, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these assets in the Statement of Financial Position. Exposures are considered of good credit standing and management believes there is a minimal risk of default thus, expected credit loss is insignificant but being monitored for significant changes in credit risk. 140 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements The credit risk arising from the financial assets of the Group, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these financial instruments as follows: GROUP COMPANY 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Trade Receivables 2,407,555 1,849,337 2,395,581 1,849,121 Other Receivables 167,844 123,290 145,334 119,764 Amounts due from Related Parties 1,516,106 1,764,161 1,505,584 1,747,738 Short-term Deposits 1,987,500 1,269,550 1,987,500 1,269,550 Bank Balances 819,132 666,634 815,017 658,413 6,898,137 5,672,972 6,849,016 5,644,586 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity risk is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or destructing the Group’s operations. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through use of the Group’s own reserves, funds from the shareholders and bank facilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities as at reporting date, based on contractual undiscounted payments. GROUP COMPANY LESS THAN 3 MONTHS LESS THAN 3 MONTHS 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Trade Payables 209,787 198,707 209,617 198,449 Amounts due to Related Parties 60,822 43,317 60,822 43,317 Other Payables 68,319 198,302 65,154 198,294 338,928 440,326 335,593 440,060 Capital Management The Company manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Company makes adjustments to its capital structure, in light of changes in economic and business conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may issue new shares or adjust dividend payments to shareholders. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31 March 2019 and 2018. Capital, which includes stated capital, fair value through other comprehensive income reserve and retained earnings of the Group is measured at Rs. 11,522 million as at 31 March 2019 (2018 Rs. 10,326 million) and the Company is measured at Rs. 11,515 million as at 31 March 2019 (2018 Rs. 10,326 million). DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 141 30. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Financial instruments comprise of financial assets and financial liabilities. Financial assets consist of bank balances and cash, short-term deposits, trade receivables, amounts due from related parties, other receivables and Financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income investments. Financial liabilities consist of trade payables, amounts due to related parties, and other payables. The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets which are stated at Fair value. Fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as at 31 March: GROUP/COMPANY FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT USING Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Date of valuation Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Assets measured at fair value: As at 31 March 2019 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income Investments Quoted Investments 31 March 2019 494,916 494,916 Unquoted Investments 31 March 2019 17,377 17,377 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income Investments as at 31 March 2019 512,293 494,916 17,377 As at 31 March 2018 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income Investments Quoted Investments 31 March 2018 486,469 486,469 Unquoted Investments 31 March 2018 17,377 17,377 Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income Investments as at 31 March 2018 503,846 486,469 17,377 The fair value of unquoted investment has been estimated considering the fair value of net assets held by investee as at 31 March 2019 and potential returns expected through its future operations. During the reporting period ending 31 March 2019, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements. The fair values of other financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values. 142 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements 31. TRANSITION NOTE TO NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS EFFECTIVE FROM 1ST APRIL 2019 31.1 Transition Note to SLFRS 09-”Financial Instruments” The following notes set out the impact of adopting Sri Lanka Accounting Standard SLFRS 9 (Financial Instruments) at transition date, 1st April 2018 on the Statement of Financial Position, and retained earnings including the effect of replacing incurred credit loss calculations under Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 39 (Financial Instruments recognition and measurement) with expected credit loss (ECL) calculations under SLFRS 9. The adoption of SLFRS 09 does not have a significant effect on the Company’s Financial Statements. Therefore there was no adjustment to Retained earnings on the transition as at 1 April 2018. However, due to the adoption of SLFRS 9, classifications of the financial instruments have been changed as follows. Group As at 1 April 2018 Original Original New Carrying New Carrying Classification Classification Amount as Amount as Description Note as per as per per per LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Other Non-Current Financial Assets 8 AFS FVOCI 503,846 503,846 Financial Assets Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL) Trade and Other Receivables 10 L&R AC 3,736,788 3,736,788 Advances and Prepayments L&R AC 148,948 148,948 Cash and Cash Equivalents 12 L&R AC 1,937,083 1,937,083 6,326,665 6,326,665 Non Financial Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 4 N/A N/A 3,097,878 3,097,878 Investment Property 5 N/A N/A 516,074 516,074 Intangible Assets 6 N/A N/A 442,928 442,928 Inventories 9 N/A N/A 1,194,625 1,194,625 Income Tax Receivables N/A N/A 41,323 41,323 5,292,828 5,292,828 Total Assets 11,619,493 11,619,493 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 143 As at 1 April 2018 Original Original New Carrying New Carrying Classification Classification Amount as Amount as Description Note as per as per per per LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 Rs. Rs. Equity and Liabilities Capital and Reserves Stated Capital 13 N/A N/A 642,500 642,500 Other Components of Equity N/A N/A 264,136 264,136 Retained Earnings N/A N/A 9,419,157 9,419,157 10,325,793 10,325,793 Financial Liabilities Trade and Other Payables 15 L&R AC 440,326 440,326 Provisions and Accrued Expenses L&R AC 411,539 411,539 851,865 851,865 Non Financial Liabilities Retirement Benefit Obligations 14 N/A N/A 223,238 223,238 Deferred Tax Liabilities 21 N/A N/A 218,597 218,597 441,835 441,835 Total Equity and Liabilities 11,619,493 11,619,493 Company As at 1 April 2018 Original Original New Carrying New Carrying Classification Classification Amount as Amount as Description Note as per as per per per LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Other Non-Current Financial Assets 8 AFS FVOCI 503,846 503,846 Financial Assets Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL) Trade and Other Receivables 10 L&R AC 3,716,623 3,716,623 Advances and Prepayments L&R AC 148,254 148,254 Cash and Cash Equivalents 12 L&R AC 1,928,802 1,928,802 6,297,525 6,297,525 144 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes to the Financial Statements As at 1 April 2018 Original Original New Carrying New Carrying Classification Classification Amount as Amount as Description Note as per as per per per LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 Rs. Rs. Non Financial Assets Property, Plant and Equipment 4 N/A N/A 3,032,933 3,032,933 Investment Property 5 N/A N/A 516,074 516,074 Intangible Assets 6 N/A N/A 442,928 442,928 Inventories 9 N/A N/A 1,190,786 1,190,786 Income Tax Receivables N/A N/A 41,308 41,308 Amounts Due from Related Party 11 N/A N/A 81,462 81,462 5,305,491 5,305,491 Total Assets 11,603,016 11,603,016 Equity and Liabilities Capital and Reserves Stated Capital 13 N/A N/A 642,500 642,500 Other Components of Equity N/A N/A 264,136 264,136 Retained Earnings N/A N/A 9,419,157 9,419,157 10,325,793 10,325,793 Financial Liabilities Trade and Other Payables 15 L&R AC 440,060 440,060 Provisions and Accrued Expenses L&R AC 410,276 410,276 850,336 850,336 Non Financial Liabilities Retirement Benefit Obligations 14 N/A N/A 218,942 218,942 Deferred Tax Liabilities 21 N/A N/A 207,945 207,945 Income Tax Payable 21 N/A N/A 426,887 426,887 Total Equity and Liabilities 11,603,016 11,603,016 31.2 Transition Note to SLFRS 15“Revenue From Contracts With Customers” The adoption of SLFRS 15 does not have a significant effect on the Company’s Financial Statements. Therefore there was no adjustment to Retained earnings on the transition as at 1 April 2018. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 145 Five Year SUMMARY COMPANY For the year ended 31 March 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 Rs. ‘000 TRADING RESULTS (Rs. 000's) Turnover 10,676,761 9,177,758 7,288,357 7,219,883 7,337,183 Operating Expenses 9,843,218 8,427,774 6,924,578 6,380,504 6,554,721 Other Income 875,360 554,531 619,712 970,808 123,074 Interest Expense 14,451 34,417 19,325 11 160 Profit before Income Tax 1,694,452 1,270,098 964,166 1,810,176 905,376 Income Tax on Profits 110,638 77,219 136,664 194,804 104,614 Profit for the Year 1,583,814 1,192,879 827,502 1,615,372 800,762 SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS (Rs.000) Stated Capital 642,500 642,500 200,000 200,000 200,000 Reserves 10,872,927 9,683,293 9,881,216 9,485,067 8,423,566 NET ASSETS 11,515,427 10,325,793 10,081,216 9,685,067 8,623,566 ASSETS (Rs.000) Property , Plant & Equipment 2,943,485 3,032,933 2,326,180 1,944,210 1,100,433 Investment Property 640,838 516,074 234,064 234,064 234,064 Intangible Assets 308,601 442,928 444,684 388,111 383,598 Other Financial Assets / Investments 512,294 503,846 523,444 565,030 526,371 Current Assets 8,377,277 7,107,235 9,125,302 7,341,839 7,003,427 LIABILITIES (Rs.000) Non-current Liabilities 395,182 426,887 316,206 218,433 194,121 Current Liabilities 871,886 850,336 2,256,252 569,754 430,206 NET ASSETS (Rs.000) 11,515,427 10,325,793 10,081,216 9,685,067 8,623,566 Market Price Per Share (Rs.) 619.90 554.90 599.90 616.50 710.40 Dividend Per Share (Rs.) 20.00 45.00 15.00 30.00 22.50 Total Dividend Rs. 000s (Gross) 414,750 933,188 300,000 600,000 450,000 No of Shares 20,737,500 20,737,500 20,000,000 20,000,000 20,000,000 RATIOS Return on Average Shareholders Funds (%) 14.50 11.55 8.37 17.65 9.41 Earnings Per Share (Rs) 76.37 58.74 41.37 80.77 40.04 Dividend Cover (times) 3.82 1.28 2.76 2.69 1.78 Liquidity (times) 9.61 8.36 4.04 12.89 16.28 146 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Information to INVESTORS As at 31st March 2019 1. STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING The issued ordinary shares of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. 2. ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS Number of Shares Number of Shareholders Total Holding % Holding 1 1,000 808 52,585 0.25% 1,001 5,000 67 164,387 0.79% 5,001 10,000 13 91,564 0.44% 10,001 50,000 26 555,882 2.68% 50,001 100,000 1 69,700 0.34% 100,001 500,000 1 156,019 0.75% 500,001 1,000,000 0.00% 1,000,001 Over 3 19,647,363 94.75% Total 919 20,737,500 100.00% 3. ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDERS Number of Shares Number of Total Holding % Holding Shareholders Individuals 867 915,759 4.42% Institutions 52 19,821,741 95.58% Total 919 20,737,500 100.00% Number of Public Shareholders as at 31st March 2019 was 909 2,554,022 (12.32%) shares were held by the public as at 31st March 2019 The float adjusted market capitalization is Rs. 1,583,757,714/4. SHARE TRADING Number of Shares 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 No of Transactions 319 780 277 117 68 No of Shares Traded 18,317 43,847 40,955 4,487 3,105 Value of Shares Traded 11,001,198 24,890,630 29,939,882 3,075,208 2,214,875 5. DIVIDENDS Number of Shares 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Interim 20/Rs. 15/Rs. 17/50 Rs. 12/50 Final 15/Rs. 30/Rs. 15/Rs. 12/50 Rs. 10/Amount (Rs.000's) Gross 725,813 933,187 300,000 600,000 450,000 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 147 6. EARNINGS Number of Shares 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Earnings/share Rs. 76.71 57.48 41.37 80.77 40.07 P/E Ratio 8.08 9.65 14.15 7.63 17.73 7. MARKET VALUES (Rs.) Number of Shares 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Highest 630.00 600.00 850.00 800.00 770.00 Lowest 530.00 520.00 565.00 550.10 700.00 Year End 619.90 554.90 599.90 616.50 710.40 The weighted average trading price for the year was Rs. 600.60 8. MARKET CAPITALIZATION (Rs.Million) Number of Shares 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Capital & Reserves 11,312 10,326 10,112 9,685 8,624 Market Capitalization 12,855 11,507 11,998 12,330 14,208 9 TOP 20 SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 31ST MARCH 2019 Shareholder Name 31.03.2019 31.03.2018 Total Shares % Total Shares % MJF Teas (Pvt) Ltd 13,812,882 66.61% 13,812,882 66.61% MJF Exports (Pvt) Ltd 4,256,712 20.53% 4,256,712 20.53% Employees Provident Fund 1,577,769 7.61% 1,577,769 7.61% Mrs. S.T.Fernando 156,019 0.75% 156,019 0.75% GF Capital Global Limited 69,700 0.34% 69,700 0.34% Mrs. S.T.F.Ortiz 42,854 0.21% 42,854 0.21% Mr. A.W.Athukorala 36,750 0.18% 36,750 0.18% Mr. M.W.De Silva 34,830 0.17% 34,830 0.17% Mr. H.A. Van Starrex 33,308 0.16% 45,354 0.22% Mr. J.W.Burton 32,270 0.16% 32,270 0.16% Merrill J Fernando & Sons (Pvt) Ltd 25,300 0.12% 25,300 0.12% Mrs. A.S.Fernando 24,284 0.12% 24,284 0.12% Mr. M.J.Fernando 24,200 0.12% 24,200 0.12% Mr. D.C.Fernando 24,200 0.12% 24,200 0.12% Dr. K.Poologasundram 23,808 0.11% 23,808 0.11% Mr. H.S.Ranaweera 22,984 0.11% 22,984 0.11% Ms. N.Harnam 22,265 0.11% 22,265 0.11% Mr. H.R.Peries 21,200 0.10% 21,200 0.10% Mr.H.D.A.D.Perera 20,467 0.10% 20,467 0.10% Miss. L.R.Jayasundera 18,000 0.09% 18,000 0.09% 20,279,802 97.79% 20,291,848 97.88% 148 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 GRI CONTEXT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (does not include any disclosures) General Disclosures GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of Organisation 6 Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6 Corporate 102-3 Location of headquarters Information Corporate 102-4 Location of operations Information Corporate 102-5 Ownership and legal form Information, 107 102-6 Markets served 54, 60 102-7 Scale of the organisation 4,5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 42, 43 102-9 Supply chain 59 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and supply 59 chain 102-11 Precautionary principle 23 102-12 External initiatives 26 102-13 Membership of associations 28 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 15 102-16 Values, principles, norms and standards of behaviour 01, 18, 19, 78 102-18 Governance Structure 73 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 20 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 05 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 20 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 21 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 107 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundary 03, 21 102-47 Material topics 21 102-48 Restatement of information 108 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 149 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Report 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI 3 Standards 102-55 GRI context index 148 102-56 External assurance 03 Material topics Procurement practices GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries 53 62 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 53 62 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 53 62 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 05, 59 practices 2016 Materials GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries 68 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 68 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 68 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 68 Energy GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries 68 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 68 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 68 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 05 Emissions GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries 67 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 67 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 67 GRI 305 Emissions: 2016 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 05, 67 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 05, 67 (Scope 2) 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 67 (Scope 3) 305-4 GHG emission intensity 67 150 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 GRI CONTEXT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries 69 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 69 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 69 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 05, 69 Waste Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries GRI 103: Management 66 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 66 69 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 66 69 GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 66 Compliance regulations Employment 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries GRI 103: Management 43 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 43, 44 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 43, 44 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 Employee hires and turnover 05, 43 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full time employees that are not 47 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 47 Training and education 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries GRI 103: Management 47 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 47, 48 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 47, 48 GRI 404: Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading skills and transition 47, 48 education assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 42, 46 performance and career development reviews Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries GRI 103: Management 61 Approach DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 151 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 61 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 61 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 61 communities 2016 assessments and development programmes Customer health and safety 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries GRI 103: Management 55 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 55 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 55 GRI 416: Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 55 health and safety and safety impacts of products and services Marketing and labelling GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and its boundaries 64 Approach 103-2 The Management Approach and its components 64 103-2 Evaluation of the Management Approach 64 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 55 labelling service information and labelling 152 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notes DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 ▪ 153 154 ▪ DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 38th Annual General “IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that Mr. Rajanayagam Meeting of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC will Asirwatham who is 76 years of age be and is hereby be held at 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda on 6th re-elected a Director of the Company and it is September 2019 at 3.00 p.m. for the following purposes: hereby declared as provided for in section 211 of the Companies Act. No.7 of 2007 that the age limit of 70 1. To pass the ordinary resolution set out below to re-elect years referred to in section 210 of the said Companies Mr. Merrill J. Fernando who is 89 years of age, as a Act shall not apply to Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham” Director of the Company. 5. To re-elect as a Director, Mr. Malik J. Fernando who “IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that Mr. Merrill J. Fernando retires by rotation under section 24 of the Articles of who is 89 years of age be and is hereby re-elected a Association. Director of the Company and it is hereby declared as provided for in section 211 of the Companies Act. No.7 6. To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and of 2007 that the age limit of 70 years referred to in statement of accounts for the year ended 31st March section 210 of the said Companies Act shall not apply to 2019 along with the Report of the Auditors thereon. Mr. Merrill J. Fernando” 7. To declare a final dividend of Rs. 15/per share as 2. To pass the ordinary resolution set out below to re-elect recommended by the Board of Directors. Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera who is 72 years of age, as a Director of the Company. 8. To authorize the Directors to make donations. “IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that Mr. Himendra S. 9. To re-appoint Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, as Ranaweera who is 72 years of age be and is hereby Auditors of the Company and to authorize the Directors re-elected a Director of the Company and it is to determine their remuneration. hereby declared as provided for in section 211 of the Companies Act. No.7 of 2007 that the age limit of 70 10. Any other business of which due notice has been given. years referred to in section 210 of the said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. Himendra S. Ranaweera” By order of the Board, 3. To pass the ordinary resolution set out below to re-elect Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty who is 80 years of age, as a Director of the Company. Ms. Jayanga Wegodapola “IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty Company Secretary who is 80 years of age be and is hereby re-elected a Director of the Company and it is hereby declared as At Colombo provided for in section 211 of the Companies Act. No.7 25th July 2019 of 2007 that the age limit of 70 years referred to in section 210 of the said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. Gritakumar E. Chitty” Note A member is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of 4. To pass the ordinary resolution set out below to re-elect himself, for which purpose a form of proxy is enclosed with this Annual Mr. Rajanayagam Asirwatham who is 76 years of age, as Report. The instrument appointing a proxy must be registered at the Registered Office not later than 48 hours before the time for the Meeting. a Director of the Company. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Form of Proxy Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC Registered Office: 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda, Sri Lanka I/We ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... being member/s of Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC hereby appoint: of …………........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................................................or failing him/her Mr. Merrill Joseph Fernando of Colombo or failing him Mr. Malik Joseph Fernando of Colombo or failing him Mr. Dilhan Chrishantha Fernando of Colombo or failing him Mr. Himendra Somasiri Ranaweera of Colombo or failing him Ms. Minette Delicia Anne Perera of Colombo or failing her Mr. Roshan Conrad Tissaaratchy of Colombo or failing him Mr. Rajanayagam Nalliah Asirwatham of Colombo or failing him Mr. Gritakumar Edmund Chitty of Colombo As my / our Proxy to attend and vote for me / us on my / our behalf at the Thirty Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 6th September 2019 at 3.00 p.m. and any adjournment thereof and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid meeting. As Witness my hand / our hands this .... day ................ of 2019 Signature: ....................................................... N.B. 1. Please delete the inappropriate words 2. Instructions as to completion are noted on the reverse hereof. 3. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. DILMAH CEYLON TEA COMPANY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018/19 Instructions as to Completion 1. Kindly perfect the Proxy by filling legibly your full name and address and by signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. 2. In the case of corporate members, the proxy form must be under the seal or hand of an authorized officer or attorney. 3. If the proxy form is signed by an attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should accompany the proxy form for registration, if such Power of Attorney has not already been registered with the Company. 4. The completed proxy form should be deposited at the registered office of the Company at the address given below not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Meeting. Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC 111, Negombo Road Peliyagoda Corporate INFORMATION Legal Form Directors Quoted Public Company with Limited Malik J. Fernando – B.Sc. Liability Incorporated in Sri Lanka Roshan Tissaaratchy – B.A, MBA, DipM, FCIM in 1981 Minette Perera – FCA, FCMA, FCCA Rajan Asirwatham – FCA Company Registration Number Gritakumar E. Chitty – Attorney at Law PQ 209 Secretary Registered Oﬃce Jayanga Wegodapola – Attorney at Law 111, Negombo Road, Peliyagoda, Sri Lanka. Bankers Bank of Ceylon Telephone: (94 11) 4 822000 Cargills Bank Limited Facsimile: (94 11) 4 822001 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC E-mail : info@dilmahtea.com DFCC Vardhana Bank PLC Website : www.dilmahtea.com Hatton National Bank PLC National Development Bank PLC Stock Exchange Listing Nations Trust Bank PLC The Ordinary Shares are listed on the Standard Chartered Bank Limited Colombo Stock Exchange The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Subsidiary MJF Beverages (Private) Limited Auditors Ernst & Young Board of Directors 201, De Saram Place, Chairman Colombo 10. Merrill J. Fernando Deputy Chairman Himendra S. Ranaweera Chief Executive Oﬃcer/Director Dilhan C. Fernando B.Sc. Dilmah Ceylon Tea Company PLC. 111 Negombo Road, Peliyagoda, Sri Lanka 011 4822000 info@dilmahtea.com www.dilmahtea.com dilmah dilmah dilmahceylontea
