www.pwc.com UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com This document is PwC’s Communication on Progress (COP) for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). It outlines our plans, progress and achievements aligned with the UNGC’s ten principles. As in previous years, this document highlights the relevant links to our existing approach to corporate reporting. The relevant information can be found in our 201​8 ​Global Annual Review​, our ​global Corporate Responsibility (CR) website​ and ​individual firm websites​. To demonstrate our alignment with the principles we have provided links to examples of our policies, public commitments, and specific initiatives, including work with clients. The PwC brand is the brand under which the Member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL) operate and provide professional services. Firms in our network have different priorities in relation to CR so our global CR strategy provides a common vision for leadership but allows for flexibility in the pace, prioritisation and localisation of activities. This document includes a number of case studies which highlight initiatives from firms that demonstrate how the principles are implemented. We recognises that measuring outcomes is a critical component of the UNGC and will continue to strive to find ways to enhance our reporting process. This document is not designed to be an exhaustive list of all the ways in which our firms have aligned to the principles. Human Rights Key Areas Global Approach Global Examples Firm Level Examples and Labour Principles Principle 1​: Human As stated in our Global Code of ● Our Global Code of Conduct Local supplemental codes of Businesses should Rights Conduct, we respect and support conduct: support and respect fundamental human rights and we ● Global Human Rights Policy ● Australia the protection of work to guard against complicity in ● Our Core Values ● China/Hong Kong internationally human rights abuses. proclaimed human ● The Netherlands ● Ethics and compliance complaints rights; and Our Global Code of Conduct and and allegations reporting policies ● UK local employment policies capture and processes Principle 2​:​ make the essence of our approach to ● US sure that they are not human rights and to building a ● Standards and internal quality complicit in human culture of respect and inclusion – by control measures​ (​including data rights abuses. clearly setting out the way we expect privacy​)​ ​– all Network firms must Local human rights policies: our people to do business. adhere to network standards and ● UK Principle 3​: there are measures to monitor ● Australia Businesses should The Global Human Rights ​Policy and compliance. uphold the freedom Guidance establishes the principles ● Brazil of association and by which all Member firms, and all the effective Partners and staff, respect human PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com recognition of the rights throughout their business ● China right to collective activities, and work to guard against ● Germany bargaining; complicity in human rights abuses, comply with applicable labour and ● Mexico Principle 4​:​ the employment laws, and draw on internationally recognised labour ● South Africa elimination of all forms of forced and principles in how we do business. compulsory labour; The Policy and Guidance build on the Global Code of Conduct, which sets Principle 5​:​ the out our commitment to respecting effective abolition of human rights, by providing more child labour; and details on the requirements to which Member firms must adhere. This policy forms part of the expectations Principle 6​:​ the set out in the Network Standards. elimination of discrimination in The Human Rights Policy and related respect of statement further supports the employment and commitment to the Global Code of occupation. Conduct and outlines the principles and commitments by which Member firms respect human rights throughout their business activities. It embodies our understanding of the significance of human rights for a global professional services network​. In addition, our values drive the way we behave with each other, our clients, and our communities. They are: act with integrity; make a difference; care; work together; and reimagine the possible. Labour Child labour​: We will only employ ● Protecting our people: ​For ● UK -​ ​Corporate sustainability workers who meet the applicable additional information on our document download centre: ​ minimum legal age requirements and approach to Network security ● Health and safety policy please see Appendix I for PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com comply with all other applicable child information on our approach to ● Human rights policy labour laws. Network Global Security. ● Procurement policy Forced labour: ​We will not use any involuntary labour of any kind, such as prison, bonded or forced labour. Health, safety and hygiene: ​Our employees work in an environment that is both safe and healthy, in line with local firm health and safety policies, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding working conditions. Freedom of association: ​We recognise that all of our people have the right to form and join organisations of their own choosing, subject to local laws and regulations, as long as this activity does not contravene the local firm’s external appointments policy, which seeks to ensure our independence, in line with the regulatory requirements of our business. Flexible Working Flexible Working and ● Wellbeing ​Creating a culture wellbeing: ​We recognise that where our people can achieve their ● US Flexibility best selves across personal and Flexibility at PwC Begins with people are most successful when they trust prioritise wellbeing and have the professional dimensions. ​Flexibility at PwC DiversityInc everyday flexibility they need to Providing tools, training, and Flexibility Placemat shape their experience and empower resources on how to better manage The power of our differences them to be their best both inside and self and team wellbeing across the outside of work. four dimensions of energy ● Malaysia Flex+ at PwC ● Australia All Roles Flex PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Several of our firms have flexible (physical, emotional, mental, ● Ireland Benefits & working policies and practices in spiritual). Flexibility place. We have launched a ● South Africa Expect network-wide flexible working More leadership commitment and a wellbeing program with accountability measures for success. Development: ​The foundation of Wellbeing our leadership development Development ● UK Green Light to Talk​? experience is our global career progression framework, PwC ● Switzerland “‘Energy to ● Our Leadership Development grow your own way” Professional. This is a single set of Experience ● Malaysia ‘FitPwC’ expectations across our organisation that clearly identifies the attributes programme ● Measuring our people’s engagement ● US and behaviours our people need to and listening to their feedback – Be well, work well solve important problems and realise Global People Strategy Be well, work well The Habit new opportunities. Opportunities are Bank at the heart of a career with us. Discover Programme (milestone ● Global careers website Opportunities for our employees to reward experience for new grow as individuals, to build lasting seniors, focusing on energy management) relationships and make an impact in a place where people, quality and value mean everything. Digital Fitness ​ upskilling our people in skills that will be critical This framework is underpinned by in the future, such as national and international training understanding AI, VR, data programmes, on the job training, analytics, and building inclusive mentoring and shadowing leadership skills. To date the programmes. They have been programme has been rolled out in designed to ensure our people the US, UK and Europe. achieve their full potential. ● US Digital Fitness demo and framework Enable our people to develop a digital mind-set ​our clients operate in a landscape that’s becoming more PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com and more disrupted by digital technology. To help them convert this disruption into opportunity, it’s essential that we remain ahead of the digital curve. Our new Digital Fitness solution aims to do just that, keeping our people on top of the latest digital innovations. Engaging with our people: Engaging with our people: ​To create the most value for their ● Community engagement businesses and communities, firms in around our network our network consult with their stakeholders and their own people to help decide business priorities. Diversity and Diversity is a business priority for us ● Global Annual Review: ​Our ● South Africa’s​ approach Inclusion and ​ties directly to our values. We’re people overview​ and statistics committed to cultivating an to diversity and inclusion environment where our people feel a ● Global Diversity and Inclusion sense of belonging. This means we can website ● Australia: bring our whole selves to work, we Diversity and inclusion can lead and grow through diverse ● HeForShe PwC-UN Gender IQ strategy experiences, and we can make a Online Course​ ​offered as part of “Where are all the women?” difference. our learning and development (Publicati​on​) activities. Our global approach and strategy on ● Malaysia​ ​Global Diversity Diversity and Inclusion has 2 ● HeForShe: Our commitment to Week the Human Library consistent focus areas of Gender and the UN’s HeForShe campaign Valuing Differences with a plus 1 which differs for each territory HeForShe proven solutions ● Canada’s​ ​approach to depending on their business / talent report achieving parity at diversity and inclusion strategy or legislative requirements. global leadership​: Our This approach recognises, respects journey ● Japan’s​ ​approach to and enhances the strength of our diversity and inclusion diverse workforce & inclusive culture HeforShe-2018 Emerging across our network. Solutions report: PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Our global priorities and focus areas highlighting our ● The ​ Netherlands includetracking progress through performance. approach to diversity and predictive analysis-arriving at targets inclusion and creating accountability, gender proportionality in promotions, ● UN Women’s Empowerment Principles​: We are a member ● Singapore: conducting pay equity reviews, inclusive recruitment efforts for of this community ​Diversity at PwC Singapore experienced hiring, representation of Enhancing board diversity disclosures women in leadership programs and ● Moving Women with Purpose: in Singapore: Taking the next steps succession planning, increasing the Publication International Women’s Day 2018 level of awareness and addressing #whatshesaid biases by continuing education. British Chamber of Commerce ● Our Diversity Journey Singapore (BritCham) Embracing These focus areas support gender Diversity and Inclusion award 18th equality across all levels thereby ● Winning the Fight for Female Annual Business Awards building a healthy pyramid, Talent​: Publication enhancing women in leadership and ● Switzerland’s​ a ​ pproach creating an environment ● Time to talkWhat has to to diversity and inclusion strengthened by our policies and change for women at work​: initiatives. And leveraging that Publication ● US diversity to deliver the highest value PwC US’ commitment to diversity for our people and our clients. ● IWD Chairman’s Blog: 3 DiversityInc Top 50 Companies for Things Women Need to Diversity, 2017 Working Mother 100 We are a signatory to the UN Succeed in Their Career Best Companies, 2017 Best Companies Women’s Empowerment Principles According to Women​ ​(March for Multicultural Women ● As of January 2019, 96,215 of our 2018) Members of the CEO Action for Diversity people had made their HeForShe Outsmarting Human Minds: PwC commitment. publication ● We contributed to the first-ever Proven Solutions report to HeForShe and was recognised at ● UK the UN Women “HeForShe” Diversity and inclusion open mind anniversary event for almost 50% e-learning female representation ​at the Diversity and inclusion gender pay gap global top leadership team level audits and results within the network. ​The report PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com covered the proven practices we Top 50 Employer for Women and Top have employed to drive gender 75 Employer for Race (both unranked). parity on the Global Leadership British LGBT Awards Employer of the Year and Stonewall Workplace Equality Team. Index Top 20 Employer (ranked 19​th​) ● To enhance awareness and insights on “Unconscious bias” and its impact on decision ● Brazil making, we created Outsmarting Human Minds (OHM). A The ​People with Disability award research-based learning module received ​2nd place on the great to showcase the science of how place to work for people with human minds work and shape the disability award ​from local State Government. decisions we make in the workplace and in life. It supports by applying insights from psychological science to help us improve the decisions we make in life and at work The key highlights for FY18 from Diversity & Inclusion perspective are● The release of “Time to Talk”​What has to change for women at work, thought leadership that reveals the career development of women at work and ​highlights the key essential elements that leaders must focus on to advance gender equality and help women’s career progression. This received our highest media coverage to date with 501 media mentions and 30,500 visits to the PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com website in only the first 4 weeks of the campaign. ● Our team in Switzerland, obtained the EQUAL-SALARY certification from the EQUAL-SALARY Foundation. ● We monitor people perceptions on the actions taken by our leaders to create a diverse and inclusive environment through an annual survey. ● For FY18, the global survey scores on the inclusion quotient is improving demonstrating that Diversity & Inclusions practices and strategies are creating an impact and the numbers and the representation of women in the PwC territories is improving. Our professionals across the Network received accolades and awards for their work in Diversity and Inclusion● Our UK Diversity and Wellbeing Leader was named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire on the Queen's list of New Year's Honours 2018. ● Our Australian Leader won the Australian Workplace PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Equality Index CEO of the Year award. ● The US Assurance Leader, was named one of Fortune Magazine’s Most Powerful Latinas in Business. ● In Canada our, CEO and Chief Inclusion officer, conferred with 2018 Catalyst Canada Honours Champion. Examples of In addition to the work we undertake ● Helping our clients to manage Support for humanitarian relief and our work with in our own organisation, we also look their people disaster resilience – our firms clients which to encourage our stakeholders contribute to humanitarian relief in support including our clients to adopt best ● Stimulating debate and sharing many ways: UNGC’s practice labour, human rights and best practice on issues principles diversity practices. This means we can including human rights and ● Helping the Kenya government to international development transform reproductive health for go above and beyond the positive poor mothers in rural areas. impact we can have through our own operations. Spotlight on human rights reporting ● Teaming up with the UN to support HeForShe Our ​blogsthe people agenda International development ● UNISDR​ – ​working with the UN and other key stakeholders to embed disaster risk management into business investment decisions ● Our Global Crisis Centre ● Supporting girls education through the Girls Education Challenge ● Our Aspire to Lead programme brings gender equality content PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Environmental Key Areas Global Approach Global Examples Firm Level Examples Principles Principle 7​: Our strategy, We are committed to understanding ● Global CR website Environmental policies: Businesses should policies and and reducing our environmental ● Australia support a programmes impact on the world starting with ● A summary of our ● Canada precautionary our own footprint through to working environmental stewardship activities ● China/Hong Kong approach to with our clients and advocating for environmental change. ● UK challenges; ● Our network environmental statement Environmental strategy and Our global environment strategy is a programmes: Principle 8​: key element of our broader corporate ● Our ​network’s GHG footprint ● China/Hong Kong undertake initiatives responsibility strategy. Member firms to promote greater are guided by the ​Network ● Malaysia ● Public statement urging environmental Environmental Statemen​t​ and are governments to take more ● US responsibility; and encouraged to align their ambitious action against ● UK environmental strategies with the climate change​ -​ signed by our Principle 9​: global strategy, as well as take action global ​chairman Circular Economy encourage the on local issues. ● The Netherlands development and diffusion of In 2018 we launched our first global environmentally environment ambition. 22 of our Environmental reporting and friendly technologies. largest firms (representing nearly outcomes 90% of our global revenue) signed up to this global commitment: ● China/Hong Kong ● Brazil While driving efficiency to reduce our absolute carbon impact, we commit ● UK to offsetting air travel emissions from Sustainability scorecard FY19 and to sourcing 100% renewables for our electricity Responsible technology consumption and offsetting residual energy use by FY22. Peas please ● PwC Netherlands PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Outlined below is an overview of our approach: and progress: ● Driving efficiencies:​ The first Driving efficiencies: Driving efficiencies step of our environment ambition ● While our network continues to ● Our UK team has more than is to d​rive efforts to reduce our grow, our per capita emissions have halved their energy consumption absolute carbon impact. Member decreased by 14% between FY16 to over the last 10 years, and reduced firms are achieving this by FY18. their absolute operational emissions by 29%. choosing to house their offices in more efficient buildings, ● In the US 54% of our office office implementing energy efficiency space is ‘LEED certified’. measures, and choosing more ● The Netherlands team have sustainable car fleets. committed to a fully electric car fleet by 2025. ● Going 100% renewable:​ For the Going 100% renewable: energy we do consume, we have ● In FY18, 60% of electricity committed to go 100% renewable. consumption from ​Strategy Counci​l Our aim is to do this by Member firms was from renewable transitioning our largest firms sources. first, with a slightly longer ramp-up for smaller offices. As part of this commitment we proudly joined RE100 a group of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable energy. Offsetting air travel emissions: ● Offsetting air travel ● The projects we are supporting, in emissions:​While our priority is collaboration with other to reduce our absolute carbon organisations, have collectively impact, we have decided to impacted nearly 3 million people, purchase carbon offsets to mitigate protected or restored 656,000 the impact of emissions from air hectares of forest, generated travel. Our carbon offset purchase 209,000 MWh of clean energy and is underpinned by a strict quality created over 570 new full time jobs. criteria and aims to drive multiple Click​ here​ to find out more about the co-benefits beyond emissions reductions. Co-benefits refers to PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com additional social, economic and projects we are supporting. environmental value created by these projects. Our ambition sets a strong and consistent minimum commitment across our network. At a local level several member firm efforts extend beyond this. Looking to address issues around circular economy, responsible technology and supply chain impacts. Examples of The greatest impact we can have is ● How to Set Up Effective Climate our work with through supporting our clients to Governance on Corporate clients and improve their environmental Boards: Guiding principles and partners who outcomes and working with all our questions​ ​(Our collaboration with support stakeholders to find new innovative the WEF) UNGC’s solutions to environmental challenges principles in our areas of expertise. A few areas ● Integrating natural capital in we have focused on this year have risk assessments: been the SDGs, climate change and A step-by-step guide for banks the Paris agreement, sustainable cities (Natural Capital Finance Alliance and circular economy. and us) We want all of our people to consider ● Global states and regional environmental opportunities in their annual disclosure: work every day, and we support them How 120 states and regions are with our global network of stepping up their climate action sustainability & climate change (Published by CDP, with our subject matter experts. contribution as knowledge partner) ● Innovation for the earth ● Intelligent digital PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com ● Harnessing the 4​th​ Industrial Revolution for Sustainable Emerging Cities ● Our Low Carbon Economy​ Index ● Private equity and the responsible investment journey ● Taking action on SDG reporting ● Developing thought leadership and practical ways for our clients to respond to the SDGs ● SDG Reporting Challenge 2018 ● Circular business models ● Building the largest solar farm in the southern hemisphere ● Helping clients in the forestry, paper and packaging sector ● Supporting the Paris agreement ● Supporting the development of water management best practices PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com AntiKey Areas Global Approach Global Examples Firm Examples corruption principles Principle 10​: Anti-corruptio Strategic partnerships ​– We work ● We are a strategic partner to Businesses should n overview extensively with numerous the World Economic Forum work against international agencies and national (WEF)​ and our Chairman, Robert corruption in all its governments​ (​ e.g. UN, OECD, World Moritz is active on the board of the forms, including Bank, IMF, European Commission, Partnering Against Corruption extortion and bribery. the Commonwealth Secretariat, the Initiative (PACI) World Economic Forum PACI, Transparency International, etc.) to: ● Build capacity of countries to detect and reduce corruption for example undertaking forensic audits and investigations, conduct training initiatives regarding AML, corruption and other key initiatives ● Enhance implementation of anti-money laundering (AML) regulations, and procedures for the recovery of stolen assets ● Extend work on tax reform, IFFs, procurement reform, and preventing corrupt companies from winning public contract ● Global Code of Conduct ● UK quality and ethics scorecard PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Our Standards and internal ● Global Third Party Code of ● Territory Transparency quality control measures at Conduct reports territory and network level​– EU Transparency reports ● Compliance with and as ● Global Tax Code of Conduct US appropriate voluntarily adopting of national and international ● Governance and transparency Our UK AML Centre of in the PwC network Excellence (Belfast) initiatives to prevent corruption providing services to ● Established network level ● Network Standards our firms & clients standards, policies, guidance and ● Ethics and compliance procedures which require complaints and allegations compliance by every Member reporting policies and firm, including Network Code of processes Conduct and the Global Tax Code of Conduct principles-based ● Global e-learn: ​Combating guidance to help our personnel Corruption and Money Laundering ‘do the right thing’, as well as detailed policies and guidance supporting the Code(s) ● Compliance with our Network Standard on anti-money laundering and anti-corruption, which require each Member firm to appoint a Partner responsible for its implementation and monitoring of performance against its requirements ● All professional staff required to undertake annual training in requirements, procedures and processes in key areas including ethics, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com ● ‘Know Your Client’ (KYC) processes in place to identify and verify clients including obligations to report suspect transactions where required in national legislation ● Annual territory and network monitoring and remediation of the implementation and effective execution of key compliance standards including the KYC and AML standards, and anti-corruption standards. ● All personnel sign a personal annual compliance confirmation across key compliance areas including: anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, ethics and codes of conduct. ● Network wide e-learn focused on anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. ● We have developed and rolled out policies, guidance and related training (Network wide) regarding the IESBA Non-compliance with Laws and Regulations standard (NOCLAR). Examples of We do extensive work with and for ● Governance, transparency and our work with our clients to support anticorruption the audit committee clients which initiatives support PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com UNGC’s ● Our Fraud Academy principles ● Food supply and integrity services ● Global Economic Crime Survey (biannual)one of the broadest and most comprehensive surveys we have ever conducted. with over 5,000 global respondents, is focused not only on breaking down the facts, figures, trends and regions, but also on analysing how and where it may be affecting organisations so they can address the issue from both a preventive and strategic perspective. ● Our ​Forensic Services Unit​: with more than 4,000 staff globally, we advise on developing anti-corruption systems and controls for our clients PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Appendix I – PwC Global Security The information below is accessible to all staff through internal systems. We consider the safety and wellbeing of our people to be paramount, and view security as an integral – and integrated – part of every facet of our Network’s business. Proactive risk analysis and security operations Amid a challenging environmentwith threats ranging from terrorism to climate change and environmental damage-any effort at safeguarding our people begins with identifying and assessing such threats even before they materialise. Consequently, our Global Security team work with both internal and external sources to keep a cautious eye on world events, and proactively works to develop the strategies and programmes-formally documented in our Network Standards-that can help our partners and staff steer clear of, or mitigate, the risks when they appear. A key example is travel security for our people. Global Security, and the other security professionals in our network of Member firms, go above and beyond the basics of ‘duty of care’ by emphasising pre-travel advice; providing briefings; issuing travellers pre-emptive event notifications as necessary; tracking travel to enable real time contact with our people as needed; and working to ensure every employee is aware of the 24/7 medical and security assistance that is available to them through our arrangements with the world’s leading provider for such services. Additionally, every traveller has access to both web-based travel security information and a mobile app that delivers information and services to their mobile devices, as well as online e-learning to help them be better prepared prior to business travel. Global Security devotes considerable resources to supporting our people working in higher risk locations, enabling them to meet their obligations to clients through the application of carefully considered security protocols and risk mitigation procedures. In addition to these operational, day-to-day activities, Global Security produces regular longer term assessments on key issues and trends, helping give our network leadership a holistic view of the global threat and risk environment. Incident management and business continuity Regardless of the emphasis on prevention, there will always be unforeseen events that require careful response and management. Global Security works with internal stakeholders to continuously develop incident management protocols and capabilities to enable the network to deal with a wide range of possible incidents. Member firms have developed similar approaches, tailored to their individual circumstances. Additionally, Global Security supports the ongoing development of our Security Operation Centre, which provides 24/7 assistance to our business travellers as well as support to member firm’s incident management procedures. Furthermore, Member firms are stepping up efforts to further refine their existing business continuity plans in order to minimise the impact future incidents may have on operations. PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 www.pwc.com Integration Security works best when it is involved early and often in almost every aspect of the business, and security solutions are the most effective (and cost effective) when developed in tandem with the full range of stakeholders to a given issue. In this regard, Global Security works closely with colleagues in functional areas across the network, as well as with client engagement teams. In addition, Global Security chairs our Security Group, consisting of the full-time security professionals across our network, to share best practices, leverage experience, and ensure consistency of approach to issues of risk and security. To better serve Member firms across the network-in 158 countries Global Security continues to build a regional security architecture, including supporting a network of Territory Security Leads-a security contact within every Member firm. By continuing to strive to have security professionals placed in key strategic areas, this ensures they can be closer to the people they serve and can do so with greater speed and efficiency. © 2017 2019 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see ​www.pwc.com/structure​ for further details. PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2018
