Willkommen 2 Thurländer!0 1 7 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2 018 A N N UA L R E P O R T 2018 The Development Process of our Annual Report 2018 and its Scope Transparent management is one of the key pillars on which the Grupo Alimentario Citrus (GAC) business model is based. Being open both internally and to society is our way of understanding our relationship with the social and economic surroundings: customers, suppliers, society and natural environment. Therefore, we present this annual report with the aim of providing a clear, vivid vision of the company’s performance during the 2018 financial year. This year GAC has included its commitment to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in this annual report. The SDGs in the 2030 Agenda, applied to the processes of our company, commit us to choose the optimal options in order to improve life, in a sustainable way, for future generations. The document focuses on the impact of the organization in the economic, environmental and social fields and on its relationship in compliance with the SDGs. The report also shows the company’s work as for generating long term value for the different interest groups that come into contact with GAC. To this end, the report includes all aspects and initiatives that can be considered as relevant both externally and internally: business figures, investments, corporate social responsibility, innovation and new products or business structure. This report provides information regarding the actions and operations carried out by the company during the calendar year 2018. Special reference is made to the international expansion of our business, investment in new processes, product innovation, research and development and employment creation. Customers, suppliers and society in general, are shown not only the team of people that make up GAC, but also our brands and products, as well as the company’s broad productive capacity at an agricultural and industrial level and our bid for sustainability. GAC’s sustainability, quality and food safety enhancement as for products and continuous innovation are part of the objectives pursued in this proposal for openness to society. The clarity and transparency of our actions are the basis of the functioning of our company. A commitment that defines our way of being. Grupo Alimentario Citrus (GAC) Avda. dels Gremis, Parcela 28 Pol. Ind. Sector 13 46394 Riba-roja de Túria. Valencia (Spain) T. +34 961 642 934 www.grupoalimentariocitrus.com ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Great figures Letter from the President Milestones of the Year WHO WE ARE 10 Our roots Our philosophy and business model Our value proposal Our activity A Renowned company Internationalisation: Thurländer WE ARE RESPONSIBLE 25 Our commitment with ODS With our employees With society With the environment 3 REASONS FOR OUR SUCCESS WE ARE PRODUCERS 57 From the seed to the shelf State of the art technology and high industrial capacity Hand in hand with our best partners WE ARE OUR PRODUCTS 79 We listen out for trends The healthy revolution has its own brand Heal thy, safe eating Health and time for our consumers Our Latest Developments 2018 WE ARE INNOVATION AND EFFICIENCY 99 Our innovative spirit Leaders in operations Food safety at your service Service and competitiveness Continuous investment Sustainable growth 2018 in great figures 7 PROCESSING PLANTS 25 CROP FIELDS +40 CUSTOMERS IN 30 COUNTRIES 5,000 HECTARES OF AGRICULTURAL LAND 2,300 EMPLOYEES Annual Report 2018 INVESTMENT €5.1M €308M TURNOVER +200 REFERENCES IN (+21.7%) OUR ASSORTMENT 31 MILLION UNITS OF TUBS AND 214 MILLION UNITS POUCHES (+6%) OF READY-TO-EAT SALADS (+13.2%) Letter from the President The year 2018 will be remembered as one of the years that has given us the most satisfaction with respect to the work that was both well-planned and perfectly executed. Including this year, it has been 13 years of continuous improvement in both sales and profitability. It has been a year of consolidating the immense effort to implement the GAC2020 Stragetic Plan, which has been unfolding over the last two years. It is this profound transformation that has enabled us to achieve all the successes that is compiled in this report. When we talk about success at GAC, we are not only talking about economic or sales results, we are also talking about how we have achieved higher levels of innovation, optimization and efficiency in operations, as well as success in the development of our employees. Today GAC is a magnet of attraction for top level talent and is considered an great exemplar of development for professionals due to its high level of internal promotion. GAC also sets an example owing to Joaquín Ballester Martinavarro our training and development programs, such as President “Growing GAC” and “Junior Talent”. This 2018 has been a year of celebrations, our Antequera plant has turned 15 years old. Since 2003, the plant has been growing nonstop, making it what it is today an outstanding, high performance, production centre. Our fundamental purpose is to grow with a clear, wholesome identity that makes us sustainable over time. In order to achieve this, it is very clear to us that we must be market leaders not only in products but also leaders in INNOVATION; one of our unmistakable signs of identity. At GAC we want to revolutionize healthy eating, so as to help the consumer maintain a balanced diet with products that can be enjoyed day after day, anytime and anywhere. Over the years we have been pioneers in launching new products and new categories. One of the most important innovations in 2018 was MICROGREENS, which we developed at our Center for Agricultural Innovation (CIAM). Another innovation that has arrived to revolutionize the shelves is MICRO VEGS; an ideal solution for those who want fresh products, to eat healthily, and save time. In addition, I also want to highlight our 'it's Oats’ products; the plant-based alternative to yogurt with probiotics that help us take care of ourselves. We are proud to say we patented its production process. Together with our strong commitment to innovation and, precisely to reinforce our identity, it is strategic for GAC to develop our Sun&Vegs brand: a brand that we are already positioning in the main markets and in different channels. Another example of our revolution is our project to develop our vending channel with a fresh and healthy winning proposal. 6 Annual Report 2018 Our healthy revolution must be a responsible one, with respect for the environment and the efficient use of resources. That is why we have the most demanding certifications in this area and, as a demonstration of our commitment to sustainability, this year we have promoted the category of organic products, which is increasingly demanded by our consumers. At our Nutrition Unit, 50% of the references produced already bear an organic stamp. We have started developing a complete assortment of vegetables and ready-to-eat products under our BIO Sun&Vegs brand name. We want to be the consumers’ first choice when it comes to choosing between fresh, healthy product manufacturing companies. In this way we create long-term value for shareholders, workers, employees, consumers and the societies in which we are present. Thus, this year we have been able to grow successfully in our traditional national markets. And at the same time, we have also focused intensely on the international market, with a total commitment to diversifying markets and customers, without losing this clear vision of our company. On the world stage, the main milestone of the year has been the incorporation of Thurländer into our group. The acquisition and integration process has been a very motivating and successful experience. I would like to thank the entire team for their hard work, and for making a major effort to make it successful. Thurländer is a German salad company that has allowed us to increase sales of the group by more than 20%. It also gives us the opportunity to reach international markets effectively. For us, the European market is a market full of opportunities and affords us opportunities for growth. A market in which we can continue to develop our INNOVATION, but at the same time it will help to inspire us as well as help us to keep on learning from new tastes, new consumption formats, new product families, new customers. The addition of Thurländer to our group also provides us with enormous operational synergies for all the Group’s enterprises, both at an agricultural and industrial level. This allows us to keep on improving and become more efficient. We are very proud of the German team’s incorporation. Due to it being both dynamic and a proven success we forsee a future full of exciting projects together. This intense international expansion is the main growth pillar of our GAC2020 Strategic Plan: we have increased international sales to 83 million euros, representing 27% of our turnover. This is an exciting and complex process, but at the same time full of great opportunities. The world is very big and new needs appear on a daily basis, and someone must be able to meet these needs. Therefore, that is where we must be. Facing those challenges, looking for where we can bring innovation and knowledge. We must be in places where we can bring solutions for new consumption formats, to meet new trends, learn how to develop new products that allow us to continue growing and take our healthy revolution further. I feel very satisfied with all the achievements made during 2018. I have full confidence in the people who make up GAC and I know that we are able to keep on GROWING together and improving in the future, building an increasingly sustainable, more honest, more transparent project. An integrated project for all those who are passionate about innovative, healthy, fresh food. A project that follows the latest trends, that wants to overcome limits continuously, and that is always with a tireless future challenge. 7 Milestones of the Year Willkommen Thurländer! We have taken the first step towards our internationalisation as a company by acquiring a foreign production plant, Thurländer, a market leader as for the bowl format salad segment in Germany. —P. 20 ICEX 100 Growth Program —P. 19 8th March Prize for the Murcia Region Our Agricultural business unit has been acknowledged for being an example in Organic assortment its bid for equality and for developing We want to offer our consumers more sustainable measures to ease reconciling work and options. We have launched our organic agricultural family life. assortment under the BIO Sun&Vegs brand name. —P. 34 —P. 64 8 Annual Report 2018 Antequera celebrates its 15th anniversary —P. 123 Continuous Innovation We have invested over a million €uros in R&D to A healthy revolution under launch new products, inter alia, microgreens, our own brand name MicroVegs or our Poke Salad. —P. 90 Sun&Vegs consolidates its position in Portugal and touches down in Spain through different channels. —P. 102 New markets in nutrition Our baby food assortment keeps on growing with organic certified new references and it enters the Asian market for the first time. —P. 115 International Growth In 2018 we reached a 308 million €uro turnover, 21.7% more than the year before. 27% of our sales are in international markets. —P. 124 Digital Transformation We put technology at the service of growth, efficiency and competitiveness in our daily management.—P. 106 9 Who we are We are an agro-alimentary group, specialists in fresh, healthy food. We help consumers to follow a balanced diet with products that can be enjoyed day after day, anywhere, anytime. We want to revolutionize healthy eating. 10 Annual Report 2018 Our roots 1946 Pioneer citrus exporters, all over Europe, thanks to the hardwork of the group's founders, the Ballester Martinavarro family. 2000 Innovation offering health conscious consumers the best solution: our practical, ready-to-eat salads and vegetables were born, hand in hand with Verdifresh in Valencia. 2003-2007 We make our products reach more consumers. Verdifresh covers all Spanish territory, by means of its centres in Valencia, Malaga, Burgos and Tenerife. 2010 Thanks to our innovative spirit and our experience, we brought out new product categories; branching out into specific solutions for babies and children. Alnut is born, in Carlet. 2013 We put our own vegetable production into practice. We integrated Agromediterránea into the group, thus controlling the origins of our products, ensuring maximum freshness, quality and variety for our consumers. 2017 Our own brands: Byba for baby food/products and Sun & Vegs for fresh produce were born. The international expansion started in Portugal. 2018 Our healthy revolution crossed borders: we strengthened our international bid by purchasing Thurländer, a market leader in salad bowl formats, in Germany. TODAY We take our products from our fields to the world. We strengthened our commitment to healthy eating and developed new products and formats which cover current consumption trends. The healthy revolution has just begun. 11 Who we are Our philosophy and business model Over the years, organizations like people change, evolve and grow. But the essence, what an organOur philosophy is our ization is, its identity, remains unchanged. In our essence, it speaks of case, that identity and way of being is compiled in GAC’s Philosophy. Our philosophy speaks about strengths, values and the strengths of our business, the common values that we share and that allow us to grow, and that roots that define us are true to our roots and focused on clear objectives. It makes us more transparent and honest as a company. Here’s who we are. Because at GAC we are not only proud of what we do, but also of how we do it. 12 Annual Report 2018 FUNDAMENTAL PURPOSE VISION OUR MISSION OBJECTIVES OUR FUNDAMENTAL OBJECTIVES PURPOSE We have defined a set of objectives that enTo grow with a clear identity that will allow us to compass the fulfilment of our mission: We must be sustainable now and for the long term. always increase our turnover, with growth and differentiation strategies. VISION ▶▶ By developing our business growth with Being the consumers’ first choice, when it comes our current customers, by looking after to fresh, healthy product companies, at all the them and growing with them. stages of their lives, creating added value in the ▶▶ By means of product diversification with long term for our shareholders, employees, colnew launches and new categories; focused laborators and consumers. on innovation. ▶ ▶ By means of customer and channel OUR MISSION diversification. We help consumers to follow a balanced diet ▶▶ By means of market diversification, with a with products that can be enjoyed day after day, clear internationalisation strategy. anywhere, anytime. Increasing our profitability, with cost reduction strategies. ▶▶ With a profitability that’s higher than the sector average. ▶▶ Financially sound. And we’re going to achieve it thanks to a leading value proposal. OUR LEADERSHIP PROPOSAL Our strategy is based on a clear value proposal, that is sustained by leadership pillars: Operations, Customers and Products 13 Who we are 2018: bigger, stronger, more sustainable During 2018 the management team of GAC has continued to develop the new strategy of the company, aimed at ensuring sustainable growth. In this last calendar year, we have become a multinational company. The acquisition of the company Thurländer in Germany accelerates the achievement of our objectives, which are focused on the diversification of customers, channels, markets and maximizing the synergies of our current business. We continue on the road we started on in 2015 towards leadership and sustainability, in a clear commitment to becoming the consumers’ first choice when it comes to fresh and healthy product companies. Business Unit Managers Top photo from left to right: José Daniel Bóveda (Nutrition), Miguel García (IV range), Jorge Reig (Agricultural). GAC’s Board of Directors Righthand photo from left to right: Antonio González (Organization and People), Cristina Puchades (Business Development), Federico Ponte (Finances), Rafael Boix (General Manager), José Ramón Martínez (Operations), Jesús Gómez (Purchases). 14 Annual Report 2018 15 Who we are Our value proposal Our activity as a company in the food sector covers all our production chain, from the seed to the consumer’s table Agricultural • Vegetables straight from the fields IV and V range • Ready-to-eat or ready-to-cook salads and vegetables Baby Food • Fruit and vegetable purées for children • Smoothies • Plant-based alternatives to yoghurt Our production centres and croplands IV range plants Agricultural plant Nutrition plant Agricultural cultivation areas 16 Annual Report 2018 Our activity Agricultural Business Unit We boast processing plants in different loWe have more than 5,000 hectares of crops distribactions, all fully equipped with state-of-the-art uted over 25 farms, located in 7 provinces, which technology. In Spain, we are located in Riba-roja allows us to guarantee production throughout de Túria (Valencia), Antequera (Málaga), Aranda the year. de Duero (Burgos) and Granadilla de Abona (TenWe grow 34 varieties of plants and aromatic erife). In Germany, we have a plant in Thurland herbs that we care for and pamper from the seed (Saxony-Anhalt). We always looking for maximum efficiency and respect for the environment, so that our products Nutrition Business Unit arrive to the consumers in conditions of maximum We offer a wide variety of innovative products, freshness. Our agricultural processing plant is loalways made with natural recipes, without precated in the town of Dolores de Pacheco (Murcia). servatives or colouring agents, and with a low At CIAM, our Agricultural Innovation Centre in sugar and fat-content. Our range consists of 95 Montserrat (Valencia), we research more efficient references, designed to meet the demands of and sustainable ways to plant crops and we carry out our national and international customers. 50% trials in order to improve new agricultural varieties. of these references have an organic certification. Our baby food assortment has products adaptIV and V Range Business Unit ed to all ages, from 4 months to 12 years, with We select, prepare, wash and pack those same fruit recipes, vegetables with meat or fish, and vegetables straight from the field to offer practical dairy desserts in practical formats such as tubs products to those who have little time to cook or pouches in different sizes. and want to maintain a healthy and balanced diet. The innovative capacity of our plant also allows We have more than 100 references ranging from us to develop new categories such as plant-based bagged salads or bowl format to bagged vegetables alternatives to yogurt. We produce these products and fresh produce or fresh microwavable dishes. at our modern plant in Carlet (Valencia). 17 Who we are A Renowned Company Our commitment to innovation and management Recognition to our innovative focused on quality employment has led us to product ‘it’s Oats’ receive numerous awards in recent years. These 2018 has been the year of our plant-based alternaare small successes that reward the work of a great tive to yoghurt: ‘It’s Oats’. This product was granted team and encourage us to continue working to the Wabel Award, an international award that bring us ever closer to business excellence. rewards the best innovations in the food sector in Europe. It was also awarded the most innovative product of the year in the We’re Smart Awards 2018 a prestigious platform that works in favour of a balanced, healthy and natural diet. 18 Annual Report 2018 A successful track record Among other awards received, in 2017, the Spanish Agricultural, Fishing and Food Ministry acknowledged our commitment to innovation by awarding us the Spanish Food Prize 2016 for the Best Food Industry in Spain. Our vision of becoming the consumer’s first choice when it comes to fresh and healthy products is also applied to people’s surroundings. To this end, in recent years we have developed innovative training programmes, which have received outstanding recognition. Thus, in 2016 the GAC Degree Project received the ZEN Award (which bestows the supplement of the El Mundo newspaper with the same name and consultancy GAC, selected for the Spanish government’s internationalisation PREMIO 2016 program In the last year GAC has been one of the hundred ALIMENTOS Spanish companies selected by ICEX Spain’s Export and Investment Ministry professionalization. DE E S PA Ñ A This corporate transformation program which INDUSTRIA ALIMENTARIA trains companies in order for them to become companies with higher added value, more inGOBIERNO MINISTERIO novative, more competitive and more internaDE ESPAÑA DE AGRICULTURA Y PESCA, ALIMENTACIÓN Y MEDIO AMBIENTE tionalized. It also aims to serve as a role model for other Spanish companies take these success stories as examples. firm Adecco) in its Social Scope category. It is here where those companies and managers are recognised for basing their management from the human perspective. Previously, in 2015 our internal training program GAC Degree Project was also awarded a runner-up prize at the XIII Entrepreneurs & Employment Awards for Human Resources InnovaThe experts at ICEX will work alongside the GAC tion, organized by Expansión and the Enterprise team for months to develop all the company’s Institute (IE). And in 2014 our internal training growth potential and assess future strategies program Guest was also acknowledgedat the (at both global and sector level) for the short, 12th Entrepreneurial & Employment Awards for medium or long term. Innovation in Human Resources Expansion and EI. 19 Who we are Thurländer: our healthy revolution crosses frontiers We have taken the first great step towards internationalisation as a company by acquiring our first production plant abroad, Thurländer, a market leader in the salad bowl format segment in Germany 20 Annual Report 2018 The integration of Uniting our experience with Thurländer will allow us to continue offering the best selection of Thurländer gives us fresh, healthy products, adapted to each market, while joining strengths and offering new frontiers a great potential for to our healthy revolution. Market leaders in Spain in the ready-to-eat salad segment, and with an ever growth increasing presence in the Portuguese market, we thus add new customers and markets -in Germany, Since 2015 we have been working on a strategy Austria and Denmarkto whom we’ll also take to become a stronger, more competitive, leading our wide range of Fresh-Cut range of products. company. During 2018 we have taken a firm step on that road towards leadership by acquiring our first overseas production facility, Thurländer a salad producing company in Germany, founded in 1999. The integration of Thurländer into GAC Group is an extraordinary milestone: it makes us more competitive and strengthens our position in order to continue growing sustainably. The acquisition of Thurländer brings us closer to our vision of becoming the consumers’ first choice when it comes to fresh and healthy products. A company in growth Thurländer’s ready-to-eat products processing Social Commitment plant is located in the German town Thurland, in the Saxony-Anhalt. Thurländer shares GAC's values as well as In 2018 it reached a turnover of 50,5 million its commitment to responsible manageeuros (+12%) and a production of 37 million units. ment. Similarly, the company is working Currently 336 people are part of the team at the on making efficient use of its resources plant. in its processes, minimizing its carbon It is leader in the salad bowl format segment in footprint, aiming to make a positive mark Germany, with a market share of 35%. Moreover, on the environment where it operates. Thurland supplies the main distribution chains in Among the charitable actions the comthe German, Danish and Austrian markets. pany has undertaken in favor of the local With a surface area of over 8.500 m2, the plant community you will find that, over the has the latest technologies in the vegetable prolast year, Thurländer has collaborated cessing field, which guarantee maximum quality by purchasing teaching material for a and food safety in the products it produces. In local kindergarden, where many factory addition, in the last two years state of the art employees take their children. It also machinery has been installed for the Fresh-Cut has a collaboration agreement with the range sector making this plant highly efficient local fire brigade for the renewal of their and competitive. material and equipment. Over 50 references are made at this centre, all of them are salad bowl formats. 21 Who we are Joining strengths: endive, red lollo, radicchio, batavia, among others. raw material supply The centralization of purchases has meant a perpooling fectly coordinated sync between the Procurement Teams at our Agricultural Units, GAC’s IV range and The integration of Thurländer into the GAC group the Operations team at Thurländer. Similarly, from has enabled us to bring together strengths at an the outset, the Logistics Offices at all our different operational level making us more productive and subsidiaries have been involved in order to optimise effective from the outset. A clear example has been shipments from both suppliers and the Group’s the centralisation when purchasing raw materials. own Agricultural Unit, thus always guaranteeing In the first 3 months (October-December), 45% of the highest quality and freshness of raw materials the German plant’s horticultural purchases have and the most efficient logistics solutions. become centralised, taking advantage of the synThis excellent teamwork has allowed us to keep ergy regarding suppliers with whom the group the entire production chain under better control maintains stable, long-term relationships. Likewise, in terms of quality and food safety. At the same the Group’s own Agricultural Unit also supplies the time, it opens up a path to a constant search for Thurländer plant with fresh produce grown in our greater synergies for both Thurländer and the rest fields on the shores of the Mediterranean, such as of the company’s units. From the left to the right: Radek (Production), Matthias (Supplies), Patrick (Controlling), Martin (Calidad), Rebekka (Admin and People), Fernando (Integration Manager), Renè (Maintenance), Oriella (Operative processes), Eckard (Purchases & Sales), Alicia (Integration team). 22 Annual Report 2018 The Acquisition Process THURLÄNDER IN FIGURES In October 2018, with the acquisition of the compa336 ny Thurländer, GAC began its international journey within the company’s strategy of growth in search of new markets, channels and customers. EMPLOYEES It was the culmination of a strategy of acquisi€50.5M tions which we had worked on for months, in detail and that, among other aspects, covered a studied selection of the objective, the internal training of TURNOVER our teams selected for the inorganic growth. In addition it included a company integration plan which was structured in several phases (the takeover, quick-wins and our ‘100 day’ plan). This allowed +50 REFERENCES IN THEIR ASSORTMENT 8,500m2 us to initiate a shareholder transition process in an orderly manner, and to be on a constant look out for the greatest opportunities for Thurländer as well as for the rest of the companies in the group. INDUSTRIAL SURFACE AREA 37M Ensuring the maximum supply of raw materials from our Agricultural business unit for the upcoming campaigns, teamwork with industrial suppliers showcases the group’s combined volumes, or UNITS SOLD 35% making the most of GAC’s innovative capacity to design a portfolio which is suitable for the German market, are clear examples of value creation we are achieving from the very beginning. MARKET SHARE Our integration plan which was defined for Thurländer, alongside the experience gained during these months by the team, lays down solid procedural and working foundations at an organizational level. This has enabled us to learn, and enjoy ourselves while developing a project with high expectations of success. Excellent work and a very high level of professionalism that of course would not be possible without the effort of a big part of the GAC team. Special thanks go out to Oriella Quiroga and Alicia Gómez-Huedo, who alongside all their colleagues at Thurländer, have enabled us to successfully Fernando Bas, complete this process. Integration manager GAC-Thurländer 23 Our growth as a company is based on sustainable growth and making a positive impact on society. WE ARE RESPONSIBLE We are responsible The United Nations Global Compact From private to general affairs. From the seed to the final product. At Grupo Alimentario Citrus (GAC) we pay attention to each and every one of the processes of our activity in order to continue reaching a basic objective: our commitment to the principles of sustainability. Principles that permeate every action carried out at our business units and that are enshrined in the United Nations Global Compact to which, one more year, we adhere. Customers and consumers, workers, suppliers and, ultimately, society in general, are at the heart of our philosophy and management. Our growth as a company is based on sustainable growth, and so we seek to positively impact society. We play our part to create a more sustainable world From a financial point of view, as well as a social and environmental angle, once again this year, we have designed a business strategy aimed at extending honest, transparent relations with all the events with which we interact every day. It is our way of being and doing things, the only way we know, to continue growing and contributing our seed to create a more sustainable world. Thus, since 2011, we have renewed our commitment to the principles upheld by the United Nations Global Compact for the Defence of Fundamental Values, year after year. A few core areas that we make our own every day. 26 We are responsible Committed to Sustainable Development The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the tices, among others, alongside Objective 3, Health most ambitious programme in history to address and Goods , which seeks to extend a healthy diet the major social and environmental problems and transparent labelling. facing humanity. This global partnership for the Guided by this global challenge, GAC contribachievement of the Agenda 2030 which calls for utes to the achievement of these objectives and action by governments, civil society and the private challenges by starting a healthy eating revolution, sector, which is given a particularly relevant role. which covers sustainable management both in our The United Nations understands that these fields and crops, the continuous efficiency and companies, due to their experience, skills, reinnovation in our processes, and the elaboration sources and scope, are essential in order to find of an assortment of fresh, healthy products that solutions to local and global challenges posed make our current consumer‘s lives so much easier. by the Agenda 2030 and to this end it has set 17 Development Goals. These SDGs, which range from the elimination We contribute to the achievement of of poverty to the fight against climate change, education, women’s equality, environmental protection or the design of our cities, aims to ensure sustainable social and economic progress and SDGs by means of our strengthen universal peace within a broader healthy revolution concept of freedom. Within this international framework, in 2017 the Spanish Network of the United Nations Global Within our healthy revolution, we are aware Compact launched the Agro-Food Working Group, that responsible consumption habits on behalf with a double objective: on the one hand, that the of citizenry, in our society, are increasingly gainleading companies of the sector were aware of the ing strength, giving priority to criteria such as an framework of the United Nations and promoted improvement in the quality and safety of food or their work on SDGs and, on the other hand, to the environmental impact of its production and develop a sectoral guide of good practices and transport. For this reason, we have comprehensive resources that can help all Spanish companies controls and indicators of continuous improvement in the sector. Based on these 17 objectives, 30 in our cultivation and processing processes of our challenges have been identified in the food and products, to always ensure the highest quality agricultural sector in Spain, most of which relate and food safety. We also promote the use of Bioto Objective 12, Ensuring sustainable consumpdegradable, recyclable y reusable packaging and tion and production patterns , under Objective 2, work on sustainably managing our supply chain, promoting the efficient agrarian management of also boosting measures to minimize food waste, natural resources and sustainable cultivation pracfollowing the SDG principle number 12. 28 Annual Report 2018 Similarly, in GAC we are committed to promoting our contribution to these objectives, integrating the health and welfare of consumers by means of our all these challenges into the development of our fresh, healthy products, in practical formats, always activity, from the seed to the shelves. with maximum transparency in nutrition information via clear labelling, and we extend measures to promote a healthy diet and lifestyle, fulfilling the strategic lines of SDG number 3. We want to consolidate ourselves as a company linked to sustainable development by means of 29 We are responsible PUT AN END TO POVERTY We promoted measures as a social contribution. Our contribution to the Sustainable Thus, we have renewed, for yet another year, our Development Objectives commitment with entities that help the most underpriviledged people, collaborating with food donations. SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE We promote efficient agricultural management of natural resources, especially water, and we also promote sustainable and ecological farming practices. HEALTH AND WELFARE We are committed to a more sustainable range of products with the development of varieties and references of products certified ORGANIC. We are committed to improving the health of the global population and promoting healthy lifestyles, which we develop through the extension of measures to promote a healthy diet, with our innovative products. QUALITY EDUCATION We guarantee our employees access to lifelong learning opportunities that allow them to be trained and grow professionally. Our bid for the incorporation of students of professional and university modules for their development in the company, for example, through our Junior Talent GAC program. GENDER EQUALITY Within the different factors as for diversity, we are committed to the effective equality of women and men. Our overall workforce is made up of 50.1% women and 49.9% men. We also guarantee a corporate culture of zero tolerance towards any form of discrimination. CLEAN WATER AND SANITISATION We promote sustainable water management in order to minimise the water footprint of our activity. We have reduced this indicator by 38.5% at our Nutrition Unit and moreover, in our fields, we have introduced crops and methods that have allowed us to use less water. 30 Annual Report 2018 CLEAN, AFFORDABLE ENERGY RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION We promote efficient energy practices. Over 2018 We promote measures to reduce raw material we have finished implementing LED illumination losses and food waste. technology in all our processing plants in Spain. We optimise the size of our packaging and apply new, more sustainable materials to the packaging DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH of our products. We promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable We guarantee clear and visible labelling on our economic growth, with a focus on stable, quality products, which provide the consumer with employment, promoting appropriate and transparent and reliable information. In this dignified working conditions for all our people commitment, we not only comply with the and guaranteeing opportunities for promotion established legal requirements, but also provide and professional development. additional information on the ingredients of We guarantee decent working conditions and processed products, such as those of the sauces take care of our people, by means of the creation that accompany our salads. of a safe and healthy working environment, focusing our responsibility also on training our CLIMATE ACTION staff on the prevention of occupational risks. By means of the definition of key policies and indicators we can identify, prioritize and manage environmental indicators in our daily INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE management. Innovation is part of our business culture and we are committed to promoting innovation and At our Nutrition Unit we have reduced last year’s technologies in the agro-alimentary sector to indicator of raw material waste by 26.1%. make it more sustainable. At our IV range Unit we give a second life to our CIAM is yet another example of our commitment vegetable scraps. We have sent 15,000 tonnes of to innovation. Among the most innovative prothese scraps to local cattle breeders for cattle jects developed is a closed hydroponic culture feed. system for leaf crops, which allows 100% reuse of water and does not pollute the soil. PEACE, JUSTICE AND SOLID INSTITUTIONS We have developed our Code of Ethics, a tool that INEQUALITY REDUCTION we have endowed ourselves with to ensure We collaborate with various initiatives aimed at honesty, integrity and respect, principles that children and a healthier life. have guided us from our origins, and that must We have also promoted the social inclusion of ensure good practices, transparency, rigour, and people in situations of vulnerability and have the prevention of all forms of corruption in our incorporated people with functional diversity daily activity. into our workforce. ALLIANCES TO REACH OUR OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES We have promoted partnerships with a wide range We have improved the logistics operations of the of social, business, sectoral and educational supply chain by means of the packaging pooling associations to promote projec ts for the system, a system aligned with the circular environment and the sustainable development economy model which can contribute to the of our environment and our sector. reduction of carbon emissions, the use of natural resources and the production of waste with. 31 We are responsible Responsible with our employees We have an extraordinary team of employees able to lead the changes that this large consumption sector, this competitive environment and GAC’s international position impose on us day by day. 2,291 EMPLOYEES IN OUR WORKFORCE Our people represent a priceless asset for the company, because thanks to their work, our business project is getting stronger and more consolidated every day. Over these18 years, we have managed 87% WITH A PERMANENT WORK CONTRACT Thanks to our 93.5% team, our project WORKING FULL-TIME is stronger and more 50.1% WOMEN consolidated every day 49.9% MEN 35 to have a high level of employment with an occupational stability that exceeds the average in the agro-alimentary sector, a fact that makes us feel DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES proud of our way of being and doing things, and +401 that reflects our commitment to stable, quality employment. On 31st December 2018, a total of 2.291 people EMPLOYEES IN FRESH-CUT RANGE were part of our staff in the different business units in Spain and Germany. Of these, 87% have a permanent work contract and more than 93,5% work full-time. Within our units, it has been the Fresh-cut range that has recorded the greatest increase in their staff members. Overall, the area employs 1,032 people, 63.5% more than at the end of the previous year, 32 Annual Report 2018 2.8% 4.2% Committed to diversity and stable, good quality AGRICULTURAL UNIT FRESH-CUT RANGE UNIT 45% employment 48% an increase motivated mainly by the acquisition of the German company Thurländer, which has 336 employees. In our Fresh-cut range plants in EMPLOYEES PER BUSINESS UNIT Spain we have gone from 631 to 696 employees, 48% of our employees belong to the agricultural unit, 45% to the Fresh-cut range Unit, 4.2% to the Nutrition Unit and which means we have created 65 new positions the remaining 2.8% belong to the corporative structure in the last calendar year. of the group. 33 We are responsible We are diversity 8th of March Award to Equality At GAC we believe in and are committed to diverGAC’s Agricultural Business Unit has been recsity in terms of our people, regardless of gender, ognised with the March 8 Award in the Murcia age, religion, professional profile or nationality. region as an example of a company that is comThe diversity of our staff contributes to our committed to equality by means of policies to generate petitiveness and allows us to always have the best equal opportunities between men and women team of people and the best talent. and the implementation of measures to facilitate This commitment is part of our essence and our the reconciliation of work and family life. way of doing things. Our overall workforce is 50.1% women and 49.9% men. And we have employees of 35 nationalities, coming from 4 different continents. Among the different diversity factors, we are In addition, in the different areas and business committed to the effective equality between women and men. Our overall workforce is made units, we have very diverse profiles, ranging from up of 50.1% women and 49.9% men. We also field operators or logistics engineers specialized guarantee a corporate culture of zero tolerance for any way or form of discrimination. in areas such as food technology, robotics or industrial design, experts in nutrition, purchases, We promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, with a focus on stable, quality biology or marketing. This diversity is what makes employment, promoting appropriate and us stronger, more competitive and, ultimately, dignified working conditions for all our people and guaranteeing opportunities for promotion better on a daily basis. and professional development. 34 Annual Report 2018 Training and Development In the development of our activity we want to €2M BONUS AND PERKS FOR EMPLOYEES count on the best team of people. That is why, €340,000 at GAC, we are not only committed to stable and quality employment, but we also promote learning and talent, professional development and the growth of our human capital. Furthermore, we TRAINING INVESTMENT reward the effort and motivation of our team of 212 people because they are undoubtedly an essential cog in the gear that has allowed us to grow and that will allow us to continue growing as a company in the future. COURSES AND TRAINING PROGRAMS We want to attract, develop and retain the best talent 94 PEOPLE WHO WERE PROMOTED INTERNALLY 43% of our managers at GAC are women. In the photos, above: Elvira Sanz, People&Organization manager; Diana Pallares, Admin manager; Esther Verdú, Integration manager (Italy). Below: Susana Balerdi, floor manager at our IV range plant in Riba-roja and Pepi Madrid, our Quality manager (Agricultural Business Unit). 35 We are responsible Training is the seed of growth potential is channelled towards achieving the Training our employees is fundamental. We are goals and strategies set by the organization. committed to constant learning and to giving The objective is to discover the true potential employees the opportunity to learn new processes, of each professional and use the information to to enable them to successfully carry out their work design development programs, succession plans but also to allow them to grow professionally and and the Group’s growth maps. develop their career within the Group. During 2018 we have contributed to improving Rewarding efforts the knowledge and skills of our employees by inFaithful to our motto of attracting, developing vesting more than 340,000 euros in 212 programs and retaining the best talent, to create the best and courses, that translated into 12,915 hours of team we reward effort, dedication, commitment training in, inter alia, prevention of occupational and excellent work done by our employees. For risks or in areas as diverse as internationalisation, this reason, during 2018 we allocated 2 million languages or management skills. euros to bonuses and social benefits, as part of the company’s incentive plan. We also believe that company growth must We have allocated € 2 M be closely linked to that of our employees. Our commitment to creating opportunities and proto bonuses and benefits fessional development culminated this 2018 with for our employees the internal promotion of 94 people – 50 women and 44 men in the different business units, thus contributing to their career advancement within Development at every stage the company. Training for our team of people begins from the moment they join the company. Thereafter, they continue their training and development by following the indicators set out in the group’s talent We guarantee our employees training and access matrix, which is the instrument we use to detect to lifelong learning opportunities that enable them to train and grow professionally. We also the performance and potential of our employees. bid on the incorporation of students from professional and university modules for their Using this tool, the development needs of each development in the company, for example, individual are more efficiently identified, and this through our Junior Talent GAC program. Growing GAC RECENT YOUNG GRADUATES 1 PROFILES 2 HIGH POTENTIAL INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 3 MANAGEMENT TRAINING 4 Junior GAC GAC Management Talent GAC Degree Forward Development 36 Annual Report 2018 We nurture talent In our commitment to team building, we have developed innovative programs ranging from attracting the talent of young university students to the continual training for our employees in their different phases within the company so that they can do anything from developing their career in the international environment to training as potential managers. Junior Talent GAC During 2018 we held a new edition of the program for young graduates Junior Talent GAC . A comGAC Forward mitment to training, talent acquisition and the This training program provides detailed knowledge future development of future company leaders. of the internationalisation processes of companies, During their participation in this program, the and enables teams and individuals to exercise the selected young people receive continuous trainnecessary skills to gain experience in these proing and mentoring. In addition, they have the cesses. Every year twenty people from different opportunity to work at different business units areas of the group participate and the training of the company for a period of two to three years, includes sessions on communication, influence, discovering the way each of the teams work by conflict management, critical thinking and poassuming responsibilities from day one. tential-assessment. With the preparation of our people on this matter we facilitate change management in processes like that of the integration of Thurländer. Growing GAC Our international development strategy during our acquisition of Thurländer in Germany last October, has opened GAC Degree doors to new markets, customers and In 2018, the fourth edition of the GAC Degree channels for us. Similarly, we launched program was held, a program that aims to give this innovative program through which participants the opportunity to get to know the we opted to provide our employees with company’s different business units, together with the opportunity to participate in integratheir managers. Eleven employees participated tion and internationalisation processes, in this edition and received 55 hours of internal an experience that will allow them to and external training, in which they can count on enrich their profiles and lead the GAC of collaboration from experts from ESIC for, inter the present and the GAC of the future. alia, “emotional training”, management culture. 37 We are responsible Interview with Oriella Quiroga, but above all I learn other strategies that I didn’t Junior Talent 2015 and our current carry out in Spain. Operative Process manager at Your professional career is the result of interThurländer (Germany) nal promotion. Is it an important factor for Oriella Quiroga joined GAC in May 2015, as part of personal motivation and growth? the professional development program for young Absolutely, I have no doubts. The security that graduates “Junior Talent”. During her training you feel knowing the company trusts you is comitinerary, she developed functions at the plants forting and a reason for personal satisfaction. of Antequera, Aranda, Riba-roja de Túria and at You’re capable of getting the best out of yourself, our central offices. In 2018 she participated in the of being more productive, of motivating yourself GAC Forward programme, training on internaday by day and of motivating the other people tionalisation and transformation processes. She around you. is currently responsible for the Operations area at Thurländer, the German ready-to-eat salad What did the Junior Talent program mean for specialist company acquired by GAC in October. your training and following entrance in the work market? You have spent time at our plants in AntequeI cannot conceive or imagine my professional ra, Aranda and Riba-roja. Is it fundamental to beginnings without this programme. It has been work on location to get to know the group and an undoubted professional leap that surely would its employees? have taken me years to achieve. But nothing is For an operational position like mine, it’s essential. given away, on the contrary, the program has Getting to know the complete process from the been a challenge and highly demanding. This raw material in the field to the final product that has meant that my performance has become is sold to the customer, with all that this implies better every day. The secret of success is not (production processes, logistics, planning or inluck, but perseverance. frastructures)it is fundamental when it comes to making right decisions. And you only get that An engineer with specialist training in mechalevel of security when you’ve been on the ground, nics. Did you ever think that your knowledge seeing and analysing problems and achievements would end up underpinning an agro-alimenevery day. In addition to all the technical knowltary company? edge, there is the contact with all the people with Not at all. What’s more, before I started, I whom I have worked in each place, which are the thought: what am I doing here? And look now! fundamental pieces of this puzzle I have learnt to enjoy this sector, which I ‘m passionate about. Besides, thanks to my time at You are now a member of Thurländer’s integrathe company I have complemented my degree tion team. How do your internal and external with executive training specialized in industrial knowledge of the company contribute to the organization. new stage? It is an exceptional opportunity for me to be What is you like the most about GAC? part of this integration process. I am responsible It's very satisfactory to see the company you for the industrial coordination of all the operabelong to, growing and evolving. I consider mytional units of all the business units necessary self a very restless person, so I always need new to integrate Thurländer into our group. Being a challenges, to grow and improve. GAC allows company with the same IV range business I still me to do this, and that's why I enjoy my job on apply all the knowledge that I already acquired, a daily basis. 38 Annual Report 2018 39 We are responsible A safe work tional hazard prevention service has been set up. environment In addition, some 73 percent of our workers have received occupational hazard prevention training Our leadership as a company is based on our most by means of one of the 83 courses carried out. In important asset our employees. That is why, from total, a total of 1.761 hours of training in, inter alia, our fields to our processing plants, to our offices Occupational Risk Prevention (ORP) for tractors, and different workplaces, we take care of our team the use of trucks or first aid. and create the necessary conditions to ensure a In the Nutrition Unit, Occupational Health and safe, healthy working environment. Safety training has been provided and ergonomic In our responsibility to our employees we alstudies have been carried out with the aim of ways go the extra mile. This is why, in addition to helping to improve staff’’s health when working. complying with the strictest regulations regard79% of our staff attended these courses, which ing the prevention of occupational hazards, we amounted to 150 hours. also promote training as a key aspect to ensure the safety and health of all those people who Safety at work week work in the company on a daily basis. Thus, in Safety at work and risk prevention is one of our 2018, most of our employees have participated priorities as a company. On the occasion of the in training programs and actions associated with Worldwide Health and Safety at Work Day, which their work and the tasks they perform. A total of takes place on 28th April, we celebrated “Safety 1,807 people took part in one of the Occupational at Work Week . In our offices, plants and fields we Risk Prevention (ORP) programs implemented and held workshops on postural hygiene, first aid or 125 courses were carried out, which amounted to occupational safety workshops, with the aim of about 3,000 hours of training. raising awareness and providing training in the basic aspects in the daily lives of our employees Actions in motion in 2018 when carrying out their work. Workplaces, our facilities and processes are permanently subject to actions to eliminate or minimise risk factors. During 2018, the different business units passed a total of 44 internal audits, inspections and monitoring to safely assess and implement process improvement. The ex oficio work of the various technical bodies dependent on the Administration has also been attended to and successfully completed. In the fresh-cut range business unit, a large part of the workforce has received training in first aid, emergencies, safe handling of forklifts and ergonomics in order to ensure occupational safety and contribute to improving the health of our employees in their daily work. To this end, 42 courses have been carried out, involving 879 We guarantee dignified working conditions and hours of training. take care of our people, by means of the creation of a safe and healthy working environment, 2018 has been an important year in this area for focusing our responsibility also on training our our Agricultural business unit, as its own occupastaff on the prevention of occupational risks . 40 Annual Report 2018 125 COURSES RELATED TO HEALTH, SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARD PREVENTION 1,807 EMPLOYEES HAVE RECEIVED TRAINING IN THIS FIELD 44 AUDITS, INSPECTIONS AND FOLLOW-UPS COMPLETED SUCCESSFULLY Above: Training courses at our central offices, GAC, which took place in Safety at Work Week. Health, Safety and Occupational Hazard Prevention. Below: Practical training for our emergency response team at our plant in Riba-roja de Túria (Valencia). 41 We are responsible Committed to ethics up GAC share common values such as commitment, honesty or integrity. But we wanted to go Our Fundamental Purpose as a company is to grow a step further to define in a clear and transparent with a clear, integral identity that makes us susway which are are principles that establish the tainable over time. This declaration is written in standards of behaviour of our company.Thus, in our Philosophy Manual and has guided our steps 2018 we developed the first global Code of Ethics, over these 18 years. applicable to all employees of the group The fact is that at GAC we do not measure sucIt is a tool we have endowed ourselves with to cess and results solely by the figures or milestones maintain the principles that have guided our comachieved, but we also do so by the way those figpany since its birth: honesty, integrity and respect. It ures or milestones are achieved. Growing up with applies to each and every GAC employee, regardless a clear, integral identity is something that depends of their rank or the position they hold, thus ensuring on each and every one of the people who make the highest standards of ethical business practices. up our company, and is closely linked to how each Because we not only want to be proud of what we do, person acts on a daily basis, in their relationship but also of how we do it, says Antonio González, with their suppliers, with their colleagues or with the group’s Organization and People Manager. their consumers. The Code of Ethics has been developed as a Over this last calendar year we have taken a guide to actions within our Compliance philosgiant step in this direction. Those of us who make ophy, ensuring good practices and helping to Antonio González, Organization and People Manager. Being a successful company in the XXI century means that acting ethically and responsibly is mandatory 42 Annual Report 2018 identify and classify the operational and legal risks PILLARS IN THE GAC that GAC is faced with, while devising occupational CODE OF ETHICS hazard prevention and reaction mechanisms. Our Code of Ethics establishes our framework of reference to understand and put into practice the behaviour and expectations that the Company Professional Privacy places in each of us in our daily work. Beyond the Integrity protection subjectivity or ambiguous interpretations that may occur on certain issues , explains the manager. We all have a duty to protect and promote the brand and image of trust that GAC has built up since 2000 Our new Code of Ethics, in which 100% of employConflict of Commitments ees were trained during 2018, is presented as an interest with different essential piece covering different pillars. Firstly, stakeholders it emphasises professional integrity, based on information transparency and the good use of company resources and information. And apart from that, it protects the privacy of each and every Ethics and Conduct Committee one of the employees and consumers. In order to ensure the implementation and moniThis document also covers conflict of interest. toring of this framework, the Compliance Officer, Our guide provides us with mechanisms to monitor who is responsible for overseeing and monitoring and control actions that are related to gifts, as well conduct within the Group, has been established; as routines that involve selecting and negotiating the Ethics and Conduct Committee which has with suppliers, among other points. The last pillar been set up as a body comprised of employees of our code also compiles the company’s different from different departments, is responsible for commitments to employees, consumers, society interpreting the code properly and contributing and the environment. to its proper development. In this sense, the manager indicates: Being a In addition, this new action guide provides us successful company in the 21st century means that with an Ethical Mailbox, a channel for the Group’s acting ethically and responsibly is mandatory. Responemployees through which they may report, in a sible with our employees, of course, but also with the completely anonymous form, conduct which may other stakeholders related to our business: customers involve any irregularity or illegality, and which will and consumers, suppliers and society as a whole . be assessed by the Ethics Committee. In line with the challenges identified in SDG 16, we have developed our Code of Ethics, a tool that we have endowed ourselves with to ensure honesty, integrity and respect, principles that have guided us from our origins, and to ensure good practices, transparency, rigour and the prevention of all forms of corruption. 43 We are responsible Responsible with society Contributing to paving the way to a better society system in the poorest countries. The amount and creating a positive impact on our surroundings donated by our company is added the contriare at the heart of our philosophy and policies of butions of La Caixa and the Bill & Melinda Gates social responsibility. During the year we carried Foundations’. A total of 18,760 boys and girls in out various actions aimed at sealing our commitMozambique will be able to receive all three doses ment towards a more sustainable, balanced and of the pneumococcal vaccine against pneumonia. supportive world. This is the main global cause of infant mortality Within the framework of our social responsibility strategy, we have renewed our commitment to entities that support the most underprivileged We want to contribute to people. We have donated 100.000 pouches and paving the way towards baby food products, as well as more than 10,000 portions of vegetables and other products to a better society different entities like Caritas or the Food Bank and the Red Cross. Furthermore, we have implemented various In addition, we have collaborated with the initiatives aimed at children and at promoting Children’s Vaccination Program by La Caixa with a healthier life through our participation in vara donation of 50,000 euros to the organization ious initiatives, such as the toy collection by the Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance . This entity’s objective Red Cross at Christmas time or support for the is nothing other than to combat child mortality XXVII City of Carlet Football Tournament. In this through vaccination and achieve a better health sense, the 400 children who participated in this Joaquín Ballester Martinavarro (in the centre), alongside CaixaBank executives from the Valencian Community 44 Annual Report 2018 These are the main organizations we have helped over 2018. tournament received pouches of fruit and dairy that brings play closer to children who are addesserts after the matches. In addition, for another mitted to hospitals during cancer treatment, consecutive year we have supported the 5th Carlet creating spaces for play or providing toys. In this Walk organized by the Spanish Association Against action, assistance has been directed to children Cancer from the Valencian town of Carlet, to which admitted to the Hospital Infantil Universitario we contributed, as a donation, fruit pouches for Niño Jesús in Madrid. all participants. In addition, all our workplaces have participated in the campaign #Niunniñosinjuguete (no Healthy, charitable employees child without a present) that was put in motion We encourage participation in social causes among last Christmas by Red Cross so that no boy or our employees. Thus, we have organized a charity girl without resources would be left without a raffle in favour of “Juegaterapia”, an association present from Father Christmas. The Women's Race 2018 in Valencia 45 We are responsible As part of our healthy revolution, we conduct this reason, we maintain a constant dialogue with campaigns to promote healthy habits among the business, social and educational networks. employees. Advice on topics such as healthy eatNor do we neglect the transparent and honest ing, active living and safe driving was posted on links with the rest of the sector. Only by rowing screens in all workplaces. together can we achieve goals of global welfare The collaboration of our people has also exand a positive return to society. tended to blood donation campaigns that have been carried out at several centres during 2018, such as the Riba-Roja de Túria Centre (Valencia). And like every year, dozens of employees have joined in with charity races, which are already a tradition in our company. Thus, while becoming a team , the company promotes a healthy lifestyle By promoting measures for social contribution, we have renewed our commitment to entities by sponsoring the numbers on the backs of particthat help the most disadvantaged people by ipating employees. This year, among other things, collaborating with the food donation. GAC has collaborated with the Women’s Race in We have carried out various initiatives aimed at children and a healthier life by means of our Valencia and the Trinidad Alfonso. support for the Carlet football tournament, in which 400 children participated. We have also promoted the social inclusion of Committed to progress and people in situations of vulnerability, incorporating the food sector people with functional diversity into our plant in Carlet (Valencia). We are committed, to the development of the agro-alimentary sector. This is the driving force We promote partnerships with a wide range of business, sector and educational partners to behind our company and also one of the main axes develop sustainability projects. on which the Spanish economy also revolves. For These are the main associations that we assist as a company. 46 Annual Report 2018 Responsible with the environment Our activity is closely linked to our lands, with the efficient use of resources in all the areas of the sea, and the sun that bathes our crops. Our our activity. roots are in the countryside, where everything We are aware that sustainability in our daily begins, our history as a company and from where management is a continual challenge. That is why our products originate: products which we treat every year we also set ambitious targets on our and create with the utmost care and affection. main environmental impacts, mainly with regard It is this connection and our link with the natural to the use of water and electricity, in order to environment that makes us act responsibly and minimize our consumption. respect the environment, and leads us to care Our firm commitment to the protection of the for and preserve the area where we come from. environment and to a more efficient and sustainaThat is why, both in our fields and in our proble environmental management has materialized duction plants, we work to reduce and minimize For one year more, with the certification in the the impact of our activity on the environment. ISO 14001 standard at our Fresh-cut range and Our responsibility makes us increasingly deNutrition plants (an international standard that manding in this area. This is why we are working provides us with a framework to preserve and on the continuous improvement of our agriculprotect the environment) enables us to ensure tural practices, integrated logistics planning and that we meet our annual targets in this area. 47 We are responsible Innovation and efficiency starting We consolidate new at our croplands As producers, the efficient use of resources is one efficient, sustainable of our priorities, particularly with regard to water consumption. Thus, our farms have rainwater crops collection systems and we work continuously to techniques in certain varieties has allowed us to improve our irrigation systems and our cultivagrow the same number of plants using as little tion techniques, therefore optimizing our water soil as possible. resources. What is more, the use of new cultivation techThe use of single-use, recyclable and lower flow niques has allowed us to reduce the use of herbihoses has allowed us to save 30% of the water cides in open fields by 50%, in particular for our consumption per hectare in all our crops. iceberg, romaine lettuce, oak-leaf and broccoli During 2018, we also consolidated more efficrops. cient crop frameworks, with higher productivity In the case of our courgettes, we use recyclable per hectare, which means lower water, fertilizer blanket coverage, as a passive measure for pest and plant-protection product use per cultivated control which, in turn, reduces the consumption unit. Similarly, the improvement of cultivation of other plant-protection products by 30%. SLOW FLOWING HOSES COVERAGE WITH RECYCLABLE (TRANSPLANT CROPS) BLANKETS (COURGETTE)) -30% WATER -30% PLANT-PROTECTION PRODUCTS NEW CULTIVATION HIDROPHONIC CULTIVATION TECHNIQUES (OPEN FIELDS) IN GREENHOUSES (SHOOTS) -50% HERBICIDES -60% WATER 48 Annual Report 2018 In addition, in our fields we have state-of-the-art Improved processes and working methods in harvesting equipment which is also used to packthe Nutrition business unit have led to excellent age our vegetables directly in our fields. These in results in terms of efficiency and sustainability. the field pick-and-pack / harvesting aid platforms Thus, the Carlet plant (Valencia, Spain) has manallow us to clean and pack them without having aged to reduce its water footprint by up to 38.5% to take them to our processing plants, which conover the last calendar year. This improvement tributes to more efficient transport. has been possible thanks to the optimization of our production plans and the modification of More sustainable agriculture the water installation at our centre, replacing Our Agronomic Innovation Centre in Montserrat the decalcified water with water treated via (CIAM) has established itself as a major agricultural reverse osmosis. laboratory for research into more efficient and Similarly, the plant has succeeded in reducsustainable farming methods. This is where we ing our carbon footprint from our processes conduct agricultural R&D trials under controlled (14.2% on average), improving the control and climate conditions. The systems used allow us to monitoring of electricity and natural gas consave up to 60% in water consumption in comparisumption. Compared to 2017, electricity and son with an open field crop. Additionally it allows gas consumption have decreased by 15.2% and us to optimize the use of fertilizers, because it 11.82% respectively, thanks to better manageprovides the exact amount the plant needs without ment and efficiency of boilers, as well as the contaminating the soil. In addition, at CIAM we are development of good practices in maintenance also developing an innovative project with closed and production. hydroponic crops for leaf crops that allow 100% In line with SDG 12 (responsible production of the water to be reused and not pollute the soil. and consumption) we combine our efforts from the different business units in order to promote We reduced our carbon footprint in actions and measures that allow a significant our activity reduction of raw material waste in our processDuring 2018 we completed implementing LED es. In the case of our fresh-cut range plants, we illumination technology in all our company’s progive plant scraps a second life; during the last duction plants in Spain. This change, which we year 15,000 tonnes of these scraps have been initiated in 2017, is now a reality, and allows us to converted into livestock feed, after being sent contribute to reducing electricity consumption to local livestock farmers with facilities near our in our activity. production plants. 49 We are responsible Our organic assortment operate, making efficient use of resources and As an outstanding milestone within our commitopting for the reuse or recycling of the waste we ment to sustainability as a company, in 2018 we generate. launched our organic agricultural assortment, under the brand BIO Sun&Vegs, thus offering our We define customers and consumers more environmentally friendly options). In addition, our agricultural plant environmental based in Dolores de Pacheco (Murcia, Spain) has obtained the certificate of organic production. indicators in order to reduce the impact our operations have Our IV range and Nutrition plants boast the ISO 14001 In the last year, within our strategy of recycling certification. of packaging, our business units have contributed to protect the environment by saving 2,258 tonnes So this means, our range of certified organof CO2 equivalent, thanks to our collaboration ic products which come directly from our fields with Ecoembes. joins the wide assortment of fruit pouches that In our quest for continuous improvement we we prepare (at our Nutrition business unit) within work with our suppliers to introduce sustainability the range of baby food and family nutrition. 50% and eco-design criteria into the packaging we use. of the references we produce at our plant in Carlet Our goal is to always use the minimum weight (Valencia, Spain) are certified organic. and material possible in all of them, with the aim of minimising our impact on the environment. In More sustainable packaging the case of our cardboard, all our packaging made Our healthy revolution is intrinsically linked to a of this material has the FSC certification, which way of acting that is responsible for the environmeans that the forests which it comes from have ment, respecting the surroundings in which we had sustainable forest management. We reduced the carbon footprint produced by our activity at our Nutrition business unit. 15 300 290 11,25 12,28 -23,5% 280 270 276,23 -14,2% 7,5 260 7,55 250 3,75 240 230 241,91 0 220 2017 2018 2017 2018 WATER FOOTPRINT (l/kg net vegetal) CARBON FOOTPRINT (gr C02 / Kg neto MP) 50 Annual Report 2018 We always use the minimum weight of material possible on our packaging By reducing the height of our Micro Dish packaging, we have managed to save 20% more plastic Most of our packaging is 100% recyclable and the cardboard used in our boxes is FSC certified. 51 We are responsible Recyclable material which is as light FRESH CUT RANGE as possible 82% Over the last year we have carried on promoting different projects and actions favouring the reduction of the environmental impact our packaging has. RECYCLABLE PACKAGING Furthermore, we have promoted several projects 95% with different entities and companies in order to replace plastic packaging with recyclable materials. In addition, we know that small changes can lead OF OUR PLASTIC COMES FROM to major improvements. This has been the case RECYCLED MATERIAL (IN BOWLS) -20% with our MicroVegs and Micro Plates packaging: we have reduced its height by adjusting it to the need of the product, which has saved 20% of the material used. We have also removed the bag of PLASTIC: HEIGHT REDUCTION IN MICRO DISH BOWLS protein ingredients (chicken and cheese) from the Texas Wrapidos salad, reducing the plastic used in this reference by 25%. Altogether, in our ready-toeat salad assortment, 95% of the plastic used in -25% PLASTIC: ELIMINATED INGREDIENTS our bowls comes from recycled material and 82% BAG IN OUR TEXAS WRAPS of the containers are completely recyclable. The search for alternative materials and packaging is undoubtedly one of the great challenges we face and as an innovative and responsible company we continue to work towards offering new, more sustainable options for our customers. ECOEMBES is a non-profit environmental organization that promotes sustainability and taking care of the environment by means of recycling and eco-design of packaging. FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) is an organization dedicated to promoting responsible worldwide forest management, with positive environmental, social and economic impact. 52 Annual Report 2018 Circular economy for our packaging Efficient Water Use Over the last year we have improved our transport With new cultivation techniques which efficiency for our products and raw materials, reduce our water consumption by up with new agreements with our logistic allies IFCO to 30%. and Logifruit. With both these companies, we are working LED Technology to define a more efficient and sustainable supply All our Spanish production plants boast chain by means of our packaging pooling system, LED illumination. a system aligned with the circular economy model that allows us to contribute to the reduction of Circular economy carbon emissions, the use of natural resources An example is the broccoli pieces that and waste production. differ in size or weight and can’t be sold, Our suppliers provide us with efficient, safe and are used in our bags of broccoli florets. sustainable solutions for the transportation and storage of our products. Thus, both companies Right down to the last leaf work with optimized routes for box and container The scrap leaves which are removed transport, and use returnable, reusable packaging, from our vegetables in their processing as well as foldable packaging to minimise the are allocated to cattle feed. volume of empty transport. Reusable packaging By means of our pooling system we reuse the containers for transporting our raw material and products. We promote sustainable water management in order to minimize the water footprint of our activity. We have reduced this Indicator at our Nutrition Unit by 38.5% and, in our fields. we have also introduced crops and methods that have allowed us to reduce the use of water. We promote energy efficiency practices. During 2018 we have completed the implementation of LED illumination technology in all our processing Logifruit is a friendly pool operator specialized in the rental plants in Spain. of reusable packaging. Headquartered in Valencia with 12 depots/hubs/branches throughout Spain, it controls the In the interests of sustainable transport optimilife cycle of 17 million packages per year, which make more zation, we have improved the logistical operations than 248 journeys, thanks to a sustainable system of reuse of our supply chain, thus contributing to the and return called BACK (Box Always Comes back to the reduction of carbon emissions. Kitchen). We promote measures to reduce food losses and waste. We also encourage the use of biodegradable, recyclable and reusable packaging. In this IFCO is the world’s leading supplier of returnable containers line, we also promote transparency in nutritional for fresh products. It belongs to the group of companies information on the labelling of our products. Brambles, the multinational specialized in logistic solutions that moves 590 million pallets, packets and containers By means of defining key policies and indicators around the world, distributed in a network of approximately we can identify, prioritize and manage environ850 service centres. mental indicators in our daily management. 53 Capítulo 54 Annual Report 2018 3 Reasons for our success: We are producers We are our products We are innovation and efficiency 55 Capítulo We are producers, we grow and process all our own produce. We control the whole supply chain from the seed to the consumer’s table. 56 Annual Report 2018 WE ARE PRODUCERS 57 We are producers From the seed to the shelves Our roots are in the countryside and it is still one of our reasons for success: as farmers, we know and We are XXI century control the product from its origin. We have been cultivating our crops for many years with the utmost farmers, experts in fresh, care so that the crops grow with all the sun’s energy healthy food and the strength of the Mediterranean, respecting the environment. It is these same vegetables that we and pamper so that they arrive to our customers transform, efficiently and sustainably, into healthy in optimal condition, and with the maximum of products that we bring to our customers around freshness. In addition, we are specialists in the the world, guaranteeing the highest standards of cultivation of specific varieties for our fresh-cut quality and food safety. range, such as tender green shoots, rocket, lamb’s lettuce, and different types of lettuce. Our own seedbeds It all begins in the countryside, with the choice of XXI Century Farmers the best seeds, which we sow in our own seedbeds Sustainability, efficient use of natural resources and (covering ten hectares) where, this year, we have the maximum respect for the environment always cultivated and transplanted 193 million plants guide us in all our activities; this is especially so that we manage in 688,000 trays. in the fields. We wisely combine our traditional Together, we take care of and pamper more experience as farmers with a high technological than 300 varieties of seeds, controlling the whole component in our fields and crops. This differential process ourselves so that our vegetables grow value allows us not only to improve our processwith outstanding quality and freshness. es and productivity but also to offer the best of ourselves, from the seed to our consumer’s table. 25 farms in 7 provinces We also have state-oft-the-art machinery for We have more than 5,000 hectares of crops disharvesting and packaging our vegetables and tributed between a total of 25 farms located in fresh produce directly in our fields. These custom7 provinces of the south-east of Spain and in the ized platforms allow us to clean and package our Canary Islands; Valencia, Alicante, Murcia, Almería, product without having to take it to our processing Albacete, Granada and Tenerife. sites, consequently contributing to the maximum Our agricultural capacity is reinforced with 225 freshness of our plants, and to more efficient and hectares of greenhouses. (Full stop, new sentence) sustainable transportation. These allow us to guarantee production and supply We advocate efficient agricultural manageto our customers every day of the year, even in ment and innovation from our fields. In the preadverse weather conditions. vious year we opened the doors of our Centre On our farms we grow 34 varieties of vegefor Agronomic Innovation in Montserrat (CIAM). tables and aromatic herbs that we take care of Today, just a year later, we can say that our CIAM 58 Annual Report 2018 25 CROP ESTATES IN 7 COUNTIES Our crop estates Agricultural cultivation areas 5,000 HECTARES OF CROPLANDS 90,000 TONNES OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE 10 HECTARES FOR 34 VARIETIES OF LETTUCE, OUR OWN SEEDBEDS VEGETABLES AND AROMATIC HERBS 59 We are producers Our vegetables grow with all the sun’s energy on the shores of the Mediterranean Sea. has become a major agricultural laboratory for the investigation of more efficient and sustainable crop-growing methods. It is here where we also carry out testing and improvements for agricultural varieties, which allow us to develop new crops such as green shoots (baby leaf) and microgreens. As part of our commitment to innovation as well as the quest for authenticity and more sustainable agriculture, this year we have launched our organic range with varieties like our courIn line with the challenges identified in SDG 2, gette, eggplant, broccoli and different types we promote the efficient management of natural resources, especially water, and promote of lettuce. sustainable and ecological farming practices. In 2018, all this effort and all this capability We introduce innovation as part of GAC culture. enabled us to reach an agricultural production CIAM is our strongest bid for agronomic of 90,000 tonnes, which we took from our fields innovation. In addition, through the acquisition o f e ffi cie nt an d sus t ainab l e agricultural to our processing plants in Spain and Germany, technologies, such as our customised pick-andand which we then distributed to our national pack platforms, we can pack our products directly in the field without having to take them to our and international customers. processing plants. 60 Annual Report 2018 A wide range of crops and products In addition, the team at our Agricultural unit As farmers of the 21st century, innovation and has gained some very important experience in continuous improvement are part of our identity. recent years by working hand in hand with the In the last year we have incorporated new plant vegetable processing industry. This means we varieties into our crops, always seeking to offer now offer specific varieties for our fresh-cut innovative products that respond to consumer range, such as tender green shoots, broccoli or trends in the markets which we target. cauliflower florets, and different types of lettuce. Thus, we offer our customers up to 34 vaOur production capacity and our state-ofrieties of lettuce, vegetables and aromatic the-art technology combined with our ability herbs, among which we can highlight varieties to adapt to any customer and channel means such as our round courgette, corn, radishes or that nowadays, our ‘straight from the field’ asmicrogreens. sortment of vegetables reaches 42 customers in 24 different countries all over Europe. Our best selling agricultural products 18%ICEBERG 14% GREEN COURGETTE 12%BROCCOLI 13% ROMAINE 11% LITTLE GEM LETTUCE 24%ICEBERG 17% GREEN COURGETTE 12% BROCCOLI 11% SPINACH 6% LITTLE GEM Products with the greatest crop surface areas 61 We are producers CIAM: the heart of agronomic templates the development of a plant production innovation platform in a totally enclosed environment with Over this calendar year we have fully consolidated 100% climatic and lighting controlled conditions. our Agronomic Innovation Centre, located in the town of Montserrat (Valencia), as our great agriculConsumer Trends tural R&D laboratory. It has become of key imporIn terms of new consumer trends, CIAM allows tance for our company as it has allowed us, once us to test out new agricultural varieties (such as again, to demonstrate our firm and clear committender green shoots) so as to respond to the curment to innovation and the technological vanguard rent tastes of consumers and customers who are applied to sustainability, and the development of demand new flavours, textures and colours in the new agricultural varieties. world of salads. Microgreens CIAM is a clear example Among the new crops we are developing, we must of our bid for efficiency, highlight our microgreens: the first vegetable shoots that contain a high concentration of nusustainability and our tritional properties. Due to their distinctive smell, hint of a taste and colour, microgreens are gaining passion for innovation increased visibility in national and international cuisine. Among the varieties we can find shoots Located on a surface area of 16 hectares, it of kale, radish, broccoli or mustard seed. boasts a greenhouse of 1.2 hectares with a capacity to house up to 10 million plants. This is where, under controlled climate conditions, our agricultural R&D tests are carried out. The system used at this highly automated system consumes up to 60% less water than an open field crop and optimizes the use of fertilizers to maximum effect, as it provides the exact amount the plant needs without contaminating its soil. The centre also has facilities equipped with two temperature-controlled chambers where sowing The Centre for Industrial and Technical Development E.P.E. processes, pre-germination and tests with artificial (CDTI-E.P.E.) is a Public Corporate Entity, dependant on the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, which lighting are carried out. promotes innovation and technological development in Spanish companies. New techniques: hydroponic crops Among the most innovative projects, CIAM hosts a pilot project for the development of a closed CIAM is yet another example of our commitment hydroponic cultivation system for leaf crops, with to innovation. Among the most innovative projects developed here, we must highlight a closed mechanisms that allow us to reuse almost 100% of hydroponic cultivation system for leaf crops, the water used and do not contaminate the soil. which allows 100% reuse of the water and does not pollute the soil. This is an R+D+i project fundThe first phase of the project was carried out in ed by the Centre for Industrial Technological Development (CDTI) in which we have been se2018 and, following the analysis of the results, the lected as a specialist partner in plant second phase is scheduled for 2019, which concultivation. 62 Annual Report 2018 We are the leading producer for tender green shoots in Spain, for both our fresh and fresh-cut ranges Baby leaf crops in our greenhouse at CIAM in the Valencian town of Monserrat. We are specialists in growing specific of fresh and pre-prepared convenience foods. varieties for our fresh-cut range Over the last calendar we processed 4,200 Product innovation also comes from our fields. tonnes of tender green shoots as ingredients In recent years, in a bid for new crops that grant for our ready-to-eat salads. us a specialization due to their exclusivity and In our ready-to-eat assortment there are 18 their value, we have opted for the cultivation of references that include tender green shoots as an specific varieties for our fresh-cut range. Some ingredient or raw material: from our mixed bags examples are: tender green shoots of varieties such as Tender Baby Leaf, Gourmet or Tender of red baby Batavia, green baby Batavia, baby shoots to to our salad bowl formats such as our Lollo Rosso, rocket and baby spinach, which are Caesar, California, Pasta or Goat Cheese salads. completed with lamb’s lettuce crops, at our farms In 2018 we sold 68 million reference units that in Tenerife. included some variety of tender green shoots as Thus, along with our most traditional vegetaan ingredient. These figures increase every year bles, these innovative and attractive choices also due to the growing demand for new textures, grow in our fields and greenhouses. This is how we flavours and colours that consumers wish to have become one of the main producers in Spain include in their healthy, balanced diets. 63 We are producers Sun&Vegs, certified organic Focusing on innovation and more sustainable agriculture, during 2018 we developed a new line of organic certified products aimed at the Spanish market and international markets; in line with the growing customer and consumer demand for products certified as organic. Marketed under the BIO Sun&Vegs brand, the assortment includes products such as courgette, aubergines, broccoli or different types of lettuce. At our Centre for Agronomic Innovation (CIAM) in the town of Montserrat (Valencia), we have also developed other zero residue crops such as tender green shoots (Tender Baby Leaf) or microgreens. Sun&Vegs’ Organic assortment was presented during the Fruit Attraction fair in October in Madrid, initially focused on our assortment of vegetables straight from our fields. The aim is to gradually expand the cultivation and supply of organic varieties and also to extend the BIO certification to our range of ready-to-eat products, thus covering a full assortment of ready-to-eat salads and vegetables. In order to do so, during 2018 we certified our processing plant in Dolores de Pacheco (Murcia) under the Organic Product regulation in Murcia. As well, in the first months of 2019 the certification of our first farm for organic cultivation is planned for Antequera’s fresh-cut range plant for processing organic certified vegetables. We adapt; we continue to offer our customers and consumers solutions that are in response to the latest trends in healthy eating. 64 Annual Report 2018 El surtido bio abarca diferentes tipos de lechugas, como las iceberg. We promote efficient agricultural management of natural resources, and we opt for a more sustainable agriculture with the development and launch of our organic assortment. 65 We are producers State-of-the-art technology and high production capacity 55,000 square metres of industrial surface become leaders of our category in both Spain equipped with state-of-the-art technology. It and Germany. is not only a quantity, but also a reflection of At our plants we produce over 100 ready-toquality and innovation. It is the expression of eat at any time product references, all of which, what has driven our company in recent years. meet the highest quality standards. An industrial capacity that boils down to food efficiency and safety, as well as freshness and Baby food products and snacks control of all our processes and products, so for the whole family that our best always reaches our consumers and During 2018, at our Nutrition Unit, we achieved customers’ tables. a production total of over 8,600 tonnes. At our This effort to strengthen our industrial caCarlet plant (Valencia) we produce 95 products pacity has put us on the map as market leaders designed to meet the demands of our national in processes and operations. Thus, in Spain we and international customers, developed on the have reached a quota of over 40% in the freshbasis of balanced and natural eating. cut range and 50% in Pouch formats. No wonder In addition, our plant has a certification for we are also present in more than 30 countries by organic production, which allows us to ensure means of our products and our brands. that 50% of the references produced here are And all this is possible thanks to our powerful, BIO certified. modern industrial structure. A production network made up of our agricultural processing plant Agricultural products in Dolores Pacheco (Murcia) and five plants for From the field to the fork. So simple; because we our fresh-cut range located in Riba-roja de Túria like all things natural. At our Dolores de Pacheco (Valencia), Antequera (Málaga), Aranda de Duero plant (Murcia), we pack fresh produce directly, (Burgos), Granadilla de Abona (Tenerife) and the on location, in the field and prepare them to be German Thurländ (Saxony-Anhalt). In addition, we sent to our customers in over 20 countries. We have a nutrition plant in Carlet (Valencia). From make up to 3,000 references of finished prodthese centres we despatch over one million units ucts that adapt to different formats, packaging of products every day. and weight. In 2018 the volume of agricultural production reached 90,000 tonnes. Ready-to-eat products Our processing plant has the latest technoloOur five fresh-cut range plants have allowed us gy such as vacuum cooler equipment to ensure to exceed 40,300 tonnes of production. Including maximum freshness or an intelligent warehouse the production capacity of the German firm we that allows better management of our stock and acquired in October, which has allowed us to the freshness of each product. 66 Annual Report 2018 55,000M2 INDUSTRIAL SURFACE AREA 7 PLANTS IN SPAIN AND GERMANY +1MILLION UNITS A DAY Our production centres/sites Riba-roja de Túria (Valencia) Antequera (Málaga) Aranda de Duero (Burgos) Carlet (Valencia) Granadilla de Abona (Tenerife) Dolores de Pacheco (Murcia) Thurland (Saxony-Anhalt), Germany 90,000 40,300 8,600 TONNES OF AGRICULTURAL TONNES OF FRESH-CUT RANGE TONNES OF NUTRITION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION 67 We are producers Technology at Express freshness and intelligent warehousthe service of ing at our agricultural processing plant We know that quality and freshness in our prodcompetitiveness ucts is a constant process that must be taken care of along the chain. For this reason, our agricultural Transforming the best raw materials into top-qualprocessing plant in Dolores de Pacheco (Murcia) ity products would not be possible without a is supplied with our vegetables straight from our firm commitment to digitalisation and the latest fields and has the cutting-edge technology that technologies. The care taken at each of the phases allows us to bring the freshness of the Mediterthrough which our product passes, is reflected in ranean to more than 20 countries throughout our constant investment, whose main purpose is Europe. none other than to maintain our competitiveness, Upon arrival at our plant, some varieties are efficiency and sustainability. put into our Vacuum Cooler system chambers, We equip our processes with the latest techwhose function is to bring down the temperature nology, tools designed to facilitate the connecof the product quickly and homogeneously, after tion between the field and the final product. exerting a vacuum. This technique is used mainly Cutting-edge technology that also allows us to on produce with high water content; using this speed up innovation processes, ensure food safety cooling system ensures that this produce is not and thus continue with the legacy of trust placed dehydrated therefore increasing its life cycle by in our products. keeping it fresh while maintaining all its properties. Cutting-edge technology at the service of efficiency and food safety in our fresh-cut range processes Harvesting and transport Arrival to our plant: raw Clean and hygenic Z.A.R. material warehouse ●● Automated system for ●●Special-condition cleanroom ●●Continuous temperature temperature control and ●●Artificial vision machines: monitoring (SCADA software) other water indicators ●●2,000 photos per second ●●SAP system for traceability (SCADA software) and stock control ●● Ad hoc drying programme to minimise defects in ●●Microbiological analysis depending on the product cleaned raw material of raw material ●●Automatic Multi-scales for higher precision 68 Annual Report 2018 Artificial vision to monitor the process: our plants are equipped with artificial vision machines, cutting-edge technology that allows us to take 2,000 photos per second. This ensures the suitability and quality of all the leaves that pass through the conveyor belt. Should the artificial vision detect a leaf or anything of an inappropriate colour, it is expelled through a localized air jet, thus avoiding that the rest of the leaves in good condition are wasted. Permanent temperature control (1ºC-8ºC) Dispatch Packaging Finished product Laboratory ●● Metal detectors warehouse ●●Our own equipment to carry ●● Final product weight control ●● Computerised warehouse out microbiological analysis equipment (by location) ●●Results register on SAP for ●● Ad hoc packaging conditions ●● SAP technology for stock complete product traceability depending on the product management, logistics and space optimisation 69 We are producers Robots assist in boxing and unboxing, automatically-driven vehicles called ‘taxis’, plus robots for packaging and packing, and other ”spider” type robots to pack and put sleeves around our pouches, are part of this plant which stands out due to its high versatility. When it comes to food safety and quality, our plant has equipment for artificial vision, X ray checking, weight control, leak detection and our own laboratory where 100% of the batches produced are checked in terms of physical-chemical, The technology in our topping clean rooms allows microbiological, sensory and allergen control us to bring quality and efficiency together. levels. The facilities are IFS, BRC certified with the highest qualification (Higher level and Grade A, Once the temperature is at a suitable level, the respectively), and have certification for organic product is waits to be shipped to the intelligent production. warehouses that this plant boasts. It is an area of 50,000m3 where a fully automatised operating Artificial Vision to keep an eye on every system manages the warehouse, barcodes and single lettuce leaf labels. The plant is equipped with two warehouses The same affection that we invest in our fields, is like this: one with a capacity for 2,772 pallets of invested in our elaboration process for our readyraw material, and another with 1,500 pallets of to-eat products at our fresh-cut and toppings finished products. processing plants. Thus, the latest technologies In terms of quality and food safety, our plant are present in all phases of our production chain boasts, inter alia, the IFS Food, BRC and QS certifias regards quality and food safety. Thanks to techcations. Moreover, since 2018, we also have been nology, rigorous traceability control of all our certified for organic processing. products is guaranteed; from the field to the fork. When producing ready-to-eat products we also Robotics for baby food have state-of-the-art technology to always assure Without a doubt, the most automated and verthe highest efficiency in the processes and the satile centre in the group is our plant in Carlet maximum freshness and quality of the product. (Valencia), where innovation and robotics have Technology guarantees safe products and helps reached perfection in one of our most demanding us become more competitive. product assortments, that of baby food. At this plant, born in 2015 after an investment Rooms equipped for our topping selections of 21.5 million euros, we have advanced technolOur technology at the service of efficiency and ogy that allows us to produce 44 million tubs and food safety also extends to our V range toppings another 44 million pouches per year. The facilities facilities in Antequera. Up to 6.2 million euros have have a state-of-the-art kitchen area which can been invested for the installation and outfitting of process 4,500 kilos of fruit, vegetables and dairy the two rooms equipped for topping production purées per hour; as well as dairy homogenizer and at the Antequera plant (Malaga). A perfect job heat-treating equipment for different formats. done, and carried out in coordination with our To facilitate work at an ergonomic level, the plant machinery and packaging suppliers Ishida and also has different robotic technology equipment. Linpac Packaging. 70 Annual Report 2018 Our plant in Carlet (Valencia) boasts different robotic technology systems, such as automatically driven vehicles. The intelligent warehouse at our agricultural plant contributes to more efficient stock management. 71 We are producers Over 50 million The start-up of our second line of toppings has toppings in Antequera also meant, with regard to this previous calendar year, doubling up the workforce in this area, to The second room fitted out for the production of employ 112 people during 2018. our toppings was full operational last year, and it enabled us to surpass the extraordinary figure of 50 million toppings in October 2018; it has just been two years since these facilities were put into operation. From these modern rooms at our Antequera plant (Malaga), which are specially equipped, we produce trays of ingredients for our ready-to-eat salads that are made in our plants in Spain (Antequera, Aranda, Riba-roja de Túria and Mesturados Canarios). The incorporation of our own topping production has brought us greater competitiveness and quality in the development of our product range and has also allowed us to speed up the launch and development of new references, facilitating our innovation processes. In order to carry out this topping production In order to carry out this topping production integration into our processes, we started off with our first room in 2016, then added the second room in 2017. In total we have spent €6.1 million. These investments have enabled us to reach a production capacity of 55 million toppings per year. The best facilities for our employees In order to gain some extra space in the production and storage area at our plant in Antequera, a previously unused part of the warehouse was refurbished. This has allowed us to extend and improve the space in our processing plant, as well as the offices and the staff canteen. These new offices, which are located on the floor above the plant, are more modern and spacious, and allow us to carry out our work on a daily basis in better equipped and outfitted surroundings. 72 Annual Report 2018 Hand in hand with our best partner We have the best allies, from seed houses to packaging manufacturers. Each of the elements that We strive to make our come into play in our company is sought to achieve excellence in our final product which is, after all, suppliers feel satisfied our letter of presentation to our customers and and proud of belonging consumers. Components that we look for in the best suppliers, those who, in turn, give us the best to our value chain of themselves to contribute to our sustainable and responsible growth. Our complete Purchasing team at our group’s headquarters 73 We are producers We strive to make our suppliers feel satisfied Thus, our Agricultural Unit works with 22 difand proud of belonging to the value chain of our ferent seed houses. A total of 4,800 million seeds company, this generates the essential motivation have been purchased 31.5% more than in the for them to do their work efficiently and to develop previous year which has resulted in a selection a spirit of continuous improvement. of 300 different vegetables. Our suppliers are a key element for us. Without the relationship of trust and loyalty that we forge All our agricultural with the effort of our daily work we could not achieve the quality standards that we are so proud suppliers are certified of. Therefore, during 2018 we have worked with 248 suppliers who have offered us, in their different by the Global G.A.P specialties, their best products, from seeds to raw materials to packaging, and other components international standard needed for our different business units. of good practice With regard to our fresh-cut range business unit, it has 56 approved agricultural producers, from whom we have bought 40,300 tonnes of raw material 92% of which is of Spanish origin. All our suppliers work with the Global G.A.P. certificate guarantee, a document that confirms their good agricultural practices. In addition, over the last year, a total of 75 suppliers have supplied us with everything from the packets to the products with which we produce our toppings. In particular, 50 suppliers have supplied us with raw material for the production of our interior ingredient trays an increase of 28.2% compared to the previous year. At our Nutrition Unit we have worked with the support of 102 suppliers, who have supplied us with a total of 7,800 tonnes of raw material. This has been an increase of 36% compared to the previous year. In addition, in the area of auxiliary materials we have another 15 suppliers. 74 Annual Report 2018 AGRICULTURAL UNIT RAW MATERIAL FRESH-CUT UNIT (SPAIN) 40,300 TONNES 92% 22 OF SPANISH ORIGIN SEED HOUSES 56 SUPPLIERS RAW MATERIAL NUTRITION UNIT AGRICULTURAL UNIT 102 SUPPLIERS +36% COMPARED TO 2017 7,800 TONNES OF FRUIT AND DAIRY DERIVATIVES 74% 4,800 OF SPANISH ORIGIN RAW MATERIAL TOPPINGS AND OTHERS MILLION SEEDS +31.5% COMPARED TO 2017 50 SUPPLIERS +28.2% COMPARED TO 2017 75 We are producers Ishida, our industrial engineering partner Since 2000, Ishida – the machinery company, installation of the lines in an integrated way with total a global leader in the design, manufacture safety guaranteed, adapting industrial equipment and installation of solutions for heavy-duty to our packaging and product”, remarked Manuel and packaging lines, has become an examMellado, the Method and Industrial Technology Manple of successful close collaboration and ager. “In addition, it has qualified staff and monitors teamwork with our suppliers. the performance and subsequent modification of equipment, including also the possibilities of industry Ishida is our supplier for state-of-the-art machinery 4.0, the lines are interconnected and have an online for industrial processes, in which we have been report system, with the ability of connecting on the leaders for years. This company, of Japanese origin, spot”, he explained. has helped us in our company’s growth process Ishida is a leading supplier for automated solusince our inception with the implementation of tions to the changing challenges of packaging the first lines for the production of ready-to-eat products for consumer and the food industry products. use. They have the know-how and experience in Since those beginnings, GAC’s Operations and terms of high-level international applications to Engineering teams have worked closely with ISHIfully integrate them into operations, including DA managers to adapt each machine to our specific the software knowledge and skills to integrate needs at every stage of the process. This allows them into industrial automation and enterprise us to start the line and have it working at its full resource systems. capacity from the first moment. Thus achieving more efficient processes and making the most of the productivity of each machine. This has been the case of our salad tray line at our Riba-Roja del Túria plant, which has the largest capacity in the group; a project for which a GAC-Ishida disciplinary team was created and made it possible to respond in detail to our required needs. This the close collaboration with our supplier has also reflected in the construction of one of the most important projects of the group in terms of efficiency and productivity, which is the assembly of the two V range lines, in Antequera, with specially outfitted chambers where we manufacture our toppings. Right: Packaging and weighing line by “Ishida has provided us with a global solution to the manufacturer ISHIDA at our plant in our industrial demand: it offers us the assembly and Aranda de Duero. 76 Annual Report 2018 Ishida provides us with a global solution to our growing industrial demand 77 We know how to listen to the consumer, be innovative and daring. Welcome to the healthy revolution. Annual Report 2018 WE ARE OUR PRODUCTS We are our products We listen out for trends The healthy revolution to these new consumer needs and tastes, we also Our healthy revolution is not a ‘fashion’ , it’s a develop new formulations: gluten free, lactose unique way to understand food. We know how free, products for vegans and BIO references to listen to the consumer, be innovative and with organic certification. daring. This enables us to help consumers mainAnd we do all of this with passion, energy and tain a balanced diet with a variety of products positivism, from honestly, with maximum of exproducts that give them more free time and cellence, and undoubtly, with a lot of innovation. good health, and that contribute, in short, to This is how we have come to configure a wide improving their quality of life and well-being, assortment of over 200 references to meet the and why not, also make them happier. needs of our customers and today’s consumer: On this quest, we are always guided by our from fresh vegetables, prepared salads, and innovative spirit, which makes us aware of the fresh dishes for the microwavable, through to main global trends in food and to turn them natural smoothies with fruits and vegetables, into novel innovations that anticipate consumer fruit pockets, dairy desserts, and plant-based demand and mean an absolute exclusivity on the alternatives to yogurt. market. We innovate, we develop new products All this is what we have to offer, it’s what with new, original ingredients and flavors. We makes us unique and allows us to provide our also make products with new practical, fun and customers and consumers around the world varied solutions that demonstrate that healthy with remarkable, pioneering products that no eating doesn’t have to be boring. And responding one else offers. Over all this time we have innovated with fresh, healthy products and solutions that nobody else has on offer. 'It's oats' is a clear sample of our innovative spirit. 80 Annual Report 2018 Sun&Vegs’ personality As a result of our bid to keep on innovating and We are positioning to bring our revolution to a greater number of our brand consumers through new channels and new markets, we have developed Sun&Vegs within our own brand for our own assortment of fresh the main markets produce: Sun&Vegs. and different Under this brand, in the last year, we have channels brought our ready-to-eat products to the Spanish market for the first time All that is Sun&Vegs: pure energy and and to the Portuguese market in 2017 as well power, positivism, honesty, excellence and as starting our marketing innovation a lot of for the HORECA channel innovation. No wonand vending channels with der we strive for exreferences that were adaptcellence, selecting ed to our new customers’ the best products, tastes and needs. the best quality, flavour and freshness. Values and lifestyle Always with passion and honesty, that’s With a unique personality, Sun&Vegs speaks how we do things. We dedicate our passion volumes about us, our people, the way we to delivering the best of our do things. It shows our true colours and, of knowledge, with a good course, our values. These are perceived in dose of innovation, and we everything we do, and which we pass on with do it as simply as possible extra TLC to our products and how they reach because what you see is our customers and consumers. what you get. From the beginning we Innovating, innovating, have been great advocates of Innovating. This is the main enjoying every second, every ingredient in our company, our brand, our moment. We are proud to make products, and it’s one of the reasons why we it possible for people to enjoy have become leaders in our industry. the pleasure of healthy eating at But we are ambitious and the sky’s the limit: anytime and anywhere, because we want to keep on innovating and continue we believe that by defending offering customers and this way of eating it is somehow consumers practical, like defending the life we fun, original and healthy love, the life in which solutions, and products things are enjoyed, the that no one else offers. life of energy from the Our healthy-revolution open air. has only just begun. 81 We are our products The healthy revolution has its own brand At SUN&VEGS we offer fresh, healthy and practical products to those who have little time to cook and want to follow a healthy, balanced diet. We have a multitude of references ranging from salads to fresh dishes that are ready-to-cook or ready-to-eat, and pre-prepared vegetables that are ready-to-cook or ready-to-eat. We guarantee maximum product freshness and availability. At BYBA we develop innovative products and provide specific solutions for babies and toddlers during all their stages of growth, and that can be consumed at any time. Our range consists of references designed to meet the demands of our national and international customers. They are natural recipes with a perfect nutritional balance, that do not contain any colourings or preservatives. 82 Annual Report 2018 Safe, healthy food for plant also has the organic production certificaone and all tion; in fact, 50% of our references have the BIO certificate. We are aware that the agro-alimentary food sector is a very exigent sector, which requires a Transparency in the information on lot of innovation and continuous adaptation to our products the needs of a consumer who is increasingly deWe are responsible with consumers and we will manding with regards to quality and food safety. faithfully follow one of our slogans what you see is Therefore, at GAC we have an absolute focus what you get . This maxim we apply to everything on food safety and the quality of each and every we do and that also leads us to promote transone of our products, a guarantee proven by our parency in the information on the labels of our obtaining the most demanding certifications, products: from the where and how it has been which has allowed us to earn the complete trust produced, up to the ingredients it contains. This of both our national and international customers allows the consumer to check whether it is suitas well as millions of consumers around the world. able for them, according to their tastes or needs. But we also want to add value to other current Thus, in this commitment to transparent labeltrends, which are necessary to reach all types ling, we include the information in a visible, clear of consumers. Products ranging from WITHand easy-to-understand way, always indicating OUT (gluten, lactose…) to vegan products; and which ingredients our products include. In addition special products which are tailored to the most to this commitment we are always one step ahead, varied needs of our customers and consumers. and also add information on processed products For example, certified gluten free are a guarantee such as the sauces that accompany our salads. for celiac people who are susceptible to gluten. We take up the challenge that our customers and That is why we also have references withconsumers pose to us every day. Therefore, that is out gluten within our ready-to-eat assortment, why we always offer healthy and safe food for one ranging from our Thousand Islands Salad or our and all, with products adapted to all these needs Ranch Salad to our smoothies. and also to new consumption trends. Similarly, in our commitment to offer products that meet new consumer needs and trends, we have obtained the UVE (vegans) certificate for our Micro Indian and Micro Oriental dishes, Calapasta (Courgipasta) and references of ‘it’s Oats’. Furthermore, in order to respond to a growing demand for organic products, we also have a wide variety of certified BIO (organic) references, both in our agricultural and in our baby food categories, which the consumer can easily identifiy by their label. Sustainable development requires an informed consumer. We therefore guarantee clear, visible Our BIO label in agriculture includes vegetalabelling on our products, which provides the bles such as courgette, aubergines, broccoli or, consumer with transparent, reliable information. In our commitment to this objective, we not only inter alia, different types of lettuce. In addition, comply with the established legal requirements, but also add information for ingredients from our agricultural production plant is certified processed products such as the sauces that acunder organic product standards. Our baby food company our salads. 83 We are our products We save you time in a way that is 100% natural Who doesn’t want to have more time to spend microwave, while you do something else. It also doing what they like best, and, at the same time, covers a wide range of recipes from the more have the opportunity to eat healthy, tasty, safe traditional to oriental to trendy recipes. In short, food, in a fun way? you have a restaurant type meal it needs only to It looks like a winning argument…to look for be steamed in the microwave for 5 minutes. Who healthy and natural solutions, with lots of vegedoesn’t want this wonder in their fridge? tables, without giving up the flavour, and is fun, The objective of this project is very ambitious. both in the form of how we use them as well as That is why at R&D we are developing new products from the culinary point of view; that transports within this range combining new carbohydrates us to other places in the world. If we get all of such as wheat, whole-grain pasta, quinoas, as well these attributes in one product, it is much easier as introducing legumes and even using protein. for it to succeed. For that reason, we are also developing new use In addition, we try to add value to other current concepts with different sized packaging more for trends, which are necessary for all types of conon the go, and even developing different products sumers, ranging from products WITHOUT (gluten, while keeping the concept of fresh, ready-to-cook lactose…) to vegan products, and other special in mind. In addition, this year we have extended products. And all this without forgetting the nuthe on-the-go salad tray for families with two new tritional aspect, which we pamper throughout the references: salmon with dill and cheese dressing, product development process, seeking a balance and goat cheese with apple. in the intake of different nutrients. The aim is to expand the range with new in2018 has also been an intense year in terms of gredients to add value for the consumer, so that product innovation. Therefore, during this last they can eat a variety of healthy, fresh, tasty and year, we have been working on developing our fun products. range of Wrapidos in a more enjoyable way. To try to provide a different value we have played with the way to eat the product, both in our Crispy Wrap (lettuce leaf Wrap) and in our Falafel Wrap. María Forcada, Observing the culinary trends that are appearProduct Development Manager ing in our society is fundamental to the success for our Fresh-cut range unit. of our products. Innovating with new flavours or dishes turning up in restaurants is a good example of this. This year we have launched the first “Poke” salad on the market. This is a dish that fuses Hawaiian and Oriental food and a novelty for us as it is our first salad with rice, which also includes a very colourful salad base with smoked salmon, edamame and mango. All this seasoned with black sesame seeds and a soy dressing. Without a doubt, this year has also been the year SDG 3 seeks to improve the health of the global of the consolidation of our range of fresh, readypopulation and promote healthy living habits, a to-cook dishes: (Micro Vegs and Micro Dishes) tasty challenge that we are fully committed to and that we develop through the extension of measures dishes, which contain more than 40% vegetables to promote a healthy diet, with our innovative and which cook themselves by steaming in the food products that we bring to the world. 84 Annual Report 2018 85 We are our products Health and time for our consumers Microgreens remain intact as they are marketed live , without We want to continue to be the best farmers in any cutting or processing involved. the 21st century too. That is why we opted for Among our 14 varieties we find kale, radish, crop innovation as one of our differentiating broccoli, mustard, beet, chickpeas, coriander, factors, a fact that has allowed us to be pioneers basil, arugula, chives, green and red mizuna, as in launching new products and new categories. well as green and red Pak-Choi. A wide range of One of our most important agricultural demicrogreens that give your dish that touch of velopments during 2018 was the development colour, flavour and unmatched beauty. of microgreens: the first shoots from several Our microgreens are presented with a soil base types of plants in their early stages of growth that maintains the maximum freshness of the after germination. A new growing technique vegetable, and come in an innovative container which is 100% respectful of the environment that facilitates consumption and conservation. that we develop at our Centre for Agronomic At the moment they are available in three forInnovation (CIAM). mats: in individual trays with a card sleeve, in an Rich in vitamins and antioxidants, microgreens individual tray with a plastic box, and also in a provide an intense flavour and exceptional nutriformat aimed at the HORECA channel that has tional value due to the fact that all their properties 12 units presented in a cardboard box. 86 Annual Report 2018 SuperSalads Tasty superfoods and in practical formats to revolutionize the shelves. This is what these original dishes are like. With their innovative recipes that include superfoods such as quinoa, wild rice, or kale, combined with fresh produce and vegetables, legumes, seeds or dried fruit such as blueberries and dates. And all seasoned with incredible seasonings. SuperSalads ingredients combine traditional flavours such as corn, broccoli or tomatoes, with the latest trends in food such as tatsoi, edamame, or sunflower seeds. In five different presentation formats: Mediterranean Rice, Istanbul, Mykonos, Arabian Quinoa and Tokyo, our SuperSalads come in an original transparent jar with a totally resealable lid that guarantees maximum freshness and flavour. It also includes a fork. All this makes them ideal to enjoy at any moment, and helps consumers to live a healthy, balanced life. MicroVegs During 2018 we have consolidated a new product category in the line of fresh ready-to-cook dishes our MicroVegs a growing range that responds to all the needs that the consumer can have.They are not a ready-made dish, but a fresh ready-tocook dish, made with ingredients that combine carbohydrates with 40% fresh vegetables and 40% of other ingredients. In just 5 minutes we can enjoy a healthy, fresh and complete meal for lunch or dinner and without complications. It’s steam-cooked in the microwave in its own container which is suitable for this type of preparation as it includes a special valve that allows it to preserve all the nutritional properties of the ingredients. Our Micro Vegs are presented in original recipes like Oriental, Hindu and carbonara dishes, and other amazing combinations such as rice with curry sauce or rice with “wok” sauce. There are also the classic dishes, which are always delicious, such as Mushroom Risotto and Pesto Rosso Pasta. 87 We are our products The best plant-based alternative to yogurt Made from oats, the latest innovation from Sun&Vegs is a healthy, fresh, natural product in a practical format that provides you with extra energy and allows you to take care of yourself in a balanced way. Tasty and with an unsurpassed flavour, ‘It’s Oats’ is mainly made with a superfood such as oats and with 100% plant-based ingredients so it is suitable for vegans-. It is also 100% natural -without lactose, colourings or preservatives-, ‘It’s Oats’ contains natural ferments such as L. casei and L. acidophilus. That's what this It was precisely the specific fermentation process involved in the oat drink that led us to register reference is like, 100% it, for the first time, as a patent. This new commitment to innovation and to revolutionizing healthy natural and 100% eating has been recognized in 2018 as the most innovative product of its category in the latest plant-based ‘it’s Oats’ edition of the Wabel Chilled & Dairy Summit and at the We’re Smart Awards . ‘It’s Oats’ is made in five different flavours, 4 of which contain 100% natural fruit: fruits of the In response to the latest forest, fig, prune, raspberry and pomegranate, plus trends in food natural flavour (oats). Its practical 180g container The use of oats as an ingredient, which is already includes a teaspoon so it can be enjoyed anywhere common in Nordic and Anglo-Atlantic countries, is a growing trend that has gained momentum A patented product in Europe in recent years, due specifically to the The innovative reference is different from other search for an alternative to food derived from similar alternatives on the market due to the feranimals. mentation process to which the oat beverage is With ‘it’s Oats’, we continue to expand our subjected, and which consequently contributes to range of products aimed at the European and increasing the nutritional value of its components. Spanish market, and with our objective of reThe result is a product low sugar in sugar, with sponding to the tastes and needs of a consumer slow-absorbing carbohydrates and a combination who demands healthy, tasty, natural products, in of probiotics that help regulate the immune and practical formats that can be consumed easily, digestive system. at anytime or anywhere. 88 Annual Report 2018 Martina Klein pampers herself with spot which also has shorter versions lasting 10 ‘It’s Oats’ by Sun&Vegs seconds and 15 seconds. In the advertisement Our brand Sun&Vegs opted for the model and we could see the model at different times in influencer Martina Klein to showcase the multiple her daily routine working on a photo shoot, properties of our innovative ‘It’s Oats’. travelling with her family and doing some outThings are more than they appear to be was door activities with friends which all depict a the central theme of the campaign, a concept healthy, active life. that explains the essence of ‘it’s oats’ perfectly. The campaign was also amplified by means Behind its yoghurt-like appearance, our innoof the brand’s own social networks and differvative product is much more!, It is a healthy, a ent actions in traditional and digital media, that 100% natural alternative, made from fermented allowed us to spread brand values based on a oat beverage and with chunks of fruit. lifestyle based on enjoyment and healthy eating. For the creation of the campaign which was Through her ability to connect with different broadcast via Youtube and different digital changenerations who like to take care of themselves nels, we worked with Trumbo®Agency (whose and through her healthy lifestyle and for her stand team developed the creative idea) and with the on real beauty based on authenticity, Martina audiovisual producer Vessmedia. Klein represents perfectly the values of our brand With the help of the influencer, we transmit the Sun&Vegs, and ‘it’s Oats’ (our most innovative benefits of our ‘It’s Oats’ by means of a 20 second product). Martina Klein represents perfectly the values of our brand Sun&Vegs, due to her a lifestyle and for her stand on real beauty based on authenticity. 89 We are our products OUR LATEST DEVELOPMENTS 2018 In 2018 we launched more than 20 novelties on lowed us to revolutionise the shelves with piothe market that meant the introduction of new neering products in the market. products onto the shelves or improvements in The new products launched by our comparecipes, formats or packaging. As a company ny during 2018 have accounted for 19% of the we are able to capture the main trends in food sales of our group. The most active units were and turn them into novelties to revolutionise the fresh-cut range and Nutrition units, where healthy eating. innovation has accounted for 18% and 51% of Our capacity for innovation, with more than their turnover, respectively. 70% effectiveness in product launches, has alOur agricultural rice or kale, combined with fresh vegetables and assortment produce legumes or seeds. Or our Micro Vegs, fresh microwavable dishes with a base of pasta, rice or noodles and more than 40% fresh vegetables. A healthy, complete dish in less than 5 minutes! Microgreens: the first vegetable shoots, which are presented in a novel container with a soil base that allows us to market them ‘live’, in order to lengthen their shelf life and facilitate consumption. Our fresh-cut assortment New Wrap recipes: we expand our options for the most wholesome, healthy meals. Our Falafel wrap includes a mixture of lettuce, tomato and red onion with various cheeses, raisins, falafel and a large wheat flat bread to roll the salad up in. The ‘Wrap de la Huerta’ is an innovation on the shelves New formats: now we’re offering our customers as the crispy lettuce leaves are what you wrap the time and health in new formats, such as our Surest of the ingredients up in (cereals, raisins and persalads, with superfoods such as quinoa, wild goat cheese with honey). 90 Annual Report 2018 with smoked salmon and cheese accompanied by an exquisite dill vinaigrette dressing. Healthy combinations to enjoy anytime, anywhere. Our nutrition assortment From the Mediterranean to Hawaii: we offer diversity to make healthy eating fun. With the Potato Salads we have revolutionised the shelves with a new category of salads, without leaves . This Mediterranean summer classic is made with a base of boiled potatoes, small-cut vegetables, tuna and Fruit purées for babies and children with organic hard boiled egg. The POKE, inspired by the Poké, a certification: adapted to the tastes of each mardish from Hawaii, combines fresh vegetables with ket, we have developed 4 new references of fruit superfoods, such as quinoa or basmati rice and pouches for the Swiss distribution chain Migros smoked fish, such as salmon or tuna. and 3 new references for Dagrofa in Denmark. All of them without added preservatives or sugars and with organic production certification. Organic Snacks for the whole family: with the brand Daunat BIO we have brought to the French shelves new options of healthy snacks in the form of organic fruit purées in a pouch format, with recipes such as fruits of the forest, and apple and New ingredients and flavours: we continue to pear. For Runakay (Spain) we have developed a new develop delicious recipes with new ingredients concept of energy snacks that’s organic certified such as our Goat Cheese Salad, with a base of and has 100% natural ingredients. It does not confresh lettuce, apple, dried fruit, goat cheese and tain added sugars, gluten or lactose, it is suitable a dressing. Or the Salmon Salad, which combines for vegans and is available in 3 flavours: almond, butterhead lettuce, green oak, red batavia, tomato, matcha tea and coffee. 91 OUR AGRICULTURAL ASSORTMENT Lettuce GREEN BATAVIA ROMAINE MINI ROMAINE RADICCHIO ICEBERG RED OAK LEAF GREEN OAK LEAF LITTLE GEM: HEADS, HEARTS AND CRUNCHY GEM MINI RED ROMAINE MINI ROMAINE MIX BUTTERHEAD CURLY ENDIVE FLAT LEAF ENDIVE ENDIVE RED YELLOW LOLLO ROSSO LOLLO BIONDO Aromatic herbs FLAT LEAF BASIL SPEARMINT PARSLEY CORIANDER CHIVE Vegetables RADISH SWEETCORN CHARD BROCCOLI BROCCOLI CROWNS WHITE COURGETTE GREEN COURGETTE ROUND COURGETTE CAULIFLOWER MIXED CROWNS CAULIFLOWER CROWNS Microgreens BROCCOLI KALE MUSTARD CORIANDER Organic produce ORGANIC ICEBERG ORGANIC COURGETTE Leaves BABY BATAVIA: RED BABY LOLLO ROSSO ROCKET SPINACH: BABY, AND GREEN TEEN AND ADULT We are our products OUR FRESH-CUT ASSORTMENT Ready-to-prepare Ready-to-cook Super fresh 94 Annual Report 2018 Ready-to-eat Ready-to-heat 95 We are our products NUTRITION ASSORTMEENT Our nutrition range covers solutions for the a low content in sugars and fats. We market this whole family. From children’s food products assortment under our own brands Byba and from 4 months upwards, to snacks and other Sun&Vegs and we work closely with our customproducts for athletes and for different moments ers, from the creation of recipes to customised of consumption. Always with natural recipes, designs and packaging. without preservatives or colourings, also with Tubs From 110g a 250g From 125g to 180g Formats 1x 2x 4x 110g 200g 250g 96 Annual Report 2018 Flexible packaging From 85g to 250g in standard formats Possible to be filled from 50g upwards ww Formats 1x 2x 4x-6x 4x-6xDisplay 90g 120g 97 Capítulo Our sights are set on our customers. That’s why we innovate on a daily basis, seeking quality, food safety and competitiveness in our products. 98 Annual Report 2018 W E A R E I N N O VAT I O N AND EFFICIENCY 99 We are innovation and efficiency An innovative spirit Innovation is the main ingredient in our company. This is a maxim that we apply with passion to We convert global everything we do: from the selecting the best seeds trends into novelties, and vegetables in our fields, to the making of our healthy products, always so unique and pioneerby anticipating ing. It is this commitment to innovation that has made us market leaders and allowed us to cross consumer demand borders with our healthy food revolution. Today our products reach more than 40 customers in 30 Being creative, entrepreneurial and innovative countries around the world. has allowed us to gain the confidence of our cusEvery year we invest over a million euros in tomers and consumers, and to reach the success R&D&i for testing and to launch new products. we have achieved. But we are also demanding and In addition, we have multidisciplinary innovation want to continue to grow, win over new customers, teams, which work transversally, and in which they and conquer new channels and new markets. participate from the areas of engineering, product Our healthy revolution has only just begun and development, purchasing, logistics, marketing or on that path, we know that innovation will continue sales departments. to be our main ingredient. Throughout our history we have launched hundreds of totally pioneering products onto the market that have created trends. We were the first company to introduce onto the shelves our readyto-eat salads as complete meal, also to market our 100% natural smoothies in a flexible format. In addition, we are ahead of the market by launching fresh dishes with vegetables in innovative formats. Every year we launch new products onto the market which means the introduction of new products or improvements to recipes, formats or packaging. Our ability to rapidly industrialise innovation has enabled us, during 2018, to continue to develop new products, new formats and new healthy and practical solutions. Our innovative spirit allows us to turn the latest global consumer trends into Innovation is part of our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals novelties, even anticipating consumer demand (SDGs). Innovation is part of our business culture and we are committed to promoting innovations and launching unique products that are exclusive and technologies in the food and agriculture to the market. sector to make it more sustainable. 100 Annual Report 2018 INVESTMENT IN I+D+I PRESENCE IN 30 COUNTRIES IN 5 YEARS +€1M +40 customers +200 launches Innovation is our main ingredient 101 We are innovation and efficiency Collaborative innovation Since our origins, innovation has become one of Sun&Vegs, also in vending the hallmarks of our company’s identity. It has Our brand continues to grow and reach new been the basis of our present successes and we distribution channels with its more innovative, also know that it will be the bedrock that will fresh and healthy, ready-to-eat products. enable us to reap future successes. Faithful to our commitment to revolutionise healthy eating, we continue to innovate not only Our healthy with new solutions, products and formats, but also exploring new channels that will allow us to bring revolution has our revolution to all imaginable places and spaces. reached more During 2018 we have brought our ready-to-eat assortment by Sun&Vegs to a new distribution consumers by means channel, vending machines. An original proposal developed in collaboration with Delikia, one of of our vending the leading vending machine distributors in Spain. channel The project started as a pilot test with the first ‘Sun&Vegs’ vending point in the Student That is why we focus our efforts on continuing House at the Polytechnic University of Valencia to innovate every day, and we do so both internally, (UPV) in October. In addition, new Sun&Vegs with our own transversal innovation team, and healthy vending points have gradually been addwith external support, always open to engaging ed in different spaces such as hospitals, business in collaborations and alliances with the best. buildings or factories throughout the Valencian In this regard, we support each other and work Community. The aim is to extend the presence together, both in the private sphere, with other of these Sun&Vegs points to more spaces both companies and technology centres, as well as in public and private, thus bringing our healthy the public sphere, with universities and academrevolution to more consumers so that they can ic institutions. This allows us to discover enjoy our fresh and healthy products the latest ideas and the most innoanywhere at any time of the day. vative and creative projects first Sun&Vegs’ vending machines hand. In the academic field we are filled exclusively with our also collaborate by particiown brand products and pating in forums and unioffer a wide range of novversity conferences, and elties in practical formats also by means of visits to in line with the latest conour facilities from students sumer trends. studying different degrees Among the products or master’s degrees related available in the machine, to the food sector, agriculture there are different ready-preor the business world. pared salads and wraps in a 102 Annual Report 2018 ‘Sun&Vegs’ vending point at the Polytechnic Universidad in Valencia. bowl format (Salad Bowls and Wrapidos), rice and pasta with vegetables dishes to heat up in the microwave (MicroVegs), SuperSalads (salads with super ingredients such as quinoa, kale or broccoli). Also included are our other products such as 100% natural fruit and vegetable smoothies or the plant-based alternative to yogurt with functional Delikia: One of the main leaders in Spain in automatic vending machines. The company is specialized in fresh, properties It’s Oats’ in different flavours. healthy food which is renewed every single day 103 We are innovation and efficiency We participated as a ‘challenging’ company in the 2018 edition of the Hackaton Innova&action Business Challenge. Connecting talent involving any supermarket shelves. Our participaIn order to find and capture the latest trends on tion at this meeting was highly satisfactory, as it the market we open the doors to new, original exceeded all our expectations. After an intense ways that allow us to continue to grow through day, the teams presented three proposals to our innovation. With this motivation we participated challenge, of which, one was presented to the as a ‘challenging’ company in the 2018 edition Jury, as the finalist. of Hackaton Innova&Action Business Challenge, We are convinced that young talent can offer a meeting that aims to put leading entities in solutions that we couldn’t even imagine. Therefore, innovation in touch with young talent such as we will always be open to welcome and participate students and new university graduates. in any proposal or project that gives us value by Organized by the Association of Former Stumeans of new ideas and collaboration between dents at the Polytechnic University of Valencia’s different parties. Welcome to our collaborative Innovation Club, this original 24 hour marathon innovation. allowed participants, who were previously selected and organized into working groups, propose solutions to the challenges posed by innovative Valencian entities and companies. In our case, as a company that operates in a sector that demands a lot of innovation and adaptation to new trends and consumption habits, we posed a challenge that consisted in finding innovative, ground-breaking Former UPV Students: An independent, plural, solutions that allow us to bring our assortment non-profit organization, dedicated to all graduates and professionals’ progress, both within and beyond closer to the consumer in a very direct way, without our borders. 104 Annual Report 2018 Operational Leaders We are proud of what we do but also of how we do it. We put all our experience and know-how, innovation, creativity, and all the technical and human resources at our disposal to always do things with maximum efficiency. Operational efficiency runs through all our processes, from our fields and crops to our production plants. This tireless quest for efficiency and continuous improvement has allowed us to be operational leaders and to offer a better product with the best quality-service-price ratio. To this end, during this fiscal year we have made significant improvements in our methods and processes, and have advanced by means of the implementation of the most advanced technology. All of these actions allow us to continue to become better, to be more competitive, and to grow efficiently and sustainably. Thus, during 2018 we have taken a fundamental step towards our future in the medium and long term by migrating all the central computer systems in our company to Telefonica’s Virtual Data Center Cloud service. This a powerful infrastructure for all our information, and gives us high-level security guarantees. In terms of IT, different projects have also been implemented for more effective management of big data at the operational and financial level. Another outstanding project in the field of efficiency is that executed by our Nutrition business unit regarding its supply chain. a change We innovate throughout our distribution logistics system under our sustainability and efficiency in working methods and processes has enabled criteria. In addition, we use ground-breaking technology at our company, such as big data, and us to improve the quality and quantity of the we have the best allies to promote sustainable plant’s operational management. innovation throughout our value chain. 105 We are innovation and efficiency Our Digital Transformation On a cloud. That’s where we are after the successful the highest levels of competitiveness globally. transition from our central server infrastructure to The Group’s new virtual server farm is physically Telefonica Solution’s VDC Cloud service. A project located in Telefónica’s data management centre in that responds to the need of our group to conAlcalá de Henares, a data processing macro-comtinue growing also at a technological level so as plex located among the most innovative on the to offer greater efficiency and competitiveness planet. A true data bunker equipped with the to our day-to-day management. most comprehensive security measures. In recent months, the ICT team has successfully Our new way of working as regards computers managed the transfer of our computer infrastrucoffers greater speed, efficiency and growth capacture, without disruption to our service or users ity to our systems. In addition, it brings greater at any time. Thanks to this transformation, our security to the information that is managed on a company can continue to grow in computing daily basis by the group‘s production centres and capacity and storage space and be positioned at waround Spain and Europe. From left to right: Jorge Sánchez, Andrés Navarro, Bernabé López and Sergio Gómez, from the ICT department. 106 Annual Report 2018 From Big Data to a Salesforce In the last year we have on a Cloud also launched BPC Cash In recent years, we have joined the worldwide Flow SAP software (an digital revolution by incorporating the most adinn ov ati ve treasur y vanced computer-based tools into our day-to-day management software) which allows us to conlife. We put technology at the service of growth, trol and optimise the available resources with efficiency and talent management. greater financial rigour. During 2018 we made In order to accompany a change regarding our company’s growth the version of our Data Warehouse BI (Business and to contribute to Intelligent) system by SAP, upgrading it to the a more agile perforlatest version on the Hana database SAP system. mance within our sales This tool allows us to obtain analyses of millions team we have started of data records at a high speed to help decision to implement a Salesforce tool on our Cloud. making and to extract and exploit valuable inforThe new portal facilitates monitoring and the mation so as to generate reports and indicators daily management of our sales force, as it althat help us to make the best decisions ever. In lows teams to monitor accounts, contacts and this way we can tackle complex Big Data projects. opportunities in real time. Our Balanced ScoreSince 2016 we have card project, which been working with w as imp l e m e nte d the SAP tool, Suc­ last year, consists of cessFactors, for our comprehensive talent a control tool that almanagement. Our internal portal, called MyGAC , lows us to establish and monitor the company’s allows us to manage the processes related to main indicators in our different areas and units. training, performance and development while It has been carried out with Microsoft’s Power facilitating access to a lot of information about BI software. people and organigrams. 107 We are innovation and efficiency Maximum efficiency at our plant in Carlet During 2018on this road to maximum competSimilarly, we have adapted our processes and itiveness and efficiency we have developed a working methods by taking the supply chain at project to improve the supply chain at our Carlet our Carlet plant to a “tight flow”, where the raw plant (Valencia). It has been intense work that has materials are received just at the time or moment been possible thanks to the involvement, coordiwhen they are going to be used. nation and joint efforts of a multidisciplinary team. We diversify suppliers The centralisation of logistics In our effort to always offer the best quality and In order to respond to the growth of our business the best product, this year we have strengthboth in number of references and customers, we ened our portfolio of suppliers, both nationally have sought to combine synergies by centralising and internationally, to guarantee the supply of all the logistics for importing raw materials. This best raw materials for the manufacturing of our has been acheived with a new and unique freight products, thus allowing us to continue to make forwarding supplier who, in turn, concentrates our commitment to offer an optimal quality-seron a single regulator warehouse. We have also vice-price ratio possible. unified our external warehouses into one. To implement this whole process our ally has been Grupo Caliche a specialist in the international transport of goods. We reduce stock Another improvement in terms of efficiency and competitiveness has been the reduction in stocks of our raw material, from 5.3 million euros in 2017 to 3.4 million during 2018. This has reduced our percentage of the value of fixed assets on sales by over 5 points therefore allowing us, as a company, to allocate those funds to the efficient improvement of other areas. In order to achieve this improvement we have established agreements with our suppliers so that they become our regulatory warehouse and optimise the flow of goods by working together. At the same time, we have reduced our lead times by almost half–from 12 to between 6-8 weeks. 108 Annual Report 2018 Our supply chain team at our Nutrition business unit have made our plant at Carlet (Valencia, Spain) an example of maximum efficiency. In the photo: Ángel Alegre, Santi Avendaño, Belén Vicó and Nacho García. Our Agreement with Caliche, our specialized partner In line with our philosophy of maximum efficiency and competitiveness, and within the strategic plan IMMOBILE STOCK/STOCK SITTING IN WAREHOUSE for our Agricultural business unit, during 2018 €5.4M Ç€3.4M we proceeded to the transfer of the transport services into the hands of a specialised supplier and a leader in that field: the Caliche Group. Thus, we opted for operational efficiency and an REDUCTION COVERAGE DEADLINES organizational structure adapted to the business 12Ç6-8 WEEKS model in our sector, leaving the part of transport and logistics to a new collaborator specialised in transport for the agricultural sector. Making this decision means we are left free to focus on our specialisation of producing and marketing fresh, healthy products. Grupo caliche is a national and international transport company with multidisciplinary service by land, sea and air. With more than 50 years of experience, it has a strategic location in the Mediterranean arc. The group moves more than 2,250,000 of tonnes of products every year. 109 We are innovation and efficiency Food safety at your service Between the field and our customers’ table there while 26 certification audits and 4 model audits is an invisible thread woven from a key element: were carried out. confidence in our products. A relationship nurAs for our different units, 6 audits were carried tured with strict protocols and demanding standout on behalf of our Agricultural Unit as well as ards of quality and food safety that allow us to 2 traceability simulations, while at our Nutrition guarantee the very best quality and freshness in Unit we carried out 8 traceability exercises and 2 all our product ranges. other audits at the premises of our suppliers. In The concept of the highest levels of food safety our fresh-cut range sector 6 audits and a total of is always very much present in our work and cov19 traceability exercises have been carried out. ers the entire production chain, from the fields where our vegetables are grown to our processing All our centres boast IFS Food plants, through to our suppliers, and of course, certification with High Level to the final product brought to the consumer. As a result of the work and control of our entire That‘s why we have our own audit models chain, we possess the most demanding internal adapted to each business unit that ensure maxicertifications in the areas of food quality and mum control and product traceability. Following safety. During 2018 all of our processing plants in our own benchmarks and international standards, Spain obtained the IFS Food certificate (Internain this last calendar year we have performed a total tional Food Standard) with the highest possible of 77 internal and external audits, as well as 39 category: High Level. traceability exercises, 8 of which were simulations. In addition to IFS Food certification, all our Specifically, during this last year we have confresh-cut production plants have renewed the ducted 13 face-to-face audits on our suppliers’ environmental management certification in acpremises and 31 traceability exercises. Out of the cordance with ISO 14001. total, 16 of the auditing exercises were internal, With regard to our Nutrition and Baby Food International Quality and Food Safety Certifications GGN: 8436003300007 Agricultural Agricultural & Fresh-cut & Agricultural & Agricultural Agricultural Agricultural Fresh-cut & Nutrition Units Nutrition Units Nutrition Units Nutrition Units Fields and plant Units Unit&Fields Unit&Fields Processing Plants Crop estates 110 Annual Report 2018 Unit, our centre has renewed its BRC Food certifthe plant, which ensures the quality control of icate along with its organic production certificafood after monitoring the entire production and tion. In addition, this year the plant has increased marketing chain. In addition to the renewal of its quality and food safety certifications with the the BRC Food certification this year the agriculSAE certification, an external self-control system tural production plant obtained certification for that represents an international guarantee that organic production which enabled us to launch has allowed us to enter new markets, such as a varied organic assortment over 2018. in China. Currently, 100% of the group’s farms have At our Agricultural Business Unit the QS certifrenewed the Global G.A.P. international certifiicates (Wholesale, coordinator and Production) cation of good agricultural practices, and in the have been renewed, both in the fields and in G.R.A.S.P. module of Global G.A.P. Ten years collaborating with the certifier Applus This year marked the tenth anniversary of the first certification for our fresh-cut range unit (Verdifresh) under the IFS standard. Our IFS re-certification demonstrates our strict commitment and compliance with the demanding requirements of our customers in the large scale distribution sector. To commemorate this anniversary Applus awarded us with diplomas for our commitment to quality and food safety. Alicia Arroyo y Mario Magallón, from Applus, with GAC representatives: Miguel García, Ready-to-eat business unit director, David Vitoria, GAC Integrated Systems manager and Francisco Andrés, Quality manager at the Ready-to-eat business unit. 111 We are innovation and efficiency 112 Annual Report 2018 Our Quality Model Quality and food safety are two essential elements for our company. For this reason, our 13 AUDITS AT SUPPLIERS' production plants have their own state-of-thePREMISES 26 art laboratories where a highly specialised team of professionals carry out analytical controls specific to each of the business units in order EXTERNAL CERTIFICATION to ensure maximum quality and food safety. AUDITS 24 Our Quality model is also supported by rigorous external analyses. Collaboration with leading INTERNAL QUALITY universities SYSTEM AUDITS In order to have the best talent, both inside and outside our company, we have renewed, for yet another year, our collaboration agreements with different universities and major technological centres in Spain. These strategic alliances allow We comply with exhaustive quality and food us to work with the best possible partners in safety controls and standards. To this end we adopt efficient food safety and hygiene protocols terms of innovation and to continue to constantly throughout the value chain to avoid adverse improve in all our activities. impacts on consumer health. Collaboration with: Agreements with: 113 We are innovation and efficiency Service and competitiveness Sun&Vegs, present in more markets Sun&Vegs touches and channels down in Spain and In 2018 we have reached great commercial milestones with our Sun&Vegs brand. With it we have keeps on expanding in taken our healthy revolution to more consumers as well as new markets and channels, such as the Portugal Horeca and vending channels. The brand has continued its expansion in the At the heart of our business are our customers Portuguese market, where it was launched at the and our consumers. They make it possible for our end of 2017, and already it has presence in 80% of healthy food revolution not to be an objective, the country’s major distribution chains. These inbut a reality that we are accomplishing and that clude, Pingo, Intermarché, El Corte Inglés and Sonae. we want to continue to achieve. Therefore, we do not cease in our efforts to We are leaders in Spain satisfy their needs and tastes, listening to them and responding in time and form, always with and Germany in the the best service and greatest competitiveness. By means of our Sun&Vegs and Byba brands we want ready-to-eat segment to convey what makes us unique and different. To this great reception in our neighbouring counWith our sights set on continuing to win over try, has been added the arrival of the Sun&Vegs customers from all over the world and to get them assortment to the shelves in Spain. Our most to fall in love with our fresh and healthy products ground-breaking range is already present in chains we work on anticipating their needs and the new such as Dia, Uvesco, Vidal or Sorli. consumer tastes both nationally, in Spain, and In addition, Sun&Vegs also has a specific readyinternationally. Innovation, quality, service and to-eat salad and vegetable assortment for the Food competitiveness, this is what has allowed us to Service-Horeca channel with formats adapted to reach more than 5 million Spanish households these needs (bags of 500 grs or 1 kgs, special forand hundreds of thousands in Europe and the mats, etc.), which reaches customers from Spain and rest of the world. Portugal. Moreover, last year we launched the pilot We are leaders in Spain and Germany in the project of healthy vending by the company Delikia. ready-to-eat salad segment. In baby food we lead Our healthy revolution does not make do with only the category in pouch format with a market share conquering new channels and markets. With the of over 50% in our country. acquisition of the German company Thurländer And with our Sun&Vegs and Byba brands, we in October, our assortment of fresh and healthy market fresh and child nutrition products for babies ready-to-eat products now reaches the shelves in and toddlers to over 30 countries around the world. Germany, Austria and Denmark. 114 Annual Report 2018 More options for the whole family Our assortment is marketed in large Our range of baby food has also continued its supermarket chains in 30 different international expansion. In Europe we continue countries, on four continents. to strengthen our presence with new customers and recipes, highlighting a wide range of organically (BIO) certified products, which responds to a NUTRITION growing demand from customers and consumers. BUSINESS UNIT Thus, in 2018 we started our business relationship with customers such as Daunat, Migros or Dagrofa. AGRICULTURAL BUSINESS UNIT 12 24 COUNTRIES In addition to the European market, which is becoming increasingly important for our baby food range, in 2018 we took our products to Asia, for COUNTRIES FRESH-CUT RANGE the first time. This is a market with great growth BUSINESS UNIT potential in the baby food category, and it is where we want to be an important player with the development of our Byba brand. 5 COUNTRIES With 26% sales in foreign markets, our baby food products reach 18 customers in 12 countries, on 4 different continents. During 2018 our products started to be distributed in China, Philippines, Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea and Saudi Arabia. We want to anticipate our customers’ needs What is more, our novel functional product which is 100% plant-based and natural ‘It’s Oats’ has strengthened its presence on the main supermarket shelves expanding all over Spain via the large distribution chains of Carrefour, Alcampo and Eroski. Our agricultural products reach 42 customers in 24 different countries, which means that 31% of our sales of products straight from the field are international. Our customers include large European chains, for example: Lidl, Coop, Edeka. 115 We are innovation and efficiency Close collaboration and mutual benefit Our creation, as a company, in the year 2000 was the result of an innovative and courageous commitInnovation and continuous ment: to introduce an assortment of ready-to-eat salads on the supermarket shelves at a time when improvement are the bases this was a practically non-existent category in our to our relationship over country. Turning this great commitment into success would not have been possible without a joint these last 18 years working relationship and close collaboration with our main customer, Mercadona. With innovation As inter-providers, we work with Mercadona and continuous improvement as a basis, together towards developing an effective assortment that, we have revolutionised healthy eating in Spain. product by product, provides differentiation. We do this by co-innovating, listening to the end consumer, adapting to their specific needs and those of our client and our sector. All this to always offer an assortment with the greatest guarantees of quality and food safety, at a competitive price in all the categories with which we work. 116 Annual Report 2018 Together, we listen to the consumer in order to offer innovative products During 2018 we have continued to work together to offer innovative new products and formats for a healthy diet. Together, we have also improved our processes to become more efficient, more sustainable and more environmentally friendly. part of the Ready-to-eat project, the new section for selling freshly made food offered by the chain within the supermarket itself. We supply several references of lettuce and other fresh-cut vegetables for salad preparation in this section. ▶▶ More sustainable containers. We have removed the bag that contained the ingredients in our Wrapidos Texas (cheese and ▶▶ 13 new products. In the last year, alongside chicken), one of the best-selling products Mercadona, we have launched 13 innovain our ready-to-eat assortment. This change tions, 5 of which have already reached all the has allowed us to reduce the plastic used in chain’s supermarkets in Spain or are planned the packaging by 25%. to do so in the immediate future. Inter alia, the Goat Cheese salad, the mushroom mix ▶▶ Reducing food waste. By modifying the or the baby spinach bag. logistic configuration at our plants, we have been able to adapt the units of product per ▶▶ Co-innovation for the Portuguese market. box, adjusting our shipments to the real We accompanied Mercadona on its arrival to needs of the shops according to the geoour neighbouring country. For this reason graphical region and the level of consumpwe have developed our first ready-to-eat tion. This way we avoid wasting products. salad references which are specific to the Portuguese market, adapting recipes and ▶▶ Less boxes. In our baby food range, we have ingredients to the tastes of the local conalso improved logistics efficiency. A cardsumers. Our most popular salads will also board display box has been introduced for arrive in Portugal with bilingual designs. individual fruit pouches, so that more units fit per pallet. This has also had led to a reduction ▶▶ More options: “ready-to-eat”. As specialists in shelf replenishment time and improved in ready-to-eat vegetables we have become product display at the point of sale. 117 We are innovation and efficiency Our new provision model: improving our customer services In our diversification and growth strategy launched in 2015 to reach new customers, new channels Our new logistics model and new markets we have experienced an intense allows us to be swifter process of transformation in terms of equipment and processes. All this focused on ensuring the and more efficient best service to our customers. To give an efficient and agile response, our This change in the way we work has been acAranda de Duero (Burgos) plant has been the procompanied by a new logistics model focused on duction centre chosen to make our new strategy growth. During this calendar year we have doubled in our company’s fresh-cut range business unit our order lines going from 960 to 1,800. In terms a reality: going on to centralise the production of logistics, our Aranda plant serves a growing and distribution of our assortment for Portugal, variety of customers across Europe with integrated Horeca-Food Service and the new Sun&Vegs cuspurchasing and delivery of the product to their tomers in Spain. facilities. To meet this challenge, changes have 118 Annual Report 2018 Julio García, Logistics and Provisions manager (standing), with his team at our plant in Aranda. From left to right: Sandra, Laura, David, Luis, Carolina e Iván. (Jesús Benítez is missing in this photo). been made throughout the process, including the of the warehouse and creation of new spaces for physical distribution of our warehouses, palletising storage, priniciply, new containers and auxiliary and procurement strategy. materials. The change in methods and processes has also As for processes, we have opted for the outbeen accompanied by the selection of a single sourcing of the boxing and labelling process logistics and distribution operator. In this case, aimed at multi-clients, also relying on Salvesen Salvesen Logistics was chosen as a partner. A Logistics for this. In addition, with this operator we logistics operator with excellent knowledge in also have an ally in transportation as it allows us ready-to-eat product deliveries. Salvesen are are to take our fresh and healthy products anywhere also knowledgeable in the current market, in dison the islands in 24 hours. tribution, and in preparation and storage systems. With the new logistic model developed at Currently 48% of our expedition lines are already our fresh-cut business unit we can assure our covered by our ally Salvesen. customers, all over Europe, that our fresh, healthy products of the highest quality will be supplied Our just in time System to them 365 days of the year. In addition, at our Aranda plant, the distribution chain has been adapted to a just in time system in order to reduce storage needs, thereby lowering handling costs and bringing down the remaining costs. Communication systems between platforms have also been improved, and information processes have been automated. All this transformation and the new way of operating allows us to optimise our logistics while ensuring optimal service in terms of the delivery of our products. To improve our customer service, our MesturaLogistical operator, expert in offering all types of dos Canarias plant in Tenerife has also been adaptsolutions at any temperature for the food supply chain. It has an extensive network of centres, and the largest fleet ed. Thus, important changes have been made in of temperature-controlled transport throughout the terms of our facilities there,with a reorganisation Iberian Peninsula. 119 +40 30 CUSTOMERS Our customers During 2018 we have followed the path of sustainCOUNTRIES able growth and have taken our healthy revolution even further. Our goal is to continue growing through new markets, new channels and new customers. Thus, our products reach more than 40 customers in 30 countries. 25 EUROPE COUNTRIES We are innovation and efficiency Continuous Investment Investing in innovation, efficiency or security is has been completed. In addition, the old water investing in the future. We could not maintain the supply system has been replaced for a new more quality of our products without making a comsustainable system (reverse osmotisis). mitment to continuously improving our facilities, TThe growth of the company has also led to products and resources. That is why, from the an significant investment in digital transformamoment we started taking our first steps in the tion.Thus, A total of € 357,000 has been invested year 2000, we have invested a total of € 175 M. in projects in the areas of digitisation and new Specifically, in 2018 we earmarked an significant technologies. amount to further improving and maximising each of our plants and units. Thus, we have invested more than € 5.1 M in improving our processing plants, fields of cultivation as well as our research Main investments and development projects. Fresh-cut range and Nutrition The bulk of the investment has been allocated to our fresh-cut business unit. A total of € 2.5 M was assigned to civil works, installations €2.7M Completion of a topping production line and machinery for the second topping room in at our Antequera and the development of Antequera (Malaga). In addition, renovation work the production line for our Supersalads. has been initiated to improve the offices and Completion of our ‘It’s Oats’ line, improving the maintenance workshop at our Riba-roja de our water installations in Carlet Túria plant (Valencia) and a new production line for the production of SuperSalads has also been Agricultural Business Unit built at this plant. The second biggest investment has been allo€1M cated to our Agricultural unit, specifically more Placement and maintenance of plastics in our than 1 million euros designated to the renovation greenhouses at our different farms and improvement of the greenhouses on different farms which belong to our company as well as R&D and innovation the implementation of projects for early shoot cultivation both in the fields and greenhouses. €1M Over € 1 million has also been allocated to R&D&I , which resulted in the launch and testing Digitalization and state-ofof over 20 products to respond to the new trends the-art technology €0.35M and the needs of customers and consumers. While in our baby food area our investments in the new line for the production of Sun&Vegs’ 'It’s Oats' 122 Annual Report 2018 Antequera: 15 years of growth and innovation Our Antequera plant (Malaga, Spain) is now 15 years old, is a key part of our goal to be leaders in quality, service, competitiveness and grow sustainably by means of continuous innovation. The Malaga plant was launched in 2003 and since then has had a total cumulative investment of 23.5 million euros and has grown from 30 to 178 employees in 2018. Antequera today means talent, innovation, flexibility, efficiency and, above all, great growth potential for the whole group. Last year, the Antequera plant produced 80 million product units. Here is where we prepare our bagged salads as well as our mix-and-ready products within the category of complete food. Additionally, microwaveable bags of vegetables and 100% natural vegetables are produced here. This plant also centralizes the production for all of Spain many of our salad bowl references, for example: our Salmon Salad, Ham Salad, Goat Cheese Salad or Aloha Poke Salad, among others. In addition, since 2016 the plant has two rooms which are specially equipped for the preparation of our toppings. These toppings are distributed to the rest of our group’s fresh-cut range plant in Spain and also to international customers. These facilities have a production capacity of 55 million topping trays per year. To celebrate these 15 years of success and growth, we organized an open day for employees and their families, who were able to visit the plant and get to learn about the products that come off their lines every day thanks to the work The Antequera plant (Malaga) has celebrated its 15th of their respective family members. In addition, anniversary with an open day for the families of all its employees. Central photo: Paco Carrillo, plant manager, a gift was also presented to those who had been along with people who had worked for 15 years as company in the company for 15 years. employees 123 We are innovation and efficiency Sustainable growth: new customers, new markets Our raison d'être as a company is to grow with a Ready-to-eat, our most relevant area clear, integral identity that makes us sustainable In terms of the percentages of our turnover per over time. In these 18 years we have maintained business unit, “our ready-to-eat” range is still the a continuous growth based on principles that range that brings us the highest sales percentage we know will lead us to be the consumers’ first contributing a 57% to the group, followed by the choice when it comes to companies who make agricultural area which represents 32%, and finally fresh, healthy products. This in turn creates value the baby food and Nutrition unit which represents in the long term for our shareholders, workers, 11% of our total sales. collaborators and consumers. Thus, in the last year our ready-to-eat area Thus, in 2018 we have once again recorded obtained a turnover of 198 million euros, which historic growth for our company, reaching 308 means an increase of 42.5% compared to 2017. million euros in consolidated sales throughout The Fresh-cut range plants in Spain and Germany the group 21.7% more than in the previous year. have produced 214 million units of ready-to-eat This growth is partly due to the development of salads and vegetables (+13.5%), which has resulted new products and new customers at our different in a processed volume of 52,000 tonnes. business units in Spain, as well as the integration Our Nutrition business unit, on the other hand, of Thurländer in Germany. has experienced a growth of 1.1% its turnover This year we have seen a significant increase in reaching 26.6 million euros. In terms of volume, sales to international markets in all of our business the Carlet plant produced 31 million units of tubs units. Thus, 27% of the group’s turnover comes and pouches of baby food and other solutions for from customers outside of Spain, compared to the whole family (+6% compared to 2017). 12% in 2017. In detail, in the Agricultural area, In the case of our Agricultural area, the turnover international turnover now accounts for 29% of in 2018 was 83.4 million euros, 5% less than in sales, in the Fresh-cut range area is 26% and in the previous year; a decrease motivated by the Nutrition this figure stands at 27%. change of model in the sales structure of the unit. The production volume of direct from the field assortment reached 90,000 tonnes. The balance sheet for this last calendar year reinforces our idea of continuing to work as we always have done before basing our strategy on innovation, customer diversification and the development of our employees. 124 Annual Report 2018 Turnover by business unit 32% 11% 57% Agricultural Nutrition Fresh-cut range International Turnover 29% 27% €83.4M Agrícola €26.6M Agricultural Nutrition 26% 27% €198M €308M Fresh-Cut Range GAC Turnover per business unit 2018 2017 Variation FRESH-CUT RANGE €198M €139M +42.5% NUTRITION €26.6M €26.3M +1% AGRICULTURAL €83.4M €87.8M -5% €308M €253.1M +21.7% 125 We are innovation and efficiency Five years of growth In 2018 we reached a new milestone in our history as a company. For yet another year we achieved record turnover, thus consolidating a trajectory of growth that has been particularly accentuated over the last 5 years. TURNOVER 2018 €308M 2017 €253M 2016 €240M 2015 €169Μ €308M turnover in 2018 (+21.7%). 2014 €122Μ INTERNATIONAL SALES (% OF THE TOTAL) 2018 27% 2017 12% 2016 9% 2015 — +27% of our sales come from 2014 — international markets. INVESTMENT 2018 €5.1M 2017 €7.5M 2016 €8.7M 2015 €14.5M €50M accumulated investment 2014 €16M in the last five years. 126 Annual Report 2018 EMPLOYEES 2018 2,291 2017 2,153 2016 2,145 2015 1,254 2014 629 2,291employees. +138 in 2018. NUMBER OF PRODUCTION PLANTS 2018 7 2017 6 2016 6 2015 6 2014 4 7 processing plants. INNOVATION: NEW PRODUCTS 2018 25 2017 100 2016 50 2015 39 +200 innovations in five years. 2014 14 SALES VOLUME (UNITS) FRESH-CUT RANGE 2018 €214M 2017 €189M 2016 €159M 2015 €154M 2014 €145M 214M units of salads sold in 2018. 127
