2018 Global Sustainability Report OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX 2018 Global Sustainability Report OVERVIEW SOCIAL 4 Letter from Our CEO Operations 5 2018 Highlights 19 Talent 6 Gap Inc. Goals + Progress 21 Equality + Belonging 7 Brand Goals + Progress 25 Employee Engagement 8 About Gap Inc. 27 This Way Ahead: First Jobs 8 About this Report Supply Chain STRATEGY 29 Supplier Sustainability 30 Assessment + Remediation 10 Sustainability Strategy 36 Capability Building 11 Value Chain 40 P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women 12 Materiality 13 Core Sustainability Focus Areas 14 Management Approach ENVIRONMENT 15 Sustainable Development Goals Supply Chain 16 Code of Business Conduct 16 Governance 44 Water Stewardship 16 Risk Management 52 Chemicals Management 17 Stakeholder Engagement Operations 54 Energy 55 Waste PRODUCT 57 Product Sustainability 58 Brand Goals 61 Raw Materials 63 Circularity + End of Life APPENDIX 65 Goals + Progress Detail 67 SASB Reference Table 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 Overview 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 2018 Highlights 6 Gap Inc. Goals + Progress 7 Brand Goals + Progress 8 About Gap Inc. 8 About this Report OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Letter from Our CEO AUGUST 2019 I’m proud to share the progress we made that deliver the products our customers last year, presented here in our 2018 love, with less impact on the environment. Global Sustainability Report. With these resources, teams can create truly sustainable fashion with an unfettered The report represents a tremendous view into the life cycle of our garments, from amount of dedication by our employees raw materials to end of life. One example and collaboration with our partners around that demonstrates these design decisions the globe. Together, we’re united by a belief at scale is our commitment to sourcing that our business can and should be a more sustainable cotton. Gap Inc. was force for good. recently named one of the “fastest movers of 2018” and ranked third on the Better More than a measure of accomplishments, Cotton Initiative’s global ranking of top this update serves as a diagnostic companies sourcing by volume. inventory of the critical work ahead and targets where we can most effect change. Connecting our most pressing sustainability efforts is water, a precious natural We’re continually striving to protect resource that is essential to our business. those who make our products, limit From cotton fields to fabric production to our environmental impact, and foster manufacturing, the apparel industry is an inclusive workplaces where everyone is intense user of water globally. Above all, welcome – from our global offices to our access to clean, safe water is a vital human suppliers’ facilities to thousands of stores in right. We’re partnering with organizations communities around the world. to help people who are disproportionately impacted by water insecurity and are Addressing the dire impacts of climate innovating with our suppliers to reduce the continued gains we are making against our goal of only sourcing product from The report represents change is one of our priorities. We are accelerating work to transition our business amount of water used in manufacturing. factories that earn a green or yellow rating a tremendous amount against our Code of Vendor Conduct. to a low-carbon economy. We will meet our We remain focused on advancing human of dedication by 2020 goal to halve the carbon footprint rights, addressing labor issues and of our global owned and operated stores supporting the communities globally that As we issue this report, we’re also celebrating Gap’s 50th anniversary and our employees and and offices since 2015, and are committed to 100 percent renewable energy for these are affected by our business. For example, we continue to support the advancement undergoing a significant transformation at collaboration with our our company. As we work to separate into facilities by 2030. In addition, we’ll be of women in our supply chain through two companies, one thing is for certain: the partners around the moving aggressively to partner across the our P.A.C.E. program. In partnership with industry to respond to emissions, waste our suppliers, we’re scaling our trainings values that shape who we are and what we stand for will not change. globe. Together, we’re and pollution in our supply chains. on worker-management dialogue and prevention of sexual harassment, expanding united by a belief that Last year our brands expanded efforts to our approach to fire, building and electrical our business can and embed sustainability into product design safety, and launching a three-year initiative and raw materials selection. In addition to with the International Labour Organization should be a force for leveraging customer insights and analytics, focused on improving social dialogue designers are making informed decisions and industrial relations in Bangladesh. good. with the help of new toolkits and courses Underpinning all of these efforts are the ART PECK CEO, GAP INC. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX 2018 Highlights Saved a Expanded our Worked with cumulative Mill our suppliers to Sustainability Digitize 80% 5.7B Program Wage Liters of to amplify our social Payments Water and environmental for garment workers, in product assessments deeper Read More Read More reaching 80 percent manufacturing Read More into our supply chain p.48 p.39 of facilities through 2018 p.46 Entered a Sourced almost Earned 3mw 7.5mw exclusively from B-Corp Solar Solar Facilities Rated Green 98% Certification for Athleta + PPA Virtual PPA, or Yellow, Hill City, (power purchasing to source 100% agreement) at our Fresno renewable energy for as evaluated against our our newly launched distribution center Athleta's store footprint COVC, making progess toward Read More high-performance Read More our goal to eliminate sourcing p.30 menswear brand p.59 Read More p.54 from red-rated facilities Increased our sourcing Scaled our P.A.C.E. Expanded our of Better Cotton, program to reach first-jobs program, making Gap Inc. the This Way Ahead, to 3RD 280K+ in 17 53 Largest Buyer Women + Countries Cities of BCI Cotton Girls Read More Read More in the U.S., Canada, Read More Globally p.62 through 2018 p.41 UK and Japan p.28 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Gap Inc. Goals + Progress Holding ourselves accountable is fundamental to our approach to sustainability. Below are key goals, our progress to date and where we are heading in the future. All target years are fiscal year end. Report data is through fiscal 2018 (February 2, 2019) unless otherwise noted. Additional detail is available in the Goals + Progress Detail (p.65). GOAL 2018 PROGRESS % ACHIEVED GOAL 2018 PROGRESS % ACHIEVED SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS SUPPLY CHAIN Support $15 million in $15.6 in employee-driven Save 10 billion liters of water 5.7 billion liters of water have been 57% 106% employee-driven community community investment in manufacturing by 2020, saved by Gap Inc. suppliers through investment per year from a 2014 baseline 2018, from a 2014 baseline Reach 10,000 youth through 5,677 youth have participated in Work toward zero discharge Strategic facilities must comply with the ZDHC Manufacturing 57% This Way Ahead by 2020 This Way Ahead through 2018 of hazardous chemicals in Restricted Substances List (MRSL) and verify through our supply chain by 2020 wastewater testing. Hire 5% of entry-level 1,107 entry-level hires were 28% employees from This Way from This Way Ahead OPERATIONS Ahead annually by 2025 Reduce GHG emissions by 50% 18% reduction in emissions to date; 18% SUPPLY CHAIN in our owned and operated signed a 3.5MW PPA and a 7.5MW facilities globally by 2020, VPPA to source renewable energy from a 2015 baseline 100% of supplier facilities 98% of supplier facilities 98% producing branded apparel are were rated yellow or green rated yellow or green by 2020 Divert 80% of waste from 47% of waste was diverted from 47% landfill across our U.S. landfill across our U.S. facilities facilities by 2020 100% of Tier 1 suppliers 80% of suppliers are using digital 80% transition to digital wage wage-payment mechanisms payments by 2020 PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY (GAP INC.) Reach 1 million women Over 280,000 women have 28% Eliminate the use of woodVerified that 77% of cellulosic through P.A.C.E. by 2022 participated in P.A.C.E. through 2018 77% derived fibers sourced from fiber volume is compliant with our ancient and endangered commitment; work is underway to forests by 2020 verify the remainder ON TRACK PROGRESSING NEEDS ATTENTION 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Brand Goals + Progress GOAL 2018 PROGRESS % ACHIEVED GOAL 2018 PROGRESS % ACHIEVED Source 100% of cotton from 53% of cotton was from Source 100% of cotton from 45% of cotton was from 45% 53% more sustainable sources more sustainable sources more sustainable sources more sustainable sources by 2021 by 2023 Make 75% of qualifying products 22% of denim was made using 22% Make 50% of products with 28% of products were made 28% using Washwell™ water-saving Washwell™ water-saving sustainable fibers by 2023 with sustainable fibers techniques by 2021 techniques Make 50% of products using Reporting in progress water-saving techniques and cleaner chemistry practices in our supply chain by 2025 Make 80% of materials with 46% of products were made 46% sustainable fibers by 2020 with 30% or more sustainable content Source 100% of cotton from 40% of cotton was from 40% Make 25% of products using 4% of products were made 4% more sustainable sources more sustainable sources water-saving techniques by using water-saving techniques by 2022 2020 Make 100% of denim products 60% of Spring 2019 denim Divert 80% of store waste 70% of store waste was 60% 70% using water-saving techniques was made using water-saving from landfill by 2020 diverted from landfill by 2022 techniques Empower 10,000 women 3,212 women participated 32% Banana Republic and Old Navy goals were set in 2019. through P.A.C.E. and Fair in P.A.C.E. or received Fair Progress is based on 2018 benchmarks. Trade by 2020 Trade premiums ON TRACK PROGRESSING NEEDS ATTENTION 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX About ABOUT GAP INC. ABOUT THIS REPORT Founded in San Francisco in 1969, Gap Inc. This report covers Gap Inc.’s global is a leading global retailer offering clothing, operations for the fiscal year ending accessories and personal care products for February 2, 2019. men, women and children under the Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Athleta, Intermix, Data within covers fiscal 2018, unless Janie and Jack, and Hill City brands. otherwise noted. Our last report covered fiscal 2017 and is available with our other We have approximately 135,000 part-time and past sustainability reports. full-time employees. Our products are available for purchase in more than 90 countries through This report focuses on developments 3,194 Company-operated stores, 472 franchise and actions for our key programs, stores and e-commerce sites (as of fiscal 2018). progress toward our corporate and brand goals during fiscal 2018, Gap Inc., on February 28, 2019, announced preparations for activities in 2019, and plans to create two independent publicly an analysis of trends and business traded companies: Old Navy, a category impacts where available. For our leader in family apparel, and Gap Inc., which many programs, we provide detailed will consist of the iconic Gap brand, Banana information on objectives, operations Republic, Athleta, Intermix, Janie and Jack, and our management approach at and Hill City brands. In early 2019, Gap Inc. gapincsustainability.com, which can be purchased Janie and Jack, a leader in premium accessed via links in each section. children’s fashion. Gap Inc. expects to effect the separation through a spin-off in early 2020. We sought to prepare this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Our Athleta and Hill City brands are certified Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. B-Corp brands, demonstrating their Gap Inc. is committed to the United commitment to using business as a force for Nations (UN) Global Compact Ten good by meeting rigorous standards across Principles and this report serves as our social and environmental performance, Communication on Progress (CoP). We accountability and transparency. We have have not obtained external assurance for amended Athleta's legal charter to become a this report. Delaware Public Benefit Corporation to further uphold the brand’s commitment to people and Please direct questions to the planet. sustainability@gap.com We purchase private label and non-private label merchandise from about 700 vendors. Our vendors have factories in about 40 countries. Learn More Annual Filings 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 Strategy 10 Sustainability Strategy 11 Value Chain 12 Materiality 13 Core Sustainability Focus Areas 14 Management Approach 15 Sustainable Development Goals 16 Code of Business Conduct 16 Governance 16 Risk Management 17 Stakeholder Engagement OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Sustainability Strategy We are reimagining how business can change the world. As one of the world's leading apparel retailers, we recognize that we contribute to and have the opportunity to address systemic social and environmental challenges. We continue to be committed to contributing to business value; enabling safe, fair working conditions for the people who make our products; minimizing our environmental impact; and working with our industry to achieve progress on global goals. We do this by addressing impacts in our owned and operated facilities and collaborating throughout our value chain and across government, business and civil society. Recognizing the importance of engaging customers and employees, we are also communicating through our brands in our effort to build a more sustainable world. We have aligned our sustainability strategy with the “Our commitment to sustainability benefits United Nations (UN) Global Sustainable Development agenda. Guided by frameworks such as the UN Guiding our company and the communities in which Principles on Business and Human Rights, the UN we operate. It also reduces our risk and builds Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris resiliency into our supply chain. When we look Agreement on climate change, we have identified the holistically at the impact of our priorities, we can issues that are most material to our business and where see real returns on our investments in renewable we have the most influence. energy and GHG reductions, in building a diverse and equitable work force, and in engaging with industrywide initiatives.” TERI LIST-STOLL CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, GAP INC. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Value Tier 3 Suppliers Tier 2 Suppliers Design + Raw Materials + Textile Chain Development Processing Manufacturing A garment has a whole life — both Because most of a product’s environmental Our products use many types of fibers — Fabric mills use large quantities of energy before it reaches our stores and after impacts are determined at the concept natural cellulosic fibers, like cotton and linen, and water, and the chemicals used to dye it leaves our hands and is worn by our phase, our designers’ creative vision synthetic fibers, like polyester and spandex, and finish fabrics may pose a risk to local customers. ultimately impacts people and the and pulp-based man-made cellulosic fibers, waterways if not treated properly. Our environment. As our production and sourcing like rayon and modal. We work to minimize the Mill Sustainability Program establishes Each stage, from the first design teams bring this vision to life by placing social and environmental impacts unique to clear environmental standards, and we sketches to end of life, presents orders with independent suppliers, they have each fiber. We place a special focus on cotton, are integrating those standards into our opportunities and risks for our business, significant influence over who makes our given its importance to many of our products sourcing decisions. We also aim to scale the environment and everyone who is clothes. This affords Gap Inc. the ability to and water-intensive production process. We improvements across the industry by working touched by our brands. improve working conditions in facilities and are also taking steps to ensure that we source with our peers to identify and share best address our larger environmental footprint. more sustainable synthetic and man-made practices for improving the use of water, cellulosic fibers. chemicals and energy. Our Programs Our Programs Our Programs • Water Stewardship (p.44) • Water Stewardship (p.44) • Assessment + Remediation (p.30) • Product Sustainability (p.57) • Chemicals Management (p.52) • P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women (p.40) • Product Sustainability (p.57) • Water Stewardship (p.44) • Chemicals Management (p.52) Tier 1 Suppliers Product + Logistics + Retail Consumer Use + Finishing Distribution Stores End of Life We believe in a comprehensive approach We ship products through a combination of Our stores express who we are — from our style How our customers wear, care for and discard for improving working conditions in sea, air, truck and rail from supplier facilities to our commitment to operating in a way that their clothes accounts for a portion of our our supply chain, combining facility to our distribution centers and then on to cares for both people and the environment. products’ total environmental footprint. We monitoring and capability building stores or directly to customers. We use the They are where we sell our products and use product labeling, catalogs, social media programs to help our suppliers optimal mix of shipping options based on communicate directly with our employees and and blog posts to share our efforts to improve continuously improve. We also engage speed, cost and sustainability and have customers. As part of our owned and operated sustainability. This informs customers about closely with all of our vendors to measure taken steps to conserve energy and reduce footprint, they offer an opportunity to reduce our work, inspires them to consider water and address their environmental impact. waste at our distribution centers, the largest our environmental impact. We also run our use in their daily lives, and communicates facilities we own and operate. This Way Ahead program at our stores to help the urgency of our environmental and social young people with barriers to employment initiatives. Recognizing that we have an obtain their first jobs. opportunity to improve circularity, we joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation in early 2018 to explore and contribute to industrywide Our Programs Our Programs Our Programs solutions to end-of-life impacts. • Assessment + Remediation (p.30) • Energy (p.54) • This Way Ahead: First Jobs (p.27) • Capability Building (p.36) • Waste (p.55) • Energy (p.54) Our Programs • P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women (p.40) • Waste (p.55) • Circularity + End of Life (p.63) • Water Stewardship (p.44) • Product Sustainability (p.57) • Chemicals Management (p.52) • Product Sustainability (p.57) 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Materiality We integrate sustainability deeply into MATERIAL ISSUES our business to create greater impact across our value chain. Within sustainability, materiality refers Governance + Human Rights + Resource Use, to the areas of heightened concern Operating Context Social Impact Scarcity + Impacts from internal and external stakeholders compared to relevant environmental, social and governance issues. Our material Corporate Governance Worker Rights + Well-being Water issues, viewed alongside our value chain, demonstrate focus areas where we can develop programs more directly targeted Radical Transparency Income, Wages + Inequality Chemicals Management + Compliance to the areas of greatest impact. We prioritize the opportunities and Technology + Product Innovation Human Capital + Development Energy + Climate Stewardship challenges in sustainability that matter most to our stakeholders and business. Resiliency Diversity + Inclusion Waste + End of Life We periodically refresh our materiality assessment in order to: Country/Regional Reputation + Consumer Engagement Sustainable Materials Sourcing • Identify the most material sustainability Legal + Economic Conditions issues for Gap Inc. in terms of business value, risks and opportunities for longterm planning • Understand how sustainability and key business issues intersect • Inform future sustainability commitments and resource allocation • Support Gap Inc.’s engagement with external stakeholders Our material issues fall into three categories — governance and operating context, human rights and social impact, and resource use, scarcity and impacts — with 15 sustainability-related aspects that guide our strategy. Learn More Materiality 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Core Sustainability Focus Areas We recognize that we cannot lead SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT on every issue. Given our business operations and strengths, we prioritize our greatest opportunities for leadership to maximize impact. Gap Inc.’s sustainability materiality assessment set our overarching sustainability agenda and helped establish our five core focus areas: Advancing People + Water Product Communities Stewardship Sustainability We aim to create opportunities for the Water is essential for our business and We are working with our product exceptional people who support our the people and communities where we designers and developers to balance business — employees in our stores, operate. We look for ways to address the needs of getting great product workers in supplier facilities and water impacts throughout our value into our customers’ hands more communities near our operations. chain and in communities. consistently and faster than ever before, while also reducing our impact on the environment. Improving Operational Supply Chain Eco-Efficiency Working Conditions We are reducing our operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions By partnering with our suppliers, we and waste, and working with our strive to provide safe, fair and healthy logistics and procurement partners to working conditions for the individuals improve efficiency and environmental who create our clothes. performance. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Management Approach Given our company's size, we feel a 1. Integrate sustainability great responsibility to the planet and to the people who make our clothes. into our business Our global scale also provides an We create broader accountability for opportunity to make a real difference. our sustainability strategy by creating We are doing this by supporting shared goals and targets across Gap Inc. long-term business performance while creating greater equality and opportunity, developing social and environmental innovations that allow 2. Set ambitious goals people to fulfill their potential, and scaling these innovations by integrating We focus on key indicators across the them into our business and products. company so that we can measure our progress on delivering real benefits to In addition to aligning our goals with the the people and communities we serve. UN Global Sustainable Development agenda, we take an intentional approach for all of our social and environmental programs. 3. Make progress toward our commitments We contribute in a meaningful way to the people and places we rely on for our business — which also helps our company succeed. “Business is undergoing a huge shift in expectations; we have to act with integrity in all we do. It’s our job to step forward with big 4. Form partnerships with civil society, governments ambitions, set transformative goals and prepare and other sectors to for the future of retail. Sustainability is not just a increase collective impact buzzword; it’s built into our business and helps us By partnering with organizations from ask the right questions as we look ahead.” the local to the global level, we deliver impact on a bigger scale and create KEITH WHITE long-term, sustainable progress. EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY, GAP FOUNDATION, AND LOSS PREVENTION, GAP INC. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) developed by the United Nations are a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. To meet these goals, everyone — from Ensure inclusive and Achieve gender equality Ensure access to water business to government to civil society equitable quality and empower all women and sanitation for all — must do their part. education and promote and girls After the SDGs were adopted, we lifelong learning assessed Gap Inc.’s opportunities to advance progress on the individual Our Work Our Work Our Work targets. This assessment revealed that • Talent • Equality + Belonging • Women + Water our company’s sustainability efforts • P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women • P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women • Mill Sustainability Program align most closely with six of the goals. • This Way Ahead: First Jobs • Women + Water • Chemicals Management While some of our programs may Our Goal Our Goal Our Goal contribute to other goals, we have Hire 5% of entry-level employees Reach 1 million women through P.A.C.E. Save 10 billion liters of water in mapped Gap Inc. initiatives and goals through This Way Ahead by 2025 by 2022 manufacturing by 2020, from a 2014 against these six SDGs to demonstrate baseline how we are contributing to achieving global targets. Promote inclusive and Ensure sustainable Take urgent action to sustainable economic consumption and combat climate change growth, employment and production patterns and its impacts decent work for all Our Work Our Work Our Work • Talent • Sustainability Reporting • Energy • Equality + Belonging • Waste • This Way Ahead: First Jobs • Chemicals Management • Supplier Sustainability • Product Sustainability Our Goal Our Goal Our Goal 100% of supplier facilities producing Source 100% of cotton from more Reduce GHG emissions by 50% in our branded apparel are rated yellow or sustainable sources by 2025 owned and operated facilities globally by green by 2020 2020, from a 2015 baseline 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Code of Business Conduct, Governance + Risk Management CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT tools (which guide leaders on how GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT to have effective conversations with Our Global Code of Business Conduct their teams), FAQs, policy links and Our governance structure ensures Gap Inc. has developed systems and (COBC) serves as our ethical compass, contacts. that our Global Sustainability program procedures focused on identifying and articulating our commitment to high • Our Global Integrity team conducts both meets our company’s social and managing risks, including those related to standards. annual interviews with employees environmental goals and supports our sustainability. in various business units or offices business. We encourage our employees to use our and selected suppliers. These Our Global Sustainability team works with open-door process for discussing concerns interviews allow us to gauge how Gap Inc.’s Board of Directors, business partners and experts to assess with their supervisor, next-level manager well our employees understand particularly the Governance and the importance of potential social and or human resources representative. our COBC, remind employees and Sustainability Committee, oversees environmental risks and opportunities for Employees may also contact our Global suppliers of their responsibilities and our Global Sustainability program. our business and external stakeholders, Integrity team, which oversees our COBC our expectations of how we engage The board receives regular updates including suppliers and the people who program. We also provide a confidential with one another, and ensure that from Keith White, Executive Vice make our products. These include the COBC hotline, email box and web portal employees know how to report COBC President, Global Sustainability, Gap risks that climate and environmental — all of which are available 24 hours a violations. Foundation and Loss Prevention. He impacts could pose to our business. The day, seven days a week to employees and reports directly to Gap Inc. CEO, Art team uses tools to help prioritize risks and anyone who conducts business with Gap • Senior-level employees must certify Peck, and meets regularly with our opportunities, including a sustainability Inc. or is affected by our business. We have their COBC compliance annually and Executive Vice President of Global materiality assessment, an assessment of investigative teams that log, process and are briefed on relevant compliance Supply Chain and Product Operations, representative products and a stakeholder address complaints received through any and integrity topics to raise Shawn Curran. engagement process. channel, including our COBC hotlines. awareness. Our organizational structure allows For these materiality and other risk Key aspects of how we implement our We are diligent about addressing collaboration across key departments. assessments, we consider such factors as COBC: corruption risks, particularly in Our Global Sustainability team works the magnitude, likelihood and time horizon developing countries with limited rule closely with our brands’ Product of potential impacts on our business and • All employees globally are required to of law. We have a company-wide and Marketing teams, Supply Chain, stakeholders. We also develop countrytake a COBC overview course within 30 program for monitoring, enforcing and Government Affairs, Public Affairs, specific strategies that take local context days of their initial hire date. addressing any issues related to our Legal and Gap Foundation teams, into consideration while developing our • We provide ongoing compliance Anti-Corruption Policy, which combines among others. program and addressing key issues. training to appropriate employees elements from our COBC with antion topics of nondiscrimination bribery requirements under the Foreign Gap Inc.'s Environmental Council is Learn More and harassment, wage and Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other integral to building this alignment. The Our risk management process hour compliance, workplace similar laws around the world. The policy Council is responsible for evaluating accommodations, anti-corruption, and related training programs help new initiatives and reviewing progress competition law compliance, and employees recognize and avoid corrupt on our existing environmental goals and data privacy and security. Our Global business practices in all aspects of Gap programs, particularly those related to Integrity team also conducts general Inc.’s business. Gap Inc.'s overall climate-change in-person training sessions throughout strategy and waste-reduction efforts. the year. Learn More Code of Business Conduct (COBC) Learn More • We provide a variety of online selfhelp tools for compliance education Governance Policies and communication, including leader 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Stakeholder Engagement Advancing progress on systemic issues in the apparel sector — such “To create the change as water access and climate change, we’re after, we can’t women’s empowerment, and safe and fair working conditions — demands do this work alone. collaboration and jointly developed solutions. We partner with organizations large We engage stakeholders and establish partnerships with diverse groups of and small to make experts and organizations to gain a clearer understanding of complex issues this work happen. The and understand local conditions in the United Nations is one of countries where we do business. This dialogue helps us improve our programs, them. For years, we’ve refine strategies, reveal unexplored issues and scale industry solutions. supported the UN Global Compact and its We have many key stakeholders: the people who make our clothes, our guiding principles.” customers, suppliers and factories, employees, unions, governments, ART PECK multilateral institutions, NGOs, industry CEO, GAP INC. associations, investors, communities and others. We also belong to a number of organizations that enable us to more effectively collaborate with and learn from stakeholders. Multistakeholder initiatives bring together organizations and people from different sectors that play a key role in finding new approaches and creating collective action. Learn More Our stakeholder-engagement approach A full list of our initiatives and the organizations we partner with 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 Social Operations 19 Talent 21 Equality + Belonging 25 Employee Engagement 27 This Way Ahead: First Jobs Supply Chain 29 Supplier Sustainability 30 Assessment + Remediation 36 Capability Building 40 P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Talent Our business success depends on our people. OUR APPROACH Our workplace culture and benefits are We cultivate a culture that attracts and engages designed to meet the professional and talented employees and gives them opportunities personal needs of our employees and their families. to achieve their work and life goals, and we provide programs and customized experiences to help our Over the years, we have built on our foundation of putting people first. This people achieve their full potential. includes improving wages and scheduling practices so that the people who work in our stores experience greater stability and Our talent practices are aimed at developing a flexibility, as well as financial incentives, diverse pipeline of employees, giving individuals new work-life integration and benefits that help employees make the most of their challenges to help them grow into new roles with professional and personal lives. This greater responsibility, and cultivating great leaders who supports employees and increases their can build great teams. We believe in our employees’ engagement at work, which contributes value to our business. potential and provide myriad career opportunities for those who want to learn and grow with us. In 2018, we invested in a few critical areas to develop talent, understand employee engagement and enhance flexibility for Learn More our people. How we help our employees realize their potential 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Talent BUILDING TALENT The company offers over 12,000 courses EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY In 2018, we expanded our parental leave that we create, manage or have access to, benefits to allow parents more time for In 2018, we expanded the Gap Inc. talent covering a range of subjects, including goal To understand the needs of our bonding: We provide 12 weeks of leave (six map to help provide all of our employees setting, how to be a great boss, situational employees, Gap Inc. conducted a weeks at 100 percent of pay and six weeks – professionals, managers, directors leadership, unconscious bias and inclusive company-wide opinion survey in 2018 to at 50 percent of pay) to support employees and executives – with opportunities for leadership, how to have powerful measure our employees’ sentiments and with new family members, regardless of development. These tiered focuses meet conversations, and many more. engagement across the entire talent life how those families are formed. This benefit individual contributors and leaders where cycle. This survey is a critical component is now available to a broad section of our they are on their professional journey, By delivering best-in-class training, our of our continuous listening strategy: U.S. employees, including our hourly store providing development programs tailored aim is to inspire and engage Gap Inc. We use the insights to understand associates who have worked at least 24 to their needs. talent through a consistent framework that what’s important to our employees and hours a week for the past year. empowers employees to drive their work to indicate where we should focus our Our learning and development programs forward while building strong relationships. investments and build new programs and This program builds on other important reach the following employees: strategies that help us create a thriving, steps we have taken to invest in our GREAT BOSSES productive work environment. people, including our leadership as the first • Individuals: helping them to be leaders Fortune 500 company to have our global at any level, even if they are not directly We know that one of the primary reasons pay data independently verified to confirm managing other people people stay in their jobs is because they that we pay women and men equally • New Managers: helping newly hired or have great bosses. Great bosses build around the world. promoted managers understand the principles of sound leadership as they begin to manage others for the first great teams, and great teams contribute great value to the company. We focus on developing our leaders’ ability to connect, 62% FIELD TO HQ time listen to feedback and continuously Fueling our entry-level headquarters roles • Managers: helping existing managers improve. with incredible talent is important to our deliver ongoing results through As part of our talent development of Employees success, and field employees are a key source of talent for these roles. effective leadership and management • Directors: helping people who have investments in 2018, we rolled out a Responded multiple years of leadership experience program dedicated to creating and (approximately 84,000) Our diverse field employees work with improve how they “lead leaders” and celebrating great-boss moments. This customers every day and understand what drive results for their teams campaign focused on 10 practical ways our they need and want. Their connection to • Executives: helping experienced people can “boss better,” from rewarding customers and understanding of how our leaders enhance their skills in leading successes to being honest, curious, and EXPANDED PARENTAL-LEAVE stores work is invaluable at headquarters. multifunctional, diverse global teams to open-minded to understanding that POLICY We have always encouraged bringing store drive results at the enterprise level progress is better than perfection. employees to headquarters and, in 2017, We are proud that Gap Inc. has become formalized a program in which we actively Our enterprise learning efforts are open to Additionally, we launched the Great Boss one of the top employers in the U.S; we’ve market opportunities to store employees, all HQ employees and combine classroomSurvey, a vehicle for managers to get been recognized as one of Business support candidates through the recruiting based experiences with virtual learning, actionable feedback directly from the of Fashion’s Best Companies to Work process, and provide a custom onboarding homework, hands-on workshops and people they lead. In the spirit of continuous For. One of the ways we have achieved experience to ensure a successful continual learning opportunities. improvement, we conduct this survey this status is by continually making transition. By 2020, our goal is to fill 20 twice a year and the results go directly to investments in programs and benefits percent of entry-level headquarters roles managers. that will have a positive impact on our with field employees. employees’ well-being. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Equality + Belonging Since our founding, we’ve embraced core company OUR APPROACH values that include celebrating individuality, diversity We expanded our approach to and treating all people equally — with respect, dignity developing a workplace that supports our core values of equality and and fairness. creating a sense of belonging. We see an opportunity to stand alongside our Our Equality and Belonging strategy focuses on three areas: employees and other industry leaders to work toward greater equality and a sense of belonging for 1. STORYTELLING everyone. This helps our company attract and retain Telling stories about who we are and the best employees, create great products for all of what we stand for helps us create a company culture that values equality, our customers, foster creativity and innovation, and opportunity and connection for all contribute to a more inclusive and just world. people. To attract and retain talent, we seek to be more vocal about our public commitments, awards and efforts. Our empowerment, employee and workforce programs 2. EXPERIMENTATION support the rights and well-being of the people who embody and drive our business, ensuring that they have To drive innovation, we encourage trying new and different approaches to equal opportunity and support to develop personally discover what works and what doesn’t and professionally. to recruit talent, develop leaders and create programs that promote an inclusive work culture. Learn More Our commitment to equality and opportunity 3. PROGRAMS THAT MATTER To set the foundation for our inclusivity work, we invest in programs across Gap Inc. that support mentorship, learning, creating inclusive products and promoting equal access for all. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Equality + Belonging EMPLOYEE NETWORK GROUPS COLOR PROUD COUNCIL matching systems and formalized reports. In 2018, we launched our Be One. Get One. Over the years, Gap Inc. employees from In 2018, a group of employees formed program to empower employees to take an diverse backgrounds have developed Color Proud Council, a cross-enterprise active role in both their own development Equality and Belonging Network body to challenge industry norms and and the development of others. Groups, which provide opportunities too-often accepted biases by ensuring for cross-cultural learning, mentoring we know the importance of putting an SUPPLIER INCLUSION and relationship building. These groups inclusive lens on fundamental aspects of PROGRAM organize development, networking our business, including: product design, and volunteering events to encourage merchandising and marketing, as well as We are committed to increasing the belonging; foster awareness of expanding efforts to recruit, develop and diversity of suppliers we use, helping underrepresented groups; and provide retain diverse talent. diverse businesses become competitive personal and professional development. industry leaders and enhancing the Fostering a thriving, inclusive workforce economic vibrancy of the communities we In January 2019, Gap Inc. employees starts with talent acquisition and serve. The launch of our supplier inclusion announced two new Equality and retention. During the year, Color Proud program in January 2018 provides a Belonging Network Groups: Council partnered with the business framework to increase our work with to revamp recruiting pipelines, took a companies that are owned by or employ a • Gap Parents: Building on Gap Inc.’s critical look at existing training programs, large percentage of minorities, veterans, record as a family-friendly company, and spearheaded a new line of inclusive women and people with disabilities. we formed Gap Parents to help working apparel products. Through this program, we are forming parents thrive at Gap Inc. The group’s new partnerships to expand our networks an inclusive culture across Gap Inc. goal is to provide opportunities for and advocate for the military veteran TRAINING + RESOURCES to connect with a more diverse set of parents to learn from one another, companies in 2018 and beyond. community. The group is providing create connections with mentors, and INCLUSION TRAINING community outreach and organizing access tools and resources. philanthropy and education opportunities to support veterans and those with In 2017, we launched a series of Gap Parents plans to contribute unconscious-bias trainings to employees, military heritage across Gap Inc. insights and provide feedback to which expanded to our global workforce support our business functions, in 2018. We also created curricula and These new groups join Gap Inc.’s existing including our benefits team and our accessible resources that support equality Equality and Belonging Network Groups, kid and baby design teams. The group and belonging. We want our leaders and which include: also plans to lead discussion forums employees to identify how unconscious to support our employees through bias and other issues come to life in their • AANG: African American Networking different stages of parenthood, everyday work. Group including expecting a first child, • ASIA: Asians Supporting Inclusion and returning to work, adding a sibling, BE ONE. GET ONE. Awareness navigating school decisions, same-sex • GEAR: Gay Employees, Allies and parenting, adoption and more. At Gap Inc., we value mentorship as a Resources, an LGBTQ employee and allies group developmental process that helps build • Gap V.E.T.S.: This new group – incredible careers. We view it as a personal • GAPWIL: Women in Leadership Veterans, Enablement, Transition journey that works best when people • HOLA: Honoring Our Latino Ancestry and Support – is intended to build connect organically, instead of relying on 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Equality + Belonging PUBLIC COMMITMENTS AWARDS UN HUMAN RIGHTS LGBTI BLOOMBERG CORPORATE STANDARDS OF GENDER-EQUALITY INDEX CONDUCT FOR BUSINESS As a company working for a more equal, As the first and only global apparel diverse and inclusive future for all, retail company to sign on to the we’re proud to be included in the 2019 standards, Gap Inc. bolstered our Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for the efforts to support and lead on issues second consecutive year. Bloomberg listed that impact our lesbian, gay, bisexual, Gap Inc. as one of 230 global companies transgender and intersex (LGBTI) committed to transparency in gender community around the world. reporting and advancing women’s equality. THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY & INCLUSION INDEX Gap Inc. was named one of the world's most diverse and inclusive companies for the second consecutive year. In the third annual Thomson Reuters Diversity & Inclusion Index which scores companies using environmental, social and governance metrics, Gap Inc. was CEO ACTION FOR OPEN TO ALL ranked fifth out of 7,000 international DIVERSITY & INCLUSION corporations. On Oct, 4, 2018, Gap Inc. and our family of In August 2017, our CEO, Art Peck, brands announced that we joined a coalition alongside other CEOs, pledged his of advocacy organizations and companies by commitment to advance diversity and signing the Open to All Business Pledge. The inclusion in the workplace. The pledge pledge reaffirms that our workplaces and stores HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN aims to rally the business community to are welcoming spaces for everyone, and each CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX (CEI) work collectively toward that goal and U.S. store displayed the Open to All sticker. outlines a specific set of actions, such as For the 13th year in a row, in 2018, Gap unconscious-bias education. Companies For us, this is nothing new, and is in line with Inc. received a perfect score on the CEI, an are encouraged to share practices for our Code of Business Conduct and Zero Means annual benchmarking survey and report cultivating a trusting environment where Zero policy. We are proud to join with other on corporate policies and practices related all ideas are welcome and employees feel businesses and national social justice groups like to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and comfortable and empowered to discuss the NAACP, HRC, ACLU and Anti-Defamation queer (LGBTQ) workplace equality. diversity and inclusion. League to show that we are open to all. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Equality + Belonging WORKPLACE DATA ETHNIC DIVERSITY GENDER REPRESENTATION PROMOTION RATES United States* Global United States We believe diversity increases creativity and innovation, promotes 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 high-quality decisions and enhances economic growth. White VP + Above VP + Above All 50% 48% 47% 45% Women 49% 51% 50% 54% Women 10% 3% 4% 3% We track and disclose data on Management 73% 72% 71% 69% Men 51% 49% 50% 46% Men 13% 7% 11% 8% comparable workplace information to New Hires 46% 44% 41% 41% enable us to monitor trends and the Sr. / Director Sr. / Director effectiveness of our strategy. Asian Women 59% 61% 61% 62% Women 12% 10% 9% 7% All 7% 7% 7% 7% Men 41% 39% 39% 38% Men 10% 12% 6% 6% Learn more Management 9% 10% 10% 10% Workplace Data New Hires 6% 6% 6% 6% Sr. / Manager Sr. / Manager Women 60% 61% 61% 59% Women 16% 16% 13% 11% Black Men 40% 39% 39% 41% Men 15% 14% 13% 7% All 19% 19% 20% 19% Management 7% 6% 6% 7% Store Management Professional New Hires 24% 24% 25% 24% Women 69% 68% 68% 70% Women 6% 7% 8% 8% Men 31% 32% 32% 30% Men 7% 8% 8% 8% Hispanic All 20% 21% 22% 24% New Hires Overall Management 10% 10% 11% 12% Women 73% 74% 74% 74% Women 7% 7% 8% 8% New Hires 18% 19% 21% 22% Men 27% 26% 26% 26% Men 8% 8% 8% 8% Other Minority Overall All 4% 5% 5% 5% Women 74% 75% 76% 76% *Promotions are defined as movement to a higher grade level. Promotion rate is the number of Management 1% 2% 2% 2% Men 26% 25% 24% 24% promotions during the year, divided by the average New Hires 6% 6% 6% 7% headcount for that year. All Minorities All 50% 52% 54% 55% Management 27% 28% 29% 31% New Hires 54% 56% 58% 59% *U.S. full-time and part-time, non-seasonal employees. Data on ethnic diversity is not available outside the U.S. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Employee Engagement We empower Gap Inc. employees to support the OUR APPROACH potential of people in their communities through In 2018, we reached or exceeded all of donations of time, talent and money. our employee-engagement goals tied to employee-driven community investment. Every year, we work to ensure that our legacy of We are especially proud of our strong community involvement remains strong, and we are network of 2,900 Community Leaders, who serve as Gap Foundation ambassadors proud that this spirit is ingrained in our company culture. and drive volunteerism for teams in our Encouraging our employees to volunteer or donate helps stores, corporate offices and distribution centers around the world. These build strong communities as well as attract and retain Community Leaders build partnerships talented, engaged people for Gap Inc. Getting involved in with local nonprofits that frequently span many years and are designed to move the community is easy for our employees, as we build in beyond good intentions to deliver true time for them to volunteer – all salaried employees can impact by leveraging the expertise of our worldwide teams. volunteer five hours per month “on the clock.” In addition, we match donations of both time and money, so that In recent years, we have evolved our employees can support the causes they care about in approach to integrate giving back even more deeply into our culture. Today, the way that works best for them. We measure the dollar each Gap Inc. function has at least value of employee donations of time and money, and the one representative on our Employee Engagement Committee. These company match to both; we refer to this as “employeerepresentatives are responsible for setting driven community investment.” goals for volunteer hours, employee participation and total employee-driven community investment. We share monthly Learn More reports with these representatives to help How we invest in others and ourselves keep teams accountable for their goals. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Employee Engagement GOAL 2018 EMPLOYEE-DRIVEN KEY METRIC COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Support $15 million in 25% of Gap Inc. employees annual employee-driven volunteer annually community investment PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE % Employees Volunteered Employee-Driven Community Investment $15.6M 2017 23% 2017 / $14.8M 2018 2018 / $15.6M 25% ONGOING ONGOING GOAL GOAL 25% $15M $10.6M in Volunteer Hours the financial equivalent of KEY METRIC 431,534 volunteer hours Gap Inc. employees log 430,000 volunteer hours annually $2M in Employee PERFORMANCE Financial Donations Volunteer Hours 2017 / 421K $3M 2018 / 431K in Gap Inc. Matching ONGOING of employee volunteer hours GOAL and financial donations 430K 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX This Way Ahead: First Jobs This Way Ahead is opening doors for the next generation with first jobs, providing the mentoring and confidence to make dreams a reality. Through structured training and paid work experience at Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, Athleta and our distribution centers, This Way Ahead helps youth between ages 16 to 24 who are facing barriers to employment land their first job. The program builds leadership skills among the Gap Inc. employees who mentor This Way Ahead youth. It also helps Gap Inc. build a valuable pipeline of future employees while developing best practices for managing talent that we can apply across the company. Learn More How we developed our program + how we approach implementation 5,677 Youth have participated through 2018 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX This Way Ahead: First Jobs GOAL 2018 PROGRESS REACH + GROWTH IMPACT Reach 10,000 youth In 2018, we greatly expanded This Way Youth through This Way Ahead Ahead. With more than 1,700 young people participating, we grew the number of hires by 2020 by 60 percent compared to 2017. We also initiated a new national partnership with 2017 / 1,148 70% PERFORMANCE the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, growing This Way Ahead Participants the number of cities where the program 2018 / 1,700+ 2007 runs from 15 to 53. of youth reported a lot of As we work toward our near-term goal of 2016 2017 2018 reaching 10,000 youth by 2020, we are Increased Confidence 2,713 3,900 5,677 focusing our expansion in large markets in 2020 the U.S. and Canada while also looking to GOAL establish a presence in smaller markets. 10K We have invested resources in making 82% the program easier to implement and customize. In 2018, we created a playbook Stores distilling five key ingredients for teams to use when launching This Way Ahead. At a GOAL small number of Athleta stores, Gap stores in Japan and distribution centers, we led 2017 / 274 Hire 5% of entry-level a pilot program that empowers teams to of mentors reported employees from This Way customize the playbook based on their 2018 / 444 Improved Skills specific business needs. Ahead annually by 2025 in creative thinking + problem-solving In 2018, we also continued our efforts to apply talent management practices PERFORMANCE from This Way Ahead to support existing Cities Entry-Level Hires from This Way Ahead employees across the company. Based on (Progress to Goal) analysis showing that 38 percent of our 2017 / 668 (17%) recent hires have characteristics similar to those of This Way Ahead participants, This Way Ahead partnered with an internal, 2017 / 15 72% enterprise-wide initiative to apply the 2018 / 53 2018 / 1,107 (28%) program’s proven strategies to improve retention rates and increase employee 2025 engagement across the company. of alumni have secured GOAL Stable Employment 5% In recognition of This Way Ahead accomplishments, Fortune named Gap Inc. compared to 55% of their peers, to its “Change the World” list in 2018. according to a study of 10 years of alumni 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability We partner with all of our branded-apparel suppliers and other key stakeholders OUR APPROACH to help provide safe, fair and healthy working conditions for the women and men We believe in a comprehensive approach who create our clothes. to improving working conditions in our supply chain, combining facility monitoring and capability building Using a holistic approach, we implement a variety of programs for monitoring programs to help our suppliers facilities and building supplier capabilities for improved working conditions, taking continuously improve. country-specific approaches where appropriate. Our Human Rights Policy guides 1. ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION our programmatic response to develop a supply chain that is resilient, responsive Our approach to improving working and respectful of the workers who make our products. conditions is based on transparency, partnership and innovation. We believe that by working together, we can achieve Gap Inc. has worked to develop and implement a dedicated program for assessing our commitments to improve workers’ and remediating issues in sourcing facilities, and in recent years has developed a well-being, protect human rights, reduce suite of capability building programs. Having in-country field teams enables us to environmental impacts and improve business performance. closely monitor facilities according to our Code of Vendor Conduct (COVC), allowing Read More p.30 us to have thorough, on-the-ground insight into how our suppliers perform and 2. CAPABILITY BUILDING what salient issues workers in our supply chain face. Given the need for industrywide collaboration, in some cases we partner with other brands to improve results for In partnership with our suppliers, we garment workers. developed a suite of programs that aim to develop facilities’ capabilities for worker representation and leadership involvement. Our goal is to design and implement industry-leading programs that can help By coordinating with external partners, NGOs and our suppliers, initiatives such drive innovation that transforms the apparel manufacturing sector. In partnership as our Workplace Cooperation Program with our suppliers, NGOs, multilateral organizations and other stakeholders, we’re and Workforce Engagement Program mature industrial relations in facilities and establishing initiatives that are multifaceted and focus on a range of interventions: provide functioning grievance mechanisms improving worker and management relations, innovating how we assess and while also measuring and improving the degree to which garment workers feel improve working conditions, and using technology to directly engage with and valued and engaged at work. In addition to respond to workers’ needs. our cornerstone programs, we manage or participate in a broad set of initiatives that Learn More address country-specific labor issues. Our How we're improving working conditions life-skills program, P.A.C.E., gives women training and support to advance in their professional and personal lives. Read More p.36 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION GOAL ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION facilities in 2016 to less than 2 percent We also changed our approach to assessing by the end of fiscal 2018. By integrating red-rated facilities. Rather than waiting one 100% of supplier facilities We monitor the adherence of the facilities this work more deeply into our sourcing year after our full assessment to reassess decisions and concentrating our business red-rated facilities, we work with them to producing branded operated by our suppliers to the Gap Inc. with preferred vendors, we were able to develop a time-bound corrective action Code of Vendor Conduct (COVC) before apparel are rated yellow initial approval and then annually. This increase our investment to help facilities plan and evaluate them again at the end of or green by 2020 is in conjunction with our efforts to close out COVC violations in a sustainable, the agreed-upon time frame to determine build innovative programs that create responsible way. In addition to a dedicated whether they have successfully achieved supportive, empowering workplaces. Supplier Sustainability team that engages the required remediation. This approach PERFORMANCE directly with facilities on these issues and allows us to work more closely with facility % Supplier Facilities Rated Yellow or Green Our Assessment and Remediation program targets, we train global sourcing employees management to ensure that they are making is the foundation on which we evaluate our on human rights policies and procedures, the necessary investments and adjustments suppliers’ abilities to meet our sustainability building company-wide awareness on to their practices. 2016 / 84% expectations; the program provides insight COVC requirements, and collaborating on what issues workers may be facing internally to manage vendor performance In 2018, we saw encouraging success with and what additional programs would be and drive sustained performance. Through our efforts towards our goal of 100 percent 2017 / 95% beneficial. We primarily evaluate factories training and education, we also work greenand yellow-rated facilities. We also through our own field team’s assessments, closely with key vendors to build their recognize that at any given point in time, though we do work with third parties, such capacity for continuous improvement and some facilities may slip below our COVC 2018 / 98% as Elevate, for assessments in Pakistan, help them implement proactive measures standards; we are committed to continuing 2020 and with International Labour Organization that will prevent COVC issues from arising to monitor and working closely with our GOAL Better Work (p.32) in countries where they in the first place. suppliers to remediate issues. Achieving a baseline performance level allows us 100% operate. Our global field team is located We have created internal systems to to keep a closer eye on concerning issues primarily in the countries from which we source, giving us a direct, on-the-ground develop a close partnership between our and focus on capability building programs understanding of worker needs and facility Supplier Sustainability, Global Supply Chain such as enhancing bipartite committees 2018 FACILITY RATINGS performance. and Data Insights teams. This integration (our Workplace Cooperation Program) and with sourcing and data analysis allows soliciting direct worker engagement (our We use a color-coded system to us to track and analyze major trends as Workforce Engagement Program). rate facilities’ performance based on well as the effectiveness of our programs. assessments. High-performing facilities When we identify concerning trends or As we strive toward our goal, we also 774 with no critical and few violations are rated green. Average performers are rated yellow, while facilities that need hotspots, we develop specific action plans to build awareness with our suppliers, collaborate with all affected stakeholders recognize that the best way to address most serious issues is to partner with our vendor or their facility to remediate. However, in Facilities improvement on one or more serious issues and formalize systems to address the issue. the event that a facility or vendor fails to are rated red. Critical, severe and key address persistent noncompliance or other violations have a greater negative impact Beginning in 2017, we raised the bar for egregious issues over an extended period of on a facilities’ rating than more technical our facility approval process and no longer time, we will create a responsible exit plan. “noncompliance” violations do. allow red-rated facilities (based on their In that case, we give notice to the facility 39% Green-Rated Facilities preproduction assessment) to be approved that orders will not be re-placed, in order In 2017, Gap Inc. set a goal to not work by Gap Inc. for production. In the past, to minimize disruption to workers. In these 59% Yellow-Rated Facilities with any red-rated facilities by 2020. We we approved red-rated facilities if they situations, we will continue to monitor the 2% Red-Rated Facilities have made significant strides toward this resolved the issues in question within a facility and work on pending issues through goal, moving from 16 percent red-rated certain time frame. and following deactivation. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE We analyze our suppliers’ performance against our Code of Vendor Conduct 88% (COVC) and use the consolidated, country-level results to track and analyze progress or areas of concern for these issues. Our analysis showed that we resolved 88 percent of issues within 12 months, for ones that were open as of Feb. 2, 2018. As we monitor Code of areas of concern for emerging issues or Vendor Conduct trends, we partner with our suppliers to implement changes to our systems or Issues Resolved develop new policies or programs. within 12 months RESOLUTION OF FACILITY COVC ISSUES OPEN AS OF 2/1/2018 2/1/2018 5/1/2018 8/1/2018 1/31/2019 (3 months) (6 months) (12 months) Open Open % Open % Open % Issues Issues Resolved Issues Resolved Issues Resolved Bangladesh 457 375 18% 201 56% 79 83% Cambodia 281 238 15% 178 37% 70 75% China 602 293 51% 156 74% 60 90% Guatemala 1 0 100% 0 100% 0 100% India 371 303 18% 185 50% 90 76% Indonesia 462 286 38% 98 79% 21 95% Pakistan 177 80 55% 63 64% 10 94% Sri Lanka 104 95 9% 48 54% 19 82% Vietnam 743 538 28% 320 57% 43 94% Others 191 152 20% 91 52% 11 94% Total 3,389 2,360 30% 1,340 60% 403 88% 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION INTERNATIONAL LABOUR We also worked closely with Better SOCIAL & LABOR MILL SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM ORGANIZATION (ILO) BETTER Work to help found the Better Work CONVERGENCE PROGRAM WORK Academy, which provides training and (SLCP) Our supply chain is complex and advisory services to global assessment reaches far beyond our Tier 1 suppliers As part of our efforts to go above and staff. Their approach looks to move As a signatory to this collaboration – the cut-and-sew facilities from which beyond assessment and remediation beyond “assessment only” facility among apparel and footwear brands, we directly source, as well as their and work more collaboratively with our monitoring and develop comprehensive retailers, industry groups and civil society supporting embroidery, screen printing suppliers and other stakeholders, we have solutions to improving industrial organizations, we support a new shared and laundry facilities. Beginning in played a leading role in multi-stakeholder relations in facilities. The Academy has data-collection tool that can assess 2017 and expanding in 2018, we’ve collaborations such as the ILO Better Work been operating for several years, and in the social and labor performance of begun monitoring the social and program. As a founding member of this 2018 several other brands joined. manufacturing facilities across the apparel environmental performance of our Tier program, we view the ILO team as our and footwear supply chain. In 2017 and 2 suppliers – the mills that provide our key partner in every country where they We believe that it’s important to 2018, Gap Inc. chaired both the SLCP fabric – through our Mill Sustainability operate, representing several of our key include leadership in capability building Tool Development Working Group and the Program. The program integrates key sourcing markets. Better Work takes an programs, as having mechanisms to Verification Working Group in which we industry programs and puts supplier advisory approach to monitoring facilities, provide worker feedback does not helped facilitate the creation of the first ownership at its center and we will with an emphasis on protecting worker help if management is not prepared SLCP tool and verification process. In 2019, leverage SLCP tools to improve our rights and well-being by helping companies enough to take feedback and make we joined the SLCP Council. mills’ social performance. and governments uphold the ILO’s core improvements. labor standards and national labor laws. We also enrolled some of the facilities we Our first step on this journey was to Better Work leads facility assessments Read More source from in the pilot and supported the comprehensively map the mills from and helps address and remediate ILO Better Work and Supervisory Skills broader pilot covering over 123 facilities which we source raw materials and issues in Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Training (p.38) in two countries. The final version was group them into three categories: Bangladesh, Jordan, Haiti and Nicaragua. developed and launched in China and preferred mills (which represent the Sri Lanka in late 2018, with 15 of our majority of our business volume), approved facilities and mills encouraged secondary mills, and niche and new to participate. We aim to support the mills. While we have yet to finish 2018 ASSESSMENTS IN ILO BETTER WORK MARKETS expansion and sectoral adoption of identifying all of the niche mills, the SLCP and are investing significant 2018 marked a comprehensive resources to institutionalize it across understanding of our Tier 2 supplier Facilities Assessed Facilities Assessed our supply chain to promote supplier base, mapping over 200 facilities by ILO Better Work by Gap Inc. Total ownership of social performance. that represent a significant portion Bangladesh 24 62% 15 38% 39 of our business volume. After we communicated to our entire mill Cambodia 47 90% 5 10% 52 base our expectations of their social Haiti 5 71% 2 29% 7 and environmental performance – Indonesia 56 70% 24 30% 80 conditions of doing business with Jordan 9 100% 0 0% 9 us – we began implementing our Nicaragua 6 100% 0 0% 6 comprehensive program at the Vietnam 91 61% 59 39% 150 identified mills. Total 238 69% 105 31% 343 Read More Mill Sustainability Program (p.48) 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION KEY ISSUES FIRE, BUILDING AND ELECTRICAL of Jakarta are caused by electric short SAFETY PROGRAM circuits. It also revealed that fires spread We are proud to support the principles quickly when access to water is scarce outlined in the Universal Declaration of In 2017, we expanded our approach and fire trucks face heavy traffic and Human Rights (UDHR), the UN Global to fire, building and electrical safety poor road conditions. In Karachi, Pakistan, Compact, the Organisation for Economic (FB+ES) beyond Bangladesh, where we the assessment revealed a number of Co-operation and Development (OECD) continued to collaborate with the Alliance issues, including code violations, lack of Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, for Bangladesh Worker Safety through awareness about safety measures, and and the ILO's Core Conventions. the end of 2018. At that point, we joined a shortage of firefighting infrastructure Nirapon, a locally-managed organization and resources. In 2018, we identified three These principles form the foundation of created to carry forward the important service providers that will help us conduct our Human Rights Policy, which defines our FB+ES improvements that have been FB+ES assessments in 28 of our top approach and activities to respect human achieved so far. strategic facilities. In 2019, we will bring this rights and prohibit human-rights abuses. program to Vietnam and India; Pakistan Based on the work we did with the and Cambodia will follow by 2020. Also In addition to the programmatic updates Alliance, we recognized that some of beginning in 2019, we are joining the Life in this report, detailed information on our key sourcing countries – Cambodia, and Building Safety Initiative (LABS) to our human-rights policies, management Indonesia and Pakistan – may also have address these issues in multiple regions. approach and resolution actions for key FB+ES risks and we want to play our issues is available at the links below. role to reduce those risks and provide safety for workers in those countries. Learn More Reducing the risk of catastrophic events is paramount, and we also see an KEY METRIC • Child Labor and Young Workers opportunity to avoid supply disruptions • Discrimination and Harassment from smaller scale incidents that could 100% of supplier facilities • Wages and Benefits result in lost working days, worker injury • Fire, Building and Electrical Safety or displacement and product damage. in Bangladesh complete • Grievance Mechanisms As part of a pilot, we partnered with an fire and building safety • Short-Term Contracts expert third party to assess facilities on • Human Trafficking and Forced Labor structural, fire and electrical safety – remediation by 2018 • Working Hours three in Cambodia, 16 in Indonesia and • Humane Treatment nine in Pakistan. We are now working with PERFORMANCE • Freedom of Association these facilities on remediation against Supplier Facilities That Have Achieved • Foreign Contract Workers + their improvement plans. Full Remediation from the Alliance for Recruitment Bangladesh Worker Safety • Unauthorized Subcontracting Our assessment also provided analysis on the unique challenges that contribute to FB+ES risk in key countries. For 2017 2018 instance, Cambodia lags far behind ACHIEVED 42 50 in fire-safety regulations and most buildings do not have adequate fire 2018 protection. In Indonesia, we found that GOAL up to 70 percent of fires in the capital city 100% 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION KEY ISSUES, CONTINUED • Our Assessment and Remediation facilities. The purpose was to improve the capability of factory management, program (p.30) evaluates the efficacy employee-employer relationships through compliance staff, union members and GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS and use of grievance mechanisms. Our a mutual understanding of freedom workplace committee members through Supplier Sustainability team provides of association, workplace cooperation, training sessions on a range of topics Being able to raise concerns to facility contact information to workers in the and dispute-prevention and resolution including: freedom of association, collective management or to Gap Inc. is essential facilities from which we source, so mechanisms in the workplace. bargaining, international labor standards, to ensuring workers have a voice in they are able to reach out to Gap Inc. communications and negotiation techniques, their workplace. We have developed a directly if there are issues that require In the workshop, we provided guidance as well as increase the understanding of the comprehensive suite of programs that our attention. on how facilities should respect and Bangladesh Labour Act. provide myriad workplace benefits and also address freedom of association and provide channels where workers are able We believe that context-specific dispute-prevention and resolution to effectively raise grievances. Within each approaches to grievance mechanisms will regulations, including those enshrined in program, workers are given a voice to raise increase the likelihood that workers will use ILO Conventions No. 87 and No. 98 and concerns with facility management and them. We are in the midst of evaluating Cambodian labor law. We also discussed outside parties, via varied channels: additional service providers that can help the rights, roles and responsibilities implement technology based solutions in of employers and employees, and • Our Workforce Engagement Program other sourcing markets. Additionally, we provided practical information on how to (p.38) – based on worker surveys, are responsive to external third parties improve workplace cooperation, prevent interviews and messaging applications that raise grievances with us via any of our disputes and effectively use resolution – offers one approach in which communication channels. mechanisms. The workshop also included individuals can confidentially report an overview of Gap Inc.’s Workplace workplace-related grievances to FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Cooperation Program (p.37), which aims facility management. We are currently to improve worker-management dialogue working in China and Vietnam to provide Our Code of Vendor Conduct (COVC) and at facilities. resources through a smartphone app Human Rights Policy explicitly support and developing an updated scaling freedom of association and the rights Through the workshop, we reached facility strategy to bring the app to other of workers to lawfully and peacefully managers, union leaders and workers. sourcing markets such as India and Sri associate, organize and bargain To complement this training, we also Lanka, where we launched our Workforce collectively. required all of our Cambodian suppliers to Engagement Program in 2018, with enroll in ILO Better Facilities Cambodia’s implementation in early 2019. We use a wide range of approaches advisory services by the end of 2018. in seeking to ensure that freedom of This will help to ensure that the voice of • Our Workplace Cooperation Program association rights are respected, from workers will be heard and issues will be (p.37) provides training for workers supporting open dialogue between facility resolved fairly through the establishment and management on how to improve workers and managers to partnering with of workplace committees. industrial relations, with an emphasis workers’ rights groups and trade unions on how to develop and implement when appropriate. Additionally, in 2019 we launched a new grievance mechanisms. Our goal is to partnership with the ILO and Better Work deliver this program to 200 facilities by In January 2018, we joined with The Bangladesh. This three year initiative 2020. We assess grievances raised via Arbitration Council and ILO Better Facilities – the ILO Bangladesh Social Dialogue this program, including time taken to Cambodia to lead a workshop on freedom Project to be implemented by the ILO remediate, channels used and outcomes. of association for our Cambodian suppliers in all factories that Gap Inc. sources and the unions represented in their from in Bangladesh – will help build 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability ASSESSMENT + REMEDIATION KEY ISSUES, CONTINUED regarding harassment. During regular understanding and capabilities to address assessments of the facilities we work with sexual harassment cases. WORKING HOURS in India, we have found serious violations related to gender-based discrimination To review progress, Gap Inc. assessments One of the compliance issues we frequently and harassment, which are known to be include components on POSH and encounter relates to worker overtime, systemic issues in India. We recognize determining areas for improvement, if which fluctuates but remains an issue this as an urgent issue that all relevant needed, within a remediation plan. Given of concern year after year. Overtime stakeholders must invest more time and the urgency and importance of this issue, we is a complex challenge to address as resources into addressing. are now implementing regional strategies many workers want to request overtime to address this issue in other key sourcing because they seek hours in order to earn To do our part, Gap Inc.’s Supplier countries. A common thread across these premium overtime pay, while facilities Sustainability team is working with regional approaches are the one-day seek to optimize their production capacity our suppliers in India – covering over workshops we are hosting for our suppliers across multiple buyers. In addition, 118,000 workers – to help them build an in China, Bangladesh, Guatemala, Haiti, buyers themselves, including Gap Inc., environment where they clearly define Indonesia, Jordan and Vietnam. These can negatively impact work hours when and implement policies on Prevention of workshops provide an overview of the requiring changes to orders that either Sexual Harassment (POSH) and create an issue itself, our expectations for how our increase or reduce the size of an order. Internal Complaints Committee, both of suppliers can proactively mitigate it, and which are required under Indian law, though our requirements for our suppliers pursuing We will continue to address the role that inadequately enforced. We aim to help our additional, more in-depth trainings at the our buying practices have on overtime suppliers raise awareness among both male factory level, to help ensure all appropriate hours, including a new initiative to and female employees about this issue, staff are subsequently trained. understand the impact of our business and about their rights and responsibilities planning, the Better Buying pilot. After we under the Sexual Harassment of Women at CHILD AND FORCED LABOR received our results, we shared our findings the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and with our sourcing teams, enabling them to Redressal) Act of 2013. We continue to maintain a strong focus on examine how their planning affects lead protecting human rights, including issues times and our visibility into our supplier’s As a first step, we conducted sensitization such as forced and child labor. Under no capacity to fulfill orders. Gap Inc. sourcing programs with all of our suppliers in India circumstance is it acceptable for child, teams are working to develop systems that and provided guidance on the relevant forced or trafficked labor to be employed can appropriately place orders depending legal requirements. We also defined timewithin our operations or used in the on our suppliers’ capabilities to fulfill them; bound goals, such as commitments from production of any Gap Inc. product. Recent these learnings are helping us implement our vendors to train 100 percent of their legislation has supported global awareness improvements while we continue to solicit employees on this issue and identified and we annually report our actions to supplier feedback. expert organizations for them to partner uncover and protect against these issues with in implementing this work. As a result, within our 2018 U.K. Modern Slavery Act and GENDER-BASED DISCRIMINATION these suppliers provide regular training California Transparency in Supply Chain Act AND HARASSMENT and awareness to all of their employees disclosures. While we have not discovered to enhance understanding of the issues, instances of forced or child labor in our Women constitute between 60 and 80 the various forms it can take, its root supply chain in recent years, we remain percent of India's apparel workforce. causes, and their roles and responsibilities. vigilant about these issues and detail our We recognize that women face unique Regular trainings are provided to Internal comprehensive management approaches challenges in the workplace, especially Complaints Committees to strengthen their to both. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability CAPABILITY BUILDING CAPABILITY BUILDING industrial relations in facilities, provide functioning grievance mechanisms, We work with our manufacturing stabilize our sourcing operations, and partners to implement a suite of create platforms for measuring and programs aimed at providing the tools improving the degree to which garment and resources to improve industrial workers feel valued and engaged at relations, worker engagement and work. These complementary interventions facility compliance on an ongoing basis. can be implemented alone or together, depending on the needs of the facility. When we approach our sourcing suppliers about human rights and working In addition, we participate in broader conditions, we are sharing our conviction initiatives that support the individual in enabling safe, productive and programs, including the Better Work responsive workplaces. We are looking to Academy and the Better Than Cash work with facilities that are places where Alliance’s digital-wage program, that can workers feel valued and engaged at work, be implemented in available markets to that they have a voice to express concerns heighten our suppliers’ abilities to adapt to and see their grievances addressed, the needs of their workforce. and where workers and managers can communicate effectively. Together, these programs provide a comprehensive and holistic engagement By coordinating with external partners, model for facilities to improve labor including NGOs, unions, multilateral standards, benefit workers, and support agencies, competitors and our suppliers, the business continuity and resiliency of these programs – including our Workplace our supply chain. Cooperation Program, Workforce Engagement Program and Supervisory Learn More Skills Training – can help enhance How we're working with suppliers Workplace Cooperation Program, India Workplace Cooperation Program, Vietnam 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability CAPABILITY BUILDING WORKPLACE COOPERATION have the option to combine two half-day KEY METRIC PROGRAM training modules into a one-day training to reduce time for program completion. 9,218 Reach 200 supplier Our Workplace Cooperation Program Grievances facilities with our In addition to revising the training (WCP) facilitates dialogue between duration, we continued our use of the Received Workplace Cooperation workers and management to address data assessments we launched in 2017 workplace issues, from overtime and to examine how many grievances have by facilities participating in Program (WCP) by 2020 worker well-being, to washroom sanitation our WCP from 2017-2018 and better quality of food in the canteen. been received and addressed, which channels were used for grievances, PERFORMANCE This training program works with elected bipartite committees comprising both and how long it took to address Supplier Facilities Reached with WCP workers and management representatives the issues. Our preliminary analysis who collaborate to build good industrial shows that once functioning bipartite relations. Inherent in this training program committees are in place, workers feel 2016 / 31 92% is a recognition that workers in many more empowered to raise concerns and facilities do not feel comfortable voicing that these concerns are more quickly addressed. In addition, our data show 2017 / 69 their grievances in the presence of upper-level management. Our approach, that once these committees have been designed in partnership with ILO Better trained, grievances rise for a period and 2018 / 129 Work, seeks to address those relations then diminish in frequency, illustrating the comfort workers feel in voicing 2020 by developing the skills of committee complaints and the subsequent actions Issues Resolved GOAL members and guiding effective meetings. We also provide guidance on how to best taken to address their concerns. within the same quarter 200 respect and abide by workers’ fundamental rights at work, as defined in the ILO’s Core Since part of our aim with this program Conventions. is to help improve our suppliers’ business performance, we have begun collecting In 2018, we focused on expanding and data to analyze whether the WCP refining this program, as well as analyzing is impacting productivity, efficiency data that we collect quarterly. Since launching the program in 2016, we have reached 129 facilities – 67 in 2018 – in and quality. We created a quarterly data-collection tool and are asking participating facilities to track and 9% 10 countries. We continue to expand share their data on different business to our strategic vendors’ owned and indicators, such as absenteeism, number sub-contracted facilities, expanding the of grievances, productivity and more. We possible locations to bring wider impact. are working with Better Work to conduct Repeat Issues Our goal is to reach 200 facilities by 2020. an independent impact assessment of the program, examining whether there This data is self-reported by factories on a One of the ways we refined the program in is a correlation between the program quarterly basis. It includes grievances reported 2018 was to offer an abbreviated training and business benefits, and hope to have through any mechanism (i.e. suggestion box, period, moving from two years to 12 to 16 impact results that will allow us to refine bipartite committee, union, hotline/helpline, months. Now facilities have more flexibility and expand the program. mobile app, HR or a supervisor, an external Workplace Cooperation Program, India in offering the training modules, as teams party or any other mechanism). 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability CAPABILITY BUILDING SUPERVISORY SKILLS A program evaluation methodology has heard directly by those able to respond. industry awareness of supply-chain worker TRAINING been designed and tested and will be We are also sharing best practices engagement. The insights and lessons implemented starting in 2019. Through across vendors, from Vietnam to China to from that report continue to drive the In 2018, we partnered with ILO Better supervisor and worker surveys and Indonesia to Guatemala, to sustainably technology based approach that we are Work to introduce Supervisory Skills production-efficiency data from the expand the program. pursuing today. Training (SST), to reach a key group of facilities, this program evaluation will employees we have not yet engaged: help us to measure the extent to which Gap Inc. hosts WEP vendor workshops in Workforce Engagement Program mid-level managers. This program participants reported the trainings to each region to bring together our vendors aims to help facility managers improve be effective; the extent to which they and WEP service providers offering their communication with workers, who learned new concepts; if this learning led services in the region. During these typically contact middle management first to any behavior change; if the change in workshops, our Supplier Sustainability to discuss problems or make suggestions behavior was also acknowledged by the team shares the importance of worker to improve facility working conditions. workers; and if behavior changes impacted engagement and how it can help our production efficiency. Data will be tracked vendors’ business. Research on worker SST is designed to give supervisors over 12 months and initial results will be engagement supports supplier adoption. and middle managers a deeper available by the end of 2019. Improved engagement has been understanding of important leadership correlated with business outcomes like and supervisory concepts. Participants WORKFORCE ENGAGEMENT reduced absenteeism and turnover, and BETTER WORK ACADEMY are trained to avoid a passive or PROGRAM vendors can learn from their workforce authoritarian style of leadership, and to to make improvements that are good As a founding member of the Better strike a fair balance between the interests By engaging workers to amplify their voice for business, whether that’s identifying a Work Academy, we are dedicated of the company and the interests of staff. and understand how they feel at work, the problem before it escalates or becomes a to moving beyond “assessment As a result of this training, we expect Workforce Engagement Program (WEP) large risk, or hearing workers’ ideas about only” facility monitoring to support the participating supervisors to change seeks to increase worker engagement and opportunities to improve efficiency, safety comprehensive solutions that improve their management style from ‘timid’ or empower facilities to make worker-centric and more. industrial relations in facilities. The ‘domineering’ to ‘professional,’ which will improvements. By the end of 2018, we Academy has been operating for result in better production efficiencies due reached 18 facilities by supporting mobileWe are currently working with other several years, and in 2018 and 2019, to higher worker motivation and retention. engagement tools, building on lessons brands and BSR in the Maximizing Worker several new brands joined. Gap Inc. is from our 2017 technology-enabled pilots. Engagement Working Group to develop a proud ambassador for the program, SST is a three-day (24 hours total) This builds on the 100 facilities that we had an enabling environment for a supplierand to help support effective expansion, training program that covers areas like reached previously. owned model of worker engagement that we have onboarded new partners as being a professional supervisor, building can be adopted and promoted across the Academy delivers training. good relationships, influencing, and Throughout the years, we have learned the industry. The working group’s goal managing workers. from our experiences engaging workers, is to bring together like-minded brands In the next year, Better Work Academy and have adjusted our approach to across the apparel and footwear sector is developing a leadership skills During 2018, our team trained 439 better fit the needs of individuals, their to adopt guiding principles to establish a program, as well as curriculum for supervisors from 31 facilities in seven workplaces and our business. We have system that puts workers at the center of top management in the supply chain. countries. We continue to expand the tested a variety of approaches, including engagement and well-being. We believe it’s important to include trainings to more supervisors and worker discussion groups, pen-and-paper leadership in capability-building facilities, with a target to reach 50 more surveys and various mobile technologies. In August 2018, we co-released a paper programs, which enables facilities to facilities in 2019. In Better Work countries, We’ve now focused in on a vendor-led with Verité highlighting the program’s take action to address worker feedback we also encourage our facilities to model that leverages scalable mobile return on investment, lessons learned, provided through new grievance nominate their supervisors in SST. technology, allowing workers’ voices to be and case studies to drive broader mechanisms. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Supplier Sustainability CAPABILITY BUILDING GOAL DIGITAL WAGE PAYMENTS to financial exclusion. Globally, more than We are also evaluating how we can tie our 30 percent of working-age adults lack digital wage-payment work to financial 100% of Tier 1 suppliers In 2018, we set a goal for all of our Tier 1 access to formal financial services. Rates literacy training programs, which our of financial exclusion are higher among P.A.C.E. program (p.40) provides. We transition to digital wage suppliers to transition from a cash-based women, who comprise about 80 percent of recognize that providing financial access to wage-payment system to a digital wagepayments by 2020 payment system by 2020. As of the end of the garment-industry workforce. individuals in developing countries is only the year, 80 percent of our suppliers were one piece of the puzzle; another crucial using digital wage payments. By committing to work with our suppliers piece is helping to ensure that workers can PERFORMANCE to use digital wage-payment methods, effectively use those resources. % Tier 1 Suppliers Paying Digital Wages To support our commitment, we joined the we hope to increase the number of people UN’s Better Than Cash Alliance (BTCA) in our supply chain – particularly women Further, we are working with a broad set in 2018. BTCA works with the private – who have access to formal financial of actors to develop country-level working sector, governments and international products and services, including bank and groups in countries that presently lack 2017 / 68% organizations to accelerate the transition savings accounts, credit and insurance. the infrastructure or capital investment to digital payments, which can help reduce This will give workers greater control over required to make digital wages a scalable, poverty and support inclusive growth. We their finances and offer them a safer way cost-effective model for garment workers. 2018 / 80% define digital wage payments as mobile to save, spend and invest their money. Our We have begun an initial partnership with 2020 wallets, bank accounts, debit cards and suppliers will benefit from cost savings via the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and GOAL other methods that are digitally accessible. a faster, more efficient payment system. BSR in Bangladesh, in tandem with other Digital wages will also help increase international buyers, to identify solutions 100% accountability and transparency across the that can help us address some of the key 20 percent of our suppliers still use cash payments, which can present a variety of garment sector. systemic barriers to digitization in the years security risks to workers and contribute ahead. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women Our P.A.C.E. (Personal Advancement & Career 2018 REACH 2018 ACTIVE COMMUNITY PARTNERS Enhancement) program gives women the foundational life skills, technical training and support they need to advance in the workplace and in their personal lives. 158K Women + Girls Apparel Training & Design Centre Beijing Social Work Development Center for We launched P.A.C.E. globally in vendor facilities Facilitators in 2007, and have since expanded the program to CARE community settings and in more countries to unlock new possibilities for women and adolescent girls around the 17 China Women's University Fujian Hwa Nan Women's College Countries world. Our goal is to reach 1 million women and girls Gram Tarang Employability Training Services through vendor and community partnerships by 2022. Heifer International ILO Better Work LEARN MORE How we're supporting women 61 Inno Community Development Organisation International Center for Research on Women Vendors Jordanian Hashemite Fund for Human Development (JOHUD) Kampuchean Action for Primary Education (KAPE) 17 MAMTA Health Institute for Mother and Child Maria Elena Cuadra (MEC) Community Martha Tilaar Group Partners Project Concern International (PCI) Foundation SAE-A Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA) ShareHope UNHCR Jordan 72 % TechnoServe Want Want Group Women Win Xi'an Peihua University of Sourcing Dollars are spent with P.A.C.E. vendors 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women GOAL 2018 PROGRESS In addition to these partners, a third of IMPACT the total women reached in 2018 came Reach 1 million women For P.A.C.E., 2018 was a year of significant through our sourcing vendors, who run through P.A.C.E. by 2022 growth and increased reach. Not only did the program reach a record number of their own implementation programs, supporting the resiliency of our supply 100% + women and girls – giving them the skills chain and improving their own business Improvement PERFORMANCE and confidence they need to advance at outcomes. We also launched new P.A.C.E. work and in life – we elevated the profile of programs in community settings in in Skills P.A.C.E. Participants P.A.C.E. through new partnerships and the Ethiopia and Tanzania, two non-sourcing 2007 countries where we are working with Participants' 2018 assessment scores, on launch of a company-wide marketing effort CARE and Project Concern International, average, show improvement in a range of that engages customers in an important 2016 2017 2018 respectively, to build the capabilities skills, including a: conversation about empowering women 68K 122K 280K and girls. of women economically and socially. In 2022 early 2019, we began discussions with • 134% increase in communication skills GOAL the United Nations High Commissioner • 113% increase in execution skills During 2018, P.A.C.E. reached at least • 138% increase in problem-solving and 1M 158,000 women and girls in 17 countries, for Refugees (UNHCR) to expand on our decision-making skills which represents 56 percent of the total training in Jordan, begun in 2018, to women and girls the program has reached nearby countries such as Turkey. *According to assessments that participants are since P.A.C.E. launched in 2007. Looking Also in 2018, we expanded our asked to complete before and after each P.A.C.E. REACH SINCE 2007 forward, P.A.C.E. is on track to reach focus on adolescent girls through module 300,000 women by April 2019. These gains came as the result of momentum community programs in Cambodia 280K+ with existing partners and the addition of new partners with the potential to greatly with Kampuchean Action for Primary Education (KAPE), in India with MAMTA Women + Girls 1,500 expand the program. Health Institute for Mother and Child, in Indonesia with CARE, and in China with INNO Community Development 4.7% In Cambodia, we partnered with Heifer Organisation. Promotion Rate Trainers International to deliver the program to for P.A.C.E.-trained women women smallholder farmers. In India, we worked with the play and entertainment In addition to the expansion of P.A.C.E., company Hasbro and India’s Self Employed we elevated the program’s profile compared to 1 percent among Women’s Association (SEWA) union to through a marketing campaign, Raise their peers, according to a pilot P.A.C.E. in the workplace (Hasbro) Every Voice, led by our Gap, Banana sample set of 90 facilities and in communities (SEWA). In China, we Republic and Athleta brands. This 67% partnered with the food and beverage company Want Want Group and China campaign – which included a page on the brands’ e-commerce sites to 250% Women’s University to bring P.A.C.E. to raise customer awareness and share the university setting for the first time. inspiring stories about P.A.C.E. graduates These partnerships allowed us to scale – engaged Gap Inc. customers in a conversation about the P.A.C.E. mission. ROI of Vendors and expand the program, while the expansion into academia enables us to In 2019, we will tie this campaign to a for vendors made 2022 empower students and women and sustain fundraising initiative, empowering our after nine months commitments programs that are adaptable to the formal customers to support women and girls in education system. communities near and far. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX P.A.C.E.: Empowering Women MAINTAINING QUALITY Every year, we gather P.A.C.E. trainers AS P.A.C.E. GROWS from around the world to participate in a professional development program. The expansion of P.A.C.E. gives us the opportunity to reach a diversity Looking forward, we are exploring of women and girls far beyond the opportunities to collaborate with other facility environment. This also creates leaders in women’s empowerment the potential for challenges: How can to create a standard program for we ensure the quality of the program the apparel industry to provide life as P.A.C.E. grows? And how can we and work training for women. In a make sure the curriculum is relevant discussion facilitated by the advisory to women and girls in different regions practice of the International Center for and settings? Research on Women (ICRW Advisors), we are working with representatives Two of the things that distinguish from the International Labour P.A.C.E. are our focus on trainers and Organization’s Better Work program our robust curriculum, designed to and BSR’s HERproject on concrete engage people with diverse needs. ways we can collaborate to accelerate As P.A.C.E. grows, we want to make progress toward the change we all sure our NGO and facility partners seek. In particular, we are exploring can continue to run an effective how to increase the effectiveness of program after the partnership with our training programs by harmonizing Gap Inc. ends. To do this, we invest in curriculum and coordinating the people who deliver the program implementation. We are also looking at and continually refine the curriculum ways to collectively influence policy and to make sure it can be adapted for strategy conversations on workplace different settings and learning styles. women’s empowerment programs. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 Environment Supply Chain 44 Water Stewardship 52 Chemicals Management Operations 54 Energy 55 Waste OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship Few resources are as essential to human health and well-being as water. Our water stewardship strategy is built on the principle that clean, safe water is an environmental concern, a basic human right and a business imperative. We have a responsibility and an opportunity to address water issues. Water is also a critical natural resource for our business – used to cultivate raw materials like cotton, consumed in the mills and laundries that manufacture our products, and used by customers to wash their clothes. It’s also critical to the health and well-being of the people who make our products, a majority of whom are women. To help build the resilience of our company, our supply chain and the people who make our clothes, we are working strategically to use water more efficiently in product design and manufacturing, eliminate water contamination, and promote education about water and sanitation among women in particular. Learn More How we create solutions for women + water 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship OUR APPROACH Our water stewardship strategy is focused on the intersection between our industry’s significant use of water and our belief that access to clean, safe water is a basic right. The strategy is focused on three MANUFACTURING WOMEN PRODUCT key areas: water stewardship in manufacturing; access to water, We partner with strategic fabric We partner with organizations to We look for opportunities to expand sanitation and hygiene (WASH) for mills, cut-and-sew facilities and support women’s access to water, the use of water-saving innovations women; and designing products that laundries to reduce manufacturing sanitation and hygiene (WASH) across all of our brands, and, where use less water to create. impacts through programs focused services and products in key possible, we are shifting to wateron energy and water efficiency, and sourcing countries. efficient raw materials. water quality. 1.3B 20K 322M Liters of Women Trained Liters of Water Saved on WASH practices Water Saved at denim laundries, in 2018 through Washwell™ mills + cut-and-sew since 2016 facilities in 2018 In 2018, we worked with 14 denim We also educate the women who Our program to reduce the water used laundries, 40 mills and four cutmake our clothes about safe waterin finishing denim saves at least 20 and-sew facilities through various handling practices through our percent of water used in the laundry stage sustainability programs, which P.A.C.E. (Personal Advancement & of production. Since it began in 2016, continue through 2019. Career Enhancement) program and Washwell™ (p.58) has saved more than key local organizations. 322 million liters of water. This reduced the amount of water used in manufacturing by 1.3 billion In partnership with CARE, we We are also designing products that use liters, supporting our goal to save 10 reached 20,000 women with more sustainable raw materials that save billion liters of water by 2020. education on WASH practices water, with a designer-focused Preferred through P.A.C.E. in 2018. Fibers Toolkit (p.57), and by sourcing Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) cotton (p.62), which Read More Read More can reduce water impacts. Manufacturing (p.47) Women (p.50) 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship GOAL 2018 PROGRESS CEO WATER MANDATE Save 10 billion liters of In 2018, we set an ambitious goal to We are a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global Compact water in manufacturing by conserve 10 billion liters of water by initiative, joining with other companies, the end of 2020 through sustainable 2020, from a 2014 baseline manufacturing practices. governments, civil society and others to address challenges related to water This volume is equivalent to providing scarcity, quality and governance, and PERFORMANCE 10B = 5B daily drinking water for 5 billion people. access to water and sanitation. Liters of Water Saved (billions) Our primary strategy to achieve this goal 2014 is to engage with the mills and laundries In 2018, we helped to create Liters of Peoples' in our supply chain and use water-saving “Businesses for Water Security in 2016 2017 2018 Water Saved Daily methods in the production of our clothing. the Noyyal Bhavani River Basin,” We achieved 5.7 billion liters of water focused on improving the long-term 668M 3.3B 5.7B (our goal) Drinking savings by the end of 2018, from a 2014 sustainability of India’s Cauvery 2020 GOAL Water baseline. River Basin, a critical watershed in one of our key sourcing regions. 10B During the year, we also expanded and The project looks beyond individual amplified our efforts to deliver water, facility or single-company initiatives sanitation and hygiene (WASH) education to holistically address risks in the river to women via the United States Agency for basin where our, and other brands’, International Development (USAID) and value chains operate. It aims to help Gap Inc. Women + Water Alliance, and two address the root causes of water risks partnerships with WaterAid, alongside our that threaten businesses, communities continual work to reach women via our and ecosystems. P.A.C.E. program. Through this project, we will be working Through our brands, Washwell™ and with regional and local stakeholders to other programs help connect our address water risks and ensure water design decisions with manufacturing security in this basin by prioritizing improvements, enabling us to save water solutions that consider both the river in our supply chain while also educating basin and apparel facility conditions. our customers about water impacts and reductions. As a result of our continuing efforts on disclosure, ambitious goal setting and thorough risk assessment, we were awarded CDP’s A-ranking. Learn More Detailed disclosures about our water programs 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING CHINA MILL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM six additional denim laundries in WATER QUALITY PROGRAM Bangladesh to complete in-depth Our partnerships with suppliers support Additionally, we developed our own Mill assessments of their operations that We are also actively monitoring and our water goal through improvements Efficiency Program in China in 2017, highlighted improvement opportunities helping improve wastewater quality in resource efficiency, water quality and in which we partnered with a Chinese (we worked with three denim laundries in at denim laundries through our Water overall mill sustainability. environmental engineering firm in a year2016 and 2017 through PaCT as well). In Quality Program (WQP), which has been long assessment of energy and waterPakistan, we nominated and completed a requirement for over 15 years. All the RESOURCE EFFICIENCY savings opportunities at six mill facilities. in-depth assessments for five mills and denim laundries from which we source Together, these facilities achieved more two denim laundries, and are in the have achieved our WQP standard, which than 1.4 billion liters of water savings and process of completing assessments for requires complete compliance with Through our resource-efficiency programs, more than 37,000 tons of carbon dioxide four additional cut-and-sew units. wastewater guidelines. we collaborate with strategic mills and equivalent per year. We are expanding the laundries to significantly reduce their water program with additional facilities in 2019. RACE TO THE TOP In 2018, we enhanced the program by impacts. In 2018, we worked with a total of 40 mills and 14 laundries. The facilities adopting Zero Discharge of Hazardous INDIA WATER PARTNERSHIP In Vietnam, our largest sourcing country, Chemicals (ZDHC) (p.52) Wastewater saw average water-use reductions of we partner with IDH-led Race to the Guidelines as WQP requirements for 20 percent through their implemented In India, we embarked on a partnership Top to work with other global apparel wastewater sampling and testing – 47 efficiency programs. As many water issues in 2017 and 2018 with cKinetics, 11 mills and footwear brands, government, local denim laundries participated, with are based on local context and needs, we and three denim laundries that is saving industry and civil society on programs 90 percent meeting all conventional map water risks to help prioritize areas an estimated 1.2 billion liters of water that support sustainability, cost savings parameters and 78 percent meeting all of focus and drive countrywide or basinannually, as well as more than 21,000 tons and opportunities for innovation in ZDHC MRSL parameters. specific approaches. of carbon-dioxide equivalent per year. The our sector. In 2018, we signed on an program worked on the ground with our additional two mills and three laundries, Our resource-efficiency efforts comprise facilities to identify cost-effective as well completing an on-site assessment for the following programs: as ambitious opportunities to improve each that demonstrates improvement efficiency. Over the course of a year and opportunities. These facilities are CLEAN BY DESIGN a half, the facilities implemented 103 currently implementing waterand projects, ranging from recovery and reuse energy-improvement projects and will We have been collaborating with the of process water, replacement of boilers validate their savings in 2019. Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) and dyeing machines to more efficient on its Clean by Design program since models, and overall process optimization. TAIWAN MILL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM 2014, and in 2018, we helped to create The work resulted in the publication of a the Apparel Impact Institute (AII), which best practices handbook that our teams In Taiwan, we started a new mill will serve as the program’s new home. This can use with other wet-processing units to efficiency program in June 2018 as an program helps mills in China improve their encourage improvements. extension of our engagement with Clean operational efficiency to reduce water, by Design in China. We completed onenergy and chemicals use. To date, we PARTNERSHIP FOR CLEANER TEXTILE site assessments of four mills that joined have engaged 20 mills in the Clean by (PaCT) the program, and we plan to calculate Design program that, together, saved more water-improvement results in 2019, than 650 million liters of water. In 2018, In Bangladesh and Pakistan, we work which we estimate may reach over 300 we worked with 14 mills that represent an with PaCT to improve the environmental million liters. We also estimate potential additional potential water savings of 1.2 performance of the textile wetGHG reductions of over 7,000 tons. billion liters. processing sector. In 2018, we nominated 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship MANUFACTURING MILL SUSTAINABILITY Three key industrywide efforts that we SOCIAL & LABOR CONVERGENCE 2018 PROGRESS PROGRAM leverage to support our Mill Sustainability PROGRAM (SLCP) Program include: In 2018, we sharpened our understanding Our Mill Sustainability Program, As a signatory to this collaboration of the environmental impact of our mill which we began through pilots in SUSTAINABLE APPAREL COALITION among apparel and footwear brands, suppliers through our use of Higg FEM 2013, drives transparency, reduces (SAC) retailers, industry groups and civil society 3.0. Today, 93 percent of our cut-and-sew compliance risks and contributes to organizations, we are supporting a new manufacturers and 91 percent of fabric our sustainability goals. As a founding member of the SAC, we shared data-collection tool that can mills and dyehouses used Higg FEM 3.0, use the Higg Index to evaluate suppliers’ assess the social and labor performance the highest response rate of any brand In 2018, we completed the transition environmental performance and engage of manufacturing facilities across the SAC members. We have mapped out 203 of our Mill Sustainability Program them to meet our goals. Since 2017, we apparel and footwear supply chain. mill facilities that represent 75 percent of into a strategic initiative to align our have expanded our use of the Higg Facility our business in 2018. approach with industry standards that Environmental Module (FEM) 3.0 to Read more help us increase transparency, drive collect data from mills’ self-assessments. Our involvement with SLCP (p.32) Another part of our investment was to innovation and meet our sustainability Increasingly, these self-assessments are join the Open Apparel Registry (OAR), goals. By leveraging partnerships, verified by a third party. In 2018, the Higg By 2020, we will require 90 percent of a pilot initiative that assigns a unique we can analyze and improve the FEM 3.0 completion rate of our supplying Gap Inc.-approved strategic mill facilities identification number to each facility. environmental performance of mills was more than 90 percent. We now to participate in and report using the This registry will allow us to map our our supply chain. Our suppliers’ ask our strategic mills (which represent Higg Index FEM 3.0, ZDHC Roadmap to suppliers’ facilities and contribute toward involvement is key to our ability to more than 75 percent of our total business) Zero Programme, and SLCP social and transparency across the apparel supply calculate our energy, greenhouse gas to complete the Higg FEM 3.0 annually. labor assessment. chain. In the future, we hope to use the and water baselines, which support unique IDs generated by the OAR to map our setting of a Science Based Target ZERO DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS our supplier facilities’ Higg Index, ZDHC, for our Scope 3 GHG emissions and CHEMICALS (ZDHC) and SLCP modules to ease the burden mitigate water risks. The program is of supply chain mapping across multiple KEY METRIC also helping drive improvements in We joined ZDHC’s Roadmap to Zero sustainability initiatives. social performance at mills. commitment in 2014 to work toward the elimination of hazardous chemicals in 90% of strategic mill facilities By deepening our engagement with Read More our supply chain. We integrated ZDHC participate in and report suppliers through these programs, we aim Roadmap to Zero Programme tools to spur innovation so that our suppliers Our climate and energy programs and resources, such as the Manufacturing using the Higg Index FEM contribute additional ideas and pilot (p.54) Restricted Substances List (MRSL) and 3.0, the ZDHC Roadmap to new technologies to reduce social and Wastewater Guidelines, into our Mill environmental impacts. Our social programs (p.32) Sustainability Program. In 2018, we began Zero Programme, and SLCP requiring our strategic mills to test their social and labor assessment wastewater twice a year and publish the by 2020 results through the ZDHC Gateway. Read more Our involvement with ZDHC (p.52) 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship MANUFACTURING WATER SAVINGS By the end of 2018, we saved 5.7 WATER QUALITY billion liters of water in manufacturing PROGRAM through the combined efforts of our MILL SUSTAINABILITY RESOURCE resource efficiency, Mill Sustainability We require denim PROGRAM EFFICIENCY laundries to achieve and Water Quality Programs. our Water Quality Program standard. Sustainable Apparel Coalition We require strategic mills to Clean by complete the Higg Index FEM 3.0 Design China Mill annually. 650M liters India Water saved to date Efficiency Zero Discharge of Partnership (China) Program 1.2B liters 1.4B liters Hazardous Chemicals annual savings annual savings We require strategic mills to follow the ZDHC MRSL and test their Taiwan Mill wastewater discharge twice a year per the ZDHC Wastewater Efficiency Guidelines. Program Race to 300M liters Social & Labor projected the Top Convergence Program (Vietnam) savings 5.7B By 2020, we will require strategic mills to use the SLCP social and labor assessment. Partnership for Liters of Cleaner Textile Water Saved (Bangladesh + Pakistan) at denim laundries, mills + cut-and-sew facilities through 2018 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship WOMEN SUPPORTING WOMEN 2018 PROGRESS WITH ACCESS TO WATER, SANITATION + HYGIENE • Through the USAID and Gap Inc. Women + Water Alliance we: We seek to improve access to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) for • Reached 20,000 women with women and communities touched by Gap Inc.’s P.A.C.E. program, in our business. partnership with CARE • Catalyzed over USD $1 million Roughly 80 percent of the people who in financing, benefiting 5,800 make our clothes are women, and households (27,800 individuals) to access and affordability to WASH is address their WASH needs through a major challenge in many of our key Water.org’s financing model sourcing countries. In many parts of the • Identified two pilot opportunities world, women are largely responsible to address water stewardship in for household duties such as cooking cotton-cultivating communities and cleaning; they shoulder a and where fabric is produced, and disproportionate burden when it comes assessed over 100 global best to water stress. practices on water stewardship in partnership with the Institute for Alongside our strategic implementation Sustainable Communities (ISC) partners, we lead a suite of programs to provide education, access to • Reached over 20,000 people with services and financing to women support to improve their access to and communities to address their WASH services in India through our WASH needs. Through water-risk partnership with WaterAid assessments, we have identified India • Partnered with the WASH4Work as a critical location for WASH services, initiative to catalyze private-sector making it a strategic location for many investment and engagement in WASH of our programs. • Partnered with the CEO Water Mandate to advance collective action Within Gap Inc. partner facilities, our on water stewardship in the Cauvery Code of Vendor Conduct requires River Basin in India, with other apparel that key WASH needs of garment sector brands workers are met. In addition, our P.A.C.E. (Personal Advancement & Career Enhancement) program aimed at workers within our supply chain as well as global communities, provides additional capability to bring WASH education to women globally within both manufacturing facilities and communities. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Water Stewardship WOMEN USAID AND GAP INC. programs that support their well-being. water filters. Further, ISC developed a WATERAID WOMEN + WATER ALLIANCE To catalyze progress, we are also learning comprehensive set of best practices for and sharing best practices for WASH and apparel-industry water stewardship Gap Inc. has partnered on several water In 2017, we launched the Women+Water water stewardship across the apparel and identified opportunities to address initiatives with WaterAid, an NGO that (W+W) Global Development Alliance with industry and beyond. water stewardship in cotton-growing supports people with access to clean water the United States Agency for International communities and textile-milling and sanitation. Alongside other companies Development (USAID) to improve and 2018 PROGRESS communities through two pilots. and consultants, we have developed a sustain the health and well-being of new guide to help companies understand women and communities touched by the The Alliance made significant strides Gap Inc. also engaged the Government and measure the economic benefits of apparel industry. in 2018, the second year of program of India to build awareness and seek investing in WASH to make the case for implementation. One of our major support to strengthen programs and further investment while also encouraging Over the course of this five-year program, achievements was completing a baseline activities. Finally, we enhanced our datatheir supply chains to take action: Gap Inc. is serving as the co-funder assessment of water and sanitation collection system with key performance “Strengthening the business case for water, and primary program manager. The challenges in Madhya Pradesh. The indicators. sanitation and hygiene: How to measure W+W Alliance operates in two Indian assessment, which was carried out in value for your business.” states critical to the apparel industry – partnership with Institute for Development Looking ahead, the W+W Alliance aims Maharashtra, a key cotton-growing state, Impact (I4DI), looked at 1,000 households to reach even more women with WASH Further, we are supporting WaterAid to and Madhya Pradesh, a textile industry across 90 villages, and revealed that three education via the Gap Inc. P.A.C.E. deliver a comprehensive WASH program hub. Three implementing partners – CARE, quarters of the assessed households must program in Madhya Pradesh and in for 20,000 people living in marginalized Water.org and Institute for Sustainability travel to access clean, safe water, spending Maharashtra. A key component of the areas of Madhya Pradesh. Communities (ISC) – are helping the up to one and a half hours a day collecting success of these activities is CARE’s work program work toward two objectives, water. Moreover, most households could to engage men to support the WASH WASH4WORK where women’s self-efficacy and agency use improved water-treatment and needs of women. Two pilots on waterplays a critical role to: storage practices, and many households stewardship best practices in cotton and Gap Inc. is a partner in WASH4Work, would benefit from caregivers improving mill communities will be implemented. a diverse group of stakeholders from 1. Encourage communities to adopt key handwashing techniques. the public and private sectors that WASH practices The W+W Alliance will also conduct a aims to mobilize businesses that are 2. Build access to and sustainably Progress in 2018 also included our partner baseline assessment in Maharashtra working together to strengthen business manage quality water resources and CARE delivering the Gap Inc. P.A.C.E. with Institute for Development Impact contributions to achieving Sustainable sanitation services program together with WASH training (I4DI) and assess P.A.C.E.’s impact to Development Goal (SDG) 6. It aims to to women in Madhya Pradesh. During foster women’s behavior change on improve access to WASH in the workplace, This pioneering public-private partnership the year, 16,893 women graduated WASH practices through an extensive in the communities where workers live and aligns closely to our goals related from the Gap Inc. P.A.C.E. program. study conducted by the International across supply chains. to sustainable water stewardship Water.org supported CARE’s training Center for the Research on Women and empowering women with WASH by developing additional water and (ICRW). Finally, the W+W Alliance will education, services and products. The sanitation financing training material welcome WaterAid, a new partner, to program is primarily being implemented to help P.A.C.E. participants better complement the ongoing activities by in communities where cotton is grown and understand their options for addressing supporting governance for water access where fabric mills are located. Through key WASH needs for themselves and their and quality. rigorous monitoring and evaluation, we are families. Water.org also established key deepening our understanding of the WASH partnerships with microfinance institutions needs of women and girls in communities in India to catalyze funding for WASH while improving our ability to deliver needs such as retrofitting of toilets, and 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Chemicals Management We aim to eliminate the discharge of hazardous OUR APPROACH Gap Inc. suppliers have been expected to comply with our RSL; and in 2016, we chemicals within our supply chain to reduce our Our approach to chemicals management adopted the AFIRM Group RSL. Since 2015, environmental impact and improve access to clean, includes three key components: we have required all of our suppliers to comply with the ZDHC MRSL. safe water in the communities where our suppliers 1. WORK WITH SUPPLIERS factories and mills operate. We communicate chemical safety requirements to our suppliers through The global apparel industry accounts for high amounts our Code of Vendor Conduct (COVC) and GOAL of use of chemicals in manufacturing, and the discharge require them to acknowledge and comply Work toward zero with these requirements. of these chemicals can threaten local water sources and discharge of hazardous affect people working with them and living nearby. 2. COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING chemicals in our supply Learn More We use third-party testing of products chain by 2020 and components of products to ensure How we're reducing the impact of chemicals compliance with global chemical regulations and Gap Inc. chemical restrictions. 3. INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS We partner with industry groups, including Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC), the Apparel and Footwear International RSL Management (AFIRM) Group, and the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), to implement a consistent set of tools and processes to support best practices, monitor supplier performance and encourage use of safer chemicals. In addition to helping us achieve our water and sustainability commitments, these partnerships help advance the industry as a whole. Gap Inc. chemical restrictions are informed by global regulations as well as hazardand risk-based considerations. They include our Restricted Substances List (RSL) and Manufacturing Restricted Substances List (MRSL). Since 2008, 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Chemicals Management 2018 PROGRESS + INDUSTRY INITIATIVES INPUT MANAGEMENT PROCESS MANAGEMENT OUTPUT MANAGEMENT Our suppliers' input chemicals Our suppliers Our suppliers must comply with the Finished products must comply with the must respond to the must comply with the ZDHC ZDHC MRSL Higg Index FEM 3.0 AFIRM RSL Wastewater Guidelines Selection of better chemical inputs and Adherence to chemicals management Outputs of apparel and footwear manufacturing include finished products as well as starting materials is an essential part best practices during manufacturing wastewater and air emissions. Managing these outputs is a foundational component of reducing the use and discharge of is critical for reducing human and of reducing discharge of hazardous chemicals. hazardous chemicals. environmental risks. • Finished products manufactured for our brands should comply with the AFIRM RSL; • As a ZDHC Signatory Brand, we To support best practices in our supply we test products in order to ensure they meet regulatory standards established by require our suppliers to follow the chain, our COVC outlines a number the countries where we sell products. ZDHC Roadmap to Zero Programme, of expectations for chemical use and which includes registering with handling. We require all Tier 1 cut• To address emissions, we have integrated ZDHC tools and resources for output the ZDHC Gateway, maintaining a and-sew suppliers and strategic Tier management into Gap Inc. policies and systems for managing our supplier chemical inventory list and using 2 fabric mill suppliers to respond to relationships. In 2018, we formally adopted the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines into input chemicals that comply with the the Higg Index FEM 3.0, which enables existing supply-chain programs, including our Water Quality Program (WQP) for all ZDHC MRSL. us to evaluate suppliers based on denim laundries – Tier 1 facilities that generate significant amounts of wastewater whether they follow specific chemicals – and our Mill Sustainability Program. Our strategic mills and laundries are required • We are also working to go beyond management practices. We also use this to test their wastewater twice per year to ZDHC standards and publish the results MRSL conformance by identifying data to inform the evolution of Gap Inc.’s through the ZDHC Gateway, a data-sharing platform that allows brands to monitor and increasing our use of “preferred” chemicals-management strategy. supplier wastewater data. chemicals. In 2018 we initiated pilots of two different programs developed by and for the apparel industry to proactively identify and increase the use of safer chemicals. As well as checking for MRSL conformance, these programs provide additional information about input chemicals (such as a third-party chemicalhazard assessment) to help identify “best-available” formulations. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Energy Climate change is a global challenge that transcends ENERGY EFFICIENCY share best practices with other companies that wish to replicate this innovative model. boundaries, affecting people and communities In 2018, we achieved an 18 percent Each company will receive approximately everywhere. cumulative reduction of GHG emissions in the same amount of energy from the our owned and operated facilities, putting project. Gap Inc. has contracted for 7.5 us over a quarter of the way toward megawatts of solar energy, which will Climate risk is the key sustainability issue of our time, meeting our 2020 goal to reduce GHG offset 100 percent of the energy load for our Athleta brand’s headquarters and and is both a human and an environmental challenge. emissions by 50 percent against a 2015 stores. The project is targeted to begin baseline. In absolute terms, we reduced our Managing this risk is critical for the long-term success of GHG emissions by 83,657 metric tons of generating electricity in 2020. our business. We feel an ethical responsibility to address carbon-dioxide equivalents. SCIENCE BASED TARGETS climate change by aligning our goals and strategies with RENEWABLE ENERGY INITIATIVE the best science and industry practices. In June 2018, we finalized an agreement to In 2017, Gap Inc. signed on to the Science develop a 3-megawatt solar array at our Based Targets initiative (SBTi) to align our Learn More Fresno, California, distribution center. The climate goals with the scientific consensus How we're doing our part on climate project, which will result in the equivalent and core commitment of the Paris of removing 254 passenger cars from Agreement to limit global warming to less the road annually, will offset more than than 2 degrees Celsius. We established GOAL 2018 PROGRESS half of the energy load at our Fresno our 2020 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissionsfacility and is projected to reduce energy Reduce greenhouse gas In 2018, we continued our efforts to expenses. We expect the array to begin reduction goal using a science-based methodology. To meet the standards of the emissions by 50% in our reduce our climate impacts in four ways: generating power by the end of 2019. We SBTi protocol, we are also establishing a owned and operated • Improving energy efficiency at our are continuing to explore the possibility of Scope 3 goal to cover the major impacts of combined renewable energy and storage our enterprise activities. We plan to submit facilities globally by 2020, stores, offices, and distribution opportunities in our distribution-center Gap Inc.’s science-based target for Scope 3 from a 2015 baseline networks network. emissions and finalize a target in 2019. • Expanding our investments in PERFORMANCE renewable energy Looking forward to 2019, together with CDP CLIMATE CHANGE • Collecting and analyzing data from four other companies – Bloomberg, Cox Metric Tons CO2e, Scope 1 and 2, our supply chain to set a Science Enterprises, Salesforce and Workday – we Our CDP Climate Change response Global Market-Based Based Target for Scope 3 GHG formed a first-of-its-kind Virtual Power includes detailed information on our 471,301 emissions beyond 2020 Purchasing Agreement (VPPA) partnership strategy and performance, which 500 447,687 • Signed on to the UN Fashion Charter that is enabling us to procure a total of incorporates recommendations from the 450 405,503 387,644 for Climate Action 42.5 megawatts of a 100-megawatt solar Task Force on Climate-related Financial 400 project in North Carolina. Historically, it has Disclosures (TCFD). 350 2020 been difficult for individual companies with 300 smaller energy needs to procure solar from GOAL 250 large projects due to high transaction costs 200 ↓50% and complicated contract processes. By 2015 2016 2017 2018 joining forces, however, we have expanded BASELINE ↓7% ↓16% ↓18% our buying power, and we will be able to 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Waste We have a responsibility to help prevent waste in GOAL 2018 PROGRESS our operations, which can negatively impact the Divert 80% of waste from In 2018, we continued the approach we environment and add unnecessary cost to our business. landfill across our U.S. developed in 2017 to meet our 2020 waste-diversion goal, by focusing on steps facilities by 2020 we can take as a company to innovate our In North America, 90 percent of our waste is discarded packaging design and recycling systems. by our stores, and we are exploring ways to reduce and PERFORMANCE We are also continuing to explore solutions divert our packaging waste. By innovating to optimize % Waste Diverted from Landfill for polybags. Only a portion of our store packaging and reduce volume, lower business costs and locations are able to recycle these types of soft plastics, so we are testing a suite support industrywide change, we aim to divert more than of solutions: better communication 2017 / 47% 30 million pounds of material from landfill every year. with store employees about current recycling opportunities at their location, 2018 / 47% collaboration with our brands to reduce the Learn More quantity of polybags shipped to stores, and How we're diverting waste 2020 stricter packing standards with our vendors GOAL to reduce polybag volume through better 80% design and packing practices. We are also creating and selecting in-store marketing materials with recyclability in mind. In addition to work within our company and with our brands, we are continuing to engage the industry and our landlords to develop longer-term solutions that reduce waste and expand opportunities for recycling across the retail industry. 70% of Athleta store waste was diverted from landfill in 2018 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 Product 57 Product Sustainability 58 Brand Goals 61 Raw Materials 63 Circularity + End of Life OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Product Sustainability We aim to design great products with sustainability in mind while collaborating across our business to 2018 PROGRESS In 2018, all of our brands expanded their 1,500+ improve the performance of our brands. efforts to embed sustainability into product Product Design + design and raw-materials selection, and Development Employees they increased customer communication to Trained on Our brands approach impact reduction throughout the emphasize the importance of environmental Sustainable Practices product life cycle, examining the materials they source, and social awareness to the people who buy and wear our clothes. through 2018 the products they design and the suppliers they work with. Each brand uses its unique voice to communicate PREFERRED FIBER + MATERIALS TOOLKIT AND TRAINING directly with customers on the importance and impact of producing responsibly. In 2018, we completed and rolled out our Preferred Fiber & Materials Toolkit, which CUSTOMER COMMUNICATION we created alongside third-party industry Learn More partners, Textile Exchange and MADE-BY. We have continued to communicate Our work on product sustainability The tool empowers product teams to select our product sustainability efforts to the best fibers based on sustainability customers through store displays, product impacts such as water, chemicals, energy descriptions, product labeling, social media and emissions, land use and biodiversity, and other channels. We also engage 85% social conditions, animal welfare, potential in educational campaigns and media for circularity, and improved conditions around events such as World Water Day, for women. The toolkit also allows product and through our strategy to source more of Athleta 2019 swim design and development teams to evaluate sustainable cotton, including the Better was made with fibers based on commercial factors, such as Cotton Initiative (BCI). quality, cost, availability and traceability. recycled nylon Looking ahead, many of 2018’s efforts To complement the launch of this toolkit, we laid the foundation for comprehensive developed and incorporated sustainability initiatives launching in early 2019. In a workshops and a training curriculum into our campaign that launched on Earth Day company-wide learning and development 2019, we partnered with other apparel program. In 2018, we trained approximately brands, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s 400 additional Product Design and Make Fashion Circular initiative, and the Development employees through our city of New York to tackle clothing waste. workshops: Sustainability 101, Sustainability Through the #WearNext campaign, Claims, Fiber Sustainability, Sustainable Athleta, Banana Republic and Gap Wet Processing and Sustainable Denim. To stores in New York City host recycling date, we’ve reached over 1,500 employees bins for customers to drop off unwanted with these workshops. We also continued clothing for recycling or repurposing. The publishing our monthly newsletter on product New York City Department of Sanitation sustainability, which now reaches more than has published an online guide to these 600 Product Development employees. locations. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Brand Goals For every brand within Gap Inc., GOAL sustainability is considered a business priority. Source 100% of cotton In 2018, Gap Inc. launched Hill City, a highBeginning with Athleta and Gap brand from more sustainable performance men’s apparel brand that testing and scaling innovations from GAP FOR GOOD sources* by 2021 offers technical clothing that transitions recycled fibers to water-saving denim seamlessly through the day – from washes, we learned a lot from our first Gap brand launched its consumerworkout to work to weekend. Incubated PERFORMANCE brand-level goals in 2017. By 2018, all facing Gap for Good platform in 2017 alongside the highly successful Athleta of our brands established executive to highlight more sustainable fashion. % Cotton from More Sustainable Sources business, Hill City has been designated sustainability steering committees, The platform builds on Gap’s Earth a B-Corp certified brand by integrating defined their own priorities and Day 2017 commitment to source sustainability throughout its operations goals, and led sustainability-strategy 100 percent of its cotton from more and using high-quality renewable, 2018 / 53% workshops with cross-functional sustainable sources by 2021. recycled fibers to create performance teams. This empowers each brand 2021 fabrics for many of its products. *Includes Better Cotton to build a strategy that is true to its WASHWELL™ GOAL Initiative (BCI), organic identity while also pursuing meaningful environmental and social impact. Since 2016, when our Gap brand and recycled cotton 100% pioneered Washwell™ – a denim wash In honor of Earth Day 2019, our program that conserves water in the Banana Republic and Old Navy brands laundry stage of production – we have established their sustainability-focused refined the process and made it easier goals, incorporating sustainable to adopt across our other brands. In materials and water savings into 2018, we expanded Washwell™ so that GOAL design, raw materials sourcing, and the program is now used across our manufacturing and processing. brands. Make 75% of qualifying products* using Hill City, our newest men’s performance In 2018, 19 vendors participated in and lifestyle brand, launched in 2018 as Washwell™, up from 16 vendors in 2017. Washwell™ water-saving a B Corp. The brand is being built from We saved 98.9 million liters of water techniques by 2021 the ground up with a commitment to through Washwell™ in 2018, up from sustainability. 76.6 million liters in 2017. PERFORMANCE % Products Made Using Washwell™ Water-Saving Techniques 99M 2018 / 22% Liters of 2021 *Qualifying products Water Saved include denim jeans, GOAL through Washwell™ jackets and shorts. 75% in 2018 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 58 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Brand Goals • Empower Women: The brand also GOAL: PROTECT RESOURCES GOAL: DIVERT WASTE invested in social-impact efforts, including enrolling more supplier Make 80% of materials Divert 80% of store waste Athleta has a strong commitment to facilities in the P.A.C.E. program environmentally conscious products and and onboarding and certifying one with sustainable fibers from landfill by 2020 sustainable practices. The brand believes new Fair Trade facility in Sri Lanka. by 2020 in protecting the Earth as a natural playground, positively contributing to the CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE direction of the apparel industry, offering customers responsible options, driving Athleta promotes its sustainability % Materials Made with 30% or more % Waste Diverted from Landfill demand for sustainable goods, and initiatives among customers by using Sustainable Fibers supporting the potential of women and girls. simple, clear symbols in catalogs and online to indicate which products are 2017 / 35% 2017 / 70% 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Fair Trade and which are sourced from facilities that participate in our P.A.C.E. 2018 was a significant year for Athleta, (Personal Advancement & Career 2018 / 46% 2018 / 70% beginning with achievements of its Enhancement) program. The brand B-Corp certification, which means that also shares its sustainability efforts 2020 2020 the brand is meeting rigorous standards on athleta.com, including its five core GOAL GOAL of social and environmental performance, values and progress toward its 2020 80% 80% accountability and transparency. As part of sustainability goals. this certification, Athleta formed an internal governance committee to support its sustainability efforts. GOAL: CONSERVE WATER GOAL: EMPOWER WOMEN • Protect Resources: Progress was made Make 25% of products Impact 10,000 women on environmental efforts, especially around sourcing more sustainable using water-saving through P.A.C.E. and fibers. Over the past two years, the techniques by 2020 Fair Trade by 2020 brand has been working to use more recycled synthetics, organic cotton and more efficient fabric-dyeing and 17 PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE finishing techniques. These materials Facilities % Products Made Using Women Who Participated in P.A.C.E. or – as demonstrated by life-cycle Water-Saving Techniques Received Fair Trade Premiums assessments – conserve water, use less enrolled in P.A.C.E. energy, and emit less greenhouse gases and hazardous chemicals than their 2017 2017 2018 • conventional counterparts. Conserve Water: The brand is 2 1% 2,503 3,212 2020 GOAL investigating new technologies and Facilities 2018 10K 4% 2020 expanding existing programs that use certified Fair Trade GOAL less water. since 2017 25% 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Brand Goals GOAL GOAL Source 100% of cotton Source 100% of cotton Banana Republic will continue to from more sustainable from more sustainable integrate sustainability into design Old Navy’s targets are focused in and manufacturing decisions to sources* by 2023 two areas of critical importance to sources* by 2022 reduce the environmental impacts of the brand and Gap Inc. Old Navy each garment. PERFORMANCE will help scale and drive impactful PERFORMANCE % Cotton from More Sustainable Sources improvement in water-savings efforts % Cotton from More Sustainable Sources and sustainable-cotton sourcing, while helping to educate the brand’s 2018 / 45% customers on the importance of more GOAL sustainable apparel production. 2018 / 40% 2023 Make 50% of products *Primarily through BCI, as well GOAL *Primarily through BCI as well 2022 using water-saving as recycled and organic sources 100% as verified, responsibly grown GOAL techniques* and cleaner and recycled cotton 100% chemistry practices** in our supply chain by 2025 GOAL GOAL Make 50% of products *Techniques that save at least 20 percent of Make 100% of denim water compared to conventional methods at with sustainable fibers* mill facilities; includes Washwell™ products using waterby 2023 **Through Gap Inc.’s Zero Discharge of saving techniques* by 2022 Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) commitment and ongoing efforts to select preferred PERFORMANCE chemistry options PERFORMANCE % Products Made with Sustainable Fibers % Denim Products Made Using Water-Saving Techniques 2018 / 28% KEY METRIC 2023 2018 / 60% Make more eco-friendly* GOAL 2022 denim by 2023 50% GOAL *Includes Washwell™; sustainable cotton *Includes cotton through BCI, as well as *Includes proven wash processes 100% primarily through BCI, as well as recycled recycled and organic sources; partnering and organic sources; more sustainable dye with Canopy-compliant suppliers to source 60 percent of Old Navy’s denim purchased methods, such as foam dye; eco-friendly preferred man-made cellulosics; recycled for Spring 2019 was made using waterfinishes such as bio-softeners and laser and responsible wool from vendors that saving techniques, saving 20 percent or technology; and trims made with recycled are compliant under the Responsible Wool more water in the garment wash stage materials Standard; and linen and recycled polyester compared to conventional methods. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Raw Materials We believe great products are created with sustainability at their core — which means going all the way down to our raw materials to integrate responsible sourcing into our product life cycle. Our brands are empowered to improve the sustainability of their products by selecting the best raw materials that meet the performance requirements of their products, while also meeting Gap Inc. standards for social and environmental sustainability. We continue to refine and evolve our strategy and engage in industry partnerships that focus on sustainable raw materials and circular approaches to materials use and end of life. Learn More How we source more sustainable raw materials 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Raw Materials GOAL 2018 PROGRESS SYNTHETICS suppliers do not use ancient, endangered, high-conservation or high-carbon-value Eliminate the use of woodIn 2018, we continued our strategy to focus The synthetic materials in our products forest areas to make cellulose-based – including polyester, spandex and nylon – textiles, including rayon, modal, viscose and derived fibers sourced from on the fibers that account for approximately provide essential performance properties. lyocell. 97 percent of our fiber consumption: cotton, ancient and endangered polyester, nylon and man-made cellulosics, However, since they are generally derived forests by 2020 such as rayon and modal. from nonrenewable, petroleum-based To achieve our commitment, we are sources, there are concerns about their partnering with mills on the following: Over the year, we focused on further production and processing, and they do not identifying our raw-material suppliers PERFORMANCE improving our fabric-management systems biodegrade like natural fibers, providing in order to eliminate sourcing of to provide detailed data on our fiber limited end-of-life options. We’re taking wood-derived fibers from ancient % Products Compliant with Commitment consumption and volumes and to increase steps to source more sustainable synthetic and endangered forests; leveraging the awareness of our teams through fibers, including recycled polyester and CanopyStyle’s audit and remediation training programs and shared tools. recycled nylon. However, converting plan; and encouraging the development 2018 / 77% recycled polyester into fabric can be costly of innovative fabrics. In partnership with 2020 COTTON and there are challenges with sourcing a our major suppliers, we are also exploring GOAL sufficient supply. In 2018, we conducted a ways to integrate recycled cellulosics into 100% Cotton is one of the most important life-cycle assessment of recycled polyester our products. In 2018, we gathered data on fibers for Gap Inc. We focus our cotton and have been slowly increasing our use our supply chain representing more than strategy around building fiber security and of recycled polyester where possible. 80 percent of our cellulosic fiber volume maintaining a comprehensive evaluation We are also an active member of the through an internal survey and multiple of cotton-sourcing risks, as well as building Textile Exchange Recycled Polyester conversations with suppliers. Through 2018 SUSTAINABLE FIBER a more sustainable source of cotton that and Biosynthetics Working Groups, this data, we show that 77 percent of our SOURCING is better for people and the planet. As a investigating industry innovations toward cellulosic volume is compliant with our crop that is primarily grown in high watermore sustainable fibers. commitment. We still have work to do to Fiber Type % of Fiber Type stress locations such as India, China and engage additional suppliers to take the Pakistan, cotton is especially vulnerable to MAN-MADE CELLULOSICS Canopy audit and have some engaged Natural Fibers water-related impacts. We also endeavor suppliers commit to a remediation plan. Organic Cotton 0.2% of cotton to use more sustainable cotton across all We are working closely with our top BCI Cotton 40% of cotton of our brands, and Gap brand, Banana suppliers to support our company-wide Recycled Wool 3.5% of wool Republic and Old Navy have committed policy to eliminate our use of wood-derived RWS Wool 0.1% of wool to using 100 percent sustainable cotton. fibers from ancient and endangered This includes organic, recycled and Better forests by 2020. This commitment helps Cotton Initiative (BCI) cotton. We joined BCI protect critical forests and also supports Synthetics in 2016, and we are proud that Gap Inc. is our efforts to tackle climate change, Recycled Nylon 0.3% of nylon now the world’s third-largest user of BCI as forest ecosystems are vital natural Recycled Polyester 0.7% of polyester cotton. Across all of our brands, more than resources that promote biodiversity, 40 percent of the cotton Gap Inc. sourced in protect watersheds and help mitigate 2018 was through BCI. the release of carbon dioxide into the Man-Made Cellulosics atmosphere. Our policy – which we Lenzing Modal 3.9% of rayon developed in partnership with Canopy’s TENCEL 6.1% of rayon sustainable fashion and forestry initiative, CanopyStyle – aims to ensure that our 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Circularity + End of Life In order to create truly sustainable fashion, we INDUSTRY COLLABORATION In addition to these partnerships, we continued our engagement with Global recognize that we must address the full life cycle of There are opportunities for industrywide Fashion Agenda (GFA) and Fashion our garments, from raw materials to end of life — collaboration to find innovative solutions to Positive, to explore circularity opportunities. many outstanding issues. and back again. As part of our 2020 Circular Fashion We are collaborating with leaders in Commitment with GFA, we have set three commitments to achieve by 2020: We are addressing product end of life because the the circular economy, including as a core partner in the Ellen MacArthur environmental impact of textiles – the majority of Foundation’s Make Fashion Circular 1. We will train our cross-functional which end up in landfills or incinerated – is large. Our initiative. Through Make Fashion Circular, product teams for each of our brands we have made a three-year commitment on circular design techniques and best programs and partnerships to address product end to focus on safe and reusable inputs, practices. of life and create circular design systems are aimed sustainable-fiber models and recycling 2. We will help to increase the volume old clothing. Through our involvement, we of used garments collected globally at reducing waste and increasing recycling, upcycling launched a textile-collection effort in New through participation in preand reuse. York City in early 2019 that encourages competitive, industry-led collection customers to bring their spent garments pilots. to select Banana Republic, Gap brand and 3. We will identify the most promising Learn More Athleta stores for recycling. Their aim is to recycling technologies for postHow we map the product life cycle develop safe and reusable inputs that feed consumer materials across multiple into sustainable-fiber models in order to product categories and start scaling turn old clothes into new. them in our supply chain. These partnerships are supporting our strategy and setting the stage for largescale industry-level innovation. 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 Appendix 65 Goals + Progress Detail 67 SASB Reference Table OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Goals + Progress Detail Holding ourselves accountable is fundamental to our approach to sustainability. Below are key goals, our progress to date and where we are heading in the future. Target Category Goal Year Status Details SOCIAL Employee Support $15 million in employee-driven community investment per year Ongoing $15.6 million in employee-driven community investment in 2018, comprising Engagement volunteer hours, employee financial donations and Gap Inc. matching of time and money This Way Ahead: Reach 10,000 youth participate in This Way Ahead 2020 5,677 youth have participated in the program through 2018; First Jobs expansion from 15 to 53 cities broadened our reach Hire 5% of entry-level employees from This Way Ahead 2025 1,107 entry-level hires were from This Way Ahead in 2018 Supplier 100% of supplier facilities producing branded apparel are rated yellow or green 2020 98% of supplier facilities were rated yellow or green in 2018 Sustainability 100% of Tier 1 suppliers transition to digital wage payments 2020 80% of suppliers are using checks or bank transfers in 2018 P.A.C.E. Reach 1 million women through P.A.C.E. 2022 More than 280,000 women and girls have participated in P.A.C.E. through 2018 ENVIRONMENT Water Save 10 billion liters of water in manufacturing, from a 2014 baseline 2020 Gap Inc. suppliers have saved over 5.7 billion liters of water through 2018, Stewardship from a 2014 baseline Chemicals Work toward zero discharge of hazardous chemicals in our supply chain 2020 Strategic facilities must comply with the ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Management Substances List (MRSL) and verify through wastewater testing. Energy Reduce GHG emissions by 50% in our owned and operated facilities globally, 2020 18% reduction in emissions in 2018, from a 2015 baseline; from a 2015 baseline signed a 3.5MW PPA and a 7.5MW VPPA Waste Divert 80% of waste from landfill across our U.S. facilities 2020 47% of waste was diverted from landfill in 2018 PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY (GAP INC.) Raw Materials Eliminate the use of wood-derived fibers sourced from ancient and 2020 Verified that 77% of cellulosic fiber volume is compliance with our commitment; endangered forests work is underway to verify the remainder ON TRACK PROGRESSING NEEDS ATTENTION 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX Goals + Progress Detail Target Category Goal Year Status Details BRAND GOALS Gap brand Source 100% of cotton from more sustainable sources 2021 53% of cotton was from more sustainable sources in 2018 Make 75% of qualifying products using Washwell™ water-saving techniques 2021 22% of denim was made using Washwell™ water-saving techniques in 2018 Athleta Make 80% of materials with sustainable fibers 2020 46% of products were made with 30% or more sustainable content in 2018 Make 25% of products using water-saving techniques 2020 4% of products were made using water-saving techniques in 2018 Divert 80% of store waste from landfill 2020 70% of store waste was diverted from landfill in 2018 Empower 10,000 women through P.A.C.E. and Fair Trade 2020 3,212 women participated in P.A.C.E. or received Fair Trade premiums in 2018 Banana Source 100% of cotton from more sustainable sources 2023 45% of cotton was from more sustainable sources in 2018 Republic Make 50% of products with sustainable fibers 2023 28% of products were made with sustainable fibers in 2018 Make 50% of products using water-saving techniques and 2025 Reporting in progress cleaner chemistry practices in our supply chain Old Navy Source 100% of cotton from more sustainable sources 2022 40% of cotton was from more sustainable sources in 2018 Make 100% of denim products using water-saving techniques 2022 60% of Spring 2019 denim was made using water-saving techniques Banana Republic and Old Navy goals were set in 2019. Progress is based on 2018 benchmarks. ON TRACK PROGRESSING NEEDS ATTENTION 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 66 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX SASB Reference Table The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, private-sector standards-setting organization dedicated to enhancing the efficiency of the capital markets by fostering high-quality disclosure of material sustainability information that meets investor needs. This table references the Standard for the Apparel, Accessories & Footwear industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System (SICS) with the location of that information in Gap Inc.’s 2018 Global Sustainability Report (GSR) and gapincsustainability.com. Topic Activity Metric Category Unit of Measure Code Data Reference Number of (1) Tier 1 suppliers and (2) Quantitative Number CG-AAAs of 2/1/2018 (FY’18), we sourced from 774 Tier 1 • Social: Supply Chain suppliers beyond Tier 1 000.A branded apparel supplier facilities, defined as direct• GSR: Supplier Sustainability relationship cut-and-sew facilities and their associated (p.29) embroidery, laundry and screen-printing facilities. • GSR: Mill Sustainability Program (p.48) We have mapped out 203 mill facilities that represent about 75% of our business in 2018. Management Description of processes to maintain Discussion N/A CG-AA• Environment: Chemicals of Chemicals in compliance with restricted substances and Analysis 250a.1 • GSR: Chemicals Management Product regulations (p.52) Discussion of processes to assess and Discussion N/A CG-AA• Environment: Chemicals manage risks and/or hazards associated and Analysis 250a.2 • GSR: Chemicals Management with chemicals in products (p.52) Environmental Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities Quantitative Percentage (%) CG-AA100% of Tier 1 supplier denim laundries are expected • Environment: Mills + Laundries Impacts in the and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 in 430a.1 to have wastewater meeting or exceeding legal • GSR: Water Stewardship (p.48) Supply Chain compliance with wastewater discharge requirements, in accordance with our Water Quality permits and/or contractual agreements Program (WQP). In 2018, we enhanced the program by adopting Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Wastewater Guidelines as WQP requirements for wastewater sampling and testing; 47 denim laundries participated, with 90% meeting conventional parameters and 78% meeting ZDHC parameters. Supplier Facilities beyond Tier 1 • N/A By 2020, we expect strategic Gap Inc.-approved mill facilities to participate in and report for the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) Higg FEM 3.0 and Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) MRSL and Wastewater Guidelines. Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities Quantitative Percentage (%) CG-AA100% of Tier 1 suppliers were requested to complete • Measuring Our Progress: and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 430a.2 the SAC’s Higg Index Facility Environmental Module. Environmental that have completed the Sustainable • 95% of active Tier 1 branded apparel suppliers • GSR: Water Stewardship (p.48) Apparel Coalition’s Higg Index Facility completed the 2018 data request. Module (Higg FEM) assessment or Suppliers beyond Tier 1 were requested to complete an equivalent environmental data the Higg Index FEM. assessment • 169 out of 194 Tier 2 mills have completed the Higg Index FEM (87% of strategic mills). 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 OVERVIEW STRATEGY SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT PRODUCT APPENDIX SASB Reference Table Topic Activity Metric Category Unit of Measure Code Data Reference Labor Conditions Percentage of (1) Tier 1 supplier facilities Quantitative Percentage (%) CG-AA92.6% of Tier 1 branded apparel suppliers that were • Measuring Our Progress: in the Supply and (2) supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 430b.1 active for the full year were audited to our Code of Working Conditions Chain (continued) that have been audited to a labor code Vendor Conduct (COVC) during the fiscal year. • Social: Working Conditions of conduct, (3) percentage of total audits • 30% of audits were conducted by a third-party • Gap Inc. Code of Vendor conducted by a third-party auditor assessor, primarily through ILO Better Work. Conduct (COVC) • Facilities with a consistently low non-conformance • Gap Inc. Supplier Facility List rate may be assessed on a biannual basis; all • Environment: Mills + Laundries facilities are audited prior to initial production. • GSR: Assessment + Remediation Suppliers beyond Tier 1 audited to COVC (p.30) • N/A In March 2017, as part of our Mill Sustainability Program, we communicated to our entire mill base our expectations of their social and environmental performance, which are requirements of doing business with us. Priority non-conformance rate and Quantitative Rate CG-AAAs of fiscal year 2018, 2% of facilities received red • Measuring Our Progress: associated corrective action rate for 430b.2 ratings during assessments against our Code of Working Conditions suppliers’ labor code of conduct audits Vendor Conduct. • GSR: Assessment + Remediation (p.30) For issues open as of 2/1/2018, 88% of corrective action plans were resolved by 1/31/2019. Discussion of greatest (1) labor and (2) Discussion N/A CG-AA• Environment: Supply Chain • Social: Working Conditions environmental, health, and safety risks in and Analysis 430b.3 • GSR: Water Stewardship (p.44) • GSR: Supplier Sustainability the supply chain • GSR: Chemicals Management (p.52) (p.29) Raw Material Discussion of environmental and social Discussion N/A CG-AA• Environment: Raw Materials Sourcing risks associated with sourcing priority and Analysis 440a.1 • GSR: Raw Materials (p.62) raw materials Percentage of raw materials third-party Quantitative Percentage (%) CG-AAFiber Type % of Fiber Type • Environment: Raw Materials certified to an environmental and/ by weight 440a.2 Natural Fibers • GSR: Raw Materials (p.62) or social sustainability standard, by Organic Cotton 0.2% of cotton standard BCI Cotton 40% of cotton Recycled Wool 3.5% of wool RWS Wool 01.% of wool Synthetics Recycled Nylon 0.3% of nylon Recycled Polyester 0.7% of polyester Man-Made Cellulosics Lenzing Modal 3.9% of rayon TENCEL 6.1% of rayon 2018 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 68
