METALS FOR SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY Ni Pb Au SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 2018 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance INTRODUC TION Sustainability Index 2018 Content About this index Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Boliden has been publishing sustain­ability that are committed to aligning their GRI and Global Compact Content Index. . 4 information since 2005. This index is operations and strategies with ten uniGeneral Disclosures and prepared in accordance with the Global versally accepted principles in the areas Reporting Principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 ­Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards: of human rights, labor, environment and Core Option. We have additionally anticorruption. Management Approach. . . . . . . . . . 12 included disclosures from the GRI G4 Economic Performance . . . . . . . . . . 16 Mining and Metal Sector Supplement. • The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Environmental Performance. . . . . . . 22 Standards. The GRI standards include Social Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 This index also constitutes Boliden’s an internationally recognized set of Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report ­Communication on Progress (COP) standards for economic, environmental on Boliden’s Sustainability Report . . . 48 and contains references to Boliden’s and social aspects of business perforperformance in relation to UN Globmance that enables stakeholders to al ­Compact’s ten principles. The 2018 compare companies’ performances. ­Sustainability Index comprises references to the Boliden 2018 Annual and SustainThe Sustainability Index and the Annuability Report that discloses the Group’s al and Sustainability report have been value creation, operations, and risk reviewed by means of an external limited assessment, including the sustainability assurance engagement in accordance with Read more at perspective. ISAE 3000, as issued by the Internationwww.boliden.com al Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Boliden adheres to the following internaThe auditor’s limited assurance report is tionally recognized, voluntary standards included in this report. and principles: •U N Global Compact. Key performance data Boliden has been a signatory to the UN Data available in the Annual and SustainSince 2012, the UN Global Compact is ability report 2018. a strategic policy initiative for businesses Categories Learn more about job creation, Learn more about energy, climate, Learn more about working economic impact and ethical behavmaterial efficiency and other con­ditions, human rights, and ior in the Economic Performance ­environmental topics in the Envicommunity relations in the Social section ronmental Performance section Performance section GRI 200 page 16 GRI 300 page 22 GRI 400 page 34 Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 2 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance INTRODUC TION About Boliden About Boliden Boliden is a metals producer with focus on sustainable develdisclose environmental, social and governance information to our opment. Our roots are Nordic, but our business is global. The stakeholders, such as investors and customers. Boliden is assessed company’s core competence is within the fields of exploration, periodically by a number of responsible investment organizations mining, smelting, and metals recycling. Boliden operates six and analysts on environmental, social, and governance criteria mining units and five smelters in Sweden, Finland, Norway, and and strives to be as transparent as possible, partaking in ranking Ireland. Its shares are listed on NASDAQ Stockholm, segment and ratings, sharing information that is relevant to the business. Large Cap. Boliden uses a risk-based materiality approach to Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 3 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance INDE X ES GRI and Global Compact Content Index Global Reporting initiative (GRI) Content Index Boliden’s Sustainability Index 2018 is prepared in accordance with topics, performance indicators, and the Mining and Metals the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards: Core Option. Sector Supplement indicators. It includes references to Boliden’s We have additionally included disclosures from the GRI G4 ­environmental, social, and economic goals and results. In cases Mining and Metal Sector Supplement. where Boliden reports partially (with omissions) on a material The Index enables a navigation of the disclosure of organizationtopic, the reasons for the omissions are provided either directly in al profiles and governance, strategies, report parameters, ­material the Index or in connection with the disclosure of the topic. The ten principles of UN Global Compact Index Boliden’s Sustainability Index 2018 includes the Communication on Progress (COP) with ­references to Boliden performance in relation to the UN Global Compacts’ ten principles GRI & GC = Sustainability index 2018 ASR = Annual Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Content Index = Partially reported GRI Standard Disclosures1) Omissions Reference GRI 101: Foundation General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Boliden AB (publ) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services ASR 12-13, 16-19, 23 102-3 Location of headquarters GRI back cover 102-4 Location of operations ASR 24-25 102-5 Ownership and legal form ASR 55, 60-65 102-6 Markets served ASR 14-16, 20-22 102-7 Scale of the organization ASR 24, 72, 83-85, GRI 8 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI 8, 40-41 102-9 Supply chain ASR 38-39, 45, 48-53 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain GRI 10, 48-53 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ASR 56-58, 60-65 102-12 External initiatives ASR 44, 47, GRI 10 102-13 Membership of associations GRI 9 Strategy 102-14 CEO statement (Statement from senior decision-maker) ASR 2-3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior ASR 34, 38-39, 40-41, 43-44, GRI 9 Governance 102-18 Governance structure ASR 60-69 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ASR 36, GRI 9 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI 9 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ASR 36, GRI 9 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement GRI 10 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised GRI 10 Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 4 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance INDE X ES GRI Standard Disclosures Omissions Reference Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements ASR 92 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries GRI 10 102-47 List of material topics ASR 35, GRI 13-14 102-48 Restatement of information No 102-49 Changes in reporting No 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report GRI back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 2,4 102-55 GRI content index GRI 4-7 102-56 External Assurance GRI 11, 48 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary GRI 12 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 12,13,17,23,35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 14-15 Material Topics GRI 200: Economic standard series Management approach – Economic 201-103 Management approach – Economic GRI 17-18 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ASR 1, 13, GRI 19 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's ASR 2-4, GRI 19 activities due to climate change Market presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community GRI 20 Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ASR 41, 47, GRI 20 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption ASR 44, GRI 20 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ASR 44, GRI 21 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ASR 44, GRI 21 Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices ASR 44, GRI 21 GRI 300: Environmental standard series ASR 36, GRI 22-23 Management approach – Environment 301-103 Management approach – Environment GRI 23 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI 24 301-2 Recycled input materials used GRI 24-25 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization ASR 42-43, GRI 26 302-3 Energy intensity ASR 42-43, GRI 26 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption ASR 42-43, GRI 26 Water and Effluents (GRI indicators are from 2018) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource GRI 27 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts ASR 56, GRI 27 303-3 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and GRI 27 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 303-4 Habitats protected or restored ASR 37, GRI 27 303-5 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated GRI 27 Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 5 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance INDE X ES GRI Standard Disclosures Omissions Reference Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and GRI 28 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-3 Habitats protected or restored ASR 37, GRI 28 MM1 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated GRI 29 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ASR 44-46, GRI 30 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ASR 44-46, GRI 30 305-4 GHG emissions intensity ASR 44-46, GRI 30 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions ASR 44-46, GRI 30 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions ASR 44-46, GRI 30-31 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method ASR 13, 32-33, GRI 32 306-3 Significant spills ASR 13, 58, GRI 32-33 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste ASR 13, 58, GRI 33 MM3 Total amount of overburden, rock, tailings, etc. GRI 32 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations GRI 33 Business Partner Social and Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ASR 38-39, GRI 33 GRI 400: Social standards GRI 35-36 Management approach – Social 401-403 Management approach – Social GRI 35 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ASR 50, 52, GRI 36 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary GRI 36 or part-time employees MM4 Strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week GRI 38 Occupational Health and Safety (GRI indicators are from 2018) 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system GRI 38 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation GRI 38 403-3 Occupational health services GRI 38 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and GRI 38 safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety GRI 38 403-6 Promotion of worker health GRI 38 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by GRI 39 business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system GRI 39 403-9 Work-related injuries GRI 39 403-10 Work-related ill health GRI 39 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee GRI 40 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development GRI 40 reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees GRI 41 Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 6 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance INDE X ES GRI Standard Disclosures Omissions Reference Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 42 Rights of Indigenous Peoples MM5 Operation in or adjacent to indigenous peoples' territories GRI 42 MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights GRI 42 of local communities, and indigenous peoples MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to GRI 42 land use, customary rights of local communities, and indigenous peoples Local Communities 413-1&2 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development GRI 42-43 programs Resettlement and Closure Planning MM9 Sites where resettlements took place GRI 44 MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans GRI 45 Business Partner Social and Environmental Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria ASR 53, GRI 43-44 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area GRI 45 1) All GRI indicators are from 2016, with the exception of GRI 303 and 403, which are from 2018. The ten principles of UN Global Compact Content Index Principle Reference Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human ASR 44, GRI 45 rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ASR 44, GRI 45 Labor GRI 47 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition ASR 44, GRI 46 of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; ASR 44, GRI 46 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and ASR 44, GRI 46 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ASR 41, 44, GRI 46 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; ASR 42-43, GRI 33 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and ASR 34-36, GRI 33 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ASR 4, 46, 56, GRI 33 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASR 44, GRI 21 Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 7 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Disclosures and Reporting Principles Boliden produces metals that makes modern society work. Our operations are characterized by concern for people, the environment and society. Boliden’s sustainability work is based on our own norms and values, as well as international guidelines and targets, such as the UN Global Compact and the UN Sustainable development goals. Dialogues with internal and external stakeholders are used to ensure that different perspectives are taken into account. General disclosures 102–8 Information on employees and other workers numbers reported due to seasonal variations in production in our All information in this GRI report concerning the number of operations. The data has been generated through the local HR IT employees refers to data from actual number of employees on 31 systems at our operations. December for the years 2016–2018, while in the Annual Report, The data has been quality assured by the Business Areas the corresponding figures are calculated and reported as Full ­Management teams each month and annually by Group HR. Time Employees (FTE). There are no significant variations in the 102–8a Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender 2016 2017 2018 Number % Female, % Number % Female, % Number % Female, % Permanent 5,458 95.4 17.0 5,597 94.5 17.9 5,727 95.0 18.3 Temporary 261 4.6 35.6 324 5.5 30.2 302 5.0 29.1 Total in Group 5,719 100.0 17.8 5,921 100.0 18.5 6,029 100.0 18.9 102–8b Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region 2016 2017 2018 Region Permanent Temporary Permanent Temporary Permanent Temporary Sweden 3,098 120 3,213 134 3,224 155 Norway 291 17 290 35 298 25 Finland 1,499 89 1,504 125 1,616 82 Ireland 557 35 577 30 578 40 Other 13 0 13 0 11 0 Total in Group 5,458 261 5,597 324 5,727 302 102–8c Total number of permanent employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender 2016 2017 2018 Employment type Number % Female, % Number % Female, % Number % Female, % Full-time 5,360 98.2 16.6 5,492 98.1 17.6 5,616 98.1 18.0 Part-time 98 1.8 36.7 105 1.9 32.4 111 1.9 32.4 Total in Group 5,458 100.0 17.0 5,597 100.0 17.9 5,727 100 18.3 Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 8 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102–13 Membership of associations nary action, dismissal, or even criminal prosecution. Should an Boliden participates in industry organizations that can play an improper practice or incident occur within Boliden, the company important role in the sustainability dialogue. These organizations is committed to making the necessary corrections and will take include: The International Zinc Association (IZA), The Internaremedial action to prevent recurrence. tional Copper Association (ICA), The European Copper Institute (ECI),The Scandinavian Copper Development Association,The International Lead Association (ILA), The Nickel Institute, The 102–40 List of stakeholder groups European Precious Metals Federation (EPMF), The Selenium-­ Stakeholder dialogue is an important part of living up to Tellurium Association, The Galvanizers Association of ­Germany/ Boliden’s values as a responsible and sustainable company. DurFrance and the UK, Zinc Info Norden, The International ing 2018, Boliden’s stakeholder groups were reviewed, updated Wrought Copper Council, The European Chemical Industry and approved by the Boliden’s Group Management. A stakeCouncil (Cefic), The European Electronics Recyclers Association holder process with roles and responsibilities was also defined. (EERA), The Bureau of International Recycling, Återvinnings­ The new stakeholder process is more generic and can be used at industrierna, Jernkontoret, The Association of Finnish Steel and Group, Business Area and Business Unit level to help identify Metal, SveMin, FinMin, Euromines and Eurometaux. applicable stakeholders and the type of dialogue that should be carried out and by whom. 102–16 V  alues, principles, standards and norms The stakeholder groups identified as priority groups for engageof behavior ment on sustainability issues are: We expect our employees to promote our core values by acting • Employees responsibly towards colleagues, business associates, and society at • Society large, and to keep in mind that they may be regarded as Boliden • Market employees, even during their leisure time. The Code of Conduct • Capital markets provides a framework for what Boliden considers to be responsible • Suppliers conduct – it is not exhaustive. Our employees should always strive • Environment to exercise good judgement, care, and consideration in their work for Boliden. Boliden, and its employees, shall base their behavior on mutual 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements respect. Boliden does not accept any form of harassment, discrimThe total number of employees at Boliden covered by collective ination, or other behavior that colleagues or business associates bargaining agreements on 31 December, 2018 was 5,911 (5,798) may regard as threatening or humanly degrading. We shall also representing 98.0% (97.9%) of the total workforce. ensure that none of the operations controlled by the company lead to the exploitation of children. We never, either directly or indirectly, collaborate with suppliers or customers where we have 102–42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders reason to believe that child labor is used. Employees and Board Boliden’s operations affect many people in a variety of ways, and Members shall not seek to obtain advantages for themselves (or similarly, our stakeholders have different views and expectations any related persons) that are improper or may harm Boliden’s of Boliden. A stakeholder process is implemented to help our interests in any other way. Information beyond general business business units engage and strengthen dialogue with important knowledge acquired in their work for Boliden should be regarded stakeholders. Each Boliden business unit is responsible for definconfidential and treated as such. ing its own stakeholders and stakeholder dialogue. By conducting The company shall communicate its financial results and other stakeholder dialogues at different levels and operations, Boliden information affecting the share price in an appropriate and timely meets demands for increased transparency and learns about manner and shall, when doing so, comply with relevant legis­ stakeholders’ demands and expectations in greater detail. lation, stock market contracts, and other regulations. Gifts or other favors to business associates shall comply with An example: Stakeholder mapping at Bergsöe locally accepted good business practice. Gifts and other favors Boliden Bergsöe identified stakeholders throughout the smelter’s may only be given or granted provided that they are modest, both value chain – from scrap batteries to the production of new batwith respect to value and frequency, and provided the time and teries. The different requirements, risks and opportunities were place are appropriate. then identified for each stakeholder, together with the systems Employees and Board Members shall comply with all Boliden Bergsöe has in place to manage and follow them up. applicable laws and regulations, including the antitrust and­comThe analysis is reviewed annually by the management team with petition laws, when conducting business on behalf of Boliden. input from the rest of the organization. The stakeholder analysis The Code of Conduct applies to all Boliden employees, includhighlighted where Bergsöe has value chain risks, both when puring temporary personnel, worldwide, as well as to members of chasing raw materials and when selling material to spot market the Board of Directors of Boliden AB and its subsidiaries. Line traders. Bergsöe is looking at how tools and agreements, such as managers are responsible for making the guidelines known and the UN Global Compact, could help mitigate these risks where for promoting and monitoring compliance. Violation of the Code Boliden has limited control over how the material is handled. of Conduct will not be tolerated and may lead to internal discipliBoliden Sustainability Index 2018 9 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102–43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Boliden’s stakeholder dialogues Boliden has a wide-ranging framework of stakeholders who raise expectations, influence perceptions of the company, and Capital markets – Boliden’s main owners and investors are relevant with regard to sustainability performance. Dialogue Responsibilities: Boliden’s Investor Relations team is is conducted in different ways with different groups, for examresponsible for identifying the owner’s expectations and ple, bi-annual employee surveys, open-house meetings with requirements and for arranging Investor Relations days. ­employees and the neighboring community, formal and informal meetings with authorities, and capital market days and the Market – Boliden’s direct customers and raw material ­A nnual General Meeting. suppliers Responsibilities: Boliden’s marketing and sales department monitors customer requirements and satisfaction, 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised and Boliden Commercial (Boliden Smelters), is responsiBoliden’s employees are naturally a key stakeholder. Employee ble for dialogue with direct customers and raw material dialogue aimed at understanding their desires and demands is providers. essential for the overall success of Boliden’s units. The response from internal stakeholders (employees) confirms that health and Society – various societal actors safety is the most important issue, followed by the ability to create Responsibilities: Boliden’s Public Affairs network includes value by maximizing the metal yield and driving technological various functions that monitor existing and forthcoming developments. legislation. External stakeholders (business partners, authorities, future employees) have high expectations when it comes to to Boliden’s Employees – everyone employed by Boliden focus on increased energy efficiency, its carbon footprint, and Responsibilities: Managers monitor employee expect­ reduced environmental impact. The common denominator for ations and requirements through annual staff dialogues, all stakeholders is an expectation that Boliden’s innovation and and HR conduct a bi-annual Employee Survey. technological development capabilities will benefit both the company and society at large. Sustainability within Boliden Suppliers – providers of indirect material, products means evaluating environmental impact, taking social considerand services ations into account, and securing strong economic results. The Responsibilities: Boliden’s Procurement Group function stakeholder engagement is part of the Corporate Responsibility is responsible for managing suppliers, which are selected strategic process. based on sustainability, productivity, quality, delivery, price and reliability. 102–46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Environment – natural capital and ecosystem services The information contained in this report, with the exception of that Boliden impacts environmental performance data, covers facts and figures from Responsibilities: All Boliden’s units are responsible for Boliden’s eleven business units, from the Group’s head office and minimizing environmental impacts by using the best various staff functions, and from its sales offices. E ­ nvironmental available environmental technologies and mitigation performance data are limited to Boliden’s eleven operational measures. business units (as they represent Boliden’s significant environmental impact). During the reporting period, there have been no Boliden’s stakeholder groups significant changes in the mining and smelting operations, the supply chain, or in the capital structure and capital formation. Report Content Market Boliden’s sustainability work is based on its own norms and values and on the UN Global Compact and the UN’s Sustainable development goals. Suppliers Capital Markets Stakeholders have different views and expectations for Boliden. The way in which Boliden’s activities relate to the global goals, to other societal trends and expectations, and to the views expressed internally within the company and in contacts with representatives of other stakeholders have all provided important input for the process of defining material topics. Within Boliden, a ‘mateEnvironment Society rial topic’ is a question that reflects Boliden’s material economic, environmental, and social impacts on the environment, as well as the issues that can affect assessments and decisions made by the Employees stakeholders. Boliden’s material topics are reviewed on an annual basis, and focus areas are decided on as part of the input to the Group Strategy plan. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 10 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Reporting Principles emissions have been measured, and/or calculated on the basis of The financial data is drawn from Boliden’s audited annual periodic measurements. More detailed measurement techniques, accounts. The Boliden Group reports in Swedish kronor (SEK). calculation methods, and assumptions are reported in connection Sustainability reporting is included in the Group Annual Report, with relevant indicators. Social data has been generated through pursuant to Swedish legislation, and in a separate report prepared the local HR IT systems at the operations. according to GRI standards. Environmental data, including ­energy-related data, is collected on a monthly, quarterly, or ­annual 102–56 External Assurance basis and consolidated at Group level. Calculation methods for Boliden’s policy is to use external assurance to ensure a high direct CO₂ emissions are stipulated by national legislation, and ­quality and credibility of the information published in the in connection with the EU emissions trading scheme. All other Boliden Sustainability index. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 11 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance MANAGEMENT APPROACH Management Approach Sustainability is an important part of Boliden’s operations and work conducted is based on the material topics for the business. The Board of Directors is responsible for the stewardship of the company and ensures that an appropriate corporate governance structure and system is in place. Sustainability is taken up both at each Board and Group Management meeting, and in local management meetings. The Head of Corporate Social Responsibility is a member of the Group Management team. Day to day responsibility is, however, decentralized to each business unit. 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary • Stakeholders expectations Boliden shall be among its industry’s leading companies in terms • Current and potential legislative trends of customer satisfaction, efficiency, and responsibility. This entails • ISO 9001, 45001,14001 and 50001 standards an understanding, readiness, and progressiveness with regard to • GRI Standards (Global Reporting Initiative) all topics deemed to be material. • UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • UN Global Compact Identify material topics Boliden has an internal process designed to annually review Boliden regularly consults selected stakeholder groups on its Boliden’s material topics in response to Boliden’s overall r­ esults, sustainability performance from a broader perspective. These changing business requirements, changing stakeholder expect­ stakeholders are asked to comment on Boliden’s material topics in ations, implementation of the global goals for sustainable order to drive opportunities for improvement. develop­ment, technological and scientific progress, etc. The Boliden has identified the relevant SDGs for each of its material ­process includes cross-disciplinary discussions and impact analysis topics to show how Boliden’s sustainability work contributes to where multiple internal experts participate. The material topics cross-sector international efforts to solve global development are anchored across the organization and adopted by Group issues. Boliden’s comprehensive approach to sustainability means ­management and the Board of Directors through the strategy plan. that it supports many of the 17 SDGs through its operations. Material topics for Boliden shall be based on Boliden’s business ­Collectively, these topics have a positive impact on Boliden’s model, taking into consideration risk and opportunities such ability to become a world-class metals company and a sustainable as business intelligence and risk mapping, as well as applicable first link in the metals’ value chain. requirement and expectations such as; Boliden supports the Sustainable Development Goals The picture shows the 17 Sustainable Development Goals disclosed by the United Nations in 2015. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 12 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance MANAGEMENT APPROACH Boliden’s material topics and directions 102–47 List of material topics IMPACT TOPICS DIRECTIONS GLOBAL GOALS Economic performance Contribute to long-term economic growth by providing 8 metals that are important for society’s sustainable ­development. Market presence Contribute to local employment levels, trade and industry 8, 11 by generating purchasing power and providing a critical base for social services. Indirect economic impacts Contribute to job creation indirectly or induced through its 4, 8, 17 subcontractors, suppliers or the effect of its employees’ expenditures. Anti-corruption Promote and monitor compliance throughout the company 16 FINANCIAL by following Code of Conduct and the Anti-Corruption policies. Activities inhibiting competition Cultivate a culture in which employees preserve Boliden’s 16 competitive position. Materials Contribute to the circular economy through recycling and 8, 12 by maximizing metal recovery from available raw materials. Sustainable resource usage Invest in R&D to develop new products that eliminate 12 waste. Energy Implement and maintain energy management systems to 7,12,13 achieve energy efficiency and conserve energy. Water Reduce the consumption of fresh water and the discharge 6, 12 of used water. Biodiversity Measure the effects from our operation on flora and fauna 6, 14, 15 to ensure there is no net loss of biodiversity, using an Environmental Impact Assessment. Air pollution emissions Reduce carbon dioxide intensity and reduce metal 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 emissions to air through improved process efficiency and ENVIRONMENTAL increased electrification with plans on a fossil free mine. Discharges to water and waste Reduce the discharges of metals to water and waste. 3, 6, 12, 14, 15 Environmental legislation Always meet legal requirements with no serious 12, 16 compliance ­environmental incidents. Business Partner Environmental Expect Business Partners to follow the Business Partner 12 Assessment Code of Conduct; identify and document their significant environmental aspects; and comply with environmental legislation and common practices. Employment Provide an attractive workplace. 8 Occupational health and safety Provide a safe and healthy workplace. 3, 8 Training and education Facilitate career and skill development. 4, 8 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Foster workforce diversity that reflects the local 5, 8 ­community. Non-discrimination Discourage all forms of harassment and discrimination on 5, 8, 16 the basis of gender, ethnicity, age, disability, religion, s ­ exual orientation or any other factor. Local Communities Maintain good community relations and effective 8, 10, 11 ­operations management. SOCIAL Business Partner Social Expect customers and suppliers to comply with the 12, 16 Assessment ­Business Partner Code of Conduct. Socioeconomic Compliance Ensure legal requirements are always met. 12 Resettlement and Closure Plan for conservation and reclamation of mining areas 1, 5, 11, 14 planning during their operation and end of production lifespan. Rights of Indigenous Peoples Promote open dialogue and long-term cooperation with 10 Sami communities in order to mitigate the negative ­impacts of Boliden’s mining activities on local people and the environment. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 13 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance MANAGEMENT APPROACH Boliden’s material topics and directions 103–1 Continued Sustainability component of the business strategy Sustainability Targets 2014 – 2018 Boliden’s process for integrating and implementing ­material Boliden has defined targets for the period from 2014 to 2018, ­topics into the business strategy and our everyday work is with 2012 as the base year. Performance disclosure information ­described in four steps; and comments are presented in the Economic, Environmental 1. Identify material topics and Social chapters of the Sustainability Index, as well as in the 2. Prioritize focus areas Annual and Sustainability Report. 3. Implement systematic sustainability work 4. Report, follow up and improve. Policies and Management Systems Boliden has a governance model comprising Group-wide and Prioritized focus areas local policies, instructions and guidelines, tools, and local The identification and prioritizing of the Group’s sustainability management systems that correspond to the challenges the efforts are based on the overall vision of being one of the leading company faces. The overall steering documents are collected in companies in the industry in terms of development, productivity, the Management Manual, which is available to every employee responsibility, and value creation. via Boliden’s intranet. Boliden’s operations have adopted quality, environmental and occupational health and safety management systems. The ambition is to have all sites certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, respectively (implementation of ISO 45001 is ongoing). In 2018, all sites except Kevitsa and Kylylahti have achieved these certifications. The Group’s smelters are also certified in accordance with the ISO 9001 Standard for quality Identify Prioritize Implement Report management and ISO 50001 Standard for energy management. Material focus systematic follow By working with certified management systems, Boliden ensures topics areas sustainabiliup and ty work improve that its operations review significant issues, set targets, measure performance, follow up on progress, and continuously work to i­ mprove their performance. The certification schemes also ­demand documented delegation of responsibilities on each site and 103–2&3 E  valuation of the management approach and that relevant competences are upheld. its components The general aspects of 103-2 and 103-3 are covered in this part of Boliden’s Business Partner Code of Conduct the report, whereas the more topic-specific management aspects are Boliden’s Business Partner Code of Conduct is a policy for busicovered in association with the disclosure of 200/300/400 topics. ness partners with whom Boliden enters into an agreement. They Identifying and prioritizing the most important and relevant issues are publicly available on Boliden’s corporate website. within the context of Boliden’s sustainability work is an ongoing The Code has been developed from the principles laid down in process. Sustainability comes with a long-term perspective and is the UN Global Compact, and issued by the ILO (labor standa long-term commitment. Which means it is an integral part of ards), as well as from those contained in applicable ISO standards Boliden’s strategy and operations. The basis for the sustainability and the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply work is that all operations are conducted in accordance with legislaChains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. tive provisions and permits in the countries in which the Group operates. Boliden’s ambitions are, however, significantly higher than Boliden’s Whistleblower reporting this and the Group works proactively by formulating goals and This reporting channel affords Boliden´s employees the opporguidelines that are fundamental to its operations from a sustainatunity to raise concerns regarding actual or suspected serious bility point of view. In order to systematically control and develop wrongdoings committed by people in leading positions or key Boliden’s operations, management systems have been implemented personnel within the Boliden group. to ensure that significant sustainability aspects of the operations are A serious wrongdoing means any serious conduct or irregcovered, making it possible to minimize the risks associated with ularity within the Boliden group concerning (a) accounting, mining and metals production. Boliden’s way of working also faciliinternal accounting controls, auditing matters, measures to tates adaptation to market conditions and preferences, and ensures combat b­ ribery, bankingand financial crime, or (b) other serious compliance with future legislation. Boliden became a signatory to conduct or irregularity concerning a Boliden company’s or the the UN Global Compact in 2012, and continually enhances the Boliden Group’s vital interests or the life or health of individual efforts to protect and respect its principles and promote its spirit. persons, such as serious environmental crimes, major ­deficiencies The prioritized material topics enable Boliden to set relevant in the safety at the place of work and very serious forms of goals, and to track and improve performance. ­discrimination or harassments. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 14 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance MANAGEMENT APPROACH Boliden Group Targets 2019 and beyond As a complement to these numerical targets communicated publicly, Boliden also works with several internal activities related to the identified material topics. Material topic Directions Target and KPI Economic Contribute to long-term economic growth by providReturn on investments shall be a minimum of 10% (NPV) performance ing metals that are important for society’ s industrialization and development. Provide metals for the Net debt/equity ratio in an economic upturn shall be 20% transformation to a Sustainable society. The dividend shall correspond to one third of the net profits Air Pollution Reduce carbon dioxide intensity and reduce metal Emissions of metals to air, –1%/per annum1) Emissions emissions to air through improved process efficiency and increased electrification with the first fossil free CO2 intensity, –3%/per annum1) mine planned for 2025. Discharges to Reduce the discharges of metals to water and waste. Discharges of metal to water, –1%/per annum1) water and waste Environmental Always meet permit values and legal requirements. No serious environmental incidents Legislation Compliance No serious environmental incidents. Occupational Health Provide safe and healthy workplaces. Zero accidents (LTI) and Safety Sick leave rate <4.0% Diversity and Strive towards workforce diversity that reflects the At least 20% proportion of females in total work force in Equal Opportunity local community. 2020 1) From 2017. 2) Base year 2012. The Code addresses; Human Rights and Labor Rights (EITI). The ESG evaluation of Boliden´s business partners • Fundamental human rights (customers and suppliers) is repeated at a minimum of threeto • The effective abolition of child labor five-year intervals. The extent of the ESG evaluation depends on • Upholding the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory assessed sustainability risk and the strategic importance of the labor business partner. All of Boliden’s business partners have been • Non-discriminatory practices checked through sanction controls during the reporting year. • Protecting and respecting freedom of association and collective bargaining Responsibility and Monitoring of Progress • Working hours Boliden’s Group management has ultimate responsibility for the • Living wages Group’s sustainability work. Prioritizing sustainability issues, and • Health and safety identifying and selecting the most relevant sustainability issues, is an ongoing process involving all units within the Boliden Group. The Environment: The Group management includes the Senior Vice President – • A precautionary approach to environmental challenges Corporate Responsibility, who ensures that sustainability issues • Implementation of environmental management systems are addressed continuously. • Minimize the operational impact related to energy, greenhouse The work is largely carried out through Group-wide networks gas emissions, waste, and water consumption in order to facilitate the dissemination of Boliden’s goals and strategies and by exchanging expertise and experience between the Anti-Corruption: Business Areas and between production units. There are networks • Zero tolerance of bribery or any form of corruption for health and safety, the environment, chemical management, • Zero acceptance of direct or indirect involvement in prohibited quality, human resources, and communications, and the Chairs benefits of the respective networks report to the Group management. • Compliance with trade sanctions and prevention of fraud, Boliden’s Board of Directors reviews the Group’s sustainability extortion, money laundering performance data annually. • Legal compliance on taxation, fees and royalties, and transparEnvironmental performance, sick leave, and accident rates ency in disclosure of the same are reported on a monthly basis. They are also presented at every Group management meeting and at every Board meeting. Boliden’s Corporate Responsibility work in relation to suppliers ­Supplier assessments of environmental and labor practices are is developed and improved continuously from new knowledge reported on a quarterly basis. Boliden also presents sustainability and new conditions, such as amended legislation and principles performance in its quarterly interim reports. set forth under the Extractive Industry Transparency ­Initiative Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 15 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic standard disclosures (GRI 200) Boliden contributes to long-term economic growth by providing metals that are important for society’s industrialization and development. Financial targets Return on investments The return on investments shall be a minimum of 10% (NPV) Net debt/equity ratio The net debt/equity ratio in an economic upturn shall be no higher than 20% Dividend The dividend shall correspond to one third of the net profit (Base year 2012) Financial Performance 2018 The performance is presented in the Annual and Sustainability reports. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 16 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201–103 Management Approach – Economic For more than 90 years, Boliden has been exploring, extracting expansions of and other significant changes to operations, and in and processing base metals and precious metals. Production conjunction with the closure of operations. is based on experience, innovation and modern technology, The Annual and Sustainability Reports contain further details developed in collaboration with Nordic technology and engineer­ of the ways in which Boliden manages, follows up on, and moni­ ing companies. Today, Boliden is an industry leader in terms of tors its performance in relation to these aspects. sustainable metal production, from deposits to recycling used metals. The locations of Boliden’s operations are determined by Market presence the localization of mineral resources and the ability to explore Protecting local communities’ interests and maintaining good and expand operations in connection therewith. Good commu­ relationships with employees, neighbors, authorities and business nity relations and mutual understandings are a prerequisite for partners is an important part of being a responsible company. It Boliden’s success and in enabling the business to grow. also strengthens the ability to attract skilled labor and contributes The economic topics identified as material to Boliden are to the development of the business. ­economic performance, market presence, indirect economic Boliden has a considerable impact on local employment levels, impact, anti-­corruption, and anti-competitive behavior. All of trade, and industry by generating purchasing power and pro­ these topics are closely linked to Boliden’s overall performance. viding a critical base for social services. At the year-end, Boliden They are both the result of and a precondition for trust from the had 5,818 employees, in eight countries. Although the industry local communities where Boliden operates. By considering these is cyclically sensitive, Boliden has had stable employment over topics and performing well in respect of them, Boliden maintains several business cycles, and the workforce has increased by 1,411 its license to operate and the ability to develop the business. people in the past 10 years, mainly due to the acquisitions of the Boliden’s Code of Conduct provides a non-exhaustive Kylylahti and Kevitsa mines. framework for what Boliden considers responsible conduct. The Boliden currently operates in countries where the infrastruc­ employees should always strive to exercise good judgement, care, ture is well developed and the need for Boliden to contribute to and due consideration in their work for Boliden. The Code of society by directly investing in and developing infrastructure and Conduct applies to all employees in all countries and ­subsidiaries social services is limited. throughout the Group and to the members of the Board of Boliden is, however, often one of the bigger companies in the ­Directors of Boliden AB. local area, paying taxes in the areas in which Boliden operates, and its contribution can, therefore, be considered significant. Economic performance In many places, Boliden is the biggest private employer and its Economic performance is material, because Boliden contributes to ­employees and families are essential if infrastructure, public the welfare in the society through the generation and distribution services, shops and other activities are to function. of economic value e.g. by paying wages, taxes, interest rates, and Just as Boliden’s companies are important to the development dividends. These impacts occur throughout Boliden’s value chain of the society, society is important to Boliden. Maintaining an and affect several stakeholder groups and all Boliden sites. ongoing open dialogue with local inhabitants and other parties Boliden’s contribution to the community is multifaceted and with interests in the operations is a given, as is collaborating with includes investing in education and engaging with students, local operators and sponsoring various associations and events. nurturing competence, and enabling conversion from one occu­ Boliden encourages visits to our mines and smelting plants. pation to another to make people employable; sponsoring local When expanding our operations or setting up in a new organizations; making investments that benefit the company location, it is also important that Boliden maintains a dialogue and the community, etc. These matters support job creation and with all concerned stakeholders, in order to ensure that Boliden’s strengthen rural communities’ contribution to national eco­ negative environmental impact is minimized. nomic stability. Several of Boliden’s most important locations Informing everyone affected by our operations of planned de­ and locations where major investments have been made are in velopments is an important component of Boliden’s work. In the regions where growth injections are needed. Boliden is aware of case of major changes, Boliden also holds consultations to gather the company’s role and significance as what is often the biggest opinions from stakeholders. Boliden regularly measures PM, employer in the community and a generator of positive trick­ atmospheric shock waves, vibration and particulate fallout in the le-down effects, such as tax income to finance public services, environment, for example, and shares this information publicly. and as a foundation for a private service sector. This status brings both privileges and responsibilities. Indirect economic impact Salaries are an important part of the economic compensation A large proportion of Boliden’s staff live close to the work­ to the community. In general, the entry-level wages for e­ mployees place, and the company, therefore, has a major impact on local are set higher than the minimum wage, and average salaries ­employment and local business through increased purchasing and wages are often higher than the national industrial average. power and as a basis for important social services. Boliden’s For blue-collar employees, there is an entry-level wage stated market presence in Sweden, Finland, Norway and Ireland within the local salary agreements used for new employees. For contributes to society by creating approximately 30,000 jobs, white-collar employees hired directly out of universities, Boliden either directly or indirectly, through subcontractors, suppliers applies entry-level wages, depending on the level of education or through the impact of employee expenses. It is calculated that needed for different jobs. four additional jobs are created in connection with the business Social impact assessments are conducted in order to assess the for every one Boliden employee. consequences for the local community in connection with both Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 17 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Boliden’s operations affect and touch the lives of many people environmental impacts. Following the study, Boliden’s Group – sometimes entire communities. Value creation depends on the Management decided to continue with a pre-study on a mine site ability to show consideration for people, society, and the environ­ in 2019. ment throughout the value chain. Boliden aims to make a positive contribution to the development of communities, regions, and Developing how we manage sustainability countries in which they operate. NCP will enable us to better understand, compare and ­evaluate our various impacts internally. Using common metrics and Contribution to tax revenue research that is reviewed and accepted by NCP will also give our Boliden also contributes to tax revenues in the areas which the sustainability work greater credibility. NCP has, for example, Group operates. Tax payments totalled SEK 2,286 m in 2018. already provided Boliden with new factors that are based on more Boliden’s direct tax payments include, furthermore, social secu­ credible research and industry-approved data. rity contributions, property taxes, fuel taxes and VAT. Boliden’s The results from NCP can be used to present our societal impacts ­total contribution to public finances through taxes (direct, in­ to internal and external stakeholders. The Dow Jones Sustainability direct and induced) was approximately SEK 14.0 billion. Index, which supports the NCP, is one example of this. Bcause – Boliden’s Charitable Foundation How Boliden will use NCP in 2019 and beyond Metals contribute to the development and modernization of Boliden will gradually expand the impacts it evaluates with NCP, societies around the world. Boliden and its business operations starting with metal emissions. We plan to include other environ­ have been part of this process for over 90 years and has, for many mental impacts, such as climate impact, waste and landfill, as well years, had a local level commitment to associations and non-profit as social issues, such as human health and impacts on the built organizations. In 2014, the charity fund Bcause was launched as constructions. NCP will allow us to prioritize which impacts we part of our global level contribution. Bcause is based on volun­ should work with and evaluate different investment alternatives tary monthly contributions from Boliden’s employees. Boliden in our operations for the benefit of both our business and society doubles every krona donated. and the environment. Boliden will further develop its NCP methodology in 2019 by Anti-corruption establishing an impact valuation process, and by defining a moneti­ Anti-competitive behavior zation model for investment calculations. A pilot study for mines is Employees and Board members shall comply with applicable in the pipeline, together with plans to develop guidelines on how to anti-trust and competition laws, Boliden’s Code of Conduct, and embed environmental impact into investment calculation tools. Boliden’s competition policy and guidelines. Sharing, discussing or disclosing information that may be sensitive from a competi­ tion viewpoint is prohibited. What is natural capital? Natural capital is our planet’s stock of natural assets, Measurement of environmental and social impacts ­including geology, soil, air, water and all living things – Boliden has evaluated the Natural Capital Protocol during 2018. which provide humans with various ecosystem services The intention is to create a methodology that will enhance the that make human life possible. credibility of Boliden’s sustainability work, and enable more informed decision-making, by improving the way in which ­environmental and social impacts are measured and managed. What is the Natural Capital Protocol (NCP)? The NCP provides businesses with a credible and stanBoliden has used metal equivalents factors for many years, dardized framework to identify and measure their natural although these had a narrow focus on toxicity. The NCP capital impacts and dependencies – to enable better ­methodology is better suited to Boliden’s operations and allows ­decision-making for business, society and the environthe evaluation of both environmental and societal impacts. ment. The NCP was developed and launched in 2016 by the Natural Capital Coalition, which is a collaboration Successful NCP pre-study between 38 organizations, including the World Business Boliden completed a NCP pre-study at a Boliden smelter site Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). during 2018. The study demonstrated how we could enhance our measurement and follow-up work and improve our social and Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 18 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Economic Performance 201–1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Boliden’s direct carbon dioxide emissions primarily arise from Net sales in 2018 totaled SEK 52,454 (49,531) million. Boliden the m­ etallurgical processes, transportation, and heating require­ has developed the description of the company’s value creation ments. The indirect carbon dioxide emissions derive from pur­ and has, therefore, redefined some of the economic indicators chased electricity. To address the climate change issue, Boliden from those used in previous GRI reports. All of the indicators takes part in development projects focusing on, for example, are r­ eported with two comparative years. Boliden also reports improving heat recovery, the further electrification of transports, revenues and operating profit per Business Unit and country-­byand trials involving replacing fossil fuels with biofuels in process country tax payments in the Annual Report. applications. All of Boliden’s smelter operations (Odda, Bergsöe, Rönnskär, Kokkola and Harjavalta) have been fully exposed to ETS, the 201–2 Financial implications and other risks and European Emission Trading Scheme, since 2013. The ETS opportunities in the organization’s activities is a strong strategic challenge for Boliden, entailing not only due to climate change calculating the costs that may be entailed in future purchases of Boliden’s goal is to be a sustainable first link in a metal’s value emission allowances, but also working on opportunities to reduce chain – and to achieve this goal by investing in modern tech­ emissions, given the production levels and available technology. nology and developing stable environmentally, safe and energy-­ The allocated emissions allowances for Boliden’s smelters for the efficient low carbon processes. period 2013–2020 total 3.9 Mtonnes, which is in line with the Climate change risks are both physical and financial. The stress direct emissions forecast. The rules for emissions trading, and the that heavy rain can bring on Boliden’s water management systems financial implications for Boliden after 2020, are uncertain. is one example of a physical implication. Boliden has made In 2018, the Group management formulated a climate target capacity investments over the past few years in response to heavy to apply from 2017 onwards. The target is to reduce the CO₂ rains and in order to comply with the limits stipulated in relevant intensity by 3% per year, measured as (tonne CO₂/tonne metal). permits and to achieve the Group target of reducing discharges to The CO₂ intensity performance will be measured with 2012 as a water. base year. Metals production is a very energy-intensive process that generates both direct and indirect carbon dioxide emissions. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 19 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Market Presence 202–2 Proportion of senior management hired from are defined as managers involved in the local management team. the local community Managers are deemed to be hired from the local community if Boliden reports this indicator for each Business Unit, which they are permanently resident in the geographical vicinity of their ­corresponds to significant locations of operation. Senior ­managers place of work (i.e. not commuting from other regions). 2016 2017 2018 Senior Managers Hired from local Senior Managers Hired from local Senior Managers Hired from local Operation on site community % on site community % on site community % Aitik 11 100 9 100 9 100 Boliden Area 7 100 8 100 9 100 Garpenberg 5 100 5 100 5 83 Tara 7 86 7 100 7 100 Kylylahti 8 88 7 100 7 100 Kevitsa 10 100 8 88 7 86 Rönnskär 7 86 7 100 6 100 Bergsöe 6 100 6 100 6 100 Odda 5 100 5 100 5 100 Kokkola 6 100 7 100 7 100 Harjavalta 6 100 8 100 8 100 Total in Group 78 96.2 77 98.6 76 97.4 Material Topic: Indirect Economic Impacts 203–2 Significant indirect economic impact, including s­ ubcontractors and suppliers (10,735), or those supported through the extent of impacts the induced effect of the employees’ expenditure (11,400). The Boliden’s mining and smelting operations are often of consider­ average amount of jobs created per Boliden employee is 4.3 and able importance in terms of employment in the local community, consequently, Boliden contributes to the public finances, both making Boliden an important local stakeholder. The Group’s through direct taxes and through the taxes paid by suppliers and ­operations not only have a substantial impact on job oppor­ customers. In our most recent calculation, based on the prelimi­ tunities but also affect suppliers’ purchasing power elsewhere in nary 2018 financial results, Boliden’s total contribution to public the local business sector, and this, in the long term, affects the finances through taxes in Sweden, Finland, Norway, and Ireland development of the communities’ service sectors. is estimated at SEK 2,286 m. In 2017, Boliden commissioned EY to review its economic The Group’s operations not only impact the local communities contributions to the economy in the four countries with min­ at large: employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers all ing and smelting operations. The analysis is based on Boliden’s depend on Boliden’s profitability, and by improving this aspect financial data, purchasing patterns and publicly available of the operations even further, Boliden will be able to contin­ statistics. The acquired Kevitsa operation has been included in the ue making a positive economic and social contribution to the assessment. The results show that Boliden’s activities support the development of these communities and their society. Examples of creation of 30,000 jobs; in Sweden (15,800), Finland (10,900), significant identified indirect negative economic impacts of the Norway (1,500), and Ireland (1,800). In addition to these organization is not found and therefore part of the omission. direct jobs (5,650) there are those indirectly supported through Material Topic: Anti-Corruption 205–1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption applies a zero tolerance policy in this respect. No form of bribery Business ethics are covered in Boliden’s Code of Conduct. or corruption is acceptable, and conflicts of interest must be re­ ­Corruption and conflicts of interest are, furthermore, addressed ported and addressed. Boliden’s anti-corruption program applies in Boliden’s anti-corruption policy and guidelines. These to both the Board of Directors and employees of the Boliden governing documents set out appropriate measures to prevent Group. This anti-corruption policy also applies to companies corrupt behavior and improper influencing. The documents are and joint ventures in which Boliden has an interest, and to third based on Group-wide risk assessment surveys in order to ensure parties who act for or on behalf of Boliden. Great emphasis is, in their ­appropriateness for the business operations in question, addition to the anti-corruption work, placed on compliance with particularly within procurement, and to address and mitigate applicable competition regulation and Boliden has adopted a any risk factors. Efforts to combat bribery and corruption are policy addressing this issue. an important part of Boliden’s sustainability work and Boliden Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 20 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 205–2 Communication and training in anti-corruption Material Topic: Anti-competitive policies and procedures Boliden’s line managers are responsible for making the Code of behavior Conduct, the Anti -Corruption and Competition policy known, and for promoting and monitoring compliance within their re­ 206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, spective organizations and to their respective counterparties. All anti-trust, and monopoly practices managers and other employees whose work involves more ­regular Boliden has zero tolerance for corruption and unfair compe­ external contacts with business partners, in particular with tition. Boliden has accordingly adopted an anti-competition competitors, suppliers, customers, or agents, are subject to anti-­ policy and guidelines and has conducted several online courses in corruption and competition training appropriate for their area of cooperation with external providers of these services. The course responsibility. All white-collar employees can carry out e-learning is structured as three modules, spread over three years. These training sessions from time to time in the fields of a­ nti-corruption courses target a selected group of employees, normally those deal­ and anti-bribery, and during the year 2,063 employees were ing with or having contact with potential competitors. Boliden offered the chance to participate in an e-learning course in this conducts extensive domestic and international operations and is subject. The courses are normally offered in Swedish, Norwegian, occasionally involved in disputes and legal proceedings arising in Finnish, and English, depending on where the participants are the course of its activities. There are no initiated or ongoing legal based. actions with respect to anti-competitive behavior or c­ ompliance. There are no fines or non-monetary actions, related to anti-­ competitive behavior, initiated or pending against Boliden. Both 205–3 Confirmed incidents of corruption anti-corruption and compliance with competition laws and and actions taken regulations is vital for Boliden and Boliden accordingly strives to Boliden has a whistle-blower function that can be used to report incorporate requirements into its contractual agreements with suspected cases of economic crime anonymously in order to counterparties, requiring them to comply with applicable laws discover potential misconduct. and regulations within these relevant areas, too. Any instances of discrimination, harassment, corruption, regulatory breaches, or other inappropriate conduct shall also be reported. The issue shall, initially, be addressed by means of Anti-corruption – part of UN discussion with the individual’s immediate superior, and second­ arily with the company’s HR function or via the whistle-blower Global Compact function. Boliden’s whistle-blower function offers an anonymous Principle 10: Boliden should work against corruption in all its channel for reporting suspicions of certain types of economic forms, including extortion and bribery. crimes and other types of misconduct. Nine cases were reported Boliden has zero tolerance for corruption and unfair competition, in 2018 through Boliden’s internal whistle-blowing function. see 205-1, 2,3 and 206-1. Eight of these were not, however, classified as Whistle-blowing cases, as defined by Boliden. The definition states that only concerns regarding serious wrongdoings committed by people in leading positions or key personnel within the group should be re­ ported through the whistle-blower channel. One case submitted via Boliden’s whistle-blower function was investigated with the help of an external party during 2018. The investigation, which concerned alleged improprieties in respect of procurement at one of the production units, led to a further tightening of the rules regarding employees’ relationships with suppliers. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 21 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Environmental standard disclosures (GRI 300) Environmental sustainability is a precondition for successful mining and smelting o ­ perations. Boliden’s environmental strategy is based on three component parts: Environmental ­Impact, Resource Efficiency, and Credibility. These elements address the areas of greatest ­importance for Boliden’s license to operate and our long-term competitiveness. Environmental Targets, 2014–2018 Metal Discharges to Water Discharges of metals to water shall decrease by 25% Metal Emissions to Air Emissions of metals to air shall decrease by 10% Sulfur Dioxide Emissions Emissions of sulfur dioxide to air shall be reduced by 10% Carbon Dioxide Emissions The carbon dioxide intensity shall not exceed 0.77 tonnes of carbon dioxide per tonne of metal produced Environmental Incidents Boliden’s target is to have zero serious environmental incidents every month (Base year 2012) Group Direction beyond 2019 Air Pollution Emissions CO2 intensity shall decrease by 3% per annum Metal discharges to water Discharges of metals to water shall decrease by 1% per annum Metal emissions to air Emissions of metals to air shall decrease by 1% per annum Environmental Incidents Boliden’s vision is to have zero serious environmental incidents each month *CO² intensity is measured as tonnes of CO² per tonne of metal produced Environmental Performance 2018 The performance is presented in the Annual and Sustainability Reports. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 22 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 301-103 Management Approach Environment Environmental material topics Air Environmental topics, such as energy, water, emissions, effluents Boliden is working with systematic reviews of its actual energy & waste, compliance, and transport, are directly connected to and CO₂ emission trends, to identify possible improvements and how Boliden conducts its operations and whether it maintains efficiency measures. Boliden’s units continuously evaluate their stable processes that comply with permit requirements. Several material topics during their annual environmental aspects reviews topics are linked and impact Boliden’s overall performance and in compliance with the requirements of the ISO 14001 standard. compliance. Other environmental topics, such as materials, Using the best available technical solutions, using resources biodiversity, closure planning, grievance mechanisms and efficiently, and replacing fossil fuels with renewable ones will supplier assessments constitute material topics as they impact all be important components of Boliden’s efforts to reduce CO₂ external stakeholders, and determine Boliden’s license to operate emissions. All units are also obliged to work continuously on and ability to develop the business. Reclamation work is also making improvements to process efficiency. important and in 2018, Boliden completed reclamation work on Boliden’s smelters have all been working, for many years now, 2 prioritized objects. to make improvements and reductions in their emissions to air, focusing on metals and sulfur dioxide. Materials Local action plans are being drawn up both at mines and Materials are a fundamental topic and Boliden’s core business ­smelters with the aim of reducing diffuse emissions (dust). is mining (production of concentrates) and smelting (transformation of concentrates to base metals). Recycling of materials, Waste e-scrap and batteries to maximize metal recovery are also imporMines and smelters generate waste consisting of waste rock, tant constituents of the circular economy. tailings sand, slag and sludge. Boliden’s waste is normally handled within the producing unit, but some waste requires specific treatSustainable resource usage ment and is sent to another Boliden unit or external facility. Boliden extracts minerals and produces high-quality metals, which are mainly sold to industrial customers in Europe. Material Compliance ­stewardship is important to us, and care and consideration for Environmental compliance is a material topic, because environ­people, society and the environment is a constant theme of all of mental sustainability is a precondition for successful mining and our value chain activities – from exploration to customer deliveries. smelting operations. Legal requirements shall always be met. Energy Supplier assessments Metal production is very energy intensive, both in the mining Environmental criteria are a vital part of Boliden’s Business phase and in the refining processes. Boliden’s energy consump­Partner Code of Conduct, and accordingly also a crucial part tion is a major cost item, accounting for approximately 14% of the evaluation of business partners and supplier assessments. (13%) in the breakdown of the Group’s total operating costs. Boliden requires all business partners to identify and document Boliden’s energy policy states that all business units shall impletheir environmental aspects and to be aware of and comply with ment and maintain energy management systems in accordance environmental legislation and common practices. Business with ISO 50001. This also ensures the company’s compliance partners are expected to strive to minimize their environmental with the rules and regulations imposed by the Energy Efficiency impact. Directive 202/27/EU. Boliden shall reduce its dependence on fossil fuels by using renewable and/or recycled energy wherever Grievances about environmental impacts possible. It is the responsibility of every employee to ensure that operations are conducted properly and in compliance with given instrucWater tions. Employees must promptly report any suspected violation Boliden’s operations are located in areas where there is no relating to accounting, internal controls, and auditing to their scarcity of water, and no water sources are significantly affected immediate superior. by the water withdrawal by Boliden’s operations. Boliden aims, Neighbors and other stakeholders are welcome to contact either nonetheless, to reduce both its consumption of freshwater and the business unit or any of the company functions by a variety of the discharge of used water, and water is therefore considered a channels, i.e. phone, e-mail, written correspondence. material topic. The subjects of reports received by Boliden included noise, vibrations, dust, and other types of disturbances to the locality. Biodiversity Complaints are handled in accordance with local procedures. Access to large areas of land is essential to the majority of Boliden’s activities, i.e. exploration, mining, and the construction of tailings ponds and dams. Boliden’s land holdings include key habitats, habitat protection areas, nature reserves, and voluntary designated areas for nature conservation. Most of the mines are located in rural areas. The exception is Tara Mines, which is located near the community of Navan in Ireland. The smelters are all located in industrial areas adjacent to a community and close to the coast. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 23 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Materials 301–1 Materials used by weight or volume 301–2 Recycled input materials used Levels of mined rock, milled ore, concentrate, and smelting Boliden uses its own and other companies’ by-products and ­materials production and usage were all similar in 2018 to those residues for the extraction and recycling of metals. The Boliden posted in previous years. Boliden has included tonnage of rock, Rönnskär smelter began using a new electronic scrap recycling ore and concentrates in the material used in its reporting. Other facility in 2012, making Boliden among the world leaders in materials specified in the table include waste rock from a mine e-scrap recycling. Boliden Bergsöe, which recycles about 70,000 that is not part of the Boliden Group, which is used as backfill tonnes of lead acid batteries and 4,000 tonnes other lead scrap material in Boliden mines. Some of the concentrate produced in per year, is, furthermore, the only secondary lead smelter in the the mines is sold to external parties. The total smelting material Nordic region. feed comprises concentrates both from Boliden’s own mines and Metals can be recycled endlessly without any deterioration from external mines, purchased secondary materials, and secondin their quality and it is important that electronic materials and ary materials sent from one smelter to another. scrap, such as telephone cables, copper roofs and copper pipes, Materials are mostly weighed in connection with loading and/ from the demolition or construction of buildings and infrastrucor charging (ore, concentrates, and most smelting materials). The ture is re-utilized to as high a degree as possible. The Rönnskär mined rock figure is based on calculations (waste rock and ore). A smelter produces 36% (38) of the gold, 26% (27) of the copper, minor part of input materials is calculated from input and stock. 23% (28) of the silver, and 82% (84) of the zinc from secondary raw materials. The recycling input rate (RIR) shows the fraction of secondary Materials used by weight, (ktonnes) 2016 2017 2018 materials in the total input to Boliden Smelters. Recycled materials include secondary materials from external sources and secondMined rock 100,765 110,256 112,392 ary materials sent from one plant to another within the Group. Whereof milled ore 49,000 55,000 54,000 By-products and non-product outputs recirculated internally at Whereof concentrate produced 1,249 1,388 1,361 the sites and slag sent from smelters to mines are not included. Smelting materials1) 2,676 2,656 2,742 Other materials 786 1,174 1,077 Percentage of recycled Whereof non-renewables 150 154 162 materials (tonnes) 2016 2017 2018 1) Adjusted calculations. Total secondary feed 1) 333,600 341,800 348,500 Total feed1) (primary and secondary) 2,676,000 2,656,000 2,742,000 Recycling rate 12% 13% 13% 1) Adjusted calculations. Material Topic: Sustainable resource usage Boliden contributes towards a circular economy The recyclability of metals As a sustainability leader in the metals and mining sector, Boliden Metals can be recycled repeatedly without altering their propclearly has a role to play in meeting the societal need for metals erties. Metals are also valuable, which makes complex recovery as sustainably as possible by ensuring that waste materials are and recycling processes profitable and worthwhile. Boliden uses a reused. variety of consumer and industrial metal waste as raw materials. Waste materials are also exchanged between Boliden’s smeltBoliden promotes more circular resource use ers with different capabilities when it comes to recovering and Boliden has created value from waste for many years – long before recycling certain metals from waste in order to optimize metal the term circular economy was coined. Examples include being extraction. one of Europe’s largest recyclers of used lead-acid batteries, benefiting from decades-long resource-effective industrial synergies, Electronic waste recycling at Rönnskär and continuously finding innovative new ways of creating value Boliden’s Rönnskär copper smelter in Sweden has recycled various from our own waste materials. waste materials since the 1960s and is today one of the largest re­ cyclers of metal from electronic material in the world. The smelter’s The benefits of circular resource use annual capacity for recycling electrical material is 120,000 tonnes, Ensuring society’s waste materials are safely reused reduces including circuit boards from computers and mobile phones that the amount of virgin materials that need to be extracted and are sourced primarily from Europe. processed. This can also help to decrease lifecycle energy use and Processing hazardous waste from the steel industry at Odda greenhouse gas emissions, and can ensure potentially hazardous Boliden’s Odda zinc smelter in Norway has recycled waelz oxide substances are dealt with properly. Reusing waste also often ­filter powder from the scrap steel recycling industry since 2008. makes financial sense for Boliden and its partners by converting The smelter produces 15,000 to 20,000 tonnes of zinc each year or recovering valuable materials from waste. from waelz oxide filter powder, which is a hazardous waste. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 24 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Recycling lead scrap at Bergsöe chemical composition of the iron sand has been adjusted to fulfil The Boliden Bergsöe smelter in Sweden recycles the lead from the new Specific Concentration Limits in REACH to be a sellable 4 million lead-acid batteries each year. The recycled lead is mainly product, without the need for transport and user instructions for sold to European battery manufacturers, where it is used to hazardous goods. This is another step in Boliden’s efforts to have produce new batteries. A plastic separation plant will be commisiron sand classified as a product that conforms to the ideas of the sioned in 2019 to recover the plastic from battery casings, which circular economy. will then be re-used to manufacture new battery casings. Successful trials to create value from jarosite residue at Kokkola Boliden is constantly innovating to find new uses for waste materials. The Boliden Kokkola zinc smelter in Finland has conducted promising trials to recover valuable metals from potentially hazardous jarosite iron residue. Boliden’s trials have successfully What is a circular economy? processed the residue to recover valuable zinc, silver and lead. A A circular economy goes beyond the current exclean slag with a wide variety of potential construction applicatract-use-dispose industrial model to create circular tions, such as in road construction, has also been produced in systems that gain the maximum value from resources cooperation with research partners. by recovering and reusing materials at the end of each service life. Pioneering manganese recovery research Anode sludge containing manganese oxide is a common by-prodSDG 12: Responsible consumption uct in zinc production that is typically landfilled as it cannotcurand production rently be processed to extract the valuable manganese. Boliden SDG 12 is one of Boliden’s prioriKokkola has, however, succeeded in extracting the manganese tized Sustainable Development from the waste, which has great potential for use in products such Goals that involves ensuring as fertilizers, as an additive in the steel industry or as a precursor sustainable consumption and material for lithium-ion batteries. production patterns. The goal It is of vital importance to Boliden that we develop the is closely related to the circular by-product business along with the metals business. The largest use of materials and the circular by-product by volume is sulfuric acid, which is sold for industrial economy. use. Slag-based products, such as ‘iron sand’ from the Rönnskär processes, are another example of Boliden by-products, and one The circularity gap where the raw material comprises slag from copper production. According to the 2018 Circularity Gap Report by Circle The slag is purified and granulated into a black coarse-grained Economy, only 9% of the resources used globally are glassy material, which is very suitable for use as a filler in road and recycled back into the economy after use. The report building construction. The use of iron sand reduces the extraction argues this leaves a massive ‘circularity gap’ that must be of gravel and sand from nature. The iron sand from Rönnskär closed to prevent further and accelerated environmental is CE marked, which means that Boliden has drawn up procedegradation and social inequality. dures for assuring the quality of both the production process and product handling, e.g. for storage and shipping. During 2018, the Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 25 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Energy 302–1 Energy consumption within the organization 302–3 Energy intensity Energy consumption in 2018 totaled 19.7 (19.8) million gigaBoliden’s energy intensity was 13.03 (13.39) GJ/t metal, an joules (GJ). Electricity accounts for 16.2 (16.5) million GJ of this ­increase from the previous year. The energy intensity ratio is consumption, which equates to 4.5 (4.6) TWh. reported as the product intensity (energy consumed per unit The reported energy usage is based on invoiced incoming and produced). It is calculated as Boliden’s net total energy consumpoutgoing deliveries, supplemented by internal measurements and tion (the same as in GRI 302-1) for all Boliden sites, divided by stock inventories at the end of the year. Conversions between the production output in metal tonnes from Boliden’s production weight and energy have been performed using energy values sites. This indicator is affected both by process efficiency and by specified by the supplier or by using tabled values provided by the product mix and raw material properties. national bodies. Coke, coal, oil, and fuel gases are used for the reduction and smelting of copper, lead, and zinc concentrates. Diesel is used for 302–4 Reduction of energy consumption transportation purposes, in mining operations, and for internal Boliden has implemented routines for purchasing high-­ transportation. Limited amounts of heating oil and gas are used consumption electrical equipment and procedures for the for heating purposes during the cold season. The use of biofuels ­evaluation of life-cycle costs in construction and renovation as in metallurgical processes has been tested and evaluated, but has, important parts of its ISO 5001-certified energy management until now, been negligible in the larger context. A boiler based on systems. Boliden has chosen, due to the different character of biomass has been added during the reporting period. Bio-based mining and smelting operations, to work with local energy fuels have also, to a limited extent, been used in road transports. targets, rather than Group targets. Boliden’s operations reduced Electricity is the dominant source of indirect energy in the their energy usage by 138,000 GJ during the year. Group. Out of the total indirect energy used, 94% comprises Boliden’s smelting operations strive to take advantage of excess electricity and only 6% is purchased heat. heat from the processes, either transforming it to electric power or supplying it for use in external district heating or steam deliveries. In 2018, 2,335,000 (2,291,000) GJ of heat was used internally, Direct Energy consumption within the and 3,964,000 (3,146,000) GJ was delivered externally for use in organization (GJ) 2016 2017 2018 district heating systems. Coal & coke 1,743,000 1,844,000 2,053,000 ENERGY INTENSITY Gas 446,000 289,000 306,000 GJ/t metal Oil 1,794,000 2,128,000 2,285,000 Diesel & petrol 1,689,000 1,611,000 1,666,000 1) Other 13,000 36,000 49,000 14 13.17 13.32 13.03 12.78 12.70 12.22 12 Total renewable energy 29,000 51,000 69,000 10 Total energy 5,686,000 5,908,000 6,359,000 8 Electricity, purchased 16,080,000 16,524,000 16,156,000 6 Heat, purchased 453,000 501,000 1,100,000 4 Gross energy input 22,218,000 22,934,000 23,614,000 2 Produced energy, 0 for internal use 2,205,000 2,291,000 2,335,000 13 14 15 16 17 18 Produced energy, sold 3,157,000 3,146,000 3,964,000 Net energy used 19,061,000 19,788,000 19,650,000 ● Energy intensity 1) Whereof 20,571 GJ diesel from renewable sources Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 26 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Water 303–1 Interaction with water as a shared resource operations include purifying process water as well as a significant Water conservation is an important part of Boliden’s policy. amount of the rainwater that falls within the industrial areas. Reduction of water use has a high prioritywithout, however, In recent years, there has been heavy rainfall, underlining the compromising on safety and environmental responsibility. Each need for increasing the water treatment capacity, and several of Boliden site must assess their water system at least biannually and Boliden’s operations have consequently implemented measures to perform a water risk evaluation. meet this need. In total the discharge of metals and nitrogen to water from Boliden’s units decreased in 2018 due to improved water manage303–2 Management of water discharge-related impacts ment and control, and the nitrogen treatment plants taken into In mining, water is typically used in mineral processing and operation. There was a slight increase during the middle of the slurry transport, while in smelting, it is used for cooling and gas year that was mainly due to increased operations. cleaning purposes. Boliden’s operations do not re-use water from The management and monitoring of water consumption has other organizations, but in Harjavalta and Kokkola, waste water also been improved due to the decision that all Boliden’s units from adjacent operations is ducted into Boliden’s waste water shall have a Water Management Plan. treatment plants for treatment before being discharged to recipOnce the water-cleaning processes are completed, the smelters ients. These volumes are not reported to Boliden. All other water discharge their water to the sea while the mines discharge the volumes are based on data from flow meters. water into rivers and lakes. The water discharged to recipients is monitored to ensure that levels of pollutants are within the quality standards stipulated in the environmental permit. Accredited Water recycled and reused (million m³) 2016 2017 2018 laboratories, both internal and external, are used for analyses of samples taken on site. Metal discharges to water from Smelters Recycled volume 110 106 107 have been stable during 2018, and well below both target and Percentage of water recycled 78% 73% 74% budget. Water discharge 2016 2017 2018 303–3 Water withdrawal Metal discharges to water, The water volumes are measured and/or calculated for each site by tonnes (me-eq) 13 9 8 the use of flow meters and/or the monitoring of pump operating Metal discharges to water, data. tonnes (mass) 22 15 14 Nitrogen /N-tot/ to water tonnes (mass) 300 236 240 Total water withdrawal by source (million m³) 2016 2017 2018 Surface water (sea) 80 81 80 Discharged water volume Surface water (inland) 40 44 46 (million m3) 2016 2017 2018 Ground water 17 17 16 To wetland 0 0 0 Collected rain water 1 1 1 To inland surface water 64 57 55 Municipal water 2 2 2 To sea surface water 62 71 78 Total water withdrawal 140 145 145 To municipal treatment plants 0.03 0.03 0.03 Total 126 128 133 303–4 Water discharge Discharges to water derive from dams and tailings ponds at 303–5 Water consumption the mines, and from water treatment plants and collection of The water consumption of Boliden is calculated from the differsurface water at smelters and mines. Boliden’s smelters account ence between the total water withdrawal and the discharged water for approximately 70% of metal discharges to water while the volume of Boliden’s sites. mines account for the remaining 30%. Boliden’s mines account for approximately 80% of the Group’s nitrogen discharges with Water consumption the nitrogen generated mainly from the use of explosives and their (million m³) 2016 2017 2018 handling. The remaining 20% comes mainly from wastewater recycling at the Kokkola smelter. Total water withdrawal 140 145 145 Ensuring efficient and stable operations at water treatment Discharged water volume 126 128 133 plants and recirculating the process water as much as possible Water consumption 14 17 12 are important parts of reducing discharges to water. Boliden’s Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 27 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Biodiversity 304–1 Operational sites in areas of high All inventories and how the project development has proceeded biodiversity values according to the mitigation hierarchy is described in a an applicaBoliden’s impacts on biodiversity are above all related to land tion for environmental permit. use in current or abandoned operations. As of December 31, Boliden has also initiated one of Sweden’s most comprehen2018, Boliden owned or controlled 23,100 (23,000) ha of land in sive research projects investigating ecological compensation connection with existing operations, in areas adjacent to existing in ­collaboration with the Swedish University of Agricultural or former operations, or in other areas of interest for exploration. Sciences (SLU). Most operations are located in areas where mining or smelting The abandoned mining site of Näsliden, where after-treatment activities have been carried out for anything between several has been carried out in consultation with local residents to create decades and several hundred years. Some of the older mining and ecological and social added value is another example of Boliden’s industrial areas are from a time when environmental legislation approach. did not exist and knowledge levels were much less developed than is currently the case, and it is consequently not only impossible to 304–3 Habitats protected and restored determine an original baseline, but difficult to quantify the preBoliden continues to monitor and manage the areas that have cise long-term impact of the activities. For every operation there is been reclaimed for an indeterminate period of time, and this may, a permit process, and for time-limited operations, such as mines, if necessary, entail implementing additional measures in already Boliden always ensures that the areas can be reclaimed after the reclaimed areas. Where appropriate, reclamation is done in partmine closing. Strategies are constantly being developed for the nership with affected land owners or Sami villages. definition of proper compensation measures for application when There are various different types of protected areas in the vicinutilizing land and thus causing a loss of biodiversity. Closure and ity of the majority of Boliden’s mining operations, such as wildlife remediation plans, including biodiversity aspects, are a manda­ and plant sanctuaries, key biotopes, protected watercourses of tory part of the environmental permit issued to operate a mine. national interest, nature reserves, and Natura 2000 areas. Details of the sites that are located in or adjacent to national or A list of 10 prioritized reclamation objects has been drawn regional protected areas, including Natura 2000 habitats defined up and is updated on the basis of the results of studies showing by EU Member States, can be found in the table. changes in the status of the respective objects. An object may be anything from measures designed to improve dam safety, or large-scale ground installation projects, to out-and-out nature Protected Sites Operation Country Size, ha areas conservation in the form of water treatment, planting, or the installation of nesting boxes for birds. Boliden’s interventions in Aitik Mine Sweden 7,158 Yes1) 2) 3) older abandoned mining areas are often aimed at complementing Bergsöe Smelter Sweden 13 No the old techniques with new and improved methods. Boliden Area Mine Sweden 5,425 Yes2) Garpenberg Mine Sweden 1,312 No Harjavalta Smelter Finland 452 No Habitats restored Type of activity Size, ha Start End Kevitsa Mine Finland 1,420 Yes1) 2) Kokkola Smelter Finland 340 No Rävlidmyran Reclamation work – 2017 2018 Kylylahti Mine Finland 654 Yes1) 2) Gillervattnet Reclamation work 300 2014 2019-21 Odda Smelter Norway 40 No Näsliden Reclamation work 5 2015 2018 Rönnskär Smelter Sweden 153 No Holmtjärn Reclamation work 1 2018 2019 Tara Mine Ireland 894 Yes2) Old Forests Ecological Aitik compensation 837 2017 2022 Old mining areas and forests – Sweden 5,266 Yes1) 2) 3) 1) In the area 2) Adjacent to Ecological compensation work has been ongoing at Boliden Aitik 3) Containing portions of area since 2017. Two areas totaling 837 hectares were selected for the compensation work. The goal is to maintain the value and, in All land and forests owned or leased is managed in a forest parallel therewith, increase natural values in the near vicinity of management plan for each site. The forest management plan has the Aitik mine. The compensation plan includes both protection a register divided into separate areas and is connected to a map of of selected areas and more active measures such as relocation of them. Protected areas and findings of protected and listed species dead wood and biologically important species such as insects in are registered and described as well as areas with high value forest hibernation and wood mushrooms. Boliden has also identified a for future development to raise the values. None of the operationpossibility for improving the opportunities for recreational and al sites, including the protected areas, are considered to be in high adventure tourism. biodiversity areas. For new mining projects a specific inventory of natural values is always carried out early on in the project to be able to develop the project according to the mitigation hierarchy. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 28 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE MM1 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated Boliden owns land and forests and practices responsible Mining companies can often own or hold licenses over very forestry, as defined by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ® large areas of land. The extraction sites, infrastructure, or other FSC-C007235), by promoting and protecting biodiversity and production activities will often disturb a small proportion of that creating environmental and social values. Boliden has assigned land holding. approximately 10% of its productive forested land for nature Soil conservation and the reclamation of mining areas which conservation. This area is partly protected through the establishhave reached the end of their productive lifespans are part of ment of nature conservation land, key habitats and habitat-proBoliden’s operations and responsibility. The reclamation protected areas, and partly managed to promote nature-conservation grams are designed to reduce the impact on surrounding areas of interests. The areas protected by Boliden mainly comprise older land and local biological diversity. In 2018, approximately 48 (2) forests, wetland, and areas dominated by deciduous forest. Over hectares were restored/ reclaimed, while 217 (78) hectares were time, some of the older forests are becoming more and more utilized for operations. Boliden has made ongoing provisions of primeval. In areas dominated by deciduous forest, forestry is funds for future rehabilitation. At the end of 2018, a total of SEK conducted in a way that prioritizes deciduous tree species. On the 4,016 (3,123) million had been allocated for future reclamation of productive forested land, Boliden manages the forestry from a mining areas and smelters. landscape ecological perspective. In previous years, the Group’s forestry management in these areas has included prescribed felling, which is intended to benefit Land management (hectares) 2016 2017 2018 deciduous wooded pastures, and controlled burning in order to Total land holding 22,600 23,000 23,100 promote certain species and biological diversity. By adapting the Disturbed and not yet forest management in areas used for outdoor recreation, social rehabilitated (opening balance) 5,937 6,805 6,881 values are created and maintained. Boliden’s ambition is for the Disturbed in the reporting period 963 78 217 wildlife on Boliden’s land to be in harmony with the forestry, Rehabilitated in the reporting hunting, and other public interests. Current long-term plans period 95 2 48 extend for at least ten years and include remediation, planned Disturbed and not yet measures, and allocated funding for a number of abandoned pit rehabilitated (closing balance) 6,805 6,881 7,050 mines. Boliden is constantly working to develop new options for restoring impacted ecosystems and to identify opportunities to New mines and the expansion of existing businesses compensate for impact through offsets. The establishment of new mines and the expansion of existing Boliden’s operations take advantage of exploration, mining, businesses requires land utilization. The physical impact on enrichment and transport. Boliden consequently conducts surrounding areas of land of the opening of a mining operation, ongoing work designed to minimize the social and environmental for example, is considerable. A substantial amount of forested impact. Boliden’s operations shall be sustainable throughout the land must often be cleared to create space for industrial activities. chain from prospecting and production to post-processing, and The aim is to have the minimum possible impact on biodiversity. in the long-term. Boliden takes responsibility for the impact of its Once the mine is operational, the impact continues in the form business operations and works proactively on loss of biodiversity of waste products – such as waste rock and tailings sand – traffic, and ecosystem services. In practice, this means that Boliden not noise, dust, and other emissions and discharges to air and water. only avoids or minimizes the impact, but also adds or creates new When new mines are opened in previously undisturbed areas, values. The work is based on the four steps of the so-called harmall of the relevant areas’ natural and cultural values are inventoless hierarchy; avoid, minimize, restoration and offsets. ried. This is part of the EIA, (Environmental Impact Assessment) which is a mandatory part of the permit application process for new activities. The EIA makes it possible to measure the effects on the flora and fauna before, during, and after any operation is carried out. This inventory, or baseline, can be used as a reference Value when planning and utilizing the remediation actions. EIAs are also carried out and a current baseline established in conjunction with changes to existing operations and the establishment of new operations in already disturbed areas. The majority of Boliden’s acreage in northern Scandinavia is adjacent to reindeer grazing Exploitation land and Boliden prioritizes in-depth dialogues with representatives of the reindeer industry to ensure the optimum protection of their interests. This may, for example, entail ensuring that the reindeer herds can roam freely between grazing areas, or that grazing land is, as far as possible, maintained in an undisturbed condition and that the lichen and plants on which the reindeer feed are included in the flora planted when areas are reclaimed. LOCALIZE DESIGN Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 29 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Air Pollution Emissions 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305–4 GHG emission intensity Boliden reports this indicator for the units over which it has Boliden’s GHG intensity was 0.64 (0.69) t/t metal. The GHG ­operational control. The direct carbon dioxide emissions arise intensity is reported as the product emission intensity (metric from GHG emissions from carbonaceous raw materials, from tonnes of direct [Scope 1] and indirect [Scope 2] emissions per fuels in metal extraction processes and fuels for heating, and from unit of metal product). Boliden only includes CO₂ gas in the the use of fuels for mining operations and road transportation GHG intensity. within the company. The new CO₂ intensity target is to reduce emissions by 3% per The direct emissions are calculated in accordance with the year measured from 2017. Boliden has measured CO₂ intensity procedures laid down in the WBCSD¹) GHG²) Protocol, for all units since 2012. together with additional guidelines from the EU and/or national ­authorities. The CO₂ reporting within the framework of ETS is carried out 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions in accordance with separately audited procedures in each country, The GRI definitions state that this indicator should reflect and although we seek to report the same data, we cannot guaranreductions of CO₂ emissions identified under 305-1 and 2. The tee that the Group’s GRI disclosure will correlate exactly to the reductions result is estimated from reported energy savings and CO₂ data reported within ETS. energy efficiency initiatives reported in 305-2. Boliden strives to deliver the excess heat from its processes for use in district heating, wherever possible. The heat supplied 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions by Boliden Bergsöe, Boliden Rönnskär, Boliden Kokkola and Boliden reports this indicator for the units over which it has Boliden Harjavalta in 2018 corresponds to 340,000 (270,000) operational control and includes only production-related indirect tonnes/annum of CO₂ (Scope 1) if the same amount of heat had emissions. In 2015, Boliden began using location-based emission been produced from a fossil-fuel source. factors. This was an adaptation to the updated GHG Protocol Boliden is also, over and above these measures, actively initiatGuidelines for Scope 2 reporting. The calculation is made by multi­ ing attempted reductions in fossil-fuel emission by means of fuel plying the energy used with the production mix for the spec­ific substitution tests, participation in demonstrations of electrified region. The production mix should be as current as possible, and road transports, and improved heat recovery/exchange with the Boliden uses emission factors published by International E ­ nergy aim of phasing out the use of fossil fuels for heating purposes. Agency. For the 2018 reporting, the following emission factors Boliden is a co-owner of a production company for windwere applied: for the operations in Sweden 10.8 (11.0), Finland, based power, VindIn AB, which builds and operates wind farms 106.8 (147.2), Norway 9.0 (8.0), and Ireland 417.6 (425.2) g/kWh. in Scandinavia. The purpose of VindIn is to take a longer-term approach and to deliver low-cost, renewable electricity. VindIn currently produces about 300 GWh in its three wind farms in Carbon dioxide emissions, Scope 1+2, tonnes 2016 2017 2018 Sweden and Finland. In 2018, Boliden Bergsöe inaugurated the microalgae cultivaDirect emissions, (305-1) 594,000 605,000 644,000 tion for treatment of process emissions. The method used entails Indirect emissions, (305-2) 459,0001) 419,000 327,000 using waste heat from the process to grow algae. The project is Total (305-1 + 305-2) 1,052,0001) 1,024,000 971,000 expected to capture CO₂ emissions, create energy and clean metal 1) The indirect emissions for 2016 have been corrected to 459,000 from 404,000 t due to an incorrect CO2 emission factor in the previous GRI report emissions from the flue gas. disclosure. CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 + SCOPE 2), GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION INTENSITY 2018 PER SOURCE t CO /t metal The total reported CO emissions are 0.971 (1.024) ² ² Mtonnes for the year. 0.78 0,8 0.74 0.73 0.69 0.65 0.64 0,6 0,4 0,2 0,0 13 14 15 16 17 18 ● Electricity, 31% ● Gas, 2% ● Greenhouse gas emission intensity ● Heat, 3% ● Coal and coke, 20% ● Oil, 17% ● Diesel and petrol, 12% ● Raw material, 14% ● Other, 2% 1) World Business Council for Sustainable Development 2) Greenhouse gas Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 30 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 305–7 Other significant air emissions the raw materials. One way of reducing emissions is, accordingly, Other significant air emissions deriving from Boliden’s operato maintain a stable smelting process and to have continuous and tions are nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), metals, effective maintenance work and control of the process. The moniand dust. The most common of the sulfur oxides (SOx/SO₂) is toring and control of abatement systems for effective gas cleaning sulfur dioxide, and Boliden generally uses the expression ‘sulfur is important work and is carried out continuously. dioxide’ to describe this emission. The figures for sulfur dioxide The SO₂ emissions to air increased slightly in 2018 due to and NOx disclosed in the table are the direct measured emissions increased emissions at all Boliden Smelters in Q2. All leakages from sources at Boliden’s smelters. The figures for metals and dust were effects of changes in the processes, which caused unexpected include the direct-measured emissions from smelter stacks, but leakages. In Harjavalta there were problems in a converter, which exclude diffuse emissions. were solved during maintenance work in June. In Kokkola there Diffuse emissions are generated at both mines and smelters were leakages in the heat exchanger which were resolved in May. and the environmental impact is due to dust particles containing A new reduction agent grade was used at Rönnskär, resulting in metals being dispersed by the wind. All operations are working higher SO₂ emissions. Several leakages in Rönnskär’s converter systematically to reduce particle emissions to air, e.g. by enclosure hall were also identified and are currently still ongoing. They are, of dust-generating equipment and by salting and watering roads. however, scheduled for correction during 2019. The diffuse emissions are monitored, but are difficult to quantify The ongoing work focuses on process stability and the imin an aggregated manner. provement and/or replacement of technology. Emissions to air are mainly based on periodic monitoring in accordance with Emission Reduction Efforts applicable national standards. Emissions from fuel are calculated Boliden’s efforts to reduce emissions are based on an overall using the fuel properties data provided by the supplier. Accredited analysis of the environmental impact. The impact and risk laboratories, both internal and external, are used for the analyses ­assessments are revised on a regular basis, as are the measures to of samples taken on site. be taken. The work is controlled and conducted by each individual business unit, as local circumstances may differ. Follow-up at Emissions to air (tonnes) 2016 2017 2018 the Group level is conducted on a monthly basis. Sulfur dioxide emissions to air are mainly attributable to gases NOx 380 450 450 generated during the smelting processes at the Harjavalta and SO² 7,060 7,360 7,720 Rönnskär copper smelters. The amount of sulfur dioxide emitted Particulate matter 110 193 181 during the process depends on factors such as process stability, the Metal emissions to air (me-eq) 100 109 92 efficiency of the gas cleaning systems, and the amount of sulfur in Metal emissions to air (mass) 22 21 19 Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 31 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Discharges to water and Waste 306–2 Waste by type and disposal method have been finalized or are in progress. Boliden is responsible for Boliden handles considerable amounts of waste materials. These around 40 dam facilities in Sweden, Norway, Finland, Ireland, waste materials mainly comprise various types of dust and and Canada. They are used or have been used to deposit tailings slag, tailings, rock, and other mineral formations. Boliden has sand or other waste and for water management. This figure developed processes to extract as much value as possible from the includes both operational and decommissioned facilities. Dam material streams at mines and smelters. Hazardous waste is sent facilities in Sweden are managed according to GruvRIDAS (minfor disposal or stabilization, in some cases to landfill and deep ing industry guidelines for dam safety). repository. The increasing amounts of waste rock in 2018 are Correctly processed waste can be turned into valuable prodattributable to the expansion of the Kevitsa mine in Finland. ucts. Approximately 45% of the process residues generated are sent to another Boliden site for metals recovery or final deposiWaste by type and disposal method (tonnes) 2016 2017 2018 tion. What is considered waste for one operation can often constitute a raw material for another. Appropriately handled, the trade Hazardous waste, total 826,000 873,000 876,000 in waste and by-products can be of benefit to society by increasing Whereof to external use, overall resource efficiency. Boliden works continuously to identify treatment, or recovery 5,800 7,400 7,300 internal and external recycling or landfill solutions for any process Whereof to external disposal 220 400 1,850 wastes generated. Boliden receives significant amounts of waste Non-hazardous waste, from external parties for recycling, construction purposes or safe total 252,000 355,000 309,000 deposition in landfills. Whereof to external use, The export of waste to landfill or for recycling is extensively treatment, or recovery 69,800 75,200 85,800 regulated. Boliden has also developed procedures for monitoring Whereof to external disposal 1,500 1,600 2,200 and following up on the receiving party’s processing operations to Waste rock, total 52,036,000 55,482,000 58,785,000 ensure that their waste processing is acceptable from a health and Waste rock for internal environmental viewpoint. construction 5,417,000 6,187,000 8,892,000 The secondary raw materials for Boliden smelters, i.e. electronic Storage of waste rock scrap and waste batteries, contain plastics that are incinerated in for future use 11,134,000 125,000 274,000 the process. The incineration of the plastics serves as a reducing Sold waste rock 404,000 342,000 5,000 agent in order to produce the metal. The excess heat from the Tailings total 46,919,000 52,957,000 52,026,000 process is used for district heating. Tailings for internal construction 2,729,000 2,865,000 3,182,000 Waste rock tonnage is based on calculations of volume and density. Tailings are based on calculations of tonnage of ore minus tonnage of concentrate output. There are no statistics available for overburden as it is seldom MM3 Waste types and disposal methods including that any overburden exists. Sludge that is not reused in the prooverburden, rock, tailings and sludge, cess accounts for an insignificant percentage of either hazardous and their associated risks waste or non-hazardous waste, depending on its properties. Boliden processes a number of different metals and substances Tailings are from underground mining operations, i. e. from that are both toxic and environmentally harmful. The mining the concentrator and, are, to a certain extent, used as back-fill, and smelting operations generate residual waste consisting of both as reinforcement and to reduce the amount of tailings above waste rock, tailings, slag, sludge, and dust. EU waste legislation ground. Some waste is sent for final storage in underground facilcurrently has a strategic approach that views waste as a resource ities. Odda stores jarosite and slag in mountain caverns. In 2018, and deposition as the last option (Waste Framework Directive, the Board approved an SEK 750 m investment in a new leaching 2008/98/EC). There is considerable awareness of the importance plant at the Rönnskär site, with construction starting in 2019. of waste issues within the Boliden Group: e.g. waste sorting, This will enable waste material that has been stored at the site significant recycling of process residues and scrap, good reporting since 1975 to be reprocessed. The 460 ktonnes of waste material procedures and ongoing waste projects. The majority of Boliden’s currently held will decrease to 220 ktonnes. The remaining 220 process and mining wastes are sent to landfills in accordance ktonnes will be stored in a deep underground repository, located with the EU Landfill of Waste Directive (1999/31/EC) and the under the Rönnskär smelter plant. The first phase of construction Mining Waste Directive (2006/21/EC). The remainder is used work on the underground repository was finished in 2018, and as construction material or as filler material. Waste rock dumps deposition of waste material in the repository will commence in are covered continuously, wherever possible, in order to prevent 2020. This is a globally unique solution. This is the only place in weathering or leaching. Boliden’s mine waste is handled in the world where a deep underground repository shares a site with accordance with applicable environmental permits that specify a smelter. Boliden has no organic waste material that is suitable how and where it may be stored and how it shall be covered and for composting, other than small amounts from canteens, which reclaimed. are sent for municipal treatment. Extensive monitoring programs are in place to ensure a high Boliden does not practice deep well injection or waste level of dam safety and several measures to increase dam safety ­incineration. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 32 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 306–3 Significant spills 306–4 Transport of hazardous waste A total of 36 (23) larger (more than 150 liters) oil and/or diesel Processing of intermediate and waste products is a natural part spills, were reported from Aitik, Boliden Area, Kevitsa, Odda and of Boliden’s value chain in order to maximize metal recovery Rönnskär. All spills occurred within the site area. All spills were levels. In some cases, however, hazardous waste is sent for disposal immediately sanitized and any contaminated soil was excavated. or stabilization, and/or to external landfill and deep repository. These events have not entailed any significant environmental During 2018 7,300 (7,400) tonnes were sent for external use, impact or caused lasting harm to the surroundings. Investigations treatment, or recovery and 1,850 (400) tonnes were sent for have been conducted in conjunction with all of the incidents in external disposal. order to ascertain the causes of the spills and, wherever possible, to institute measures that will prevent any repeats. Material Topic: Environmental Legislation Compliance 307–1 Non compliance with environmental laws and regulations Boliden has not been hit by any corporate environmental fines in 2018. Material Topic: Business Partner Environmental Assessment 308–1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Boliden has identified both environmental and social topics as material. The integrated handling of these in Boliden’s Evaluation of Business Partners processes is further explained in the GRI 414 section of this report. Environment – part of UN Global Compact Principle 7: Boliden should support a precautionary approach to Principle 9: Boliden should encourage the development and diffuenvironmental challenges. sion of environmentally friendly technologies. Boliden’s environmental commitments are based on the comBoliden systematically works with continuous improvements and pany’s values and driven by the need to reduce environmental innovations and our operations shall implement and maintain impact. Boliden strives to maximize the environmental benefit environmental management systems according to ISO 14001. in relation to the resources invested. Legal requirements and Boliden strives to effectively reuse and recycle materials and Boliden’s commitments shall always be met. ­develop solutions for valuable materials to find their way back into the economy. Principle 8: Boliden should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Boliden provides metals and related products to achieve the environ­mental goals of the modern society, including climate ­actions and efficient energy use. Boliden strives to minimize the use of resources such as land, water and energy. Boliden operates in a manner that reduces the impact on the surrounding communities from active and closed operations. Performance and examples are presented in the Annual and Sustainability Reports as well as in this Sustainability index. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 33 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Social-standard disclosures (GRI 400) Boliden generates value by having top-quality operations, processes and products. Employees who are skilled, committed, and who accept personal responsibility are crucial. Boliden offer its employees a safe and inspiring work environment. By acting responsibly towards neighbors, business partners, and other stakeholders, Boliden can maintain a good reputation as a metals company and employer. Boliden’s social targets 2014 – 2018 Accidents Boliden’s target is to have zero accidents resulting in absence from work every month by 2018 Sick Leave The sick leave rate shall not exceed 3.0% by 2018 Gender Equality Women shall comprise at least 20% of the workforce by 2018 Group Direction beyond 2019 Occupational Health and Safety Zero accidents (LTI) Gender Equality Target 2020: at least 20% proportion of females in total work force Sick Leave Sick leave rate below 4.0% Social Performance 2018 The performance is presented in the Annual and Sustainability Reports. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 34 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 401–403 Management Approach Social Employment Rights of indigenous peoples Boliden considers the ability to recruit, develop, and retain comOperations in northern Sweden and northern Finland are in petent employees as a prerequisite for its success. It is important the reindeer-herding areas. Boliden promotes open dialogue to achieve a balance between the company’s capabilities and and long-term cooperation with Sami communities in order to commitments. This means having the right skills in the right ­mitigate the negative impacts of its mining activities on local place, at the right time. The employees are our best ambassadors people and the environment. when it comes to attracting new employees to join the company. Another prerequisite for successfully attracting and retaining Resettlement and closure planning good employees is that Boliden offers a work environment that Boliden’s operations involve land use for mining, industrial balances work and leisure time. Good health is not only positive areas, and ponds for use as tailings and clarification ponds. for the individual but also for Boliden’s success. ­Conservation and reclamation of mining areas which reach the The company’s talent pool, and the skills and knowledge end of their production lifespan is, therefore, part of Boliden’s possessed by Boliden’s employees are vital if Boliden is to achieve operations and responsibilities. its strategic and operational objectives. By identifying important future competence challenges, employees and managers are Supplier social and environmental assessment ­afforded the opportunity to develop skills in line with Boliden’s In line with its values to constantly improve and take respons­ strategic goals. ibility for its entire value chain, Boliden works together with its Work on competence development and recruitment is also based suppliers and customers to be a responsible and credible business on the Group’s strategic goals of contributing to diversity and partner. increased equality. Operating in a male-dominated industry, in regions with limited recruitment bases and keen competition for Society engineers with specialist training is a challenge. The majority of topics deemed to be material with regard to society concern Boliden’s relationship with external stakeholders, Health and Safety and are at the core of Boliden’s ambition both to promote sustain­ Occupational health & safety is Boliden’s most important issue as ability in the industry and to be the sustainable first link in the it involves the safety and, ultimately, the lives of Boliden’s employmetal’s value chain. ees and contractors, and the materiality is obvious in a work enviThey may also have a significant impact on perceptions of ronment with inherent risks. Employment, Labor/Management Boliden and play a key role with regard to Boliden’s license Relations, Training & Education, Diversity & Equal Opportuto operate and ability to develop its business. These topics are nity, and Equal Remuneration are material topics as they impact local communities, anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior, Boliden’s ability to attract, retain, and develop people. compliance, and resettlement. Industrial operations change the Boliden faces major retirements, competes for a scarce supply of landscape and closure planning is, accordingly, an additional relevant competences, and is located in rural areas – the ability to important factor for consideration during the licensing process. offer a work environment dominated by foresight, development, and employee care is crucial to the business. Supplier assessment Social Grievance Mechanisms for sound and safe labor practices is material to Boliden’s ambiEffective grievance mechanisms play an important role in remetion to be the sustainable first link in the metal’s value chain. diating impacts for labor practices. All Boliden employees can file grievances via managers, HR functions or union representatives. Training and education Anonymous grievances can also be filed via Boliden’s whistle Keeping all employees updated with regard to technological, blower function, which can be accessed by all employees via the functional, and leadership skills is essential to Boliden’s perform­ intranet, ensuring that they are protected against any form of ance. Every employee should be able to influence his or her own reprisals. Any grievances filed via these channels are to be dealt development and Boliden should provide resources and opportuwith swiftly and according to standardized procedures. nities to make sure that employees have the right skills to perform their work tasks in a safe and efficient way at all times. Boliden considers training and education as material topics and has a number of internal programs for career and skill development. Diversity and equal opportunity Diversity leads to dynamism, creativity, and, ultimately, to greater profitability. Boliden works to ensure its workforce is made up of people with different backgrounds, ages, and experiences. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 35 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Employment 401–1 New employee hires and employee turnover Boliden aims to have a diverse workforce in all of its operations. f­ emale employees constituting 20% of the total workforce by Boliden has instituted a policy aimed at facilitating its goal of 2020. Total number and rate of new permanent employee hires by age group, gender and region 2016 2017 2018 Number % Number % Number % Group Total 515 9 449 8 483 8 < 30 years 202 39 163 36 181 37 30–50 years 237 46 238 53 260 54 > 50 years 76 15 48 11 42 9 Men 429 83 333 74 376 78 Women 86 17 116 26 107 22 Sweden 270 52 312 69 284 59 Norway 24 5 13 3 20 4 Finland 213 41 113 25 162 34 Ireland 7 1 10 2 16 3 Other countries 1 0.2 1 0.2 1 0.2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 2016 2017 2018 Number % Number % Number % Group Total 324 6 323 6 381 7 < 30 years 64 20 39 12 45 12 30–50 years 93 29 119 37 171 45 > 50 years 167 52 165 51 165 43 Men 273 84 268 83 307 81 Women 51 16 55 17 74 19 Sweden 147 5 185 6 245 8 Norway 26 8 14 5 14 5 Finland 126 8 108 7 97 6 Ireland 24 4 15 3 24 4 Other countries 1 8 1 8 1 9 401–2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are include parental leave, parental pay, and opportunities for worknot provided to temporary or part-time employees ing shorter hours during the early childhood years. In Sweden, Boliden offers a comprehensive and competitive package of Ireland, and Norway, for example, Boliden provides compenmarket-­rate salaries, benefits, and bonuses. sation for employees on parental leave as a complement to the compensation from the social security systems in these countries. Profit-sharing program In Finland, all compensation for employees on parental leave is The profit-sharing program for all employees: a profit share is paid exclusively by the social security system. payable when the return on capital employed reaches 8%. The Below is a description of the benefits offered to our employees maximum profit share of SEK 30,000/full-time employee is by significant locations of operations, defined as the countries ­payable when the return on capital employed reaches 18%. where our production facilities are located. Significant locations of operations Finland While the benefits offered by Boliden are similar at all Boliden Boliden’s employees in Finland have valid contracts of emoperations, they are not identical due to legislative differences ployment regulating their salaries and other general working between the different countries. Examples of these differences conditions. Furthermore, all employees, including temporary Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 36 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE workers and those working part time, receive benefits in addition Sweden to those included in the collective agreements and individual Boliden’s employees in Sweden have valid contracts of employment contracts. These benefits are health care, employers’ ­employment regulating their salaries and other general working liability insurance (statutory), travel insurance (only for working conditions. trips), leisure time accident insurance, sports insurance (in special All employees, including temporary workers and part-time cases), insurance against treatment injury (statutory), group life workers, also have benefits in addition to those included in the assurance (statutory), employment pension insurance (statutory), collective agreements and individual employment contracts. All workmen’s compensation insurance, and maternity/paternity permanent employees in Sweden (including part-time workers) leave. All employees benefit from the various leisure and healthare entitled to the following benefits: life assurance, health insurcare activities provided by the company. ance and disability/invalidity coverage, healthcare fund, dental care, parental-leave agreements, retirement provision, company Ireland profit-sharing scheme, and company bonus schemes. All employBoliden’s employees in Ireland are paid salaries and allowances as ees are, furthermore, included in the various leisure and healthwell as shift premiums as outlined in collective agreements and/ care activities arranged at the different units. or individual employment contracts. Employees are, furthermore, Temporary workers receive the following benefits: life insurentitled to the following benefits: life assurance, health insurance ance, health insurance, and disability/invalidity coverage. The (subsidized or fully paid), access to company healthcare, disalevel of all these benefits is higher than that stipulated in national bility coverage (white-collar employees only), pension, bonuses, legislation. retirement provision, maternity/paternity leave, annual leave In addition, Boliden offers one free counselling session before and public holidays, and the reimbursement of travel and other retirement to all white-collar employees in Sweden. work-related expenses. These benefits are provided to all full-time and part-time ­employees (sometimes proportionately) as well as to employees MM4 Number of strikes and lockouts exceeding who are on a fixed-term contract. Summer students and tempoone week’s duration, by country rary employees on very short-term contracts, however, are not During 2018 Boliden did not experience any strikes or lockouts entitled to all of the above benefits. exceeding one week’s duration. Boliden enjoys good relations with the different unions and there is, from Boliden’s perspective, Norway a mutual trust. Boliden supports active cooperation between Boliden’s employees in Norway have valid contracts of ememployers and employees and their respective representatives ployment regulating their salaries and other general working in every area of shared interest. For a number of years now, the conditions. Employees are, furthermore, entitled to the following Group has had an agreement with trade union organizations with benefits: life assurance, travel insurance (official company jourregard to union-related cooperation at all levels within the Group. neys), health insurance (fully paid), disability coverage, defined The employees have three representatives on Boliden’s Board contribution of 5 or 8% from base salary, and a defined benefit of Directors. Boliden also has a Works Council comprising of 70% (incl. state pension) of salary between 62 and 67 years employee representatives from all of the countries in which of age, optional loans for consumer goods (max. NOK 30,000), Boliden operates. At a local level, employee representatives/union ­maternity/paternity leave (10% paid by company), annual leave representatives sit on a number of different councils relating to and public holidays, and reimbursement of travel and other employee management, production planning, and health and related expenses. safety, etc. The benefits do not differ between full-time and part-time The frequency of dialogue ensures a constant flow of relevant employees. Temporary workers, however, are not entitled to information, enabling the unions to understand how Boliden ­consumer-goods loans or to company pensions. Temporary is performing and promoting a two-way dialogue on strategic workers on short-term contracts (e.g. summer students) are only matters. entitled to life assurance, travel insurance (official company journeys), and disability coverage. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 37 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Occupational Health and Safety 403–1 Occupational health and safety management leadership and colleagues safety priority. This is a key activity as system part of the workers’ participation program designed to improve All Boliden units have occupational health&safety management H&S even further. systems in line with OHSAS 18001:2007, which is currently being upgraded to ISO 45001:2018. 403–5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Worker training in occupational health and safety is a require403–2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, ment of ISO 45001:2018. Boliden holds annual BeSafe days and incident investigation where all workers are given an opportunity to participate in All units have procedures for risk assessments, hazard identifivarious form of H&S training. There are also many formal H&S cation, incident reporting, and safety inspections. Boliden also training courses conducted yearly on such subjects as evacuation, promotes initiatives designed to involve employees on a more fire prevention, first aid and working at height. All operations informal basis by encouraging them to submit suggestions for also regularly provide safety training for all employees (the term health and safety improvements. Risk assessment is a requireemployee also includes, here, any form of supervised worker who ment of ISO 45001:2018 and the certified Boliden units are is not a contractor) according to a fixed schedule, with a view to ­consequently audited internally and externally on their risk improving knowledge and awareness and to providing constant assessments processes and performance. reminders of the importance of working safely. Some parts of Boliden’s workplaces involve a risk of exposure to The working environment in Boliden has the highest priority lead which could lead to lead poisoning. Illness is preventable by and the group has a zero vision for accidents. A strong safety culavoiding exposure to lead and Boliden continuously measures its ture, coupled with proactive risk work, will help Boliden achieve employees’ lead levels in order to assure their health. success. In 2018, more than 115 Boliden managers attended a Safety Leadership Masterclass. A second level, bottom-up training package is now scheduled at many units for 2019. This is 403–3 Occupational health services expected to create an even stronger safety culture in the future. All Boliden employees have access to occupational health services in form of internal and external facilities. Workplaces are regularly checked with regard to exposure, ergo403–6 Promotion of worker health nomics, air quality, noise, and vibrations as part of Boliden’s occuBoliden has a zero-harm philosophy with regards to accidents pational hygiene monitoring programs. The results are ­analyzed, at work. The goal for each unit is zero accidents every month. actions taken when called for, and reported to the authorities. Low absentee rates and low injury rates can generally be linked Employees are screened regularly via the occupational health serto positive trends in staff morale and productivity. Boliden has a vices provided at the workplace to ensure that each individual is fit ­responsibility to create structures, procedures, and other cond­ to perform his or her assigned duties. Any sign of illness that could itions for a safe working environment. Equipment, instructions, be associated with work is documented and reported. risk assessments, incident reporting, safety audits, and inspections all help safeguard the individual’s safety. Boliden continuously invests in safer machinery and equipment. Whatever the 403–4 Worker participation, consultation and efforts that are put into systems and techniques, however, they communication on occupational health and safety will not be sufficient without decisive action on the part of each In 2018, an agreement was reached on the frequency and organiindividual in the form of his or her own behavior. Every indization of Boliden’s Top Management meetings with union reprevidual must take responsibility and devote time to considering sentatives. The new agreement is based on the European Workers’ and following the routines essential to accident avoidance. The Council Directive and the meeting rate is now 4 per year. Worker principle of ‘safety first at all times’ must be clearly established in participation, consultation and communication on occupational every employee’s mind. Promotion of worker health is a requirehealth and safety is also a requirement of ISO 45001:2018. ment of ISO 45001:2018, Workers’ health is also an important Boliden has also developed additional Group Safety Standtopic during the annual BeSAfe Days. ards which emphasize daily H&S pulse meetings with worker The number of lost time injuries decreased by 18% in 2018 participation. Boliden has health and safety committees at all compared to 2017. BA Smelters reported a 37% reduction, work­places where more than fifty employees are working on a which is an extraordinary achievement in the industry. This is regular basis. More than 95% of the workforce is represented by due to the continued focus on leadership commitment, prethe health and safety committees. The health and safety commitventive risk management, and better employee involvement in tees identify potential hazards, evaluate these potential hazards, ­health&safety-related activities. Other important activities which recommend corrective actions, and follow up on implemented have contributed to the positive results are increased knowledge recommendations. The health and safety committees hold regular of how to handle organizational and social work-environment meetings and carry out workplace inspections. The commitchallenges such as stress, unhealthy workloads, and the need for a tee members are also available to receive worker concerns and good work-life balance. recommendations, to discuss problems, and to provide input into The sick leave rate was stable 2018. The focus has been on existing and proposed health and safety programs. increasing managers’ involvement in the prevention and rehabilBoliden conducts biannual safety culture surveys where all itation of ill health during the year. Boliden is reviewing both its 5,800 employees are provided with an opportunity to assess both rehabilitation work and the potential for finding alternative work Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 38 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE that can be performed by employees who are partly injured or LTI Frequency1) Boliden contractors have temporarily impaired health. Shortand long-term absence 2016 2017 2018 has been monitored, as of 2015, in order to identify the reasons for variations in sick leave between operations. Every operation Sweden 11.3 9.0 7.3 has an activity program designed to promote employees’ health. Norway 8.1 0.0 0.0 Boliden’s systematic health and wellness work is based on prevenFinland 11.7 10.9 11.7 tion as well as rehabilitation. A large number of the preventative Ireland 0.0 2.4 8.3 activities managed by the units focus on identifying lifestyle Group 10.3 8.7 8.6 and environmental factors that may have a negative impact on LTI Frequency1) employees and contractors the level of diseases for some employees. Employees are encouraged to keep fit and to participate in various sporting activities. 2016 2017 2018 Anti-smoking and healthy eating campaigns are carried out on an Sweden 8.5 5.5 4.7 ongoing basis. Norway 6.3 1.3 0.0 Finland 9.5 9.5 6.7 Ireland 1.4 4.1 4.5 403–7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health Group 7.9 6.3 5.1 and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships Lost day rate 1) Boliden employees Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety imLost days due to injury per 1,000,000 working hours pacts directly linked by business relationships is a requirement of Work days 2016 2017 2018 ISO 45001:2018. Boliden has well-established routines to engage suppliers and contractors in the H&S work, whereby contractors Sweden 99 51 28 are encouraged to participate in daily pulse meetings covering Norway 118 253 0 H&S. Finland 184 237 53 Ireland 525 226 163 Group 172 135 49 403–8 Workers covered by an occupational health Sick leave rate Boliden employees 1) and safety management system All employees working in Boliden’s 11 units. Percentage 2016 2017 2018 Sweden 4.5 4.5 4.3 Norway 4.7 7.5 7.2 403–9 Work-related injuries Finland 4.5 4.6 4.5 The number of accidents leading to absence from work (LTI) Ireland 3.4 3.5 4.2 decreased by 18% in 2018 from 6.3 to 5.1 per one million hours Group 4.4 4.5 4.5 worked. In 2018, 30 (47) accidents resulting in absence from 1) The LTI frequency is calculated per one million working hours and includes all work were reported at Boliden’s units by Boliden employees. The injuries that have caused one day’s absence or more from work after the day of the injury. To calculate the injury rate (IR) and lost day rate according to GRI, number of accidents resulting in absence from work, including divide the frequency/rate stated above by five. The number of days’ absence contractors, was 77 (94). The number of work days of absence due for contractors is not reported as there are no reliable data available. The sick leave rate is the total number of hours’ absence due to injury or disease to accidents among Boliden’s employees was 475 (1,268). divided by the total number of scheduled working hours. Boliden currently lacks the ability to monitor sick leave for contractors working for several clients The number of reported occupational diseases or data on (other than Boliden) absenteeism connected to occupational diseases is not included in our reporting since it can take several years before a reported Work-related fatalities are very rare within Boliden. occupational disease is finally accepted or not accepted as an occupational disease by the authorities. The absence is, however, Work-related fatalities employees and contractors included in the ordinary sick leave percentage. Percentage 2016 2017 2018 LTI Frequency Boliden employees 1) Employees 0 0 0 Contractors 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 Total 0 0 0 Sweden 7.3 3.5 3.3 Norway 5.4 2.0 0.0 Finland 8.1 8.5 3.5 Ireland 1.9 4.8 2.8 403–10 Work-related ill health Group 6.7 5.0 3.1 Work-related ill health can include acute, recurring, and chronic health problems caused or aggravated by work conditions or practices. This data is followed up on unit level. There is a plan to follow up this data on Group level starting 2019. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 39 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Training and Education 404–1 Average hours of training per employee Average hours of training per employee by gender Boliden’s approach is to facilitate skill development during and by employer category regular working hours. The responsibility for the organization Category 2016 2017 2018 and following up of the ‘on-the-job’ training lies with the line management. Boliden has not set the average number of hours of Men 16.5 17.8 19.6 training targets for different job categories – it is the individual Women 15.5 16.9 20.6 needs that determine the methods and quantity of the training White-collar 20.1 23.2 21.5 activities. Blue -collar 14.4 14.8 18.6 Total 16.3 17.7 19.6 403–3 Percentage of employees receiving a regular Percentage of employees receiving regular performance performance and career development reviews and career development reviews by gender and employee Boliden’s target is for 100% of its employees to receive an annual category performance appraisal and career-development review. Boliden has a competence and personnel-planning tool in order 2016 2017 2018 to attract new qualified personnel, to develop and integrate new Group Total 77 82 81 personnel, and to develop and retain those currently employed. Men 76 81 80 The tool is used across the Group to improve the development of Women 83 87 86 performance management, competence planning, and succesWhite-collar 76 87 83 sion planning. One of the purposes of the tool is to improve the Blue -collar 72 75 75 quality of follow-up work on the development reviews and to New Identity an Access Management system expand the potential for such work, as the tool enables managers and employees to document development reviews and to follow In 2018 started a new pre-study with the aim of introducing an up on goals and development plans, and it also highlights their Identity and Access Management System for the Boliden Group. competence and expresses their desire to advance. The project addresses the problem of the lack of a common global In 2014, a recruitment module was introduced in the tool. HR data system. People and organizational data are currently It provides managers with support for compiling recruitment managed in four separate and national pay-roll systems. One of profiles, ranking applicants by qualification, documenting the benefits of an Identity and Access Management System is that interviews, compiling assessments, and ensuring that every new it should enable a common maintenance methodology for HR employee is given a good introduction. master data, thereby not only ensuring information availability As of 2018, the system is used for performance reviews for and quality, but also simplifying HR data administration. all white-collar employees in the Boliden Group. The system is not used for the Performance reviews carried out for blue-collar employees. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 40 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees of 2020 calculated as FTE. In 2018, the share was 18.2% (17.6). Diversity contributes to sustainability, dynamics, creativity and Notably, the proportion of women at management level, among better results. Boliden strives to have employees with different Boliden’s so-called top-100, was 24% (23 ), which is higher than backgrounds, age and experience. One challenge is to attract average. 3 (3) of Boliden’s 11 mines and smelters are led by women female employees into a traditional male-dominated industry. who are also members of the group management. Boliden’s goal is for 20 % of all employees to be women at the end Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in the diversity categories,gender and age group 2016 2017 2018 Group Group Group Board of ManageSuper­-­ Board of ManageSuper­-­ Board of ManageSuper­-­ Directors ment visors Directors ment visors Directors ment visors Total number 11 5 503 11 5 588 11 5 599 Women, % 36 20 16 36 20 15 50 20 14 Men, % 64 80 84 64 80 85 50 80 86 < 30 years, % 0 0 5 0 0 4 0 0 4 30–50 years, % 9 40 58 9 40 59 18 0 59 > 50 years, % 91 60 37 91 60 37 82 100 37 Percentage of total number of employees per employee category and diversity categories,gender and age Employees 2016 2017 2018 Total number 5,719 5,921 6,029 Blue-collar, % 67 66 65 White-collar, % 33 34 35 Women, % 18 18 19 Men, % 82 82 81 <30 years, % 15 16 16 30–50 years, % 51 51 51 >50 years, % 34 33 33 Diversity contributes to dynamism, creativity, and ultimately better results. Boliden strives to have employees with different backgrounds, ages, and experiences. Boliden does have employees who come from minority groups, but does not register this out of concern for individual privacy. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 41 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Non-Discrimination 406–1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective The Diversity Policy states that if an incident of discrimination actions taken or harassment should occur, the employee affected shall initially Boliden’s commitment to diversity is clearly stated in Boliden’s raise the matter with his or her manager and secondarily, with Diversity Policy, which is a part of Boliden’s Management the company’s human resources function, or through the whistle ­Manual. Boliden and its employees shall: blower function (accessible via the intranet and Boliden’s external • Refrain from all forms of discrimination and harassment on website). the basis of gender, ethnicity, age, disability, religion, sexual 10 incidents of discrimination were reported to Boliden during orientation, or any other factor. 2018 through the formal grievance mechanisms or the whistle • Always focus on the person’s competence, and disregard topics blower function and all incidents were addressed and closed such as gender, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, or during the reporting period. other circumstances. • Strive to ensure that Boliden is perceived as an equal oppor­ tunity employer in every respect described above. • Support employees in their ambition to achieve a healthy worklife balance. • Forcefully act against and counter any incidences of discrimination or harassment. Material Topic: Rights of Indigenous People MM5 Operation in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ MM6 Number and description of significant disputes territories relating to land use, customary rights of local In northern Scandinavia the Sami as an indigenous people has communities and Indigenous Peoples a traditional land use right over large areas – Sapmi. All types A successful business has to be based on local support and of operations that use land in these areas – from exploration to understanding. Boliden has a long history in the areas in which it rehabilitation – are accordingly places where Boliden’s interests operates. The strategy is to act responsibly and to build trust with overlap with those of the Sami. Boliden conducts exploration local stakeholders to get the social license to continue operations. work in these areas. With an open dialogue and cooperation with local communities, Three of Boliden’s mining areas (27%) (the Boliden Area, the company is able to find solutions that are beneficial to both the Aitik mine, and the Kevitsa mine)are also located in Sapmi. sides and mitigate negative consequences. Since different types of Consultations are continuous and ongoing with the affected Sami interest overlap we have to respect different opinions, but Boliden villages regarding exploration, operations, project development has been able to avoid significant disputes. and rehabilitation. Agreements on cooperation, development and compensation are generally in place between Boliden and the Sami villages. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were Examples of development projects together with the Sami: used to resolve disputes relating to land use, “Porokello” – a warning system for traffic to avoid accidents, customary rights of local communities, used in Finland and at the Kevitsa mine. Boliden, the Sami and indigenous peoples ­villages in the Boliden Area, and the local contractor, Renfors Boliden’s business is based on the strategy of responsible mining ­Å keri, have jointly agreed to trial the system. The target is to and minimizing of impact on other interests, the environment, reduce the number of accidents and improve safety for drivers, society, reindeer herding etc. The strategy for conducting mining reindeer herders and, of course, the reindeer. Another project inactivities in parallel with other interests is characterized by early, volves the re-establisment of lichens – Pilot tests have been set up proactive and continuous dialogues, as well as voluntary commitin Boliden and Aitik in partnership with the Swedish University ments and business agreements with stakeholders. Boliden strives of Agricultural Sciences to reach agreements through good cooperation – based on respect and understanding of other interests and stakeholders. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 42 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Material Topic: Local Communities 413–1&2 Operations with local community engagement, Social-impact assessments can be made in conjunction with impact assessments, and development closure of an operation, in order to assess any consequences to programs the community and in an effort to mitigate, as far as possible, any Boliden is a mature company and local community-involvement negative effects. activities exist at all main locations. Good social relations are imThe Group’s operations not only have a substantial impact on portant to Boliden, both for the current business operations and job opportunities but also affect suppliers’ purchasing power for our new projects – everything from prospecting to finishing. elsewhere in the local business sector, which, in the long term, Boliden maintains a continuous dialogue with the stakeholders impacts the development of the communities’ service sectors. and conducts several consultation processes each year where Boliden estimates that for each Boliden employee, another three the public and various business owners are invited to attend and to five local job opportunities are, on average, created. ­submit their views. Ensuring that the consultation process works Local involvement in the form of support for and partnerships well is essential for designing activities and projects in the best with voluntary organizations and associations are other ways in possible way and giving everyone the opportunity to express which Boliden can make a positive contribution to the areas in their views. As part of this, Boliden is working on developing the which the company operates. Boliden’s support focuses primarily process and introducing new ways of working such as a careful on local sporting and cultural events, schools, and hospitals, often analysis of those involved, and the consultations are then adapted linked to children and young people. In 2018, Boliden’s units to best capture individual groups’ views and ideas. Active and insponsored 347 (392) local activities to the tune of approximately teractive ways of working also capture the interest in a better way. SEK 10.7 (9.5) million. The civil dialogue regarding Gillervattnet and the Boliden Area’s Measurements are carried out continuously to monitor any imoriginal breakthrough is one example of a developed consultation pact on the local community’s environment in the form of dust, process carried out during the year. During the consultation pronoise, vibrations, and shockwaves from blasting, for example. cess, special efforts have been made in regard to school­children of Methods have also been put in place for assessing impact, e.g. different ages, different interest groups, neighborhoods, comthrough changes to traffic, the landscape, water access, and land munities and the municipality, including citizens involved in the access. process of future use and development. Keeping the interests of the local community high on the In addition to consultation processes, continuous dialogue ­agenda when planning and executing mining and smelting and interaction with stakeholders and the local community takes operations is vital to maintaining good relations with the place through different types of activities. These may involve ­employees, their families, and their neighbors, and is an essential event weeks, with visits from schools, business and munici­ part of ­being a responsible corporate citizen. Failing to maintain palities, collaboration and sponsorship of local associations and these good relations would be a threat to the operation, as it sports teams, cultural activities and cooperation with hometown would hamper the ability to attract a competent workforce and associations, etc. ­jeopardize any potential expansion. Material Topic: Business Partners Social and Environmental Assessment 308-1 & 414–1 N  ew suppliers that were screened based on the ten principles of the UN’s Global Compact, the ILO using social criteria conventions, the IFC Guidelines, ISO standards, international Boliden’s significant risks in the supply chain are identified in industry standards, and best practice, and sets out the minimum our raw materials supply. In total, 100% of all new raw materials level of conduct required by all value chain partners – regardless suppliers and customers managed by Boliden Smelters have been of whether Boliden is the buyer or seller of raw materials, products evaluated during 2018. or services. In the fields of logistics, products and services 25% of new supBusiness partner evaluations are an essential part of how pliers with a spend over 1 MSEK has been evaluated during 2018. Boliden manages risk, as well as of how Boliden lives up to its values of constantly improving and taking responsibility for its Boliden management processes for Evaluation entire value chain. The assessment covers financial, environmenof Business Partners tal, ethical and social performance. Evaluations are performed on Boliden sources raw materials, energy, services and equipment both suppliers and customers. The stringent nature of the from various external suppliers around the world. Operating in a evaluation means that prospective suppliers might not actually global market with varied legislation, ethics, working conditions, become Boliden business partners. Suppliers may be rejected and environmental standards requires a comprehensive approach for various reasons, including issues related to environmental to risk management throughout the value chain. Boliden holds and social impacts, and other supplier risks. Existing suppliers its suppliers and customers to the same high standards as it does are t­ ypically evaluated every 3 to 5 years depending on their its own organization – to mitigate risk throughout its value chain. perceived level of risk. This involves a systematic and risk-based process for managing Self-assessments are used to evaluate all potential business suppliers, depending on their estimated level of risk and stra­ partners and ensure they comply with Boliden’s Business Partner tegic importance. Boliden’s Business Partner Code of Conduct is Code of Conduct. Dependent on identified risks, the evaluation Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 43 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE of Business Partners is done in escalations using different tools Boliden works actively to promote best practices among its and inputs and following different process paths: Short Supplier suppliers in order to work beyond compliance and further im­Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ), Extended SAQ, Site visit, prove its value chain. This typically involves feedback on the audit Audit. process where Boliden has identified areas for particular suppliers Suppliers are evaluated by Boliden specialists in a desktop in which to improve, including promoting the use of best practice study based on environmental, social and technical information and best available technologies. Boliden is also a member of provided by the supplier themselves and from information in the networks to share good practice experience, such as the Swedish public domain. If necessary a site visit and a specialist audit team Network for Business & Human Rights. Working with suppliers for that particular supplier is assembled. Boliden has extensive inis a reciprocal process where all parties learn from each other and house competence to draw on for the audit team, depending on improve over time. Boliden follows up its recommendations for the particular supplier being audited. Any specialist competence improvements as part of its efforts to take responsibility for its gaps, particularly within the areas of human rights and ethics, are entire value chain. If a business partner does not comply with the filled by external consultants or local country experts. corrective action plans and Boliden Business Partner Code of The audit team visits the site to systematically check that Conduct, the agreement is terminated. Boliden’s Business Partner ­written documents, instructions and procedures comply with Code of Conduct is available on Boliden’s website. actual conditions on the ground and to get a comprehensive understanding of the company and the site. The final step of the Management of Hazardous waste and Conflict Minerals audit involves the team compiling a risk assessment report that Boliden complies with all national legislation and internationincludes risks associated with the country, the company and the al guidelines such as the OECD guidelines for the trade in site. The report has to be approved by the Boliden Business Area materials, waste and hazardous waste. Boliden has a long-term Management, and high-risk suppliers might even need approval policy of only paying for hazardous waste management services from Group Management, before the supplier can become a once a m ­ aterial has been successfully processed. This is verified Boliden business partner. by conducting site visits and audits, which are approved by the Value chain risk management is also an essential part of Business Area Director to ensure that the waste has been properly Boliden’s license to operate, for example to maintain its indealt with. clusion on the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA – Boliden’s policy is that no concentrates or secondary raw www.lbma.org.uk) Good Delivery List for recommended gold materials shall be acquired from areas with armed conflict. Risk producers. Boliden’s reports to the LBMA are valid for Boliden ­management processes promote transparency by ensuring counRönnskär and are verified by the accounting firm KPMG. They try of origin documents for all raw materials to verify they do not can be viewed at www.boliden.com/sustainability. come from conflict regions. Boliden’s Corporate Responsibility Evaluation of Business Partners helps to verify that its secondWorking with suppliers to improve Boliden’s value chain ary and primary raw material suppliers do not source conflict Due to the nature of the metals and mining sector, some longminerals. term strategic business partners are of such great importance Dispute concerning the export of residual product. In 1984 that Boliden may choose to work proactively to overcome and 1985, Boliden exported a residual product from Rönnskär to deficiencies if they are considered to be a key partner. In such Chile. The purpose of the export was to reprocess the material in circumstances, Boliden works with the business partner to draw order to minimize the amount of material for deposits; informaup a development plan designed to rectify any deficiencies. If the tion regarding this case is presented in the Annual and Sustainarisk is deemed to be excessively high, or if the business partner is bility report. unwilling to make the necessary improvements, Boliden will end the partnership. Material Topic: Resettlement and closure planning MM9 Sites where resettlements took place are unacceptable due to the operations in Aitik and the planned The closest settlements to the Aitik mine are the villages Sakajärvi Liikavaara project. As a result, around 50 permanent residents of and Liikavaara, located at 1.5 and 3 km, respectively, north east the villages will have to move. of the Aitik pit. Laurajärvi village is located about 5 km east of the In 2017 dialogues started with the people living in the villages mining area. and a compensation offer with two options was presented. The The Liikavaara expansion project, which is currently underfirst option entails Boliden offering a replacement plot and a new going a pre-feasibility study, is located close to the village of house with similar functionality, while the second entails Boliden Liikavaara and about 1.5 km from both Sakajärvi and Laurajärvi. purchasing the property, valuing it as if the house were located The Liikavaara project forms part of Aitik’s strategic plan. near to Gällivare, with a 25% bonus. The target is to reach an Evaluations of safety zones and disturbance zones for agreement with all the affected residents in order for them to feel ­vibrations, falling rocks, air impacts, dust and noise have been they have been compensated in full financially. Residents with conducted. The studies concluded that the housing and living family properties and a strong connection to the area will probaenvironments in Sakajärvi, Liikavaara and parts of Laurajärvi bly not feel fully compensated. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 44 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MM10 Number and percentage of operations Emergency Preparedness – Sector-specific disclosure with closure plans Communities adjacent to mining operations will be concerned Boliden’s operations involve land use for mining, industrial about the hazards and risks that the operations generate. For areas, and ponds for use as tailings and clarification ponds. Boliden, effective emergency management is essential to protect Conservation and reclamation of mining areas which reach the people, the environment, and the operations. Every business end of their production lifespan is, therefore, part of Boliden’s unit has its own local emergency management plan, including operations and responsibilities. The goal is to use the best routines for crisis management, which is reviewed and practised available technology, complemented by continuous monitoring regularly. During the reporting period, fires occurred at the of the work that has been carried out. All of Boliden’s present Garpenberg mine and at the Kristineberg mine in the Boliden ­operations, both mines and smelters, have environmental Area. Several environmental incidents involving spillages and the closure plans which have been approved by the authorities. leakage of chemicals also occurred. Boliden’s emergency preparIn 2016, Boliden worked actively on the reclamation of four edness procedures have worked satisfactorily and led to the miniformer mine sites. At the end of 2016, a total of SEK 2,873 mization of damage to people, property, and the environment. million (1,943) had been set aside for the remediation of mining areas and smelters. Additions to existing provisions during the reporting year are primarily attributable to the new environmental permit at Aitik, and the effects of the application of the EU Water Directive for the Boliden units in Finland. Material Topic: Socio-economic compliance 419-1 In the social and economic area Socio-economic compliance is a precondition for successful mining and smelting operations. Legal requirements shall always be met. No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions regarding social performance have come to Boliden’s attention during 2016. Legislative compliance is important to Boliden since it ensures our business legitimacy. For monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, see 307-1. Human Rights – part of the ten principles of UN Global Impact Principle 1: Boliden support and respect the protection of Principle 2: Boliden’s code of conduct is designed supported by internationally proclaimed human rights. the UN Declaration on Human Rights and ILO conventions. Boliden’s own operations are located in countries where the Boliden’s social responsibility includes protection of human risks of human rights violations are generally low. There are, rights. If human rights are violated in connection with Boliden’s however, material topics to consider, such as non-discrimination, business, any stakeholder is welcome to contact either the indigenous rights, and assessment. The majority of Boliden’s local managers or any of the company functions by a variety of human-rights risks are related to the supply chain. Additional ­channels; e.g. phone, e-mail, and written correspondence. focus areas, depending on the nature and geography of the No formal grievances were filed relating to human rights ­supplier, include the freedom of association & collective bargain­impacts on Boliden’s own employees in 2018. No grievances ing, child labor, and forced and compulsory labor. These issues relating to human rights were reported via the whistle blower are covered by Boliden’s Supplier Assessment. function. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 45 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Labor – part of the ten principles of UN Global Impact Principle 3: Boliden should uphold the freedom of association Principle 6: Boliden should uphold the elimination of discriminaand the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. tion in respect of employment and occupation. All of Boliden’s 5,911 employees are covered by collective bargain Boliden does not accept any form of harassment, discrimination agreements. or other behavior that may be regarded by colleagues or close relatives as abusive or degrading. Boliden and its employees shall Principle 4: Boliden should uphold the elimination of all refrain from all forms of discrimination and harassment on the forms of forced and compulsory labor. basis of gender, ethnicity, age, disability, religion, sexual orientaUnder no circumstances may forced and compulsory labor be tion, or any other factor. employed or used in our operations, directly or indirectly through At the end of 2018, 9 formal grievances about labor-practice business partners. grievances related to Boliden employees were filed. All grievances were addressed and 7 cases were resolved during the reporting Principle 5: Boliden should uphold the effective period. In addition, one grievance about labor-practice filed prior abolition of child labor. to the reporting period was resolved during 2018. Boliden adheres to the UN Declaration of Human Rights and under no circumstances may child labor be employed or used in our operations, directly or indirectly through business partners. Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 46 Introduction Indexes General Management Economic Environmental Social Disclosures Approach Performance Performance Performance Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Boliden AB’s Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To Boliden AB procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance Introduction engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Boliden AB reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with to undertake a limited assurance engagement of the Boliden IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted AB Sustainability Report for the year 2018. The Company has auditing standards in Sweden. defined the scope of the Sustainability Report on page 4-7 in the The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Boliden Sustainability Index. Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Executive regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Management for the Sustainability Report standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are are independent of Boliden AB in accordance with professional responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 2 ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. in the Sustainability Report, and are the parts of the Sustain­ The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global R ­ eporting tain assurance that we would become aware of all significant mat­Initiative (GRI)) which are applicable to the Sustainability ters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Report, as zpany has developed. This responsibility also includes Accordingly, the conclusion of the procedures performed do the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. Report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board fraud or error. of Directors and the Executive Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Responsibilities of the auditor Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustain­ We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and ability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. performed. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordConclusion ance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all material respects, of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance and Executive Management. Stockholm 13 February 2019 Deloitte AB Jan Berntsson Lennart Nordqvist Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR Boliden Sustainability Index 2018 47 Production: Boliden in cooperation with Narva. Photographs: Shutterstock (cover), Jukka Brusila (p. 2, 22), Jonas Westling (p. 3), Mats Hillbom (p. 11), Jeanette Hägglund (p. 16), Eberhard Grossgasteiger, Unsplash (p. 19), Päivi Karjalainen (p. 34). Stockholm, March 2019 Contact Boliden Boliden Group NARVA Box 44 SE-101 20 Stockholm Street address: Klarabergsviadukten 90 Telephone: +46 8 610 15 00 www.boliden.com
