Iraq – Baghdad 2019 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Time Period: October 2018 – October 2019 17 October 2019 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Content 03 Introduction 4-6 Letter from RiTS CEO 7 Human Rights 8Labour 9 Environment 10 Anticorruption 2 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Introduction RiTS is a company providing IT solutions, management consulting and training to a diverse customer base. Our portfolio of Services includes Hardware Supply, software development, Implementation, software maintenance and enhancements, testing and quality assurance, support services and consulting. We possess in-house expertise in developing enterprise business solutions e-business, enterprise, and embedded applications. We aim to provide our clients with a competitive advantage through timely delivery of high quality and cost effective software solutions. Our investment in people, processes, infrastructure and knowledge has enabled us to achieve this goal for our diverse clientele, both domestic and international. Our Vision: To become the premier Information Technology Corporate within Iraq, providing quality, on time client centric solutions. To be delivered affordably and with robust codes of business ethics. Additionally to make significant contribution towards reducing unemployment among Iraqi youth. Our Mission: Provision of turnkey solutions, systems integration & value added services to Major Industries, and Government Agencies. Enhancing the viability of Information Technology Management Systems through local support and technology transfer. Develop cores of Information Technology to improve productivity of industries and businesses. Reduce life cycle costs & increase return on investments. Grow through ownership and long term planning. We aim to focus not only on developing and maintaining the products and services we offer, but also on building long term relationships. So, our services, whether before or after sale, are the most promising that can be found. Our Team: RiTS is backed by a team of committed, experienced and qualified professionals. The team is the company's biggest asset. RiTS certified team assists our clients to gain a competitive edge by continuously improving their business solutions. We can develop and integrate solutions across a broad range of technologies so as to meet our client’s business requirements. Our software development team provides complete software development lifecycle services, including project management, development, design, testing, delivery and support. 3 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Letter from RiTS CEO It gives me pleasure to submit our report to UN Global Compact for the year to October 2019. During the previous 12 months our company became involved in pushing UN SDG agenda on 3 tracks. 1) Environmental Contract: Towards the end of 2018, RiTS won a major new contract from an American company for upgrading Iraqi public sector owned biological laboratories to world safety and security standards. This win resulted in many changes to the company including doubling of staff to 20, and realigning the company’s business to include environmental services as a major new line of business. By working on this project, the company is in fact making a major contribution towards improving the country’s environment. 4 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact 2) Noah’s Ark Initiative: We continued to work and on widening the Noah’s Ark platform, our CSR program for youth entrepreneurship. Since January 2019 and to date, the Ark as an organization was a key contributor to efforts by the World Bank to create an Iraqi ecosystem for entrepreneurship. The work is quite valuable as an attempt to solve the country’s worst problem, namely youth unemployment. Noah’s Ark is taking part in a variety of programs and projects in conjunction with other organizations. As we did in the 2018 COP, we would like to give an update about current sttus of membership of Noah’s Ark. 3) Graduate Internship Initiative: Continuing our focus on helping our society solve the problems of youth unemployment, RiTS widened its programs by adding a new major initiative, namely an internship scheme aimed at recent university graduates. Hence back in January 2019, we announced the internship scheme. We took then 5 graduates who underwent training and hands on work tasks for a period of 4 months. The program included training on soft business skills, business ethics, and English language skills. The high point of the internship was to take on a project donated by a global software company to teach 700 school pupils between the ages of 8-17 years on coding for electronic games using a software designed at MIT University (Scratch). The training was delivered through 27 training events, each lasting 90 minutes. The training was conducted at 14 schools, all within the city of Baghdad. The internship scheme was terminated by the graduates themselves when they found work at a company who we collaborate with over entrepreneurship programs. 5 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact The success of this experiment with internship led us to run a second internship scheme which began on 15 th September 2019 and intended to last between 3-6 months. This time we have 6 interns. We are proud to inform the readers that our new interns studied the ideas behind the UN Global Compact and the SDGs and have in fact contributed to the writing of this report. Moreover, we would also like to report that during the period 11th to 13th November 2019, we are registered to attend in Bahrain the WEIF 2019 (The World Entrepreneurs Investment Forum). This forum is run by UNIDO and this year’s theme is none other than “Achieving the SDGs through Promoting Entrepreneurship & Innovation”. Hence we are looking forward to share our experiences with both working on youth entrepreneurship together with our own implementation of the SDGs. Finally we reconfirm our support for the UNGC objectives. The remainder of this COP will indicate our commitment. Sincerely, Aziz Alnassiri CEO, RiTS 17 October 2019 6 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals: As a self-assessment there will always be a next step for RiTS to aim, the intense and often critical Iraqi circumstances enforce RiTS leadership to give human rights a major priority in the day to day work, we raise the bar in all human rights aspects, welcoming atmosphere, caring and empathic will always be one of RiTS characteristics. Seeking for spreading the good impact to more new startups is one of our goals. Implementation: Continually working to have a better work space for employees, Work environment and workspace surroundings are taken care of at RiTS offices, Part time jobs, more opportunities with flexible timing work hour’s policy is being offered to employees, We value diversity and follow non-discrimination polices in employment and occupation, Freedom of speech, opinions, and sharing ideas is one of our valuable resources to develop new projects, Human rights are at the heart of our voluntary project (Noah’s Ark) platform, for the 3rd year we welcome and support any projects that promote and facilitate Human Rights Implementations. Measurement of outcomes: We already started planning to have a high standard measurement of outcomes for next years as the number of Noah’s ark (our pioneering project for entrepreneurship in Iraq) supported projects and visitors are raising rapidly, and the number of our employees is getting bigger with our growing work, the great feedback we always hear from our employees and their commitment to work with RiTS despite all possible difficulties, is a positive and much appreciated outcome for our human rights commitments. At RiTS we will continue to fight discrimination, racism or any kind of disrespect. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 7 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals: As a private sector company in Iraq, we believe we went beyond the traditional local labour limitations, in a number of ways. Through being flexible, passionate, and leading towards our employees own career future, we believe that RiTS should be the place where a person can pursue and maintain a fine job, and we believe that RiTS can help young graduates find their own way learning different skills, grow their connections and find their way in the professional world. Which we proudly did with RiTS first group of interns in the past three years, mentorship and guidance RiTS offered played a great role in building those young graduates’ life. No instructions or regulations that prevent the freedom of association this will continue to be our policy, or the right of collective bargaining. We hold regular staff general meetings whereby the staff are encouraged to make suggestions to improve the workplace environment. We have embedded in our processes a policy for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, away from any ethnicity, gender, religion, political trends in compliance with the laws governing the country. Implementation: We passionately welcomed our second group of interns recently, We continue allowing staff time off work to engage in community training participation to enhance and develop their social skills, Our first group of interns found their way to a secure jobs, and even private entrepreneurial projects, We continue to mentor and guide those who left our company to build their skills and find jobs, We encouraged and supported our employees to pursue their studies in foreign countries, hoping to have them back to enrich Iraq business environment. Measurement of outcomes: A couple of success stories through the year, with the great feedback and network we build over the past 12 months, our growing work is just reflection of our customer satisfaction being the sign of our employees own satisfaction with their own environment. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Assessment, Principle 6: andPolicy and Goals: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Environment Small steps RiTS took over the past year that we believe have contributed to at least the surrounding environment significantly, new employees are being aware of our environmental policy and goals , We still on the journey of continually encouraging Iraqi youth to embrace sustainable solutions to local and even global environmental challenges, recycling, using different power sources and much creative business models are on their way to see light in Iraq Implementation: With changing our offices we are growing our garden, We stopped using the company private generator to decrease pollution, water consumption and quality of water for different uses is always a high point of consideration, we are very considerate when it comes to using energy, to heat and cool the office, removing our waste and growing our plants, despite our growing needs to print, we still minimize printing to the minimum, having reduced number of printers in the company to 1, Measurement of outcomes: We are sponsoring 1 high impact renewable energy project which will launch globally during 2020. This project alone will herald literally the light at the end of the tunnel for Iraq. This is in addition to our small impact contributions to the office environment, We look forward to be more proactive to environmental issues next year and have a clear plan for more impactful contributions. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 9 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Anti – Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals: No matter what any small private sector company would do to fight corruption, many years of hard work and exceptional effort is needed to have impact, though this reality will never hold RiTS from being an example for new startups we encourage young people to build and fight corruption with many ways. We believe in a brighter future for Iraq, so in the past year we had many conversations and meetings with different persons talking about ways and projects to fight corruption and give the young the opportunity to grow businesses, Knowing that corruption have the greater impact on economy, Noah’s Ark systematic process, hopefully give the opportunity for the Iraqi youth to reach for international and regional investors, promoting their projects, asking for seed funds , mentorship , and so much more in an uncorrupted environment. Implementation: For the 2nd year RiTS Initiative continue to implicitly fight corruption (Noah’s Ark), the first virtual platform for entrepreneurship in Iraq , and have a rapidly increased numbers of visitors and members, which hopefully will contribute in creating an ecosystem of large numbers of business startups, thus generating a new thriving private sector free from corrupt practices. https://noah-ark.org/ Meetings and workshops promoting entrepreneurship among Iraq youth in universities and through the platform, Measurement of outcomes: The great feedback and cooperation opportunities we have this passing year are very important indications of the Iraqi will to fight corruption in all its forms, as we are still in the starting phase of building the entrepreneurship ecosystem in Iraq, it sounds very promising culture that the Iraqi youth insisting on building and we are going to help by building the concrete and basic environment through Noah’s Ark. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 10 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Baghdad, Mansour, Post Code 605-14-69 Email: info@rits-iraq.com Website: www.rits-iraq.com 11
