Insert Unitedtitle here Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 7 November 2019 Statement from our CEO Corrs Chambers Westgarth works to identify and prevent adverse human rights and environmental impacts, and contribute to a better, more sustainable future. The UN Global Compact principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption provide a useful framework for responsible business conduct. Corrs is committed to the principles and the broader sustainable development goals (SDGs) and is pleased to be a member of the UN Global Compact. We believe that by respecting human rights, we are able to build a strong culture focussed on developing our people, strengthening relationships with our clients, suppliers and other stakeholders, and contributing to the community in which we work. We are pleased to provide this report on the progress we have made this year, and recognise we must continue to strengthen our response and enhance our contribution to the SDGs. This year we appointed a Head of Business and Human Rights. We are developing a human rights policy that will outline our commitment to respect human rights within our workplace and community, and to promote respect for human rights with all our stakeholders. We have educated our employees on human rights, the UN guiding principles and on issues of modern slavery, encouraged human rights advocates to speak to staff, and continue to support human rights and humanitarian organisations such as Hagar, Human Rights Watch and Oxfam Australia. We are proud of the contribution our pro bono work makes to support the human rights of disadvantaged and vulnerable people in our community and overseas. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is unwavering. Through our policies, initiatives and training programs we seek to promote a supportive, equitable and inclusive workplace culture that facilitates diversity of thought, improved business performance, enhanced service delivery and increased staff engagement. We have made commitments to minimise our environmental footprint and to become an accredited carbon neutral business in the next reporting period. In this, our first communications on progress report, we provide further detail on our ongoing commitment to the Global Compact and its guiding principles. Gavin MacLaren Senior Partner and Chief Executive Officer gavin.mclaren@corrs.com.au PAGE 2 Contents PAGE 04 PAGE 08 PAGE 12 PAGE 14 Human AntiRights Labour Environment Corruption Principle 1: Principle 3: Principle 7: Principle 10: Businesses should Businesses should Businesses Businesses should support and respect uphold the freedom should support work against the protection of of association and the a precautionary corruption in all its internationally effective recognition of approach to forms, including proclaimed human the right to collective environmental extortion and bribery rights bargaining challenges Principle 2: Principle 4: Principle 8: Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should make sure that they uphold the elimination undertake initiatives are not complicit in of all forms of forced to promote greater human rights abuses and compulsory environmental labour responsibility Principle 5: Principle 9: Businesses should Businesses should uphold the effective encourage the abolition of child development labour and diffusion of environmental Principle 6: friendly technologies Businesses should uphold elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation PAGE 3 Human Rights Corrs Chambers Westgarth’s commitment and Business and Human Rights Practice promotion of human rights is long-standing, In launching our Business and Human Rights practice in ongoing and an intrinsic part of the firm. We 2019, we put in place the means to promote and support believe that by actively working to identify, the protection of human rights across the firm, deepen prevent and mitigate adverse human rights our understanding of our human rights impacts, and strengthen our responses. We know that when we treat impacts in our own business and with our people with respect and dignity, and enable them to clients and suppliers, we can contribute to realise their rights, we are contributing to a strong and a better, more sustainable future. We pride engaged community empowered to realise its potential. ourselves on working together with our The practice provides human rights advice to clients people, our clients and our communities to and other stakeholders and promotes a continuous promote respect for human rights. improvement approach through the promotion and implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on In order to promote respect for human rights Corrs Business and Human Rights. has the following initiatives and programs in place: Efforts by government, investors, and customers to encourage responsible business conduct have led senior executives and directors to focus on the Business Responsible Pro Bono environmental and social impacts of their enterprises. and Human Business practice and This has brought human rights into sharp focus for Rights Working community many boardrooms in Australia which are increasingly Practice Group engagement turning to human rights to guide professional and ethical conduct, build corporate culture, and enhance risk management. Corrs is advising clients in these matters and encourages our clients to incorporate human rights considerations into their day to day operations particularly in relation to their responsibilities under the new Australian Modern Slavery Act (2018). PAGE 4 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Australian Human Rights Institute In the last financial year Corrs spent more than 20,000 Advisory Committee hours at an average of 40 hours per lawyer on pro bono matters, well above the National Aspirational Target Corrs Head of Business and Human Rights has been set by the National Pro Bono Centre of 35 hours. Corrs’ appointed to the inaugural advisory committee of the commitment to pro bono service is seen in our legal Australian Human Rights Institute, joining a group of secondments to public interest referral services and eminent Australians who will help guide the research community legal centres institute for the next three years. Among our top pro bono clients are bodies or The Institute, which launched in March 2018, is part organisations around the country that work for the of a broader University of New South Wales strategy marginalised and disadvantaged in our community and to encourage researchers from various disciplines to include: work towards breakthroughs for communities around the world that are most in need. • Justice Connect This spirit continues with the Institute’s inaugural • LawRight Inc advisory committee, which features people who have • Victorian Aboriginal Legal Service Co-op achieved in fields as diverse as business, politics, law, medicine, sport and the arts. The Institute’s research • Street Law Centre WA Incorporated programs and support for human rights defenders will • Aboriginal Legal Service of WA Inc be enriched by the vast experiences of the advisors. • Teach for Australia Responsible Business Working Group • Human Rights Watch This year we established a Responsible Business • Hagar Working Group (RBWG) to focus on the development and consideration of human rights impacts in our • Oxfam policies and practices, to deepen our existing human • Northern Australia Aboriginal Corporation rights capacity, and to extend Corrs practice in the implementation of the UN’s Guiding Principles on • Employment Law Centre Business and Human Rights. • The Big Issue The RBWG has overseen the development of human Overseen by a national team of senior partners, our pro rights online and compulsory training for all new staff, bono program is not confined to working for specific face-to-face training for affected practice groups, groups but the firm also runs free legal clinics for the professional development training in human rights for homeless (Melbourne and Sydney), refugees (Brisbane our clients, and increasing exposure to human rights and Perth) and prisoners (Melbourne). issues through a speaking programme profiling expert Corrs people are actively encouraged to support visitors from Hagar and Human Rights Watch. disadvantaged and marginalised individuals and The RBWG supports our firm through establishing groups, charities and not-for-profits. We offer the monitoring and procedures to identify, assess and opportunity for our people to do this through pro address any modern slavery in our supply chain. The bono legal work, volunteering and workplace giving, RBWG is also sponsoring work across the firm to all of which form part of our dedicated Pro Bono & minimise our carbon footprint and move towards being Community program. carbon neutral. In 2018, we published our inaugural Financial Inclusion Action Plan (FIAP). Developed to improve financial Our Pro Bono Practice and inclusion for marginalised people, the FIAP program Community Engagement helps to ensure the millions of vulnerable Australians From local schools to global organisations, Corrs suffering financial hardship and exclusion receive relief, has a long and proud history of helping those in need. and are able to navigate their way to full engagement in Assisting, respecting and caring for each other, our the social and economic life of their communities. clients and our broader communities is a key element of We are also principal legal partner for the United our culture. Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Australia. PAGE 5 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Select Corrs pro bono and community Financial Inclusion Action Plan for engagement in further detail Vulnerable Australians More than 2.5 million Australians say they have no Human Rights Watch (HRW) savings and only one-in-five Australians say they have Corrs CEO Gavin MacLaren is a member of the full control over their finances. Melbourne Committee of Human Rights Watch and Corrs continues to support HRW speakers and launches In publishing its Financial Inclusion Action Plan (FIAP) of their reports. Corrs demonstrates its commitment to improving financial inclusion and enabling people experiencing Corrs provided ‘in kind’ support and pro bono advice severe financial vulnerability or distress to improve to assist in the establishment of HRW in Australia their lives. and we continue to provide pro bono support on an ongoing basis. At the time its FIAP was published Corrs was one of only 30 trailblazing organisations including banks, Corrs continues to make annual donations and has charities, utilities, governments and universities and sponsored its Voices for Justice dinner. one of only two law firms – to have a FIAP in place in the On two occasions in the last year we have hosted first stage of a special program to ensure the millions of Human Rights Watch experts to speak to the staff by vulnerable Australians suffering financial hardship and national video conference. exclusion receive relief, and are able to navigate their way to full engagement in the social and economic life Hagar of their communities. In order to contribute to the global efforts to eradicate The FIAP program is led by Good Shepherd slavery and assist those affected by it, Corrs has Microfinance, a not-for-profit community organisation, supported Hagar Australia, an organisation that seeks on behalf of the Commonwealth Government in to transform those affected by human trafficking, partnership with the Centre for Social Impact and EY. slavery and abuse. A decade-long supporter of Hagar, over the years we have supported a number of initiatives Migrant Worker International including contributing to the employment costs of a Law Reference Tool lawyer employed by Hagar in Cambodia, as well as According to a 2015 report from the International more general pro bono legal advice and sponsorship. Labour Organisation, there are more than 150 Homes for Homes million migrant workers around the world. Many migrant workers travel from poor source countries Homelessness is a significant problem across Australia to wealthy destination countries where they are with a shortage of 200,000 social and affordable homes often taken advantage of by unscrupulous employers and to assist in addressing this issue, Corrs supported and employment agents seeking to exploit their local not-for-profit publication The Big Issue in the circumstances. establishment of Home for Homes, an initiative enabling homeowners to donate a tax deductible 0.1 percent of Advocates for migrant workers now have access the sale price of their properties to fund social housing to a powerful new web-app from the Diplomacy projects. Training Program (DTP) thanks to its Migrant Worker International Law Reference Tool, developed in The mechanism works within the framework of existing partnership with Corrs’ Sydney clerks in a special pro state laws, is nationally applicable and provides an bono project. opt-out option. It is estimated that the Homes for Homes initiative will raise A$1.8 billion over the next 20 The new legal tool will allow advocates of vulnerable years. Corrs was recognised for its involvement in the migrant workers to quickly identify sources of Homes for Homes initiative at the 2017 Financial Times international law relevant to more than 65 migrant Asia Pacific Innovative Lawyers Awards, winning the worker issues across 19 source and destination ‘Innovation in Social Responsibility’ category. countries, making UN standards and mechanisms more accessible and potentially eliminating hours of legal research. PAGE 6 This tool is the product of the second time Corrs’ summer clerks partnered with the DTP, an independent NGO, having created a guide on the legal framework for protecting Nepalese migrant workers in 2012. CORRS’ HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENTS Corrs is committed to: • Embedding understanding of human rights throughout the firm; • Sustainable procurement; and • Preparing a Modern Slavery Statement The firm is also committed to ongoing training on human rights for staff and clients and the ongoing integration of Responsible Business initiatives throughout the firm. These include our pro bono program, Diversity and Inclusion, human rights, carbon neutrality and commitment to the SDGs. PAGE 7 Labour As Australia’s leading independent law firm focuses on respecting, welcoming, validating, and we are deeply committed to labour rights rewarding individual contributions, while putting in place the policies procedures and practices that enable every established in international instruments individual to develop and contribute to their full potential. and domestic law. We support equal pay, the We have a range of industry leading programs, policy right to freedom of association and collective and initiatives, including: bargaining. We have a strong program to prevent discrimination of any kind in the • ongoing commitment to gender equality with publicly disclosed targets, tools and training; workplace. • creating and mainstreaming flexible career paths for Corrs has no tolerance for forced, compulsory or child all Corrs people; labour, and is actively committed to ensuring there is no • celebrating and supporting the diverse range of modern slavery present in our own supply chain and in people at Corrs and supporting carers; the supply chains of our suppliers. • activities focused on wellbeing and being connected We also recognise that individuals don’t fit into neat with each other and our communities; and categories, and no one group within our community is more or less important than another. As a result, • providing a safe, healthy and supportive workplace. our commitment to diversity and inclusion includes Achievements over the last year included recognition gender equality, indigenous inclusion, cultural diversity, as: 2018-19 Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) LGBTI+ inclusion and flexible working with an extensive Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation holder; program of activity to support this. silver Employer status in the 2019 Australian Workplace A safe, diverse and inclusive workplace enables people Equality Index; and 120 of Corrs Lawyers were named to thrive, realise their rights, and to be valued for their in the 2019 Edition of Best Lawyers published in The contribution. Our Diversity and Inclusion program Australian Financial Review. PAGE 8 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Gender Equality Gender pay equity is a key driver of gender equality and diversity overall. The firm’s remuneration and gender Achieving and progressing gender equality is a firm equality strategies include the following commitments: priority. We apply a gender equity assessment to recruitment, talent identification, promotions, pay • To achieve gender pay equity; and leadership succession planning. The firm has • To ensure no gender bias occurs at any point in the set targets for increasing the representation of remuneration review process; women in leadership (including partnership) as one component of driving and measuring our progress. • To ensure leaders and managers are responsible for Other measures relate to the representation of women gender equitable pay outcomes; and in the partnership pipeline, gender pay equity and • To maintain a transparent and rigorous performance ensuring equal access to learning and development assessment process. opportunities. An annual remuneration analysis is undertaken to Corrs’ Diversity & Inclusion Policy and gender identify and address, as appropriate, any gender pay objectives and targets are underpinned by a gender gap to ensure gender pay equity. Outcomes of gender equality strategy to aid the recruitment, development pay equity analyses are presented annually to the and retention of talent and promote a supportive, Executive Committee and Board. We also calculate and equitable and inclusive workplace culture. report on our gender pay gap as per the requirements Policies that promote an inclusive workplace include of the Workplace Gender Equality Act. our Diversity & Inclusion Policy, Gender Equality Policy, Corrs is a WGEA Employer of Choice for Gender Respect in our Workplace Policy, Parental Leave Policy Equality for 2018-19 – the thirteenth year Corrs received (which is inclusive of same sex couples, adoption, and recognition from the WGEA for its commitment to surrogacy and may also extend to foster care), Gender gender equality. Transitioning Policy, Breastfeeding Policy & facilities and Family Violence Policy. Areas assessed in order to achieve the citation include leadership, learning and development, gender We offer 18 weeks paid parental leave for employees remuneration gaps, flexible working and other who are the primary care-giver and three weeks paid initiatives to support family responsibilities, employee parental leave for secondary care-givers. Secondary consultation, preventing sex-based harassment and carers who later become primary carers can access up discrimination, and targets for improving gender to the full 18 weeks of paid leave. equality outcomes. Corrs CEO Gavin MacLaren is also a In the past 12 months, Corrs also took the industryWGEA ‘Pay Equity Ambassador’. leading step of providing paid superannuation Gavin has committed to the Panel Pledge – an initiative contributions for employees during both periods of paid led by Chief Executive Women, Women’s Leadership and unpaid parental leave (up to 12 months). Institute Australia and Male Champions of Change – In addition, our carer’s support initiative assists our pledging to increase the visibility and contribution of people with caring responsibilities and parental leave women leaders in public and professional forums. This transitions – this includes the provision of an external, includes being prepared to call out panel imbalances confidential information and care locator service and we when they see them including asking who the other have also piloted vacation care in Melbourne office (with panellists/speakers are, and how gender balance will a view to rolling out more broadly). be achieved; as a condition of acceptance, stating the expectation that women will be on the panel and able to participate in a meaningful way; and reserving the right to withdraw should the finalised list be all male. PAGE 9 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Gender Diversity Targets and progress CareerTrackers Corrs clearly and publically sets out its Women in To help us achieve some of the objectives in the RAP Leadership targets, which by 2024, aim to achieve: we are continuing our association with CareerTrackers, an organisation that matches indigenous university • 33% of board to be women; students with employers who can provide opportunities • 35% of senior management to be women; and for annual 12-week internships. Corrs sponsors approximately three indigenous CareerTracker interns • 35% of the partnership to be women. annually, who each undertake their winter and summer On its path to achieving these targets, as at 30 June internships with Corrs. 2019, 25% of the Corrs Board, 21% Senior Management We have also established mechanisms to ensure we (partners on Executive Committee and Practice Group provide opportunities to students who identify as being Leaders) and 22% of the partnership were women. of Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander descent to Other gender diversity progress includes: be included in the competitive process for clerkships. • 50% partnership pipeline and 50% of recruitment These mechanisms have resulted in an increased shortlists are to be female each year; number of indigenous students being interviewed and more clerkships being offered to indigenous students. • 92% parental leave return rate (FY 2019); and Supply Nation • At least 50% of our Senior Associates and Special Counsel hires in the last two years were female. We are also working to investigate opportunities to increase Supplier Diversity and ensure Aboriginal Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) and Torres Strait Islander businesses are given the Corrs has begun implementing its new Reconciliation opportunity to supply goods and services to us. To this Action Plan (RAP) which describes our contributions end we have joined Supply Nation, an organisation that to date and Corrs’ new and ongoing commitment to links indigenous businesses into the supply chains supporting reconciliation. The plan seeks to: of Australian organisations. We work closely with our major suppliers to ensure they are identifying • raise awareness and understanding of Aboriginal opportunities to engage with indigenous business in and Torres Strait Islander achievements and fulfilling their contracts to us. contributions; Inclusion & Accessibility: • increase our people’s awareness and understanding of issues affecting Aboriginal and Torres Strait We accommodate employees (and prospective Islander communities; employees) with accessibility needs at Corrs offices. Our facilities meet Australian standards • increase opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres for accessibility including accessible bathroom and Strait Islander peoples to achieve social inclusion and change room facilities on each floor and evacuation economic independence; and and safety procedures that cater to those who are • help us to deepen our relationships with the wider mobility impaired. Our technology tools and systems Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community. are also highly adaptable. Our offices have hearing augmentation loops available and we are able to bring in AUSLAN translators if required for an event or meeting. PAGE 10 LGBTI+ inclusion: Founded in 2014, the firm’s LGBTI+ network is managed by a national LGBTI+ Steering Committee, which consists of volunteers from across the firm. Our Pride@Corrs Network aims to increase and support the inclusion of our LGBTI+ people and enhance our broader engagement with the LGBTI+ community. In 2019 Corrs was named a Silver tier employer in the AWEI. We support our internal commitments by also providing pro bono legal assistance and we have provided pro bono advice to: • Australian Federation of AIDS Organisations (AFAO); • The Channel, an LGBTIQ philanthropic charity; • Midsumma Festival; • SheQu Group Inc, a non-for-profit group seeking to encourage, empower and enable LGBTIQ+ multicultural women; and • Transgender Victoria. Corrs has also been engaged to assist the Law Reform Commission of Western Australia with its review of the Equal Opportunity Act 1984 (WA), particularly the general exceptions under Part VI of the Act, including religious exceptions. CORRS’ LABOUR COMMITMENTS Our firm is committed to: • Setting gender equality targets; • Collecting data, to ensure we continually measure how effectively we attract, retain and progress diverse talent; • Educating all staff on the firm’s diversity and inclusion policies at the commencement of employment with the firm; and • Training on Unconscious Bias, Inclusive leadership and flexible working. PAGE 11 Environment Corrs is dedicated to promoting sustainable Environment Policy environmental practices across our In implementing any new procedures, processes workplaces, and shrinking our environmental or systems, evaluating goods or services provided footprint by reducing greenhouse gas by suppliers and third parties for consumption in emissions, championing recycling and the Corrs Group’s operations, or when acquiring an asset, Corrs Group personnel must take account of discouraging wasteful paper usage. the environmental impact of the procedure, goods or services provided or assets acquired. This policy We support this commitment through: a clear ‘Environmental Matters’ encompasses and operates Environment policy firmly integrated into our business in conjunction with the Sustainable Supply Chain operations and practices; a Supply Chain Management Management Policy. policy, our commitment to recycling and to operating on a carbon-neutral basis; and ensuring our offices All our Australian offices are energy rated 5-star or buildings have high ‘Green Star’ ratings. above by the National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) and the Green Building Corrs also has environmental legal expertise across Council of Australia. They use the latest technology to the firm and our specialist environment and planning maximise energy efficiency and sustainability, minimise team has the years of experience and practical knowwater usage and improve indoor air quality. how to advise clients on a wide range of environmental issues including native title, heritage, climate change, We are a supporter of Earth Hour and World biodiversity, contamination, pollution, water and Environment Day, and we require our suppliers to renewable energy law. have sustainable, environmentally-friendly business practices. PAGE 12 Corrs also recently joined the Supply Chain Sustainability School which is an online learning forum to help the operators in the property, construction and infrastructure sectors improve their knowledge of broad sustainability issues. We joined as a partner to help develop and extend the environmental, social and economic sustainability competencies of the industry, and to support the day-to-day running of the school. CORRS’ COMMITMENTS TO ENVIRONMENT Our firm is committed to: • Achieving carbon neutrality and having this recognised through receiving Australian Government Carbon Neutral Certification. • Building competencies in the construction, property and infrastructure industries through our support of the Supply Chain Sustainability School. PAGE 13 Anti-Corruption Corrs is committed to achieving the highest Whistle-blower Protection Policy standards of ethical conduct, including The Whistle-blower Protection Policy provides an honesty, integrity and fairness and to ensuring avenue for the firm’s people to raise concerns about that it, its lawyers, employees and others serious misconduct within the firm without fear of being who may provide services on its behalf, act penalised or otherwise disadvantaged. The whistleblower protection program created by the policy is an in compliance with all applicable laws of important element in detecting serious misconduct the countries in which Corrs operates. This at an early stage and is an important and necessary includes compliance with all laws, domestic component in achieving good corporate governance. and international, relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Political Donations Policy From time to time, Corrs may make payments or We do this by ensuring we have appropriate policies otherwise engage in activities that could be construed and training in place. The following policies support our as political gifts or donations. This policy – which strong anti-corruption stance. Our policies include: applies to partners and employees of Corrs – sets out: • the types of gifts or donations which Corrs may Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy make; The Corrs Group Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption • the approval required in respect of this expenditure Policy introduces a set of anti-bribery and antior other activity being incurred or reimbursed; and corruption standards which prohibit any Corrs Group Representative from engaging in activities that • the disclosure obligations of the firm in respect of constitute bribery or corruption. This policy mandates political donations. a procedure in relation to incurring and recording expenditure, including retaining invoices and receipts. It also addresses the giving of donations, gifts and hospitality. PAGE 14 Ethics and Good Lawyering Policy Ethical practice is central to the firm’s values of integrity, excellence, commitment, unity and ingenuity. The policy sets out to ensure that the firm’s lawyers adhere to the ethical standards which the courts, the governing bodies which regulate the profession of law and the community at large expect and require lawyers to comply with in the practice of law. Audit and Compliance Policy The objectives of the Audit and Compliance Policy are to increase awareness and understanding of the firm’s risk management practices, to encourage a culture of willing, good faith and diligent compliance, and to allow partners and staff the opportunity to provide constructive feedback on the day-to-day practical operation of our risk management practices to help ensure they appropriately and sensibly address material practice risks. CORRS’ COMMITMENT TO ANTI‑CORRUPTION Our firm is committed ensuring having the key policies and training in place to ensure we maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct. PAGE 15 SYDNEY 8 Chifley 8-12 Chifley Square Sydney NSW 2000 Tel +61 2 9210 6500 Fax +61 2 9210 6611 MELBOURNE 567 Collins Street Melbourne VIC 3000 Tel +61 3 9672 3000 Fax +61 3 9672 3010 BRISBANE ONE ONE ONE Eagle Street 111 Eagle Street Brisbane QLD 4000 Tel +61 7 3228 9333 Fax +61 7 3228 9444 PERTH Brookfield Place Tower 2 123 St George’s Terrace Perth WA 6000 Tel +61 8 9460 1666 Fax +61 8 9460 1667 PORT MORESBY Level 2, MRDC Haus Cnr Musgrave Street and Champion Parade Port Moresby, NCD 121 Papua New Guinea Tel +675 303 9800 Fax +675 321 3780 www.corrs.com.au
