Oriental Fastech Manufacturing (Vietnam) Sustainability report 2019 October 2018 ~ September 2019 CONTENT 1. CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles 2. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights 3. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour 4. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment 5. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption 6. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Sustainable Procurement Statement of continued support To all: I am pleased to confirm that Oriental Fastech Manufacturing Vietnam ( OFM Vietnam) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve and integrate the Global Compact’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Yong Chan Cheah YBS International Group Managing Director QMS System : ISO 9001: 2015 ISO 14001 : 2015 OSHAH 18001 : 2007 ROHS compliant OUR CERTIFICATION Health and Safety Team Member 2019 Mr. Yong Chan Cheah Managing Director Ms. Tram Thi Kim Ngan Mr. Le Quan Dai Ms. Nguyen Thi Hong Hanh Assistant Document Control Resources , Internal / Safety Waste Waste Water Training and Chemical Fire Drill and Performance Equipment Energy and External Control Control Update Legal Management Emergency Measuring and Fuel Control Communicate Contractor Ms. Phong Ms. Hung Thi Ms. Tram Thi Mr. Chin Ms. Tram Thi Mr. Chin Mr. Hoang Boi Anh Ms. Tram Thi Mr. Chin Dung Kim Ngan Beng Keat Kim Ngan Beng Keat Ngoc Hai & Kim Ngan Beng Keat Mr. Nguyen Huu Phuoc Human Right Assessment, policy and goals OFM Vietnam is committed to ensuring that our working environment is free from discrimination and harassment. Discrimination and harassment in our workplace will not be tolerated under any circumstances and disciplinary action will be taken against any employee or subcontractor who breaches this policy. Any breach of policy by a non-employee directed to an employee shall be handled in a similarly appropriate manner. Discrimination and harassment occurs when a person is victimized in the workplace on the basis of but not limited to the following criteria: Race, Colour, Gender, Religion, Disability, Sexual Orientation, Pregnancy or Age and shall include exposure to racial or ethnic jokes, offensive profanity, intimidating behaviour and exposure to unwanted sexual flirtations. We strive to achieve a working environment where all members of staff are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect. Any employee who believes that he or she has been the subject of, or has witnessed, an incident of discriminant and harassing conduct should report the matter promptly. The employees should report instances of discriminant and harassing conduct either to a person in the reporting employee's supervisory chain, or to top management . Human Right Assessment, policy and goals All complaints shall be treated in a sensitive, fair, timely and confidential manner and complainants shall be guaranteed protection from any victimization or reprisals. It is an important fundamental of company policy that the reporting of behaviour in breach of policy is encouraged in order to correct and promote appropriate standards of conduct at all times. Human Right Implementation OFM Vietnam employee will be represented by the Labour Union committee. Newly recruited employee will undergo job orientation briefing which educate the employee on company’s rules and regulation. This job orientation is aim to standardize, create mutual understanding and reduce confusion between the company, existing employee and new employee. Each employee will conduct an annual survey that including human right and labour right. Employee are feel free to provide opinion and scoring system to OFM Vietnam. Such document was highly confidential and only able to excess by top management and labour union committee If an employee feel uncomfortable and would direct repot to the top management. They can visit our group website : http://www.lng-res.com/images/pdf/WhistleBlowingPolicy.pdf for the whistle blowing procedure. Human Right Measurement of outcomes There’s no report filed on human rights violation for past 12 months result from annual survey result, whistle blowing , labour union and human resource department. Source Incident Annual Survey 0 Whistle Blowing 0 Labour Union 0 Human Resources Department 0 Labour Assessment, policy and goals OFM Vietnam supports Global compact’s Fundamental and Principles on Labour Rights. OFM Vietnam is committed to ensuring that our working environment non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labour, safety environment and freedom of association , the right to engage in collective bargaining. Labour Implementation Internal group safety committee will hold annual risk assessments every year to identify the labour risk and risk at work place. OFM Vietnam was certified by OSHAH 18001. External audit will be conduct every year by third party to ensure our company operate in safety environment OFM Vietnam do not allow child forced labour. All the application need to submit with birth certificate / Personal identification card. Such document need to get the confirmation from local authorities to prevent fraud document Different kind of necessary safety training and equipment will provide to all employee from time to time. OFM Vietnam will provide free annual medical checking for all employee as well. Professional skills training will be provided to employee for skills development for enhance their future carrier. Special event will be organize to reward and increase the moral for each employee that provide their service to OFM Vietnam If an employee feel uncomfortable and would direct repot to the top management. They can visit our group website : http://www.lngres.com/images/pdf/WhistleBlowingPolicy.pdf for the whistle blowing procedure. Labour Annual Health Care Checking Fire Fighting Training Work Place Safety Training Skills Development Training 5 Years Service Award – Gold Pendant Labour Annual appreciation dinner Christmas Celebration Lunar New Year Celebration VSIP – OFM Sports Day Woman Day Celebration Labour Measurement of outcomes All the internal and external audit do not had report filed on labour violation at year 2018. OFM Vietnam update the document and qualify for OSHAH 18001: 2015 No workplace accident happen for the over past 12 months. Incident Target Major Accident 0 0 Minor Accident 0 2< Nearly Accident 0 8< Violence 0 0 Explosion / Fire 0 0 Labour Measurement of outcomes There’s no report filed on labour rights violation for past 12 months result from annual survey result, whistle blowing , labour union and human resource department. Source Incident Annual Survey 0 Whistle Blowing 0 Labour Union 0 Human Resources 0 Environment Assessment, policy and goals OFM Vietnam is committed to ensuring that our working environment will minimize the impact the hazardous and pollution to the surrounding environment. OFM Vietnam will do the best to protect the environment and keep the best for our next generation. Environment Implementation Internal group safety Committee will hold annual internal audit regarding environmental issue. OFM VN was certified by ISO 14001. External audit will be conduct every year by third party to ensure our company operate with friendly green environment OFM Vietnam is practicing conduct environment testing for air and water for each quarter from third party as well. Such testing was based on various Vietnam environment standard. OFM employee is trained to reduce energy, water and resources consumption by internal training and briefing. Purchasing staff are also provide specific internal training for RoHS compliant and Non-Use of Hazardous or Banned Substances. Internal committee member will record and tracking the usage for electric and water for every month. OFM Vietnam also audit by 2 customer for the pass 12 months regarding green environment subject. Environment Measurement of outcomes All the internal and external audit do not had report any pollution result and OFM Vietnam is operating with green environment work place. OFM Vietnam update the document and qualify for ISO 14001: 2015. The quarterly environment checking result show that OFM Vietnam is not bringing harmful to surrounding area. Third party water and air checking result Sep’19 Environment Measurement of outcomes Monthly tracking for electricity consumption , paper consumption , waste water , air , hazardous waste spill incident. Electric usage (KW) 60,000 50,000 40,000 Oct’18 ~ Sep’19 Kilowatt 30,000 20,000 Total usage 508,726 10,000 Average usage 42,394 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Paper usage (pack) 60 50 40 Oct’18 ~ Sep’19 Pack 30 20 Total usage 458 10 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Average usage 38 1 pack = 80 grams Environment Measurement of outcomes Waste Water Checking Testing criterial Completeness Result Q4’18 9 Done Acceptable Q1’19 9 Done Acceptable Q2’19 9 Done Acceptable Q3’19 9 Done Acceptable Air Condition Checking Testing criterial Completeness Result Q4’18 5 Done Acceptable Q1’19 5 Done Acceptable Q2’19 5 Done Acceptable Q3’19 5 Done Acceptable Air Condition Checking Incident Target Hazardous Waste Spill Incident 0 0 Anti Corruption Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to Anti-Corruption practices as stated in our Employee regulation Handbook which include the points at below. 1. Bribes 2. Gifts and hospitality 3. Facilitation payments 4. Political contributions 5. Conflicts of Interests 6. Information protection Anti Corruption Implementation Each newly join employees will be briefed on the company rules and regulations which includes employee regulation handbook and business ethics policies Every newly join employee need to acknowledge the business ethics policies by their own signature OFM Vietnam had our own sales and purchase SOP. Different money value that involve need to get several management level for approval that may including the highest position in the company. Annually , OFM Vietnam will be audit third party for company financial transaction and company / group SOP. If an employee notice a corruption activity is on going within the company and would like to highlight to the top management. They can visit our group website : http://www.lng-res.com/images/pdf/WhistleBlowingPolicy.pdf for the whistle blowing procedure. Anti Corruption Measurement of outcomes There’s no report filed on corruption violation for past 12 months from whistle blowing , financial audit and company SOP audit. Source Incident Whistle Blowing 0 3rd Party Financial Audit 0 3rd Party Company SOP audit 0 Sustainable Procurement Assessment, policy and goals OFM Vietnam is committed to ensuring to do our best for global environment and improve the global human right subject. Implementation OFM Vietnam request our supplier to provide acknowledgement that their product was RoHS compliant , Non-Use of Hazardous or Banned Substances , free from conflict mineral. Supplier also request to provide Mill Certificate / RoHS compliant report / Material Safety Data Sheet for their selling product to OFM Vietnam. We had input such practice in our ISO procedure for continue communication with supplier. Measurement of outcomes Most of related supplier are willing to provide the acknowledgement document to OFM Vietnam. END OF REPORT Oriental Fastech Manufacturing Vietnam No. 26 , Dai Lo Doc Lap, Vietnam Singapore Industrial Park 1 Thuan An Town, Binh Duong Province, Vietnam Telp: + 84 274 3766 761 Fax: + 84 274 3766 760
