Contents 1 Chairman’s Statement 3-4 2 About Us 5-6 3 Mission, Vision & Policies 7-16 4 Awards & Accolades 17 5 Our Stakeholder 18-20 6 PBC’s commitment to UNGC’s ten principles A. Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 21 Principle 2 Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses 22 B. Labour Standards Principle 3 Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the 23 right to Collective Bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 23 Principle 5 The organization supports effective abolition of child labour 23-24 Principle 6 Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of 24 employment and occupation SDG 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries 24-25 SDG 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 26-29 C. Environment Principle 7 The organization support a precautionary approach to Environmental 30-36 Challenges SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 32-33 SDG 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 37-38 Principle 8 The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental 38-39 responsibility SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 40-41 Principle 9 Encourages the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally 41 Friendly Technologies D. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and 42 bribery 7 The Road Ahead………. 43 8 News Buzz 44-47 Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 2 of 48 Chairman’s statement of continued commitment to UN Global Compact and its Ten Universal Principles Up-scaling the health and wellness quotient in a building, indicates a “People first” approach” Dear Stakeholders, I am delighted to present Paharpur Business Centre’s (PBC) Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2018-19. In this report, we once again share our progress with regard to the Ten Universal Principles of UN Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – SDG 3, 5, 7, 10 & 13 and our engagement process with all our Stakeholders and Business Partners in furthering the cause of these ten principles. PBC has endeavored to internalise the principles of UN Global Compact in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to UNGC & Triple Bottom line principles. We are extremely sensitive to the fact that we need to operate within the principles of UNGC and Corporate Governance and therefore be accountable, fair, transparent and responsive to the needs of all our stakeholders, specially the primary ones. Our focus has rightly been on Green certified Buildings for a sustainable future. We now must also focus on Health and Wellbeing of the occupants of the building, for whom these buildings are built in the first place. 95% of the cost of any organization in the Knowledge Economy is related to People Costs. We need to pay more attention to the Health and Wellbeing of People, to be able to get the best from them, and hence win in this deeply competitive world. Organizational success, of course, has been achieved without designing for wellness, but the human cost of that strategy has not been assessed comprehensively or included in any organization’s balance sheet. Commercial Real Estate professionals (CRE) need to take a holistic view and not only focus on ‘Rent’ and ‘Energy Efficiency.’ The work environment should help bring out the best in us, and this can be only done through a planned process and design of the built environment. This includes elements of quality of air, water, light, comfort, food, exercise, safety, recreation and a feeling of belonging in a community. Translating this into the workplace design, physical or psychosocial factors that affect employee health and well-being resulting in best performance, motivation and productivity have to be accounted for. Buildings can assist us in improving our Cognitive Ability, Productivity and Wellness, while keeping us safe, Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 3 of 48 to achieve our full potential, as measured and tested by Harvard Center for Health and the Global Environment and published as a study www.thecogfxstudy.com At PBC we have, over the past 30 plus years’ experience, that if one stays indoor in the building for around 8 hours, there is a 42% probability of one’s Blood Oxygen Level going up by 1%. This is significant, given that our brain weighs only 2% of our body weight but uses 20% of the oxygen we breathe. We at PBC grow our own fresh air using over 7,000 indoor plants! India has a program to build Smart Cities. We are in need of Smart buildings with Smart People. People are the most valuable resource in any country or an organization. We need to map out the Productivity increase benefits of occupying a building. A small increase in individual productivity leads to significant gains for an organization. Wellness results in fewer sick days and in a motivated work force. This is besides the improved energy efficiency of the building, resulting in lower OPEX, if one were to replicate the IAQ practice at PBC. We were certified as a BEE 5 star rated building in 2010 with an AAHEPI of 28 Whr /hr /sqm. We have been able to bring this down to less than 18 Whr /hr /sqm – a huge savings. Besides, the IAQ we maintain at PBC can be seen at www.pbcnet.com, show cases that our exhaust air emission are only around 600 ppm of CO2 as compared to over twice the number for most building with 1/3 of the quantity of air. Understanding the imperative that there is an intricate relationship between occupant’s health & well-being, and the built environment, PBC worked upon ‘CII-IGBC Health & Well-being Rating’ for built environmentthe first of its kind green building rating system. This rating system addresses the physical, intellectual and social wellbeing of building occupants. The objective of the rating is to facilitate the buildings to incorporate people centric measures for enhancing the health & well-being. Its framework will enable organisations to address various aspects such as indoor air quality, water quality, hygiene parameters, healthy food choices and lifestyle for occupants at an affordable cost. Going forward, this is a great opportunity for buildings, both existing and to be built in the future, including, for schools and residences, to make us and our future generation smart, happy and healthy and to help us reach our full potential. With this we hope for a Happy, Healthy, Smart, Sustainable, Productive and a Green India is realized by 2025. Your feedback would be more than welcome, as we believe that learning is a lifelong exercise. Best wishes for a successful financial year ahead. Kamal Meattle Chairman Emeritus Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 4 of 48 Introduction PBC is a green mSME which has been a pioneer in the Indian real estate and service sector for over two decades now. For many years now, PBC has been walking on the path of sustainability by focusing on two major issues: 1) Ways to reduce energy in the urban maintenance without sacrificing quality (International standards) 2) To provide best air quality, which one would find up in the mountains of Gulmarg, Davos or Switzerland PBC, a more than 30 year old building built to compulsory Government Design, it is the first retrofit building in India, which is USGBC LEED Platinum EB Certified. Considered as a landmark building and has been a case study for building engineering community. Installed LEED Arc which allows us to keep its sustainability goals focused in real-time and not merely on the basis of a one-time green certification. It is about staying relevant at all times. It is a remarkable monitoring system that accounts for energy and water consumption, waste generation, and the human experience. It is also the first office building in India to be rated Platinum, for Health and Wellbeing for its occupants, by CIIIGBC. It is a BEE 5 star rated building and is currently operating at less than 18 Whr /hr /sqm. PBC is well-known for its exceptional indoor air quality, security and improvement of Human Productivity. It grows its own fresh air indoors with over 7,000 special indoor plants and uses Technology. It is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), and the only mSME among the 6 signatories to WEP from India. Certified for various International Standards ISO 9001:2015, 14001:2015, 22000:2005, 50001:2011, OHSAS 18001: 2007 and FSSAI. PBC, a safe and healthy heaven, offers 24 x7 Access to “Fresh Air Offices and Conference Facilities”, on plug-n-play basis. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 5 of 48 However, it’s much more than just a space of world-class amenities. It looks at different aspects that enhance the health and comfort of the building occupants, consequently leading to better business growth. It gives all the businesses, a platform to grow personally and career wise just by working in a healthy indoor environment – a twist in the commercial business centre model. PBC follows the CSR practices as per the Company Act 2013. It has a pro-active CSR/ Sustainability Committee in Place, which decides the activities; their compliance as per the Act and the end results. PBC firmly believes in the convergence of Triple Bottom Line. Led by “People First” approach, PBC’s focus has always been on Health and Wellness of the occupants. This has been an intrinsic part of PBC’s business strategy since inception. Its USP, “Indoor Air Quality” (IAQ) is a proof of it. Breathe EasyTM is a successful Start Up incubated by PBC, with a wide reference list, that now helps others implement solutions to improve Indoor Air Quality, while reducing energy usage, at an affordable cost PBC is a preferred choice for eco-business partnership for companies that undertake sustainable initiatives or planning a foray into the Indian market. Our past and present clientele includes leading multinational & fortune 500 companies from across the Globe Microsoft, Hewlett Packard, Mobil, Motorola, British Telecom, SAP, Singapore, Telecom, Converse Network, GEC Alsthom, Intel, Matsushita Electric, Sun Microsystems, Alta Vista, Hitachi, Daiken, Associated Press, Symantec and more. This reflects the confidence and trust that organizations have reposed in the services and offerings of PBC. PBC aims to be an excellent, world-class business support services company; committed to deliver benchmarked, quality oriented services to address customers' specific needs, whilst caring for the environment & people around us. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 6 of 48 To become an eminent world-class business support service provider; committed to delivering benchmarked, quality services and address customers’ needs, whilst also caring for their health and environment. We aim at creating an exquisite platform of growth and wellness for all our stakeholders. To stand out as an organization that takes a focused approach on ensuring consistent delivery of quality services, care for environment and people around us. Since, we believe in keeping customers as our first priority, we stay inspired from within to provide end-to-end business solutions to them. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 7 of 48 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) a provider of serviced offices along with a suite of 27 support services is committed to perform its business in a responsible manner to produce an overall positive impact on society and environment. In doing so, we shall strive towards: Marketplace Leadership – We aim to run our business in a way that singles us out as a great provider of high quality services and preferred partner of choice to do business with. Our aim is to work with our stakeholders to develop long –term sustainable relationships. Environment – We are an environment driven company and are aware of the scale of impact, our operation has on the environment. As such, we are committed to exploring ways to reduce the impact of what we do. We take a responsible attitude and lead the way in developing initiatives to further improve our environmental footprint. We shall be fully accountable to our clients, employees and the society that we operate in. We will strive to create business opportunities for our stakeholders and follow the core values, norms and ethics that are in-built in the way we conduct our business. Workplace – We are committed to offer a rewarding and challenging workplace to our employees. We aim to become the best employer in fact employer of choice, demonstrated amongst other things, by current and past employees recommending the company as a great place to work. We are channeling our efforts towards making PBC a fun place to work for. We do believe people are core to any business and are one’s most important asset and therefore we focus our energies in taking good care of them as we believe that it makes good business sense to hire and retain great employees. The idea is to synergize our efforts in order to create wealth for all. Inclusivity and Equal opportunities for all is at the core of our human resource policy. We are strictly against discrimination of any kind. We are committed to create awareness of HIV-AIDS at work place and have an adequate policy in place to handle it. Community – We strive to be good corporate citizens, we work to support the sustainability of both global and the local communities in which we operate and actively encourage our employees, customers, suppliers to consider the needs of others and involve themselves in public service through public private partnering. We are sensitive to the requirements of the community around us and our business strategies are closely interlinked with their aspirations. High standards of corporate governance care for environment and health & safety, override everything else that we do. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 8 of 48 INTEGRATED POLICY FOR QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) is committed to perform its business and related activities in a responsible manner so as to achieve continual improvement in Environmental performance, achieving Quality in service by providing quality services and facilities that consistently meet and exceed customer expectation and a safe & healthy environment, to prevent injury & ill health to its employees, occupants, visitors, guest, external providers & other interested parties. Integral to this commitment, PBC indoor environment enhances health, productivity, wellness and cognitive ability of its occupants, in a safe environment, at an affordable cost. PBC will ensure compliance to all the regulatory and legal requirements / law of the land and will strive to go beyond the statutory compliance for Health, Safety, Environment and other legal requirements. PBC has endeavored to internalize the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management Systems), ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental Management Systems) and in accordance with the principles of OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) in its stated business objectives & owes the success & progress of its business model to management systems. With these as our guiding principles and a vision to reshape the commercial buildings in India, we have surged ahead by focusing on people / occupants, on their interaction with the various facilities provided to them, their sense of health and well being while at work. We have created a business model that cares for people, environment and committed to protect the environment, satisfy applicable requirements, responsible business & sustainability. We move ahead with the interdependencies between human health, wellbeing and sustainability. On the surface, we know that a changing climate is already making a significant impact on the ability of human beings to enjoy healthy lives. In doing so, we strive towards:  Working positively towards UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) manage business risks; collaborate with likeminded companies in creating a more level playing field.  To have a motivated and committed team by sustaining a working environment where each employee is encouraged to excel.  To create awareness among our occupants, customers, employees, external provider and other important stakeholders, for better and improved environmental performance. The Policy is communicated to all interested parties for effective implementation and will be reviewed periodically for adequacy, continual improvement & suitability. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 9 of 48 FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY We at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC) are committed to provide fresh, safe & healthy food to our customers. We are the end processor of the food chain and then the food directly consume by the consumer. In doing so we strive towards:  Ensuring compliance to all applicable regulations and legislations.  Ensuring all raw materials is purchased under controlled conditions and from best possible supplier or source.  Meeting the specific needs and exceeding expectations of our customers by followed the application food safety norms and at the same time providing delicious and nutritious food.  Creating awareness among our staff, customers and suppliers about food safety. It will be our constant endeavor to take regular feedback from our clients to ensure improved performance and continual improvement. ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM POLICY Paharpur Business Centre is committed to perform its business and related activities in an environmentally responsible manner and to use energy in the most cost effective, efficient & green way. We are committed to conserve PBC™ energy consumption by using innovative methods and by using green and clean technologies available for reduced operation & maintenance cost of the building. It will be our constant endeavor to continually improve the energy performance of PBC™ by reducing our average annual energy intensity against business as usual. To accomplish this we try to:  Improve energy efficiency continuously by implementing effective energy management programs that support all the operations and customer satisfaction while providing a safe and comfortable work environment.  Become one of the most energy-efficient organizations in our industry on a kilowatt-hour per 100 square foot basis.  Measure, Monitor, Manage and control the daily energy consumption by adopting energy conservation initiatives.  Establish an Energy Management Team to identify and drive energy efficiency initiatives and to provide an integrated organization-wide response to energy management.  Set Energy objectives and targets and ensure that the adequate information and resources are available.  Measure our Carbon footprint on a year to year basis.  Comply with applicable legal requirements and the requirements of LEED-EB (O&M) guidelines and the requirements of BEE five star rating systems.  Promote purchase of energy efficient products and services and up gradation of existing systems for energy performance improvement.  Develop communications strategies to raise awareness among staff and all the interested parties.  This policy will be documented, maintained, communicated and reviewed periodically to Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 10 of 48 ensure that it remains relevant and appropriate to the organizational Energy Management objectives & goals.  Training will be imparted to all the persons working under the control of the organization for effective implementation.  We will also endeavor to train our vendors / suppliers / sub-contractors and effectively engage with them by organizing awareness sessions periodically focused on issues relating to energy conservation & and creating awareness on the same. ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE CONTROL POLICY  The indoor air quality at PBC confirms to the ASHRAE standard and Tobacco smoking & use of E-Cigarette inside the building is strictly prohibited. Restricting smoking at the workplace is a part of complete health and safety promotion program in the business centre.  Employees & clients will be informed of this policy through signs posted in buildings.  Any violations of this policy will be handled through standard disciplinary procedures. SUSTAINABLE PURCHASE POLICY At PBC, we strive hard to ensure that we purchase in an environmentally sensitive manner. Whether it is a simple purchase of paper or pens, computers, laptops, food raw material, carpets to heavy duty engineering equipments, our preference will be to buy “Clean, Green and Energy Efficient” product and services. We are in the process of developing an environmentally preferable purchasing system in order to promote the concept of “Green Buying” and by doing so we will reduce our carbon footprint and promote Green Purchasing Processes. We find & evaluate information about green products & services and include the necessary specs in our product / service / vendor evaluation form and wherever possible, based on availability and financial viability purchase green and environmentally sustainable products and services, without compromising on the quality of life at PBC. We will consider the following environmental attributes at the time of purchasing:  Encourage local suppliers based in within 100 km radius of our location Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 11 of 48  Durable and not single use or disposable wherever possible and applicable  Made of recycled material  Biodegradable and Safely Disposable  Made from rapidly renewable material  Energy Efficiency  Will prefer procuring from companies and organizations that have responsible & sustainable environmental track record  Reduced packaging – financially viable also  Reduces Green House Gas Emissions  Scalable / Upgradable  Water Efficient Technologies  Use of renewable wherever applicable and possible. The above attributes will not be limiting & will be subject to change & review on a regular basis. The Objective Of our Purchase Policy is to reduce the adverse environmental impact Of Our Purchasing Decisions & 80% of our total purchase to be done through locally based suppliers. And it will be our constant endeavour to develop and redesign as per the requirement of the organization. By including environmental considerations in our purchasing procedure, along with concerns about price, quality and availability, we will remain fiscally responsible while attempting to promote practices that improve public health and safety, reduce pollution & carbon emissions and conserve natural resources. GREEN CLEANING POLICY The policy is introduced by PBC to provide a safe, clean, and healthy environment for staff and visitors. It is to maintain a position at the forefront of cleaning maintenance technology by employing safe, effective cleaning methods and equipment. It is strongly committed to “Green Cleaning” through its use of chemicals, equipment and techniques that are environmentally friendly. Our policy encourages all our staff and visitors to participate, support and help sustain this commitment to the environment. Green Cleaning includes a number of elements choosing cleaning products and equipment that are not detrimental to the environment and effective in their application as cleaning maintenance. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY Paharpur Business Centre & all its related properties and holdings support equal employment opportunities for everyone. We are committed to the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) i.e. Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. PBC’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) policy states that every person has the same human rights and privileges without regard to his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. Equal employment opportunity means that every applicant for a job should be considered solely on the basis of his or her qualifications. It also means that every employee should be treated equally with every other similar employee, without discrimination because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin or economic status. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 12 of 48 The Company expects full cooperation of everyone associated with it to make sure these principles are upheld. Furthermore, the Company expects that all matters related to recruiting, advertising, hiring, training, compensation, benefits, promotions, transfers, layoffs, recall from layoffs, educational assistance, and social and recreational programs and all treatment on the job, be free of any discriminatory practices. It is PBC’s constant endeavor to spread the message of Equal Opportunities for all through various interactions and meetings with its supply chain and other stakeholders. ANTI-CORRUPTION & ETHICAL POLICY As employees in PBC, we:  Will ensure to behave in an honest & ethical manner  Will set a good example by being trustworthy  We will make sure that our behavior complies with the policies and rules of the organization / PBC.  We will use the resources of our company in the best interest of the company, and not for personal & gainful reasons. We will not misuse these resources  We will not pay or accept bribes / anything of value / cash/ gift / gratuities, offer of employment etc, for the purpose of influencing placement of contracts, obtaining a business advantage or any other reason  We will make a clear distinction between the interests of our company and our personal interests, and avoid possible conflicts of interest; we do not accept gifts, invitations or other advantages, which could contradict this principle or influence our business decisions that are against the norms of our company  Ensure that we comply with law of the land, including National legislations & statutory compliances.  All commissions and fee contracts shall have prior approval of our CEO  Report incidents, risks and issues which deviates from our policy, to your immediate reporting authority, or HeadHRD or CEO  Complete and Implicit support / protection to the employee / whistleblower who reports unethical behavior  Encourage Employees to be continuously conscious about our ethics and values and ensure each employee maintains their integrity, thereby maintaining the integrity of the organization  All employees must adhere to this policy and any violation to the above may result in termination / legal action, as deemed fit by the management. The CEO must approve any exceptions to this policy. As the owners of PBC, we:  Commit ourselves to this policy and to an ongoing effort to maintain our integrity  Make sure that PBC complies with the applicable National and International norms and commit PBC to an open and transparent Management Approach  Expect our stakeholders i.e. partners and other business associates to respect this policy and wherever possible, we will influence and encourage them to also adopt this policy Thereafter the policy mentioned above was shared / circulated to all the team members / employees of PBC, who are required to ensure strict adherence to it and behave in a manner suited/appropriate to the stated policy and rules of the organization at all times. The organization expects them to not only behave in an honest and ethical manner but they are also Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 13 of 48 expected to set a good example by acting in a responsible and transparent manner. POLICY ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION  PBC affirms the recognition that its competitiveness is interlinked with the well being of all sections of the Indian society.  PBC believes that equal opportunity in employment for all sections of society is a component of its growth and competitiveness. It further believes that inclusive growth is a component of growth and development of the country.  PBC affirms the recognition that diversity to reflect socially disadvantaged sections of the society in the workplace has a positive impact on business.  PBC will neither practice nor support conscious discrimination in any form.  PBC does not bias employment away from applicants belonging to disadvantaged sections of society if such applicants possess competitive skills and job credentials as made public.  PBC's selection of business partners is not based on any considerations other than normal business parameters. In case of equal business offers, PBC will select a business partner belonging to a socially disadvantaged section of society.  PBC will have a written policy statement on Affirmative Action in the workplace.  PBC will have an employment policy that is the public domain. It may place such policies and employment opportunities on its website to encourage applications from socially disadvantaged sections of society.  PBC will make all efforts for up-skilling and continual training of employees from socially disadvantaged sections of society in order to enhance their capabilities, and competitive skills.  PBC will have a partnership programme with educational institutions to support and aid students from socially disadvantaged sections of society.  PBC will have a senior executive accountable to the MD to oversee and promote its Affirmative Action policies and programmes. The senior executive will present a biannual report to the Board of the Company about such policies and programmes.  PBC further has a policy to maintain records on Affirmative Action.  PBC makes available its learning and experiences as a good corporate citizen in Affirmative Action to other companies desiring to incorporate such policies in their own business. POLICY ON HIV / AIDS PBC recognizes that HIV/AIDS is an issue at workplace and would like to address it proactively PBC will provide a safe and healthy environment to the team members by developing nondiscriminatory policy and programmes on HIV/AIDS. PBC will provide regular HIV/AIDS prevention education to all its team members and their families at various levels through formal and informal sessions. HIV status of the team member will be kept confidential Any Team Member living with HIV/AIDS will be kept in employment as long as they are in position to work. If necessary, employee will be shifted to another appropriate position considering the health status at that point in time. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 14 of 48 PBC will not discriminate against any Team Member infected by HIV/AIDS with regard to promotion, training and any other privileges, applicable to all employees of the company. At PBC HIV/AIDS test will not be a part of recruitment process or any health check-ups. PBC will educate its Team Members and encourage them to participate in Voluntary Counseling and Testing for seeking advice related to HIV/AIDS. SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY PBC is committed to provide a work environment that is free of discrimination and unlawful harassment. Sexual Harassment is strictly prohibited at PBC. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual’s sex, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. If an employee believes that he/she has been a victim of harassment or is aware of another employee who has been harassed, he / she should immediately report it to HRD or any member of the Harassment Redressal Committee. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of retaliation. Any Superior who becomes aware of possible harassment should promptly advise Management or HR Representative, who will handle the matter in a timely and confidential manner. All employees are responsible for helping to ensure & assure a workplace free of harassment. The Company forbids retaliation against anyone who has reported harassment or participated in an investigation. All of us must recognize that such behavior not only violates the rules of common courtesy and is a violation of the Company's policy, but is also a Human Rights violation & therefore illegal under law. It is the Company's responsibility to investigate all reports or complaints of harassment thoroughly and promptly. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Company will take appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination. POLICY ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVITY At PBC, we believe in having a multi-skilled, motivated & a diverse workforce. A Diverse work culture is encouraged by: Respect – for all our stakeholdersemployees, customers, suppliers, and communities that we operate / live in, who come from different geographical, demographical, cultural and social backgrounds. Inclusivity for all genders –Women Empowerment by encouraging women employees to take on responsible positions at workplace and most importantly have women friendly policies and processes in place that facilitate their growth, development and active participation at the Workplace. Our aim is to include all in our sustainable business process and growth. Respect everyone’s view & perspective. Respect, listen to, help and appreciate others. Diverse ideas converging in for the same goal: Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 15 of 48  We believe that by encouraging diversity at the Workplace we are able to be more competitive, acceptable and appreciated in the markets that we operate.  Each one brings with them a special skill set and together we create a robust, sensitive and profitable organization and create value for our clients, employees and business partners.  Appreciation – of our differences – Promoting a culture of Unity in Diversity, which is embedded in the Indian Ethos. STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR THE WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES We, at Paharpur Business Centre (PBC), are committed to support the cause for advancing equality between women and men. It’s  An important Business case for us – Equality Means Business, it  Brings the broadest pool of talent to our endeavors;  Furthers our company’s competitiveness;  Meet our corporate responsibility and sustainability commitments;  Model behaviour within our companies that reflects the society we would like for our employees, fellow citizens and families;  Encourage economic and social conditions that provide equal opportunities to both women and men, girls and boys;  Foster sustainable development in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, we welcome the provisions of the Women’s Empowerment Principles – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The Principles present seven steps that business and other sectors can take to advance and empower women. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. The full participation of women in our enterprises and in the larger community makes sound business sense now and in the future. A broad concept of sustainability and corporate responsibility that embraces women’s empowerment as a key goal will benefit us all. The seven steps of the Women’s Empowerment Principles will help us realize these opportunities. We encourage & urge business leaders to join us and use the Principles as guidance for actions that we can all take at the workplace, marketplace and community to empower women and benefit our companies and societies. We will strive to use sex-disaggregated data in our sustainability reporting to communicate our progress to our stakeholders. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 16 of 48 PBC –A LANDMARK BUILDING  US Green Building Council Certified LEED Platinum building –With LEED Arc for Real time monitor of building performance  CII -Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), Platinum Rated Building under “Healthy and Well Being Rating” system  Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) 5-Star building with AAhEPI of 28 Wh/hr/sqm, currently operating at less than < 18 Wh/hr/sqm  NABERS Certified Building (for Indoor Environment Quality)  CETEC 5 Palm Rating (for Healthy & Sustainable Operating Building)  Top performers in office building category PBC is on third position in total score at LEED ARC portal. LEED ARC Building performance comparison Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 17 of 48 CONTINUING WITH OUR COMMITMENTS – OUR STAKEHOLDER CENTRIC APPROACH: We firmly believe in balancing stakeholder priorities and expectations – this is absolutely essential for responsible business performance – by doing this we effectively manage our business risks. At PBC we meet and have a meaningful dialogue with our primary stakeholders, at least twice a year. For this we use surveys, awareness campaigns, training sessions and face to face interactions, training & awareness campaigns, joint pitching, sponsoring common interest programs etc. During the current year, PBC initiated a broader stakeholder engagement; listening and acting on the inputs received from our stakeholders/interested parties to further improve the business performance & services. Useful & Effective collaboration with our stakeholders to meet the challenges, ever changing business needs and demands, while consistently delivering sustainable value to all our primary stakeholders i.e. Employees, Suppliers, clients, communities in which we operate. Our goal is not only to adhere but exceed conformance to the law & with this intent we have gone all out to include our important stakeholders i.e. customers, subcontractors, employees, etc in our various engagement processes From our consultation with our major and critical stakeholders, the nature of challenge facing the company is clearly understood. Our new cross business CSR approach is based upon a consistent framework, capable of accommodating the wide levels of achievements across our various business verticals and by taking cognizance of different social, environmental and economic priorities. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 18 of 48 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Sl. Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT BENEFITS TO No. [by priority] Method Frequency Business Stakeholder 1 Shareholders Management Half yearly Financial and budgetary Clients get value for Meeting / / Yearly approvals for investments money services Board in green and clean Meeting technologies, business strategies get ratified. Valuable inputs to improve performance, positive brand image 2 Employees Staff welfare Monthly Enhance Productivity and Increase motivational meetings, Efficiency, increase in levels and enhance their Departmental business, positive brand capabilities, clarity on Meetings with image goals and objectives, CEO, Interpersonal and professional departmental growth, monetary meeting, emoluments management review meetings, committee meetings, events and celebrations. 3 Customers Letters / Daily / Enhance the business, Quality services, Increased Presentations / Weekly / Building up of Trust and service efficiency and Meeting / Monthly loyalty, positive brand effectiveness Customer / image, inputs on Satisfaction Annually improving the services Surveys/ Feedback and business / Annual Parties / Get together 4 Family of Picnic / Family Annually Motivated Team and Sense of Pride, employees Day Happy workforce, achievement, oneness, / Annual Loyalty, retaining Sense of belonging Gettalent. (part of PBC family) together Endorsement by family of an employee’s choice of employer 5 Government New Policies / Regularly Get a platform to Support from the planning for place their concerns to industry and corporate business / the government industry, Laws Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 19 of 48 6 Suppliers / Visits and Annual Regularly Relationship building, Strong Business Vendors / Meeting / Yearly Building of trust and relationship, trust level Subcontract or faith, transparency, increase, credit safety, better negotiations and learning and awareness better value for money process, out of the box as credibility is innovation / established, branding, customization of product learning and awareness and services, increase process, out of the box business and orders innovation / customization of product and services 7 Community Initiatives on Regularly Credibility/positive Better engagement community brand image, Goodwill process for the development of people, perceived as community, community and various a responsible corporate gets a platform to important days voice their concerns, apprehensions appreciations and suggestions 8 Investors Meetings, Regularly Access to money, grants To deal with Presentatio / loans. Growth and responsible corporate, ns, diversification technology partner, Seminars opportunities, new Growth and and business segments and diversification conference projects opportunities, s new business segments and projects, last but not the least attractive returns on their investments and risk hedging 9 Media Electronic and Regularly Positive brand image, It’s a win-win situation Print media Creating awareness media gets story to tell Publication, about the business especially when it is Articles, entity, indirectly it innovative and new interviews impact the sales and and create a niche market value 10 Industry Meetings, Regularly Knowledge sharing, Credibility Enhances, associations Presentations, bridge between industry get more corporate / Seminars, and govt. for framing members / followers trainings, policy that aid workshop and businesses. conferences Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 20 of 48 PBC’s COMMITMENT TO UNGC’S TEN PRINCIPLES A. HUMAN RIGHTS I. SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS We believe that business has an important role to play in promoting and respecting the advancement of fundamental human rights, while not supplanting the primary obligations of Government to protect the human rights of all people within their borders and as members of the international community. Supporting human rights is not only the right thing to do, but also makes business sense—companies that violate internationally recognized human rights are not sustainable. Ethical behavior towards our employees and suppliers, including the payment of decent wages and the provision of safe and hygienic working conditions, are the essential building blocks for our current and future business. We recognize the rights of our employees and treat our staff with dignity, respect and fairness within a safe working environment. Health & Safety are the two key factors guiding our business. “We recruit locally, encourage high degrees of local autonomy and share ownership where appropriate”. We pursue with a mission to educate our employees about organizational commitment to human rights through regular trainings & workshops. These trainings help our employees to understand the principles of human rights and how these are to be implemented in their respective business verticals. We also make sure that each Head of the Department clearly understands the risk emerging by not following these. We ensure strict adherence to laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. We follow Shops & Established Act. Through this, PBC reinforces its commitment to basic rights, freedom to all, fair wages, equal opportunities without discrimination on any account, inclusivity, training & skill development, health, safety etc. A fair and open channel of communication is maintained for all personnel at the work place. Human Rights are clearly identified as a non-negotiable instrument and are addressed in detail in our Management Standing Instructions (MSI) Our Code of Conduct expresses implicit support to the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 21 of 48 II. ENSURE THAT THE ORGANIZATION IS NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES There has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Our organization realizes that the prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers is of paramount importance in upholding of human rights and accordingly, we have framed procedures to address such grievances. We encourage the development and growth of our staff through regular appraisals, personal improvement & development plans.  We do not permit any kind of harassment or abuse of our employees.  We regularly monitor the working practices and the employment policies of our suppliers and promote improvement. Under Company’s Management Standing Instruction (MSI), we have a separate process on Grievance Handling, through which all employees are able to voice their concerns, queries, doubts, clarifications, grievances etc. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective method for handling grievances of personnel deputed at PBC, including workers provided by the sub contractors. The idea is to have a workplace that is sensitive to our most important stakeholders i.e. our workforce & that ensures their well being, while they are with PBC. This is taken very positively as part of our continual improvement programme. Any grievance or suggestion is not taken adversely by the management, wherein our team members get apprehensive about filing any grievance. On the contrary these are considered as opportunities for improvement. No records of an employee’s use of the grievance procedure are kept in their personnel file and during their performance evaluation; this is not taken into accounts. As stated earlier, there has been no instance of the company having abused human rights in any manner. Apart from this, we encourage employees to express views; raise issues in forums meant for their interaction with management, where they are free to give suggestions and seek clarification for any doubts, in a fair manner. We have a suggestion box for our team members so that they can give their ideas/suggestions without any apprehensions. This can result in overall improvement in our system. We also have a unique communication systeminternal mailing system. All employees have quick and easy access to HR personnel & Senior Managers, in case of any urgency. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 22 of 48 B. LABOUR STANDARDS III. UPHOLDING THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PBC realizes the collective strength of its employees and treats them as effective partners towards the goal of achieving continuous sustainable growth and hence no objection is raised on employees to join any trade unions thereby ensuring freedom of association to all its employees. However it is stressed that they do it in a disciplined manner without harming the sanctity of the workplace. This is communicated through various training programmes and meetings organized for subcontractors, vendors & other stakeholders. Till date, no instances of strikes / lock out etc have ever taken place at PBC. A noteworthy point here is that a large part of our crew members have been with us for more than five years, this shows the trust and faith that they repose in the management of PBC and also proves the management’s commitment to their personal development and welfare. There have been several instances when a lot of our crew members who had left, rejoined us. This once again proves PBC’s commitment to fair business practices. IV. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PBC believes in voluntary labour and does not believe in all forms of forced & compulsory labour right from its inception. Regular & Periodic Audits, both external & internal are conducted for compliance with requirements of labour law, OHSAS & UNGC principles. V. THE ORGANIZATION SUPPORTS EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR We prefer business partners / suppliers who treat their employees the way we do. PBC follows the Delhi Shops and Establishment Act, according to which, the age limit prescribed for child labour is below 15. However, we have gone beyond this and have prescribed the minimum age limit as 18 years for employment at PBC. No person below this age can be employed in PBC, whether directly or indirectly, thereby ensuring that child labour is not practiced. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 23 of 48 By setting the minimum pay scale as per the government norms we ensure that our employees get decent wages and working conditions encouraging them to send their children to schools rather than to work. All our contractors & vendors are also required to scrupulously follow the laws/ rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed through our contract agreement, vendor declaration & regular engagement programmes with our Vendors and suppliers. In PBCHR Process, we have a separate process defined on Child Labour – Remediation Plan. The purpose of this procedure is to establish, maintain and ensure a suitable and effective process for detection & prevention of child labour & its remediation, which covers all personnel deputed and also include workers provided by subcontractors. VI. ORGANIZATION PROMOTES ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace. At the time of recruitment only, qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and if all is equal, we give special preference to women, candidates from marginal / economically weaker sections of the society and differentlyabled. There have been “Zero” incidents of discrimination in the reporting period. In the above sense we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse workforce. We have adequate policies in place to firmly deal with these and apart from this; it also is detailed in our MSI and processes under ISO. We ensure 100% compliance to these. Our objective is to go beyond compliance. The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, color, gender, religion or region. We strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. Sustainable Development GOAL Reduce in-equality within and among countries Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 24 of 48 PBC supports & confirm to UNDP Goal No. 10. We does not believe in any kind of inequality based on caste, color, gender, religion or region and we strongly believe in inclusivity and vehemently oppose discrimination at workplace. It is evident from the chart given below that Schedule caste & tribes constitute almost 10% of our total workforce and we hire people based on competencies and their ability to carry out the defined tasks. Any other factor apart from this is not considered. We practice Affirmative Action, as it promotes a diverse workforce and gives opportunities to all in order to have sustainable livelihoods. We also strive to create awareness about the importance of Affirmative Action to enhance social stability & cohesion and to make it into a practical solution for the corporate sector and businesses. We recognize the need to reorient people’s attitude towards persons with disability & persons from the marginalized sections of our society. Inclusivity Data: Category No. of Team Members Percentage wise General 88 92% OBC 6 6% SC 2 2% Grand Total 96 100% The organization does not believe in any kind of discrimination at workplace & at the time of recruitment only qualification of a candidate to deliver effective performance is considered and yes if all is equal, we give special preference to women candidates, candidates from marginal sections of the society & differently-abled. Yes in the above sense, we do practice “positive discrimination” to have a diverse & inclusive workforce after all the benefits of progress are for one and all. PBC firmly believes in inclusivity and strongly opposes all kinds of discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, carrier development etc at work place. ` Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 25 of 48 Sustainable Development GOAL Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls PBC welcomes the provisions of the UNDP Goal No. 5 and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – Equality Means Business, produced and disseminated by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations Global Compact. We are one of the seven signatories to WEPs and the only mSME to demonstrate commitment to Women Empowerment. PBC has adopted seven steps in order to empower women employees. We have a policy in place to address this as part of our business strategy. An important business case for us – Equality Means Business. Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. At PBC, we constantly work towards removing barriers that help in changing the mindsets & stereotypes. Model behavior within our organization reflects the society we would like for our employees, their families, fellow citizens and communities where we operate in. We have women friendly policies at work to facilitate them and simultaneously help them balance their work, home, children and family.  Flexible working hours, part-time jobs, work from home option, ‘be consultants’ and ‘come-onspecific days’ etc. are some of the provisions tailor-made for our women employees  Extended Maternity Leaves  A medical insurance policy in place that covers maternity from day one  Providing manned cab facilities to the women employees after 7 pm and until 7 am PBC recognizes that Sexual harassment is an issue at workplace and addresses it proactively, by having regular awareness and interactive sessions with PBC team members. We encourage “Open Door Policy” for our women employees to ensure that their specific grievances are addressed in a timely manner. PBC enjoys the reputation of being a safe and secure place for women employees. As an organization, we strongly feel that synergies between the two genders can truly result in sustainable development of an entity, organization & a nation as a whole. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 26 of 48 PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY & CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT BY CELEBRATING BIRTH OF A GIRL CHILD “NANHI CHAAN”With the motto of supporting Equal Opportunity for all while standing against the crime, female foeticide, every year PBC organizes a sapling plantation on the name of girl child born to PBC team member. Wherein all the PBC members celebrate the birth of a girl child by making the proud parents plant a sapling in her name. PBC Team Members planting trees to celebrate the birth of girl child They also take an oath to take care of that plant the way they do for their child. This is a CSR initiative, and is known as, Nanhi Chhaan”. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 27 of 48 INTERNATIONAL MOTHER’S & WOMEN’S DAY CELEBRATION @ PBC PBC Celebrates Woman Power: We realize that women do bring with them a special skill set that meets our operational standards, especially in terms of multitasking, handling people and taking up leadership roles. Women at PBC hold the highest management positions and our women friendly policies facilitates them to work hard & yet look after their homes / children and family. We are proud to say that PBC enjoys the reputation of being a very safe and secure place for women employees. PBC has always celebrated the Mother’s Day & International Women’s Day. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 28 of 48  Positive Discrimination We at PBC do everything possible to promote Inclusivity. Discrimination at workplace of any sorts is unacceptable. There are a number of interventions that we have in place to include women, physically challenged, employees from other nationalities, and people from the marginal sections of our society, in our workforce. Our top management encouraged us to implement hiring of women employees at all levels including giving them leadership roles in the organization. The principle of “Perform or Perish” applies to all irrespective of genders at PBC – the work environment that we offer equally facilitates both men & women to give their best – Work hard & yet keep it fun!! Above all, we feel that by giving opportunities to women at work, our businesses have access to a large pool of talented & skilled workforce. PBC is striving & working hard in order to create conditions that facilitate the work-life balance or mobility. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 29 of 48 C. ENVIRONMENT VII. THE ORGANIZATION ADOPTS A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PBC has undertaken various projects, implemented strategies and taken several initiatives to make PBC a high performance and a truly green office building. To achieve true environment-friendly architecture, eco-friendly ideas need to be supported by everyone involved in the process from design to construction. It is our absolute belief that care for environment can alone help us in addressing the SDGs & Climate Change issues and take us through this difficult phase. With regard to our environmental initiatives – relating to energy management, water conservation, reduction of our carbon footprint, use of sustainable resources, waste management, local procurement, indoor environment etc, we manage them on a day to day basis, the results are tangible and our system addresses it very substantially. ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES Energy conservation practices followed at PBC help in reducing our operating costs without impacting the quality of life. Direct energy consumption from primary energy source is from BSES (utility provider) and we don’t have any source for Indirect / Renewable energy. At PBC, we take a 360 degree approach while looking at energy management. It is an on-going process. We plan and implement our interventions keeping all the aspects of business relevance in mind and constantly put in efforts to maintain them. There are huge challenges while retrofitting a building like ours as we are a 24x7 operation and we cannot take any shut down for any of our retrofit activities. Some of the energy conservation initiatives taken in the year are as follows: S. No. Project Time frame Investment 1 HVAC SYSTEM UPGRADATION A. Connected with Automotive BMS system (ongoing 2016-18 High upgradation) B. Cold Condensate Water from AHUs fed to Cooling 2018-19 Low Towers after UV treatment C. Cooling coil performance improvement by 2 stage 2018-19 Low cooling D. Installation of VFDs in Cooling Tower & AHUs 2017-18 Low 2 Minimize Heat Ingress from Façade Windows 2018-19 Low Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 30 of 48 The business relevance / benefits of the above energy conservation measures implemented in HVAC are: 20-25% Energy Saving compared to Old system  Increased Customer Satisfaction on account of thermal comfort  Operational manpower reduction  Automatic Controls, reduced manpower dependence  Important parameter monitoring & logging in BMS for diagnosis PBC has experienced a reduction of maximum 30% in the electricity bills due to its energy conservation measures. We are working on these practices to further improve our energy efficiency. Energy Consumption Last 3 Years Year (KWH) AAhEPI (Wh/hr/Sqm) 2016 508,332 19 2017 452,316 17 2018 485,004 18 ANNUAL AVERAGE HOURLY ENERGY PERFROMANCE INDEX FROM JAN 2016 TILL DEC 2018 AAhEPI AAhEPI for Jan to • 17 for Jan to • 19 Dec 2016 Wh/hr/Sqm Dec 2017 Wh/hr/Sqm AAhEPI for Jan to • 18 Dec 2018 Wh/hr/Sqm GHG EMISSION REDUCTION ASSOCIATED WITH BSES ELECTRICITY PURCHASED GHG Emission reduction is almost 50% compare to last 10 years figures. We have used online Emission Calculation Protocol developed by World Resource Institute (WRI): Global Warming Potential (GWP) set of “2001 IPCC Third Assessment Report”, the Greenhouse Gas emission resulting from energy consumption at PBC and associated grounds has been calculated as: Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 31 of 48 Summary of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Year Annual Energy Emission of CO2 CO2 Emission Factor Consumption (KWh) (tones) (Kg of GHG/KWh) 2008 902,736 849 0.94 2009 713,660 671 0.94 2010 888,928 836 0.94 2011 871,274 819 0.94 2012 661,554 622 0.94 2013 601,982 566 0.94 2014 558,564 525 0.94 2015 569,988 535 0.94 2016 508,332 478 0.94 2017 452,316 425 0.94 2018 485,004 456 0.94 The increase in GHG emission in the year 2018 due the BSES Grid power consumption is 6.7% as compared to the previous year 2017 Sustainable Development GOAL Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all The goal of sustainability requires a more extended timelines for return on investment (ROI) but once initial investments are made, they can actually lead to increase profitability. When PBC started its business it was required to follow the standard operating norms for any large commercial facility. Be it energy, water consumption, waste handling or thermal comfort, the standards were not challenging enough and the customers were also not demanding them in India. We had different ideas, out ambition was not to create another facility in Delhi but to create a world class building which could compete with the best in facilities, operating costs and wellness for its occupants. This burning ambition made us work hard on meeting international standards on energy and environment and even exceed some of them. We were one of the first existing buildings to be certified as USGBC LEED platinum and its today globally recognized for its healthy indoor air quality. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 32 of 48 One example is free cooling for buildings, which takes advantage of naturallyoccurring phenomena to control temperatures, Although the technologies involves may require initial cash outlay, the renewal resources they rely upon are freely available and reliable, which will eventually pay off. The CAPEX on using plants and technology for air purification and lowering CO2 levels in the air inside offices pays for itself by way of lower OPEX relating to Electricity bills. Another example is the energy consumption of PBC that uses Technology and over 7,000 plants to Grow its own Fresh air. The average annual energy consumption of the BEE 5 star rated building, certified USGBC LEED Platinum and CII-IGBC rated Platinum for Health and Wellbeing of its occupants is currently < 18 whr /hr /m2. This is less than half of the normal A class buildings, while the C02 levels indoors are < 600 ppm and PM 2.5 under 15 ug/m3, when the ambient (outdoors) is 350 ug/m3. We at PBC constantly try and headed towards conservation of energy and we make annual plans with budgets and resource mobilization to achieve our targets. WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES At PBC, water has always been considered as a precious resource, which is monitored at all inlet and outlet points on daily basis. As water demands and environmental needs grow, recycling & reusing of water plays a major role at PBC, helping us to conserve and manage our vital water resources in a sustainable manner. Source of Water at PBC™: Primary Source is Delhi Jal Board (Utility Provider) and for any additional requirement of Water, water is sourced & bought. Monitoring & Reporting System Daily monitoring and recording of the water consumption at each area of consumption is done in order to control any kind of water wastage. Monthly Water Consumption Data The Bench Mark for water consumption is 45ltrs per person per day as per building by laws. WASTE MANAGEMENT PBC has integrated its waste management system in its daily operations. The mantra is: Reduce, Refuse, Reuse and Recycle. Some of the waste management strategies are:  Waste is segregated at its origin. PBC has placed separate bins for different types of waste like food, plastic, paper etc. Food waste at PBC is converted into organic nature manure through vermiculture with the help of worms. Further, this manure is used for indoor plants. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 33 of 48  Effluent from the kitchen is treated through Oil and Grease trap installed in the Kitchen and as per Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) norms, the parameters of the discharge is periodically tested from DPCC approved Lab. Results are within the specified parameters.  PBC also uses discharged water from effluent treatment plant: Discharged treated water from Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) is used in Vermi-compost Pit and for gardening purpose.  PBC recycles paper and plastic waste. Several trees are chopped down in order to produce papers. At PBC, they try to minimize the usage of papers by following various simple practices. Instead of circulating paper notes/chits, we prefer using our emails, setting up reminders in the computers etc.  The team is advised to reuse one-sided paper & promote communication through I-mail/ E-mail. INDOOR AIR QUALITY IAQ at PBC conforms to IGBC Health & Wellbeing Rating, ASHRAE, ISHRAE & WHO standards. We maintain all IAQ ratings as per national & international standards.  PM 2.5 < 15 all the time  CO2 levels are usually less than 650 ppm(ambient level is 450-470 ppm)  TVOC‟s are under 200 ug/m3  SOx, NOx and Ozone are as per USA ASHRAE standards  Bacteria and Fungus levels are significantly lower than as per WHO standards, reducing incidents of viral infections The latest study published by Harvard University –Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health in October 2016, states that there is an increase in occupant productivity of 299%, in a green + environment, like PBC in the area where the occupant was in the category of information usage. This study can be found on www.thecogfxstudy.com Some of the best practices followed to maintain Indoor Air Quality at PBC:  “Living” Air filtration system with > 7,000 indoor plants (3 specific toxin removing plants)  Several hundred patented hydroponic planters used for growing indoor plants to reduce bacteria and fungus  Created a micro-climate by converting a surrounding slum into a beautiful park , known as Nehru Place Greens; and planted >2,000 trees  Ambient Air Treatment Plant (Air Washer) with Electro-static Precipitator (ESP), Titanium Dioxide Box with UV lights  AHUs with UV lights  Air curtains at entry / exit points  Building sealed and a positive air pressure maintained to avoid untreated air ingress  We Publish our IAQ readings everyday on our website Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 34 of 48 Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 35 of 48 Benefits of IAQ In PBC, at the starting point i.e green house (lungs of the building), we maintain CO2 levels less than ambient as indicated in the chart above. As a result of which, we are able to pump in less fresh air in the building & hence save energy. So the bottom line is its good for pocket, cognitive ability & productivity of occupants. Special Indoor Air Tests Chlorine & Lead: At PBC, we carried out special test for Chlorine & Lead in the air and also inside at our Green House with lots of plants from where air is pumped into the building and inside the building. • Impact of Chlorine Chronic (long-term) exposure to chlorine gas in workers has, resulted in respiratory effects, including eye and throat irritation and airflow obstruction. Chlorine is a potent irritant in humans to the eyes, the upper respiratory tract, and the lungs. • Impact of Lead Once taken into the body, lead distributes throughout the body in the blood and is accumulated in the bones. Depending on the level of exposure, lead can adversely affect the nervous system, kidney function, immune system, reproductive and developmental systems and the cardiovascular system. Lead exposure also affects the oxygen carrying capacity of the blood. Nickel & Manganese: Nickel and Manganese other health hazardous components found in the air. At PBC, we will soon get these components tested in the air. • Impact of Nickel The most harmful health effects from exposure to nickel, such as chronic bronchitis, reduced lung function, and cancer of the lung and nasal sinus, have occurred in people who have breathed dust containing certain nickel compounds while working in nickel refineries or nickel-processing plants. The levels of nickel in these workplaces were much higher than usual (background) levels in the environment. • Impact of Manganese The inhalation of a large quantity of dust or fumes containing manganese may cause irritation of the lungs which could lead to pneumonia. Life line of PBC – “Green House” Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 36 of 48 Sustainable Development GOAL Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Mr. Kamal Meattle, Chairman Emeritus (PBC) has worked for many years on improving the air quality of his surroundings in Delhi and is well-known in the field for research and development. He spoke about ‘How to grow fresh air’ using three common plants. This TED talk has been viewed by over 3.3 million people. Mr. Barun Aggarwal, CEO and founder of Breathe EasyTM India’s first full-service indoor air purifying solutions provider, is a very successful Start Up incubated by PBC, with a formidable reference list, that now helps others in built environment, implement solutions to improve Indoor Air Quality, while reducing their energy footprint. The two have just co-authored a book published by Juggernaut on “How to Grow Fresh Air”, that simply offers simple solution to Pollution at home, how to remain healthy and improve one’s cognitive ability to full potential. Even as the air quality in Delhi NCR deteriorates to alarmingly poor levels, they provide some cost-effective tips on how to keep the air around you clean and breathable. PBC is an active member of Indian Green Building Council (IGBC), USGBC and CII, which are taking the message and knowhow to the business community over the country. We have been proactively participating in seminars, workshops, keynote session etc. to disseminate heath & wellbeing agenda to everyone. Also, to create awareness among society, we organize many school, colleges & companies visit to PBC to experience the difference and to share our knowledge & best practices implemented at an affordable cost. It is important to protect oneself and do the best we can to save ourselves from poor air quality and motivates others to do the same so that we can improve health, productivity, and cognitive ability. Given that our air quality is worsening each year, those who can do something for themselves, should do so now and set an example for others to see a green urban future. People can start implementing small measures for improving the air quality from their homes. Growing clean air inside the home is within your control. Planting air purifying plants in homes, ventilated rooms, control release of toxins (such as paints, polishing, fumigation, nail paints, carpets etc.) TED talks and other forums of community engagements are also being used to take the message forward. Also with The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter (TCPI), we are pursuing a Green School Program where schools are being helped in becoming more efficient in energy consumption, to do rain water harvesting and recycle waste. The message from schools goes to the community directly and can bring about transformational change. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 37 of 48 “How to Grow Fresh Air” – A book author by Mr. Kamal Meattle and Mr. Barun VIII. THE ORGANIZATION INITIATES PROMOTION OF GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PBC believes in environmental awareness among PBC team members & stakeholders. Our values encourage and motivate us to have partnerships with our customers, employees & other important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work for. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are as follows: LEARN & EARN PROGRAM With the objective of spreading awareness on green concepts, PBC came up with “Learn & Earn” Program, wherein students get a chance to learn and earn wisdom about making their environment green. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 38 of 48 Mr. Kamal Meattle and Mr. Barun during some of the visits at PBC Recently, PG Students from IIT Delhi visited PBC along with the Professors to learn about its sustainable ways. PBC shared various green initiatives related to energy and water conservation, waste management and sustainability. Mr. Barun explained them how dangerous is Indoor Air Pollution when compared with the ambient air and that is why it needs more attention. He further elaborated about the major indoor air pollutants i.e. PM 2.5, PM 10, VOC’s, etc. He explained how PBC has better indoor air quality compared to other buildings. Our CEO Emeritus, Mr. Meattle elaborated on the importance of green & healthy work spaces. He also explained how we combat pollution and grow our own fresh air with the help of more than 7,000 toxin removing plants that are grown indoors. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 39 of 48 Sustainable Development GOAL Take urgent actions to combat climate change and its impacts PBC has been proactive in the activities of The Climate Reality Project. Our Chairman, Mr. Meattle is the trustee to The Climate Reality Project – India Chapter (TCPI). The Climate Reality Project, founded and chaired by former Vice President and Nobel Laureate Al Gore, is dedicated to unleashing a global cultural movement demanding action on the climate crisis. The Climate Reality Project, Indiaan independent chapter of this international organization was established in March 2008 with the help of Al Gore and Dr. R K Pachauri. Their mission is to catalyze a global solution to the climate crisis by making urgent action a necessity across every level of society. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 40 of 48 PBC has partnered with TCPI in various awareness campaigns and other initiatives, and has also been rendering continued support to its Teacher’s Training Program to be undertaken in collaboration with Delhi Government. This program aims at taking the climate message to 10,000 teachers from 5,000 Delhi Schools, ultimately reaching out to 1 million children. This will inculcate climate-based solution metrics in the children and further help them in understanding the factors behind climate crisis and how one can act wisely to reduce the adverse effects of climate change. IX. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Environmental awareness amongst PBC team members & stakeholders is always encouraged. This motivates us in establishing partnerships with our important stakeholders, driving the organization towards sustainable development. Due to our inherent values and environmental sensitivity, we are perceived as a great place to work. We have initiated several awareness programs for school children, employees, clients, community on climate change. Some of the initiatives for promotion of our environmental responsibility towards community & stakeholder are:  Celebrating Earth Day & Environment Day in order to create awareness & scale the critical issues concerning our planet and relating them to the sustainability of our business.  Regular interaction with school children to sensitize them to issues relating to environment i.e. water and energy management, planting trees for a better air quality, etc  In-house employee awareness programs TAKING THE “GREEN” MESSAGE TO THE KEEN LEARNERS PBC believes in sharing its knowledge to enhance capabilities to create a better future, and that can happen by inculcating sustainable values in the students (the future of the world) PBC has been proactively spreading awareness on green concepts amongst school and college children. We create awareness on the importance of energy & water conservation, waste management, resource optimization and natural ways to combat air pollution. We demonstrate them our initiatives so as to make them aware of the viable measures. Each individual can contribute in making our World a greener and more sustainable home for all and the coming generations. And, we show them how such things are possible. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 41 of 48 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION X. BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY PBC believes in doing business in a sustainable and ethical manner. This is why we practice, promote and safeguard the anti-corruption laws at all levels of business. We are deeply committed to the principles of UN Global Compact. We have partnered in various initiatives of GCNI, quite proactively. One of them is, “Business Case for AntiCorruption in India” which is an anthology of case studies on anti-corruption. GCNI had taken up pressing corruption issues in Indian context, in a phased manner that addresses the sphere of public procurement, supply chain transparency, bribery and fraud, sustainability, ethical governance and more. Various renowned companies participated in this study and PBC was one of them. PBC is the only mSME that is a signatory to UNGC. To assist GCNI in building a bioscope of anti-corruption and ethical practices being carried in different Indian organizations, we conducted internal audits to check the compliance of the procedures and update the same, so as to ensure that correct message is disseminated. By analyzing various internal case studies, we could project how we maintain integrity in business by adhering to anti-corruption and nine other principles. Under the “Zero Tolerance Policy” we have clearly indicated that PBC does not tolerate any unethical conduct or violation of policies. To show our complete support to the GCNI’s initiative we came forward with some instances pertaining to the anticorruption policy. While citing one instance of violation of ethics, conduct and policy, we have shown the way we tackled the situation and resolved it. We have a dedicated Quality Assurance (QA) team that ensures that quality of services and business ethics are adhered to. It works conjointly with Finance, Human Resources and Legal Departments to check meticulously, that the standards, codes, regulatory and statutory requirements are met whilst controlling and monitoring PBC’s daily operations. Regular internal audits are conducted for the same. We propagate the same to all our stakeholders (internal and external) to ascertain that all of us are on the same page. At PBC, we have maintained transparency in the business policies to nullify corruption and encourage ethical work culture. In addition to the internal audits, we also organize Third Party Audits of different management systems. Each department has different set of SOPs and legal requirements which are modified and updated as and when required. Our policy on Gift and Hospitality, mandates that no gifts or monetary favor should be taken by any employee or any member of their immediate family, from the contractors, suppliers, clients/ customers or anyone else having dealings with the company. In the circumstances where it is customary to do so, employees are permitted to accept such gifts of nominal value or favors provided that such gifts or favors are not extended and/or accepted for the purpose or with any personal interest or unethical purposes. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 42 of 48 ROAD AHEAD Roadmap for the year 2019-20  At PBC, we have invested heavily to deal with increasing levels of pollution: By creating an additional green house on the roof This will also ensure round the clock Indoor Air quality inside the building We have installed photovoltaic to generate solar energy to further optimize our energy consumption  Going towards “RESET” certification for Indoor Air Quality. RESET is the world’s first sensor-based and performance-driven building standard and certification program. PBC core team members are trained on this certification. Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 43 of 48 MEDIA BUZZ A Green & Healthy Retrofit– India’s Platinum Case Study Monday 16th July 2018 Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 44 of 48 C’est un monde Cette semaine, la vie au travail sera à l’honneur (Documentary on Employee Welfare)_France 2 TV Monday 25th September 2018 Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 45 of 48 A Gift of Green_Mint Saturday 3rd November 2018 Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 46 of 48 Cleaning air in our homes key to checking pollution Book_Outlook Sunday 4th November 2018 2018-11-05 2018-11-16 PBC Coverage & Book How to Grow Fresh Air Release @ TimesNow Inside Your House Amidst Pollution @ Quint Fit 2018-11-13 How to beat Delhi Pollution @ Zee Business 2018-11-02 2018-11-11 The Search for Fresh India's Pollution Air Inside @ Business Market @ Times Now BBC News Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 47 of 48 Copyright © 2019 Chemical and Metallurgical Design Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. Communication on Progress Report Page 48 of 48
