2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. A bank in Sustainability Value Risk Transformation Management Creation Management Index 3 and Governance 11 18 5 Integrity Customer Digital Employee’s and Ethics Satisfaction Transformation Experience 37 53 58 62 Diversity Financial Inclusion Corporate Environmental Attachments 77 and Orientation Citizenship Management 122 86 100 111 A bank in This is an era of transformation that requires each one of us to be always prepared for more instantaneous, frequent and significant changes. These novelties impact and definitely change the habits of many people. For this reason, new digital payment methods with Apple Pay and Samsung Pay and, also, the facility offered by the Abre Contas (Open Accounts) application. Additionally, we reinforced our work on urban mobility with the inauguration of the new bicycle Transformation in a form of constructive indignation, we decided not to be system. In the social field, we had the visit of Malala Yousafzai complacent but to transform ourselves. to Brazil for an important event for education. For our employees, we implemented the pilot home office practice Accordingly, 2018 was a great year for us, not only for in many departments, we established a new dress code by our achievements and results in the financial market means of the Vou Como Sou (I go as I am) campaign and orgabut also for the innovations and changes we made. We nized many internal engagement events such as the Semana developed many initiatives, in line with the six strategic da Diversidade LGBT+ (LGBT+ Diversity Week) and Semana da fronts defined by senior management last year, which are Diversidade Racial (Racial Diversity Week). divided into two groups: In 2018, we also expressed our desire to change the league • Transformation, with the Customer Satisfaction, Digital and presented to the entire institution the seven principles of Transformation and People Management fronts; and centrality in the client. Our commitment is to increasingly prioritize this relationship with clients, getting to know them and • Continuous Improvement, with the Risk Management, understanding their problems and needs, enchanting, innoSustainable Profitability and Internationalization fronts. vating, communicating in a transparent way and, of course, recognizing the people that make all this happen. Some examples of the way we progressed towards internal transformation and in our roles in society were the Accordingly, we keep on going as a bank in transformation. launch of Credicard Pop, the repositioning of Credicard, the conception of Teclado Itaú (Itaú Keyboard), the offer of Enjoy your reading! Context of the report Structure of the report Because we are a bank in transformation, we are constantly Another way to satisfy our clients is by having more satisfied In 2018, we restructured our Materiality Matrix. As a result of adapting ourselves in view of the new competitive and regemployees. Accordingly, we have improved the Employee’s this review, we reduced to ten our material topics and present ulatory challenges, of the new available technologies, of the Experience. We are concerned with a work environment that them in connection with the Sustainable Development Goals employees’ expectations and of the habits of our clients. respects the individuality of our employees, where everyone (SDGs) highlighting those that we consider potentially associis able to work as they are and in which we encourage values ated with our main activities. In this process of Creation of Value, we add shared value such as flexibility and Diversity. in the long term for our employees, clients, stockholders, We present as follows our sustainability management and suppliers and society, thus ensuring the longevity of our We also recognize that our role as change agents and promotstrategy, our materiality, and a chapter for each topic that we business. Therefore, in addition to creating financial value ers of local development is very important. As such, we work to define as material. by means of the production and distribution of wealth encourage projects, institutions and individuals in an innovaamong employees, government and stockholders, we also tive manner towards the construction of a better world. We begin the chapters by explaining why we believe that highlight the creation of value for the other stakeholders each of the topics is material. Next, we present a table with and, consequently, for society. With respect to the value generated for society, we highthe relationship between the material topic and the GRI light our Financial Orientation and Inclusion actions, which, Standards, GRI-G4 sector disclosures, potential SDGs and In order to create value with responsibility, we need to base by means of the expansion of the access to our services, their targets, and stakeholders, in addition to including a our activities on strong Risk Management processes that affect the healthy economic development of society and our summary of the main matters addressed in each chapter. permeate the entire organization and that are the basis for employees, and our activities aimed at Corporate Citizenship, the strategic decisions that ensure the sustainability of the which expand our social actions aimed at cultural and educabusinesses. We understand that organizations that intend tional development, among others. Also, in the search for loto be perennial cannot profit at any price and, therefore, that cal development by means of the mitigation of the negative success depends on their ability to lead with Integrity and impacts of our operations, we present our initiatives aimed Ethics, which are essential values for us and our society. at Environmental Management, which are aimed at reducing the consumption of natural resources and the generation of In view of this, we decided, this year, to focus even more on waste and greenhouse gases (GHG). our clients and join the league of the world’s best companies in Customer Satisfaction, providing them with better experiIn our business, we always place ethics ahead of results. We ences and making them more fulfilled. As an essential tool to grow by helping people and Brazil prosper, encouraging the achieve customer satisfaction, we use and increasingly invest progress of those around us. We work to make dreams come in technology, following our Digital Transformation. true, to drive development and to awaken the will to do more and better. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 4 Sustainability Management Our vision is to be the leading bank in sustainable performance and customer satisfaction This challenge can and Governance only be met through collaborative work, which involves our key stakeholders: employee, clients, stockholders, suppliers, and society. We determine who are our key stakeholders based on indirect inquiries conducted in our communication channels. GRI 102-40 | GRI 102-42 | GRI 102-43 We incorporate sustainability into our corporate strategy through a governance structure that is consolidated and integrated with Governmental and Institutional Relations, Corporate Strategic Committee of our business. This allows us to internalize social, environmental and economic issues and trends as part of our daily activities and Communication, Investor Relations, Marketing, Credit processes to identify the areas which are capable of addressing and periodically tracking performance and indicators for these Risk, and Modeling and Sustainability. In 2018, this Foundations and Institutes issues, ensuring their development. committee held six meetings and the main issues Consisting of the Chairperson, Vice Chairpersons, Directors, addressed were as follows: review of the strategic and Superintendents in charge of all our foundations and Our governance structure allows us to improve and integrate synergies between areas with complementary challenges, thus sustainability guidelines, initiatives addressing climate institutes, this committee is responsible for making stratestrengthening the dissemination of global trends that may have a direct impact on the bank’s strategic business planning. change (Task Force on Climate-related Financial gic decisions about our private social investments, as well as Therefore, we were able to direct both shortand long-term action plans that drive material changes for our stakeholders, which Disclosures, climate risk), review of the governance and risk management in the group’s foundations and institutes. shows that our committees have an indirect impact on our strategic planning. diversity roadmap, human rights due diligence, and In 2018, it conducted a study on the social impact of our green products business challenge. social and cultural entities, focused on Instituto Unibanco, The graph below shows our sustainability governance forums. Itaú Cultural, and Itaú Social, aiming at increasing its com• Working Groups: set up to make us more efficient in pliance with domestic and international best practices, and Our sustainability governance • Board of Directors: guides, monitors and approves the the implementation of our sustainability strategy and maximizing each entity’s actions. sustainability strategy and policy aligned with our longintegrate sustainability initiatives into business areas, structure GRI 102-18 | GRI 102-20 term vision. In 2018, Sustainability and our progress on the working groups are responsible for managing Integrity and Ethics Committee priority topics were discussed at a meeting that also sustainability projects and other related initiatives. Our organization chart addressed other issues, such as the Integrity and Ethics Since 2015, these committees have been divided into: Consisting of Officers from the Compliance, Legal, Board level Program and the Strategic Sustainability Guidelines. Internal Management, Responsible Investments, and Corporate Security, Marketing, Institutional and Periodicity: annual Reporting. After revising the sustainability governance, Governmental Relations, Human Resources, Procurement, Board of Directors • Strategy Committee: leads, at the Board of Directors’ we saw an opportunity to move closer to other working Audit, and Internal Ombudsman departments, among Members of the Board of Directors level, the discussions on key sustainability challenges groups, such as diversity, integrity and ethics, and the others. In 2018, this committee held meetings every four Strategy Committee and trends that may represent a reputational risk and conglomerate’s foundations and institutes. months with the following responsibilities: Members of the Board environmental and social impact to the bank. of Directors In addition to the committees above, we have other com• Assessing and deciding on corporate topics that involve • Superior Ethics and Sustainability Committee: mittees that aim to add value and integrate the issue with ethics in business and the work environment; Executive level consisting of members of the Executive Committee, this the conglomerate’s business agenda. Periodicity: semi-annual Superior Ethics and committee is responsible for integrating sustainability • Monitoring compliance with policies and procedures Sustainability Committee and ethics practices to promote the spreading of these Environmental and Social Risk related to topics such as integrity and ethics; Members of the topics to the business management, our organizational Executive Committee culture, and our strategy. In 2018, this committee held two Committee GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS2) • Pointing out and approving improvements to processes Officers level meetings where it discussed issues such as: the strategic as a result of regulations, identified risks, complaints, Periodicity: bimonthly sustainability guidelines, benchmarks for the Integrity and Consisting of officers of the Risk, Compliance, Legal, and among others; Sustainability Committee Members Officers Ethics Program, planning and challenges for 2019 related Sustainability departments, with the possibility of calling of departments involved in the to integrity and ethics, and our performance as measured the heads of other departments, depending on the matters • Submitting the status of the various actions related to the sustainability agenda by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). to be considered by this committee. The main duties of this Integrity and Ethics Program; committee are: decide on institutional positions regarding Operational level • Sustainability Committee: based on a corporate the bank’s exposure to environmental and social risk; rec• Submitting the information from the whistleblowing Working Groups agenda, this committee addresses the main sustainability ommend roles and responsibilities related to environmenchannels; and Members/Executives of issues for the bank’s governance and related working tal and social risk management; decide on noncompliance departments involved in groups. This Committee is composed of representatives situations with environmental and social risk management • Deciding on conflict of interest situations sustainability projects from different departments: Legal, Personnel, External policies and procedures; and decide how to bring noncom(when necessary). Ombudsman’s Office, Internal Control, Compliance, pliance events procedures to the competent forums. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 6 Diversity Blue Ribbon Committee Evaluating and developing activities: Dialogue and Transparency, Financial Literacy, • Issue development, which comprises the timely analyand Environmental and Social Risks and Opportunities, sis of the corporate sustainability concept in the world, Consisting of Board of Directors members and people with products and services which are supported by four support fronts: Governance and understanding the emerging codes, and where are the GRI G4-DMA Product and Service Labeling (former FS15) credentials on the matter, the purpose of the Diversity Blue Management, Efficiency, Incentives, and Culture. After meetlargest positive and negative impacts of our business; Ribbon Committee is to discuss projects, present trends, Based on the Corporate Product Evaluation Policy, any ing with a number of Specialists and Executives, the Executive build partnerships, and discuss the bank’s progress in the project that modifies or creates products and services is Committee approved our work. • Analysis of the competition and major world trends, and diversity agenda. This Committee meets bimonthly and subjected to a rigorous analysis focused on risk manageOur strategy an internal and external diagnosis to capture how our gathers Managers and Specialists who work in civil society ment. This requires integration across product areas and work is perceived by our stakeholders and the bank’s top to promote the pillars of race, gender, LGBT+, and disabled the units evaluating the different impacts that may occur, Envir executives; and o nm people, thus fulfilling the mission of keeping the instituin a multidisciplinary way, including Legal, Tax, Corporate en n ta tional discussion up-to-date. Security, Accounting, Internal Controls, among others. The t io l& • Building the strategic guidelines, which consists of setance uc So Sustainability department is part of the team involved in a ting priorities and positive impact commitments for the ern ement c ia Sustainability in Latin America the evaluation process. Our Retail and Wholesale Products l Ed v Go anag lR development of a new positioning and strategic model Committees are composed of their Officers, who meet c ia M i sk more connected to the business core and based on the (LATAM) d e s an from time to time to discuss projects. As one of the departFinan ltur impact we want to generate. an Cu d Oppo r t uni t i e s We believe in business-integrated sustainability and we also ments involved, our sustainability team evaluates and sugBe the leading seek this strategic alignment in our foreign units. Since 2015 gests adjustments to ensure that products and projects are bank in sustainable we have set up a model to prioritize and monitor local initiaaligned with our work pillars: financial literacy, transparency, performance and customer Understanding our impact Effi c tives for the LATAM countries where we operate (Argentina, and environmental and social risks. In 2018, the Sustainability satisfaction Chile, Colombia, Paraguay, and Uruguay), aligned with department received 56 projects that were reviewed based ien In order to better understand market perceptions and our strategy. We have designed a structured governance on these criteria. expectations, we conducted 14 in-depth interviews with es cy v approach for Sustainability in LATAM countries that includes n ti Sustainability and Financial Market Specialists, opinion maksharing local content and initiatives among the countries and I n ce ers, and executives from companies known for their engagean annual gathering. Throughout these years, we were able Strategic sustainability ment with the issue, and we will promote three theme panels Di y to strengthen our relationship, which translated into value guidelines a lo gue re nc with external and internal stakeholders to encourage refleccreation, as shown by LATAM’s key indicators. GRI 102-44 | GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS2) a n d Tr anspa tion. Additionally, we have conducted 23 interviews with top and mid-level leaders who have a key role in the current susIn 2018, for the purpose of bringing all the Sustainability Considering and understanding our key activities, the tainability strategy to include their vision in our path and get issues faced in LATAM and in Brazil closer, we held the impacts on and externalities affecting the external and interTo formalize our commitment to sustainable development, some tips on how to act to keep our commitment toward susFoundations and Sustainability Meeting in Santiago, Chile. nal environments, are our starting point to define our stratewe have a Sustainability and Environmental and Social tainability. GRI 103-2 Value Creation Teams from the LATAM countries got together to put forgic action guidelines. However, we also believe that involving Responsibility Policy. This policy is revised and approved by ward an agenda covering issues such as: Sustainable Finance our stakeholders is indispensable for this process. We the Board of Directors on an annual basis. Another part of the process was to understand our impact Drivers, environmental management, diversity, climate describe as follows the process we used to build these guidebased on our core business. Considering all the internal and finances, carbon strategy, suppliers, urban mobility, market lines, which are currently guiding our actions. We understand that our current positioning has matured external studies conducted so far, we defined the Sustainable reporting, and reputation. and started a process to review our strategic sustainability Finance Drivers: Financial Access and Inclusion; Suitability The guidelines that steer our sustainability work were defined guidelines. This moment in time is even more convenient with with Finance Guidance; Infrastructure Capital; Technologic based on an analysis of our vision, Our Way, and our corpothe unveiling of Our Purpose, the emergence of new priority and Finance Innovation; Intelligence and Risk Management; rate policies, commitments and voluntary compacts, surveys, issues, the definition of priority fronts, and the progress in the Market Integrity, Transparency and Resilience; and Inclusive and meetings with stakeholders to understand the key issues. sustainable development agenda. and Responsible Management. Each driver was crosschecked with the work of the executive functions and, as a result, we In 2011, this study led us to design our Sustainability Map, The review process of the strategic sustainability guidelines were able to define what is material and has more impact for which establishes three strategic focus points for our was divided into three main stages: each business. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 7 Sustainable Finance Drivers Materiality GRI 102-46 The methodology used to revise our material matters conDescription sists of three distinct steps. We consider as material matters any issues capable of affecting value creation in the short, medium and long (1) Identification (2) Prioritization (3) Validation How can we increase financial inclusion by reducing costs and providing adequate access to capital FINANCIAL ACCESS for people and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)? How can we extend in an efficient and terms from the standpoint of the organization and its key AND INCLUSION fair manner the offer of services and credit to society segments that are currently underserved or not stakeholders. Determining material matters is key to guide served, taking into account the current economic and socio-demographic setup? our decision-making, since it provides a broader vision of the risks and opportunities inherent in the business and How can we design, price, and offer a appropriate more product to the client at the right time, connects the strategies to multiple external interests. SUITABILITY FOR taking into account his or her financial situation and time in life, habits, and values? How can we In the first step (1), we identify which would be the inputs FINANCIAL ORIENTATION clarify and guide them about the impacts by seeking a mutually beneficial relationship and longOur strategic sustainability guidelines are undergoing a that we would use to revise our former material matters. The term bonds? review process, as described, that had major impacts for the main goal was to identify the most material issues for our redefinition of our reports’ materiality. GRI 102-49 management and our stakeholders. Accordingly, we used as CAPITAL FOR How can we mobilize capital in sufficient scale to facilitate long-term investments aimed at resilient basis: GRI 102-42 | GRI 102-44 INFRASTRUCTURE and sustainable infrastructure? Material issues for us and our stakeholders How can we allocate capital and knowledge to new business models that join profitability and Materiality for management and economic, TECHNOLOGIC AND positive environmental and social impacts? How can we invest and/or induce investments in Materiality for stakeholders’ assessments and decisions environmental, and social impacts of the organization FINANCIAL INNOVATIONS the development and use of technologic and financial innovations and transformations that generate a positive impact for sustainable development? Priority fronts, which were define by top management as general Hearing with employees and experts, and during the strategic guidelines for all bank functions in 2017 (learn more in Introduction guidelines review process in 2017. on page 3). INTELLIGENCE AND How can we collect, analyze, use, and distribute economic, social, and environmental Sustainable Finance Drivers, defined during the strategic guidelines review Interviews with experts and the bank’s and other companies’ top RISK MANAGEMENT information by generating knowledge applied to pricing and business impacts? How can we use process in 2018. management in 2018. this knowledge for the management, transfer, and diversification of risks? MARKET INTEGRITY, How to contribute to the creation of a fair financial eco-system that is aligned with the sustainable development agenda? How to better collect, process, analyze and distribute The issues raised by our stakeholders during the hearings to implementing the best reporting and transparency TRANSPARENCY AND RESILIENCE market information that provides our stakeholders with conditions to improve decisions and and interviews will generate commitments, indicators, tarpractices. The materiality definition process was exterenhance the industry’s regulations? gets, and our priority SDGs. GRI 102-44 nally assured by PwC, based on the guidelines of the AA1000 standard and pursuant the provisions of our polHow can we create a better experience for the employee and promote the creation of a diverse, In the nest step (2), based on a materiality valuation, develicy, which sets forth the development procedures of this INCLUSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE inclusive environment? How can we reduce the environmental and social impact of our oped by several functions, in which we crosscheck our old Report and requires the external assurance of the GRI MANAGEMENT operations by generating higher efficiency based on the use of new technologies and influencing material matters with the current expectations brought by indicators. GRI 102-56 our value chain? the inputs referred to above, we will prioritize the issues and subsequently consolidate them into even more compreSince 2017, we have prepared our report in accordance with hensive issues, according to our stakeholders’ and market the GRI Standards. However, since the sectoral indicators for expectations. GRI 102-49 the financial services industry have not yet been revised, we Next steps positive impact on society. The commitments will be consiswill continue to report them using GRI-G4. tent with the Sustainable Development Goals, in addition to Finally, in the last step (3), the prioritized issues were Based on these priorities, we are building commitments, being aligned with UN’s Principles for Responsible Banking. discussed and validated internally by the Reporting We submit as follows the materiality analysis containing our indicators, and targets that magnify and evidence our We will disclose our commitments in 2019. Committee, a sustainability governance forum dedicated ten new material matters: GRI 102-47 | GRI 102-49 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 8 Materiality identified in 2018 Integrity Digital Customer Value Risk and Ethics Transformation Satisfaction Creation Management Diversity Environmental Financial Corporate Employee’s Management Inclusion Citizenship Experience and Orientation This year, because of the review of our materiality, we have structured this report into chapters that reflect in one of the material matters, instead of using our former structure that was based on our stakeholders. At the beginning of each chapter it is possible to check the GRI indicators and the SDGs related to the issue, as well as the type of impact on our stakeholders. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 9 The Sustainable Development • SDGs in Brazil –The Role of the Private Sector: we present the Itaú Women Entrepreneurs Program (learn more in We continued this process throughout 2018 by identifying which SDGs and targets had been affected and which one In 2019, with the launching of the Positive Impact Commitments, we will define the priority SDGs, which will be connected with Goals (SDGs) in our Financial Inclusion and Orientation on page 96), which are considered potential goals, i.e., that may be significantly the businesses through impact measurement indicators. promotes economic development and financial inclusion affected by our operations as a holding organization. This operating strategy (SDG 1), offers educational opportunities and fosters female definition was based on the relationship of these SDGs with As follows, is our reporting and action history: entrepreneurship (SDG 4), promotes female empowerment our materiality level and the Sustainable Finance Drivers (learn In 2015, the United Nations (UN) and world leaders formally (SDG 5) and sustainable economic growth by providing more in Strategic sustainability guidelines on page 7). adopted a 2030 Agenda for sustainable development: the female entrepreneurs with content and knowledge (SDG Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The agenda was 8), and contributes to reducing gender inequality (SDG 10). Identification history of priority SDGs developed based on the Millennium Development Goals This case was selected as Companies and Human Rights, (MDGs), after a long consultation process involving global increase female presence in business, during the 73rd General companies, governments and civil societies. The result is Stockholders’ Meeting of the United Nations, in New York. 2017 17 Goals that include social, environmental and economic Impacted SDGs aspects to be implemented by all countries by 2030. • 2018 Brazil SDG Award – 1st edition: we were recognized through businesses by the National Award for the Sustainable Development and initiatives As a result and with regard to sustainability issues, our guideGoals, organized by the Federal Government and granted line in UN’s 2030 Agenda, which takes into consideration every two years, until 2030, for one case about the Female risk management and market connections. By connecting Entrepreneur Program (learn more in Financial Inclusion the challenges for sustainable development with an orgaand Orientation on page 96). This program offers training nization’s purpose and business strategy, it is possible to that permit women to improve their management increase the value of corporate sustainability by acting on techniques and maximize the results of their businesses, societal challenges and changes, sharing purposes, and creinspiration so that they can see a success path, and 2018 ating opportunities aligned with the new economy and the networking so that they can expand their contact networks 2018 Potential SDGs strengthening of worldwide collaboration to reduce negative and thus promote partnerships and dealings. The purpose that can be significantly environmental, social, and economic impacts. of the Brazil SDG Award is to encourage, value, and shine affected, related to a light on the practices developed by state, municipal, and the materiality of the Sustainable Finance We are actively involved in organizing the 2030 Agenda by the Federal District governments, and civil society as well, Drivers (SFD) attending global forums to disseminate the most recent that contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development trends on this issue and assuming a reference position when Goals in Brazil. we are invited to contribute to the dissemination of our institutional experience in this matter and also holding the Chair of the Brasil Network Global Compact. Identification of the potential SDGs 2019 Positive Impact Priority SDGs defined with Our main initiatives involving the SDGs in 2018 are as follows: Working in favor of the 2030 Agenda is a way of diminishing Commitments the Executive functions risks, improving results, strengthening reputation, and generthrough the Positive Impact Commitments • White paper | Responsible investment through the SDG ating positive impacts, in addition to expanding the reach of Lenses – Itaú Asset Management’s Approach: this paper sustainable development through our business. Thus, in 2017 unveils the investors’ perspective on how the SDGs can produce we crosschecked the data of our initiatives and businesses better returns, aligning risks with the positive impact on society, with the affected SDGs. Our impact on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) GRI 102-15 and bring benefits to the environment and the business, based on the balance between investment initiatives to reach goals The tables depicted at the beginning of each chapter show the result of the analysis of our initiative’s impacts on SDGs and and targets. Read more about it here. their targets. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 10 Value Creation Why is this subject material? GRI 102-15 | GRI 102-44 | GRI 103-1 Value Creation Our understanding of value creation is based on the concept of Sustainable Performance, whereby we generate long-term shared value for our employees, clients, stockholders, and society, ensuring the continuity of our business. This shared value can be both financial and nonfinancial, which we measured based on the tangible impact or not of our results, activities, products, and services. As important as the creation of financial value through the generation and distribution of wealth among employees, the government and stockholders, it is the creation of intangible values for the other stakeholders and, consequently, to society. GRI 103-2 Value Creation Materiality Value Creation GRI 103-1 Value Creation Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact We promote the consumption of clean energy through our products and services by 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energies in the global reviewing financed projects related to power generation and consumption based on risk energy matrix. criteria and environmental and social opportunities. 7.b By 2030, expanding the infrastructure and upgrading the technology for the proviWe invest in efficient energy technologies, by analyzing environmental and social sion of modern and sustainable energy services for all developing countries, in particular in frontier countries, developing small island states, landlocked developing countries, opportunities and increasing the renewable energy installed capacity by offering products that foster the use of clean source energy. according to their related support programs. 9.3 Increase the access of small industries and other companies, in particular in develIn this chapter... We create products (credit and onlending facilities) and serve small businesses by stimoping countries, to financial services, including accessible credit and their integration in ulating business development and markets in the regions where we operate. value chains and markets. ...we describe the different initiatives that generate value for the different sectors of society or our 9.4 By 2030, upgrade the infrastructure and revamp industries to make them sustainorganization. We show how they are distributed We mitigate environmental and social risks and leverage opportunities based on the able, with increased efficiency in the use of resources and increased adoption of clean, among our stakeholders: initially as financial value, analysis of wholesale corporate clients and infrastructure projects financed. We also environmental-friendly technologies and manufacturing processes; with all countries invest in efficient and appropriate infrastructure for the use of resources in our facilities. measured in the Distribution of Value Added (DVA); working according to their related capacities. next, in other ways beyond the financial side, as our impacts on employees and clients. We also bring a 11.6 By 2030, reduce the negative environmental impact per capita in the cities, includWe have reduced and offset the emissions of our operations and conducted a study and summary of our impacts on the external and internal ing by paying special attention to air quality, municipal waste management, etc. disclosed the financed emissions and the carbon footprint of the Digital Agency. environment, where we provide an overview of our key activities, impacts, and externalities, which allows us to understand our impacts on society. Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders GRI 103-1 Value Creation In line with the generation of the value to the external Client Employee Stockholder Society Supplier stakeholders, we present our credit products and socioDirect Direct Direct Direct Indirect environmental funds for projects with social benefits and/or connected with the green economy, which bring environmental and social profits in their planning. GRI topics Related indicators Management Approach GRI 103-1 Value Creation – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Value Creation – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Value Creation – Evaluation of the management approach General Disclosures GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities General Disclosures GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised General Disclosures GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Economic Performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic Performance GRI G4-DMA Economic Performance Product Portfolio GRI G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Product Portfolio GRI G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 12 Financial impact | Distribution of Value Added (DVA) Nonfinancial impacts GRI 201-1 | GRI 103-2 Value Creation | GRI G4-DMA Economic Performance (social and economic and On the financial side, we identified the creation of value using the DVA, which is an accounting statement aimed at present the way the wealth created among the different sectors involved in the process is distributed. environmental impacts) | Because this is an accounting statement required by the local regulators, its information is extracted from accounting and is Banking responsibility GRI 203-2 reported on an accrual basis. The DVA is calculated based in the difference between the financial value created by the business and the goods and services produced by third parties and used by us. On the nonfinancial side, we conducted both valuation studies of our actions for our employees and society. These studIn 2018 the Value Added taking into account the IFRS basis, reached R$71.9 billion and wealth was distributed as shown in the folies are comprehensive and involve social and economic and lowing table: environmental aspects for the purpose of identifying our impacts on our relationships and our banking responsibility. DVA (%) Distributed value 2018 2017 2016 Though its actions, a bank is capable of, for example, create jobs, develop businesses, and promote entrepreneurship; on Sector R$71.9 billion R$65.3 billion R$61.5 billion the other hand, it can also generate negative impacts, such as environmental or indebtedness impacts. Employees 30.96 32.03 33.07 Profit reinvestments 5.88 6.87 16.76 In order to leverage this agenda, we have been developing Taxes, fees and contribution 30.99 29.42 28.30 since 2016 studies to map and measure our impacts. The first study conducted identified the contribution of our activities Payments to stockholders 29.99 29.44 19.47 to the GDP and job maintenance. In order to expand the lens Remuneration on third 2.18 2.25 2.41 on this subject, in 2017 we conducted studies that would meaparties’ capital sure our environmental impacts. GRI 103-2 Value Creation | Notes: · Beginning 2018, we started to adopt IFRSs to disclose the DVA amounts. Accordingly, the historic amounts were adjusted to comply with this standard and differ GRI 103-3 Value Creation from the amounts disclosed in previous reports. GRI 102-48 · Amounts based on Recurring Net Income. · Disregards the hedging tax effect. Proceeding with this agenda, in 2018 we developed new studies to expand the subject internally. In addition to the developed studies, we worked in a multidisciplinary group to disseminate the concept of impact and join efforts with areas that work with the subject. Based on these advances, we initiated an internal research, illustrated as follows, of the priority externalities that have initiatives connected to the core business and that generate and/or mitigate direct, indirect and induced positive and/or negative impacts, as well as their outcomes. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 13 Dimension of the impacts on the society GRI 203-2 The infographics illustrates some direct impacts of our operation, and the indirect and induced impacts of our supply chain and products and services. Jobs Jobs Jobs GDP GDP Impact GDP Financial inclusion + Occupational health Entrepreneurship Human rights Human rights Indebtedness control Supply chain Operation Products and services Human rights Human rights Water footprint Energy consumption CO2 emissions Water consumption Indebtedness Impact Programs Water footprint and business Energy consumption Energy consumption impacting CO2 footprint Waste social needs Financed emissions Social and economic impacts Social impacts Incentive to Financial guidance to Environmental impacts Financial inclusion entrepreneurship overindebted clients Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 14 Social and economic impacts | Externalities of credit products After these analyses, we have obtained the following results: and supply chain GRI 203-2 To measure the impacts caused by us, we have conducted a study that simulates the economic flows involved in our operations and credit products for individuals and legal entities through the Utopies Local FootPrint® methodology. Based on the collected data, this tool allows us to measure the economic contribution expressed in terms of the jobs maintained and the GDP (R$ billion) Direct impact Itaú operation 92.8 Products N.A. Total 92.8 $ R$1,00 = R$3,60 value added created (translated into the GDP). We considered, for the analysis, ten credit products (five focused on individu5% Indirect impact 13.5 98.4 111.9 als and five focused on legal entities) and our expenses on the 100 largest suppliers of Brazil (based on the amount spent on of the Brazilian Each R$1.00 of direct GDP of bank each supplier). GRI 103-2 Value Creation | GRI 103-3 Value Creation Catalyzing 37.5 94.0 131.5 GDP in 2017 contributes to the generation of impact R$3.60 of Brazil’s GDP, through its Total impact 143.8 192.4 336.2 operations and credit products. Information on the study Impacts of operations Catalyzing impacts These are the “direct” social and economic impacts, such as These are the impacts of the operations of the ten jobs created and maintained or income generated, also takproducts analyzed in this study, five of which are Jobs Itaú operation Products Total = ing into account the effects of our relationship with supplirelated to individuals and five to corporations. ers, resulting in a continuous chain for the suppliers of our All products that were analyzed under this study are Direct impact 85,537 85,537 7% 1 75 suppliers, and so on, until the economic flow reaches zero, related to credit, therefore, the direct impacts are not of the working “indirectly” fueling the Brazilian economy. Indirect impact 117,406 3,988,716 4,116,122 For each one job taken into consideration in this analysis. However, we population Catalyzing maintained directly by Meanwhile, the compensations paid to our employees and still have indirect and induced impacts since the intro636,190 1,568,959 2,205,149 in Brazil impact bank, contributes to the compensations paid by our employees to their supduction of these amounts into the economy results in maintaining 75 jobsin Brazil. Total impact 839,133 5,567,675 6,403,808 pliers support our “induced” impacts of household conrelationships with suppliers until the economic flow sumption, in addition to financing public spending, thanks reaches zero (indirect impacts) that lead to an increase to the tax receipts. in household consumption (induced impacts). Training impact | Employees Bearing this in mind, we developed a workgroup that had the GRI 103-3 Value Creation In both cases, we classified three types of impacts that • Indirect impacts – how this disseminates to the different following goal: conduct impact analyses of some of the conwere analyzed in the study: sectors, particularly in the supply chain, such as tier 1, 2, 3, From the perspective of the employee, we have several ducted training programs. Throughout the year, this worketc. suppliers). actions to increase the experience of our employees, includgroup conducted a pilot impact assessment to some applied • Direct impacts – financial margin, taxes, purchases ing investing in training so that they can develop in several training programs. and sectors of suppliers, production and even number • Induced impacts – household consumption and operating knowledge areas. After undergoing training, we need to of workers. expenses of public bodies. understand if the employee met his or her goals and if the This way we can understand how much of our investment in training had the intended impact on the trained employees. employee development is being effective. For further details Note: Product for individual clients: Personal Credit, Payroll Loans, Credit Cards, Real Estate Loans, and Vehicle Loans. Product for corporate clients: Working Capital Loans, on this assessment, please visit the Employee’s Experience Credit Cards, CDC/FINAME/Leasing, Real Estate Loans, and Vehicle Loans. chapter on page 62. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 15 Positive impact | Products Business Challenge Multilateral and financing and services GRI G4-FS7 | GRI G4-FS8 | GRI 103-2 Driven by the goal of becoming the leading bank in finanfacilities GRI103-2 Value Creation Value Creation | GRI G4-DMA Economic Performance cing the transition to a green economy, we use a proprieThis year we kept active all our multilateral facilities tary innovation methodology, called Business Challenge aimed at promoting environmental and social beneBearing in mind that because we are a financial entity, to expedite the development of environmental solutions fits. These funds were provide by the International all our activities (direct and indirect) have an impact by creating new products and services to individual and Finance Corporation (IFC), the Inter-American Investment on our stakeholders, we offer products and services corporate clients. In total, 40 ideas came up that will geneCorporation (IIC), the Overseas Private Investment aimed at creating value and maximize our impact on rate ten new bank products and services, in addition to a Corporation (OPIC), and the Inter-American Development the society. Define capital allocation, whether in credit communication and corporate environmental positioning Bank (IADB) for projects and companies located in the or in investment, in addition to supporting our clients plan will be launched in 2019. North and Northeast of Brazil, for small business and with sustainable investment solutions that bring financial returns and benefits to society is a key part of medium-sized enterprises, and women-led businesses. this operation. We are on track to deliver services and products that are aligned with the values and the current demands of society. Resource allocation per type of financing facility FEBRABAN Green Economy Financing modality Summary of funds destination Amount (R$ million) BNDES Finem Prorenova Cane fields renewal and introduction of new plantations of sugarcane. 8.8 One way of assessing our share in the generation of positive impact on our lending operations is through market BNDES ABC Agriculture – financing to decrease the emissions of greenhouse gases. 44.6 reporting. Our line of services related to the green economy is a material part of a market development veriBNDES Automatic Grain and sugar warehousing and processing facilities, hospital and school 43.7 fied in a survey conducted in the financial market by the Project Finance renovations, wastewater treatment plants, and hydroelectric power plant. Brazilian Bank Federation (FEBRABAN), which identified Itaú Project Bridge Loans Transmission lines and hydro and solar power plants. 635.0 a year-on-year 33.4% increase in funding to industries considered part of the green economy in 2017. To see this Itaú Project Finance Transmission lines and hydro, solar, and wind power plants. 4,284.0 study, please click here. Power distribution, sugarcane crops, rain storage, hospital, cement plant, and solar Itaú Project Finance – long term 4,808.0 power plants. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 16 In 2017, we underwrote the issued of Klabin’s green bond at setting up networking to attract investors, entrepreEnvironmental and Social Funds based on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in the foreign market. In this transaction, the organizaneurs and partners to foster profitable business models GRI 201-1 | GRI G4-DMA Economic Performance World Business Council for Sustainable Development tion issued US$500 million in bonds maturing in 2027 and that may solve social or environmental problems, and, (WBCSD), Environmental Social and Governance the proceeds were allocated exclusively to “eligible green therefore, promote insights on how to manage resources We offer our clients funds with environmental and (ESG), and Paris Accord as reference of impact indiprojects”. This issue puts Itaú in a prominent position and the needs of society. social benefits, such as: cators, seeking a transition of supports, fostering the with regard to advising and promoting the issue of green Fundos Itaú Excelência Social (FIES): equity fund that based on the venture philanthropy concept to develop In 2018, as a way of learning about the subject and promote bonds in the foreign market. makes investments in socially responsible companies. impact businesses. in association with the former Social Finances and Impact In 2018, the Wholesale segment allocated R$8.65 billion Businesses Task Force, we prepared the paper “What The selection process for the companies that make Since 2009, we annually publish a call notice to select in financial support transactions that generated environStance Are Local and International Financial Institutions on up this fund consists of excluding or including certain new projects. For the 2018 call notice, we selected mental and social benefits. This amount, of compared to the Subject Impact Investment”, which was launched during sectors/companies and applying the ESG integration six projects, applicable to the Forests, Renewable the segment’s portfolio at the end of 2018, corresponds our participation in the 2018 Social Finances and Impact method to other assets eligible for investment. In addiEnergy, Agriculture, and Solid Waste Handling fields, to approximately 8.47%. Businesses Forum, which we sponsor. tion, 50% of management fees of this family of funds and the first organization with the aptitude to are donated to educational projects developed by We have been working in our governance to make availbecome impact business. Impact investment able to our clients responsible investment products that NGOs in Brazil. From 2004 to the end of 2018, over R$31 million was transferred to 176 civil society organizaSince it was launched until 2018 (projects selected in Impact investments are the new frontier in our indusalso foster positive impact. We supported the distribution tions, benefiting over 36,892 children and youngsters. the 2009 to 2017 call notices), the Ecomudança invested try. To learn, exchange experiences and propose of the impact debenture of Vivenda, an impact business more than R$6 million in 63 projects in 21 Brazilian paths and solutions to strengthen this subject, since that operates in the renovation of low cost housing in Fundos Itaú Ecomudança: support projects with States and in the Federal District. The program has ben2016 we are partners of Aliança Pelos Investimentos e the poorer neighborhoods, thus contributing to improvpotential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that efitted approximately 1,593 families, of which approxNegócios de Impacto (Alliance for Impact Investments ing the quality of life of the households living in these develop initiatives related to renewable energy, waste imately 844 had an increase in income of above 10%. and Businesses), former Social Finances Task Force, areas. We are also reviewing our investment funds’ action management, urban mobility, sustainable agriculture The overall reduction of greenhouse gases generated fomented by the Instituto de Cidadania Empresarial (ICE responsible for adding features to encourage the develand forestation by transferring 30% of its adminisby funded projects, since its inception, has already – CorporateCitizenship Institute). This group is aimed opment of impact businesses. tration fee to these projects. In 2018, in addition to reached 34,449 tCO₂e. Please access our annual reports the projects that we have carried out throughout the with the results of the program here. years, we have sought escalate the program’s impacts and opened a helpline for organizations to which we Fundo Itaú Futura (Itaú Futura Social Fund): between allocate 10% of the transferred amount (10% of the 2010 and 2018, the Fundo Itaú Futura donated over 30%), for organizations with the aptitude to become R$3 million to educational projects developed by impact businesses. The valuation of the organizations Roberto Marinho Foundation’s Futura TV channel, was made using a methodology that has indicators which accounts for 30% of its management fee. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 17 Risk Why is this topic material? Management Assuming and managing risks is one of our main The principles that provide the fundamentals of risk activities and, for this reason, we have well estabmanagement and risk appetite, and the guidelines on lished objectives with respect to risk management. how our employees should work in a decision-making The risk appetite defines the nature and level of the process are as follows: sustainability and customer satlosses that are acceptable for us and the risk culture isfaction; risk culture; risk management; diversification; guides the attitudes required to manage them. We operational excellence and ethics and regulatory compursue sound risk management processes that perpliance. These principles guide the institution’s operameate the entire organization and are the basis for tion based on the importance of our customer and user strategic decisions so as to ensure our business sussatisfaction, so as to ensure our business longevity tainability. GRI 102-15 | GRI 103-1 Risk Management | over time by mapping, managing and mitigating risks GRI 103-2 Risk Management | GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio in an ethical and responsible way. (former FS1 | FS2 | FS5) We adhere to CMN Resolution No. 4,557, which proThese processes are in line with the guidelines of the vides for the risk and capital management structure. Board of Directors and Executives that, by means The highlights of this resolution are the implemenof joint committees, define the overall objectives tation of a continuous and integrated risk manageexpressed in targets and limits to the risk management structure, the requirements to define the Risk ment business units. The capital control and manageAppetite Statement and the Stress Testing Program, ment units, in turn, support our management with the establishment of a Risk Committee and the nomrisk and capital monitoring and analysis processes. ination, with the Central Bank of Brazil (Bacen), of the risk management Officer, with the assignment of roles, responsibilities and independence requirements. GRI 103-2 Risk Management Materiality Risk Management GRI 103-1 Risk Management Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact 8.2 Reach higher levels of productivity of the economies through diversification, technologic We changed the business logic with the Wholesale companies by promoting sustainable modernization, and innovation, including through a focus on the high value added sectors and practices, with lower environmental and social impact, in addition to diversity as the driver for labor intensive sectors. the innovation of processes, services, and products. 8.4 Progressively improve by 2030, the efficiency of the global resources in consumption and production, and make an effort to dissociate economic growth from environmental degradation, pursuant to o Ten-year Program Plan on Sustainable Production and Consumption, with developed countries assuming the leadership. Through Itaú Asset Management we conducted ESG valuation of the companies ensuring that 8.5 By 2030, reach full, productive employment and decent work for women and men, including the risks and opportunities are integrated into the investment decisions. for youngsters and disabled people, and equal pay for equal-value work. 8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe, protect work environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular migrant women, and people in precarious jobs. 8.7 Take immediate efficient actions to eradicate forced labor, ends modern slavery and human We work in favor of eradicating forced labor by not financing clients who have given indications trafficking, and ensure the prohibition and elimination the worst forms of child labor, including of such practices; we are also part of the compact to eradicate forced labor and advise clients on recruiting and using child soldiers, and end with all forms of child labor by 2025. how to migrate to more sustainable investments based on risk assessment. 13.1 Reinforce the resilience and capacity of adapting to risks related to climate and natural Through Itaú Asset Management, we conduct an ESG assessment to ensure that climate disasters in all countries. change-related risks are integrated and can be taken into consideration in investment choices. We implement the TCFD recommendations agenda and measured the impacts of climate change on the major loan portfolios, ensuring that risks from climate change are identified and 13.2 Integrate climate change-related actions into local policies, strategies, and planning. mitigated through the positioning in portfolios less dependent on climate worsening factors. In addition to contributing and boosting the low-carbon economy and the new economy through our operations. 13.3 Improve education, increase awareness and human and institutional capacity on impact We issue the white paper Climate change and Its Impacts where we identify the sectors and mitigation, adaptation, decrease, and early warning of climate change. timeframes and actions necessary to mitigate the risks, as well as the business opportunities. Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders GRI 103-1 Risk Management Employee Stockholder Client Supplier Society Direct Direct Direct Direct Indirect Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 19 GRI topics Related initiatives and indicators Management Approach GRI 103-1 Risk Management – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Risk Management – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Risk Management – Evaluation of the management approach General Disclosures GRI 102-9 Supply chain General Disclosures GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach General Disclosures GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Economic Performance GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change In this chapter… Procurement Practices GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers …we will present the fundamentals that support our Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria risk culture, such as risk appetite and its five dimenSupplier Environmental Assessment GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken sions. Thereafter, we will show the types of risks we manage and the procedures used in each context Supplier Social Assessment GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria with respect to sustainability, such as the manageSupplier Social Assessment GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ment of environmental and social (E&S) risk and of GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS1) – Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines the climate risk. GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS2) – Procedures for the assessing and screening environmental and social risks in the business lines As regards third-party risks, we will detail our supGRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS3) – Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in plier management and the procedures involved. agreements or transactions Finally, we will also address the risks in third-party Product Portfolio GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS4) – Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to asset management, insurance and when granting business lines mortgage loans that, in accordance with the speGRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS5) – Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities cific nature of each risk, are also analyzed based on environmental and social and ESG criteria. GRI G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/ SME/large) and by sector Audit GRI G4-DMA Audit (former FS9) – Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures GRI G4-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues Active Ownership GRI G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening GRI G4-DMA Active Ownership (former FS12) – Voting policy(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting GRI G4-DMA Product and Service Labeling (former FS15) – Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services Product and Service Labeling GRI G4-DMA Product and Service Labeling (former FS16) – Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 20 Risk culture GRI 103-2 Risk Management And monitored by metrics It’s based on Guided by the Aiming at strengthening the values and aligning the behavior Board of Directors Statement inserted in the day-to-day Principles of Risk Management of our employees with the guidelines established in risk manof business management agement, we have adopted a number of initiatives to dissem“ inate and strengthen the risk culture, which is based on four pillars: the conscious assumption of risk, the discussion and measures on the organization’s risks and everyone’s responWe are a universal bank, operating predominantly Sustainability and customer satisfaction; Capitalization sibility for risk management. in Latin America. Supported by our risk culture, we operate based on rigorous ethical and Ethics and respect for regulation; C  apital ratios in normal and stress situations; and In addition to policies, procedures and processes, the risk regulatory compliance standards, seeking Debt issuance ratings. culture strengthens the individual and collective responsibilhigh and growing results, with low volatility, Price for risk; ity of employees for understanding, identifying, measuring, by means of the long-lasting relationship with managing and mitigating the risks inherent in their activities, Diversification; Liquidity clients, correctly pricing risks, well-distributed ” respecting the ethical way of managing business. fund-raising and proper use of capital. Operational excellence; and S hort and mid-term liquidity indicators. We promote our risk culture, stressing behavior which will help Risk culture. people at every level of the institution to consciously assume Composition of Results Based on this statement, five dimensions and manage risk. With these pillars disseminated, there is an incentive for risk to be understood and openly debated, being were defined, each of them composed of the L  argest credit risk; kept within the levels indicated by the risk appetite. main underlying risks, combining additional L  argest exposures and by rating brackets; Dimensions forms to measure the magnitude of risks, Understanding, identifying, C  oncentration by sectors, countries Risk appetite GRI 103-2 Risk Management seeking a broad view of our exposure as a measuring, managing and segments; and financial institution. The risk appetite establishes the acceptable types and levand mitigating risks are C  oncentration of market risk. els of risk for the bank within which management tries to practices essential to maximize the creation of value. We revised our Risk Appetite our activities. Operational risk Policy two years ago, which was established and approved by the Board of Directors and guides our business strategy. O  perational losses events; and The Board of Directors is responsible for approving the guideWe take risks We discuss Information technology. lines and limits of risk appetite, performing its duties with consciously risks the support of the Risk and Capital Management Committee Risk Culture Reputation and the Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The measures are frequently Itaú Unibanco monitored and reported to the risk committees and the Board S uitability indicators; of Directors and they guide preventive measures to be taken We are all We act M  edia exposure; to ensure that exposures are within the limits established and risks managers on risks C  ustomer complaint tracking; and in line with our strategy. Regulatory compliance. The institution’s risk appetite is based on the following Board of Directors’ statement: Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 21 Capitalization dimension Responsible capital Environmental and Social Risk Management Project In 2018, 37 clients had their credit transactions blocked due to Capitalization dimension establishes that we must have indications of engagement in activities of our Exclusion List. sufficient capital to protect us from a serious recession or Financial institutions play an important role in the global Launched in 2017, the purpose of the Environmental and We only resume a credit relationship if the client successfully a stress event with no need to adapt the capital structure economy as they interact with all economic sectors and, Social Risk Management Project is to review the enviproves it has changed its labor practices and its name was in unfavorable circumstances, protecting creditors and for this reason, they become influencers of changes in ronmental and social risk in our activities and business excluded from the lists issued by official bodies. account holders. This is monitored through the follow up of society. The risk appetite is part of our organization’s risk in Brazil and foreign units. Each work front relies on the our capital ratios, in normal and stress situations, and of the culture and is a management tool that allows us to anaidentification, review and implementation of goverCredit approval criteria institution’s credit ratings. lyze the acceptable limits of risk for the organization nance for the identified risks. This initiative is headed GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS1 | FS2 | FS3 | FS4 | FS5) within which we try to maximize the creation of value and, by the Environmental and Social Risk Management, After meeting the fundamental criteria in connection with Liquidity dimension accordingly, make the best decision on a conscious and together with the Sustainability, Compliance and the list of excluded activities, clients are submitted to addiLiquidity dimension monitors the quality of everything that sustainable basis. Environmental and Social Legal teams. tional environmental and social assessment criteria, based can be quickly converted into cash so that we are able to on requirements specific for type of product, market segmeet our cash and payment obligations without incurring ment, and guarantee structure proposed for each operation. losses. It establishes that our liquidity must support long Environmental and social risk Seeking to highlight even more the relevance of the environGRI 102-11 | GRI 103-2 Risk Management | GRI G4-DMA Product periods of stress. This is monitored through the follow up of Portfolio (former FS1 | FS2 | FS4 | FS5) mental and social issues, our Corporate Environmental and For credit-granting transactions collateralized by properliquidity ratios. Social Risk Policy, approved by officers, is guided by the best ties, whether rural or urban, a specific environmental and The purpose of managing the environmental and social environmental and social risk management practices, being social diligence is required, aiming at identifying any enviDimension of composition of results risk is to identify, measure, mitigate and monitor the risks continuously improved and ratifying our commitment to and ronmental liabilities, such as indications of contamination, This dimension comprises aspects of business and profitabilassociated with environmental and social topics in our concern about the topic. Our Policy can be accessed here. environmental preservation area, among others. This analyity, market and credit risks, and limits the exposure in activioperational process and business. sis is based on information on past and current activities ties about which we have little knowledge to operate. It also performed on the property and on data on the surrounding establishes limits of concentration and risk exposure, and Aiming at strengthening the environmental and social risk Environmental and social areas to issue a technical report. fosters the diversification of sources of income, seeking to culture and disseminating the best market practices, we risk management GRI 103-2 Risk Management ensure the proper composition of our portfolios, the low volastimulate and value continuous learning. In 2018, the memWe review and implement new environmental and social risk tility of our results and the sustainability of our business. bers of the Environmental and Social Risk Management The environmental social risk management starts at the very governance for these guarantees, with special negotiations had over 56-hour training. In addition, we extended the beginning of the relationship with our individual and corporate for situations believed to be more serious. These efforts to Operational risk dimension target audience for training in this topic to the departclients. Accordingly, we do not maintain any relationship with cliimprove and learn have relied on a multidisciplinary team, This dimension monitors failures in processes that may genments involved in the credit granting process. ents that carry out practices contrary to human rights protection, with members of departments such as Environmental and erate unavailabilities and losses. In order to scale the risks which are included in our list of excluded activities, as follows: Social Legal department, Asset Management department, with greater impact, we identified the most critical processes To measure the quality of processes and monitor the expoGuarantees department and Products department. As a and assessed the performance of the departments in mansure to risk, these departments are subjected to compli• Use of labor analogous to slavery; result, a governance was created bringing more speed and aging operational risk that may adversely affect the business ance processes performed by internal controls or audit efficiency to the guarantee analysis process. and operational strategy. teams. These processes include the assessment of envi• Use of child labor in a manner that is not in accordance with legronmental and social risk manuals and procedures, and islation; and Additionally, the credit granting process has two analyReputation dimension the findings of this work are reported periodically to relsis tracks: client analysis, focused on the environmental This dimension identifies the risks that may affect the value evant forums, such as the Environmental and Social Risk • Exploitation of prostitution, including child prostitution. and social risk of each activity developed by the client, and of our brand and our reputation with customers, employees, Committee. GRI G4-DMA Audit (former FS9) including the environmental and social categorization and regulators, investors, suppliers and the general public. It folClients involved in the activities listed above are identified based the assessment of clients involved in restricted sectors, and lows up customer satisfaction and the exposure of the bank We maintained the Environmental and Social Risk on media reports and through lists issued by official bodies. If a the analysis of structured operations, focused on the use of in the media, in addition to the compliance with ethical and Management Project, which was adopted for 18 work client has been proven to be involved in such activities, he/she is funds, and including the analysis of project finance and speconduct rules of the institution. fronts, covering a total of 53 departments, 55 institution’s blocked in our systems and not allowed to begin any relationship cific credit facilities. The methodology for the two processes policies and over 20 people. with the bank. is described as follows: Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 22 Client analysis: Processo Credit granting de concessão deprocess crédito 1st step: 2nd step: The client is internally assessed to determine whether its 01 Internal check on non-involvement in environmental and social compliance may be analyzed, prohibited activities. including clients in the Restricted List and rural clients. Activities that List of activities: The client is interested in Restrict List: Beginning of encourage slave or Manufacture and sale of military hardware, firearms and If the client's activity is included a credit line/operation. the relationship child labor ammunition, extraction of wood from native forests, in the list, it will be subject to a or prostitution. fishing activities, extraction and industrialization of specific analysis, in accordance asbestos, slaughterhouses and beef packaging plants. Credit with the existing guidelines. relationship denied. Example: ! 02 Depending on the products offered to the client, a specifc pre-contract diligence may be necessary. In the event of project financing, some information may be requested prior to the 03 If any credit product or condition requires a collateralized real estate property, whether under fiduciary assignment or mortgage lien, the property must be assessed based Product assessment: approval of the credit line or on the answers in the Preliminary Real Estate In order to identify products that may represent before the transaction is Environmental Assessment Questionnaire. Choice of the some environmental or social risk for the bank, the Definition of contracted (licenses, criteria for products offered Environmental and Social Risk department works as an the application of the Equator guarantees If indications of contamination are found, a more detailed integral part of the Wholesale and Retail Product Principles (EP), Environmental analysis will be necessary. approval governance. Rural Register, etc.). 04 05 The process is regularly audited and Environmental and social the front office teams Whenever the credit (commercial and analysis completed! Approval of the line is renewed, the products) are trained credit lines You are ready to proceed with Reassessment process starts again. via e-learning. the approval of the credit line! Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 23 The environmental and social analysis of clients applies to risk rating models for large companies. As a consequence of a Rural clients products and 18 specific operations of the Wholesale segseveral segments, in addition to clients of sectors deemed as learning process and continuous improvement, we assessed We have a structure that offers rural producers full-fledged ment and 44 products of the Retail segment were analyzed. included in the Restricted List. the impact of environmental and social topics in the credit risk financial services, ranging from financing to price hedging, of the most relevant sectors in our portfolio. This work generwith a customized client service. Regardless of the product Project finance GRI 103-2 Risk Management In this process we use specific tools and a environmental and ated drivers for environmental and social risk of each sector, as offer, this portfolio focuses on creating value and the longFor implementing projects in Brazil or abroad, a more robust social categorization. The categorization process, which was shown in the following mandala. term relationship with our clients. As of the beginning of the environmental and social diligence is required. In these cases, reviewed in 2018 with a team of experts in the area, countportfolio, the Environmental and Social Risk Management the analysis starts by gathering previous information about the ing on the most innovative aspects in the environmental and Mandala of drivers for the assessment of environmental operates together with the Commercial department using project – typology, location, financing instrument and operation social area, is based on the industry where the client operates and social risk an analysis process specific for this sector, mitigating existvalue – that support the preparation of an environmental and and includes sustainability parameters, such as energy and ing risks and providing the necessary support to find the best social agenda addressing relevant technical and legal issues. water consumption, emission of liquid effluents, solid waste environmental and social practices. The experience acquired disposal, air emissions, and occupational health and safety Consumption in this process provided inputs to reassess material topics of These issues enable the project to be categorized as high, Climate of natural risks for employees, and sectors are categorized as having change resources the sector together with the departments involved, seeking medium and low environmental and social risk. At the end of high, medium and low environmental and social risks. to improve our analysis process in view of the current needs. the analysis, it may be necessary to establish an action plan, which has to be carried out and monitored during the term Restricted List Effluents Water/soil contamination Analysis of structured operations of the contract. The contractual obligations arising from this Regulatory Litigation GRI 103-2 Risk Management plan are extensively discussed with the client and become change trend Based on the existing risk and internationally recogWe assess our environmental and social risk exposure upon the conditions precedent to the use of funds. The environmental nized market practices, the sectors below are deeKey approval of new products and services. The analysis is carried and social analysis, as well as its monitoring, includes comdrivers med as restricted: Labor Health and out based on the detailed information received that support pliance with a number of different environmental and social condition safety Technological Operational the technical analysis, which is conducted by the Environmenaspects of local legislation and, where applicable, with the • Manufacturing and sale of military hardware, change and market tal and Social Risk Management and the Environmental and IFC Performance Standards, and may be conducted by an firearms and ammunition; barriers Social Legal department, when applicable. Specific governance independent expert consultant. Each monitoring cycle can • Extraction of wood from native forests; Hazardous processes are developed for the environmental and social risk involve document reviews, negotiations with clients and Solid materials and • Fishing activities; waste pesticides exposure cases identified, in compliance with the relevance financing agents, and visits to the project. • Extraction and industrialization of asbestos; Atmospheric and proportionality principles. GRI G4-DMA Product and Service • Cold storage plants and cattle slaughterhouses; and emissions Labeling (former FS15) • For these clients, we have implemented a diligence process to grant credit, composed of specific quesAnalysis of products and specific operations tionnaires and surveys on media directed to the The environmental and social analysis of products in the Equator Principles GRI 103-2 Risk Management sector, in addition to the requirement of submitAs an evolution of this work, we developed a methodology Wholesale and Retail segments is a condition precedent to When the Equator Principles are applied, we are guided ting applicable documentation. This is an additioable to distinguish credit risk associated to environmental their operation and takes into consideration the impact of by the best international market practices and focus nal practice to client analysis and is applicable to the and social issues for clients of the same sector. The methodenvironmental and social issues on the credit, legal and repour efforts on engaging all stakeholders in a robust and corporate segment. ology is based on the drivers developed in the assessment utation dimensions. In addition to product analysis, we caretransparent diligence. and other variables, such as management capacity and risks fully assess operations specifically structured to meet our associated to locating clients. The methodology is expected clients’ needs, always working together and in collaboration Accordingly, the analysis starts by categorizing the to be applied in 2019 to a portfolio with at least 150 clients, with the business departments. project and the assessment process includes material totaling over R$22.8 billion. and sensitive topics, such as the impact on traditional Analysis of large companies As a result of the effort to review the product analysis procommunities, cultural heritage, biodiversity, ecosystem With the purpose of helping in decision making and enabling In 2018, we conducted 2,311 client analyses, including clicess, we adopted this year a new intelligent questionnaire services, as well as the assessment of compliance with the strategic inclusion of the environmental and social topic ents in the Restricted List, as shown on page 130 of the able to identify demands with more relevant environmenlocal legislation and the adoption of an environmental in credit granting, this variable has always been used in our attached chapter. tal and social risk based on their characteristics. In 2018, 149 and social management system. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 24 For high and medium risk projects, it may be necessary Environmental and social dilemmas Connecting technology with environmental and social analysis to hire an independent environmental and social conWe understand that environmental and social risk management The agribusiness sector is key to the Brazilian economy. We have learned that new technologies associated with sultant as a requirement for contracting and monitois a transdisciplinary activity, since we must address complex Ensuring the quality of our environmental and social the expertise of our environmental and social team can ring them. issues and ensure that all decisions are aligned with our princianalysis for this segment poses a material challenge, optimize our analysis against the backdrop of controverAs a member of the Steering Committee of these prinples, risk appetite and culture, and especially seek to achieve the especially taking into account concerns about the use of sial scenarios. Bearing this in mind, in 2018, we improved ciples and representing Latin America, we have been lowest impact on our stakeholders. Aware of the materiality of land in Brazil and the international commitments it assuour methodology for rural client assessment. We intethe environmental and social topic, we shared three major dilemactively engaged in reviewing the Equator Principles, med concerning climate change. To this end, incorporagrated this segment into our Environmental and Social mas faced over last year and the learning we acquired. process aimed at expanding the application scope ting tools and new work flows was required to make the Intelligence system, as well as the tools for daily capture and deeping the environmental and social diligence in bank’s credit-granting making easier. and analysis of both E&S geospatial data. These tools, topics such as human rights and climate change. Financing a responsible transition in turn, indicate the need for an in-depth environmental Some activities alone raise dilemmas due to the possiand social analysis by experts. Our purpose is to deliver At the end of 2018, 132 project finance agreements were ble effects on society, environment and people’s health. an effective and timely environmental and social resmonitored. Sixty new structured operations associated with Therefore, tobacco financing is a topic that is addressed ponse that complies with our long-term goals. these projects, including bridge loans and sureties, were anain a strict way by our senior management, which decilyzed by the Environmental and Social Risk Management. To ded not to grant credit for this sector. check in more detail the volume of products associated with Over last year, however, we understood that we can the projects contracted in 2018, whether within or outside the work in the transition of companies reviewing their Bringing communities to the discussion scope of the Equator Principles, please refer to pages 129 and business line to include other cultures and gradually 130 of this report. Generation of renewable energy is of utmost signidisbursement to comply with environmental and reduce tobacco production. In 2018, an important client ficance in a scenario of adjusting to climate change social conditions, taking into account the costs from our agricultural portfolio sought our support for this transition. and managing the related economic transition risks. involved, the care with the business relationship, Risk rating model for project finance However, this activity is not environmental and social and the fact that the credit risk was mitigated, Aiming at improving the credit assessment for long-term and In view of this scenario, several internal discussions impact free. since the project was already in the operational large operations, we revised the risk rating model for projwere held involving senior management and credit was stage. After the negotiations were concluded, it granted to a tobacco organization incumbent upon a In 2018, we faced a dilemma regarding the monitoect finance operations. This revision involved the Modeling, was agreed that the client had to expand the moninumber of conditions precedent to release such funds. ring of a renewable energy project we financed in Credit, Project Finance and Environmental and Social Risk toring sites and have thermal and acoustic ceiling We understand that financing this transition would 2016, which had been granted a long-term loan. This departments and enabled us to improve even further our installed at the most affected households. create value to society and the environment and would project was the target of complaints from the surenvironmental and social diligence. be in line with our role of fostering sustainable business. rounding community due to noise generation. This In 2018, these client’s actions to comply with the point for attention was identified by the environmenEquator Principles requirements and the banks’ E&S Among the developments of this revision we highlight the These conditions precedent included, for example, the required engagement of an independent renowned tal and social consultant during a monitoring cycle monitoring demands were successful to minimize strengthening of the environmental and social variable in the model, which now looks with greater accuracy at the third party to ensure that investments would be used applying the Equator Principles. the impacts on the community, since no more comrisks of additional costs and delays associated with enviin the transition to new cultures other than tobacco. plaints were identified. When addressing the enviAfter it was proved that the noise level was indeed ronmental licensing, legal disputes and environmental and Additionally, an in-depth environmental and social ronmental and social risk, it is important to take higher than acceptable by law and the World Bank social conflicts. analysis of this client’s practices was carried out, incluinto account and understand the demands from the Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines, ding an in-site assessment of the compliance with affected communities, significant scenarios, and we had a key role, as the leaders of the pool of health and safety technical standards, legal requipropose risk mitigation actions, even when we deal banks involved in the operation, in bringing these rements and good international environmental and with sectors that promote clear environmental and issues into the negotiation of the stage after the social practices. social benefits. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 25 Climate risk GRI 201-2 Task Force on Climate-related risks they are exposed to and proposes voluntary and consistent financial disclosures to ensure more transparency Climate risk, embodied in changes in rainfall standards, increased frequency of extreme events occurrence and increasing Financial Disclosure (TCFD) for financers, insurance companies and investors to make shortage of natural resources, brings about severe consequences to society and the global economy. better decisions. These are emergent risks of a complex This initiative spurs organizations from a number of secnature, which pose great challenges, particularly to finantors to learn about the physical and transitional climate cial institutions. Our performance with the climate agenda Partnerships on climate change leading role by introducing a case study on the cli2008 2015 2017 2018 2019 mate impact on the Agribusiness Portfolio in the In 2018, we joined the United Nations Environment Wholesale Banking segment. To access the results of Programme – Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) with other 15 the working group, please, click here . banks in a working group to discuss a consistent and comparable way to disclose climate risks in financial institutions. Another TCFD-related initiate was the coordination of GRI 103-2 Risk Management a working group at the Brazilian Federation of Banks 1st Gas Emission (FEBRABAN), which conducted a diagnosis on the finanTargets Climate Finance As a result of this work, two disclosure methodologies were Offsetting Notice Climate Finance Squad cial sector’s capacity to follow the TCFD’s recommendaDefining emission Positioning proposed, one for the physical risk and another for the tranWe have offset all our direct emisWe've created a Squad to tions and designed a schedule with actions to fill in the reduction targets for We launched a sition one. In summary, these methodologies are based on sions (Scope 1) from 2012 to 2015, look at climate risks and main gaps found by 2020. We take part in this forum, Scopes 1 and pioneering positioning the creation of climate scenarios that change the macroeas well as part of Scope 2, totaling opportunities. 2 by 2020. for the financial system. assessing assumptions so that all banks are able to set 47,332.33 tCO2e. conomic scenario, thus leading to financial impacts on off from the same starting point, in view of the climate clients and consequently to changes in their credit quality. scenario analyses and other agenda developments so Two volumes on these results were published by that there is no competitive edge to every financial instiUNEP FI. In these publications we reinforce its tution involved in that working group. Brazilian GHG Protocol Commitment to Climate Notice Task Force on Climate We were part of the The partnership is aimed at seeking Related Disclosure Carbon pricing You can access our climate finance positioning, launched this presenting some information on the disclosure of risks and group of companies projects that generate carbon credits We took part in forums to that created the Asset includes carbon discuss the climate agenda year here. opportunities to our clients, our business and society. with positive environmental, social Brazilian GHG Protocol, variable in the company and include this topic in and economic impacts, increasing the in partnership with FGV, valuation process. importance of this topic, its coverage our financial and Climate risk management Potential impacts on our institution from reporting emissions of non-financial reports. its operations, and holds and the volume of projects assessed. GRI 103-2 Risk Management | GRI 201-2 climate risk for a three to five year period the Gold seal in We understand that climate change is a systemic risk and Physical risks this program. impacts the entire society. Therefore, we have been working Occurrence of extreme climate events, such as droughts to incorporate this risk in order to be ready as soon as possiand floods in regions that have not historically experienWe have been seeking to increasingly incorporate climate variables into our business for ten years with the purpose of manble to provide our clients with products and solutions that will ced such serious events: aging the resulting risks. Recognizing the climate risk as a trend has placed us in a strategic position, which seeks to ensure the address any adverse climate event. longevity of our business and operations in view of these changes and their impacts on the economy, already foreseen for the • Impact on agriculture with crop failures; coming years. With that in mind, we have updated our positioning and commitment to the climate scenario, a document that brings about • Increase in the payments of claims arising from transparency to our climate finance agenda related actions. climate issues; The commitment to our stakeholders to disclose our practices • Impact on urban areas due to floods and related and intentions for the coming years of operations includes financial damage; and Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 26 • I mpact on our operations due to extreme climate events. The creation of the Corporate Environmental and Social • Financing of light and heavy vehicles: use of the asset over developing suppliers for a greater climate resilience. Based Risk Management, responsible for fully covering business the financing period; and on the results collected from the questionnaires, we seek Temperature increase: and operations, increases the importance of addressing to understand how these suppliers address climate change •H  igher water and energy demand; and the climate risk in the institution’s strategy. Additionally, • Financing for the construction of real estate: residential, and how we can help them introduce this topic in their operthis topic will be addressed in the Environmental and commercial and mixed. ation strategy. • Occurrence of health problems associated to climate Social Risk Management Project, allowing a comprehenchange, affecting our employees. sive view of business and operations and its agile handling As a result, we identified that we generate indirect impacts on In 2018, 80 suppliers answered to the questionnaire, at our committees. We will proceed with our multidisciCO2 emissions from the financing of vehicle and the construcaccounting for 68% of adherence to the program, a rate Transition risks plinary Climate Finance Squad focused on implementing tion of real estate. above the LATAM average of 48%. Among the main results Technological changes associated to the transition to a the TCFD recommendations. for 2018, we highlight that 47.5% of suppliers believe they low-carbon economy: are already exposed to either physical and/or transition cliEmissions financed in the Wholesale Banking segment These issues will always be taken into account in all of our mate risks. On the other hand, 46.3% have some initiatives •G  eneration of renewable energy in an upward trend and initiatives related to environmental and social risk manto mitigate the climate risk, and only 33.8% have an emistCO₂e to use of fossil fuel in a downward trend; and agement, whether in the new analysis of CIB clients, or in Share in loan each R$10,000 sion reduction target. portfolio (%) discussions for updating the Equator Principles or in our financed(1) •C  hange of the transport matrix to shared and analyses of clients, structured operations and investments. electric vehicles. 5.80 Climate change-related risks to which suppliers Market barriers: When we analyze a carbon-intensive sector project, regardreported they are exposed less of the amount and type of product involved, we may 0.4 •C  arbon pricing affecting all economic segments; 0.3 request a greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory and analyze it in 0.47 18.6% (21) the approval process. •D  evelopment of the internal carbon market with permission 32.7% (37) for emissions and trading on stock exchange; In 2017, we conducted a study to identify the financed emissions of the loan portfolios, specifically the loans used in the Vehicles Real estate •A  ccess to developed markets with carbon-related require15.9% (18) Risks ments; and acquisition of vehicles and the construction of real estate. (1) E  missions were calculated by using an internal tool with assumptions specific for each portfolio. (Total: 113) •R  equirement to measure emissions financed to the finanThe scope and assumptions used in the study were: 2.7% (3) cial sector; and Portfolios will be monitored from time to time and these data • Loans made to corporate clients; will be used in other internal studies and projects to identify 6.2% (7) •T  axation of carbon emissions. 12.4% (14) opportunities and mitigate risks. 11.5% (13) Amendment to legislation and regulation: • Operations contracted in 2017; Assessment of climate change variable for I ncreased severity of extreme I ncreased greenhouse gas •T  CFD recommendations become regulation; • Calculation of emissions per period of financing formalized risk management in the value chain GRI 201-2 climate events, such as twisters and floods (GHG) emission pricing in a contract; In line with our climate change strategy, for over three years C  hanges in consumer’s •M  arket regulation requiring methodology to identify and M  andates in place on behavior measure climate risk exposure; we have now been part of the CDP Supply Chain – Carbon the regulation of products  ise in average R • Vehicle Portfolio: financing of light and heavy vehicles Disclosure Program – a program aimed at addressing cliand services temperatures •N  ew legal instruments regarding the carbon market; and with Itaucred; mate issues in the supply chain. This is an important initia hanges in rainfall and extreme C Other(1) variability in climate standards tive to support our internal supply management strategy, •M  andatory offsetting of equivalent carbon provided for in • Real Estate Construction Portfolio: residential, mixed and by which we invite our significant suppliers to provide cliRenovaBio (law on biofuels). commercial real estate; mate change information. The goals of this program go (1) Other contains distinct non-groupable risk-related responses in which each beyond the mere GHG emission data collection, and they supplier considered is exposed to. To find out what these risks are, access the integrate the purposes of raising awareness, training and public questionnaire of the CDP Climate Change of Itaú Unibanco. Note: Suppliers may indicate more than one risk they consider to be exposed to. The answer to this question is optional. Source: CDP Supply Chain, 2018 cycle (restricted material). Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 27 Assessment of the climate change variable for management of third-party assets GRI 201-2 Also for management of third-party assets, it is important Potential impacts of climate change related risks indicated Opportunities arising from climate change pointed Potential positive impacts of climate change related to take into account the climate change impact on investby suppliers out by suppliers opportunities indicated by suppliers ment decisions. For this reason, we build up scenarios for each issue as follows: physical damage, disease spreading, changes in the water cycle, GHG emission pricing, agricul23.2% (26) 27.5% (25) 28.6% (32) tural and forest production, and new products. One tool we 26.7% (24) 30.0% (27) use in our analysis is carbon pricing. The estimated price is used as an entry variable in our model to estimate the cost Risks impacts Opportunities Opportunities of GHG emissions. Based on this estimate, we calculate the (Total: 112) 50.5% (46) (Total: 91) impacts value of the financial impact of these emissions on the mar1.8% (2) 7.7% (7) (Total: 90) 4.5% (5) ket value of the companies and, consequently, on the price 6.3% (7) 7.8% (7) of their shares. We believe that this approach, in addition 7.7% (7) to encouraging the adoption of best practices by investee 6.3% (7) 22.3% (25) 10.0% (9) companies, allows investors to make a more accurate analy7.1% (8) 6.6% (6) 25.6% (23) sis of the risks involved in the organization. Increased operating costs Increased operating costs D  evelopment and/or  se of more efficient means U F alling revenues due to reduced Increased capital costs expansion of goods and of transport Each scenario has a short, medium and long-term materiI ncreased revenues due B  etter competitive positioning production capacity F alling revenues due to reduced services with low emission level  evelopment of new D to demand for products to reflect changes in consumers’ ality matrix, limited based on the recurrence and scope for F alling revenues due to reduced sales/shipments  se of energy sources with U products and services and services with lower preferences, leading to several economy sectors. These scenarios enable us to make lower emission levels through R&D and innovation emission levels higher revenues demand for goods and services Other 1 ( ) well-informed investment decisions with more knowledge of R  educed demand for goods Other(1) Reduced operating costs I ncreased revenues from new the related climate risks and opportunities. and/or services due to changes products and services related to in consumer’s preferences (1) Other contains distinct non-groupable responses, related to the opportunities resilience guarantee each supplier considered is exposed to. To find out what these opportunities are, To deepen the understanding of the carbon footprint of access the public questionnaire from CDP Climate Change of Itaú Unibanco. Other(1) (1) Other contains distinct non-groupable responses, related to the impacts on Note: Suppliers may indicate more than one climate change-related opportunity. investee companies in Itaú Asset Management’s portfolios, which each supplier considered is exposed to. To find out what these impacts (1) Others contains distinct non-groupable responses, related to the potential are, access the public questionnaire of the CDP Climate Change of Itaú Unibanco. The answer to this question is optional. in 2017 we developed a calculator to compare emissions of Source: CDP Supply Chain, 2018 cycle (restricted material). positive impacts supplier considered is exposed to. To find out what these Note: Suppliers may indicate more than one impact arising from risks they consider potential positive impacts are, access the public questionnaire from CDP Climate our portfolios against benchmarks, thus helping achieve a to be exposed to. The answer to this question is optional. Change of Itaú Unibanco. better understanding of the carbon exposure of products. Source: CDP Supply Chain, 2018 cycle (restricted material). Note: Suppliers may indicate more than one positive impact arising from opportunities related to climate change they are exposed to. The answer to this question is optional. Itaú Asset Management has a white paper specific on climate Source: CDP Supply Chain, 2018 cycle (restricted material). change with more information. This is a public document and is available here in. To access this paper directly click here. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 28 Risks in the management What ESG is? Exercising the right to vote – Proxy Voting In 2018 ESG GRI G4-DMA Active Ownership (former FS12) Responsible investment training and engagement sessions of third-party assets Good corporate governance practices may promote a greater based on ESG criteria were carried out with the fund and alignment between the company’s and stockholders’ interests. commercial asset management teams. New activities for the As managers of our clients’ assets, we are responsible for Itaú Asset Management takes into account environmental, Private Banking units are scheduled for 2019 onwards. investing these assets ethically and responsibly, seeking a social and corporate governance issues when exercising the GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS4) full understanding of the opportunities and risks involved in right to vote at general meetings of the assets held by funds. our decisions. We attended the annual meeting of the signatories to the UN Our investment process is aimed at creating value to our cliE S G In addition to applying this methodology when setting up portfolios, we take into account ESG issues when exercisPrinciples for Responsible Investment held in San Francisco, California. This event brought together institutional investors, ents by using proprietary fundamentalist analysis and comEnvironmental Social Governance ing the right to vote at general meetings for the assets held asset managers and service providers. The agenda included municating with other companies. The goal is achieving an by funds. The Policy for Voting at the Investee Companies’ discussions on the integration of ESG into Fixed Income and the in-depth understanding of the companies under analysis and Annual General Stockholders’ Meetings (Proxy Voting Policy) development of ratings and indexes, in addition to engagement of the sectors they operate. is based on the code of Regulation and Best Practices for and education fronts to investors. It also addressed tools already Our approach to responsible investment is aimed at creating Investment Funds, developed by the Brazilian Association of established for the ESG agenda and renewable energy and infraThe ongoing search for financial or other information that value to our clients by identifying opportunities to reduce risks Financial and Capital Market Entities (ANBIMA). structure challenges. At that same event we launched the paper may impact the market value of companies is an integral part associated to variable income and private credit portfolios. Investimento responsável pela lente dos ODS (Responsible investof this process. The ultimate goal is getting significant inforThe policy establishes that voting rights will be exercised ment from the SDG perspective), a paper addressing in detail the mation for a well-informed decision-making process. Integrating ESG into the when funds hold over 3% of the company’s capital stock or interface between UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and investment process when a company holds interest over 10% in a single fund. Calls to stockholders' meetings are analyzed in advance by the ESG Itaú Asset Management’s ESG integration model. To access this paper, click here. Approach to a responsible We integrate ESG issues into our investment process through analyst and portfolio managers. Exercising the right to vote is investment GRI 103-2 Risk Management a proprietary analysis methodology and by engaging specialpublic, as companies publish their meeting minutes. Management of ESG risks in the ized services. This assessment identifies multi-sector dimenWith the purpose of monitoring the impact of environmental, sions and prioritizes those dimensions critical to each sector Engagement and transparency management of third-party assets social and governance (ESG) issues on investment portfolios, when evaluating companies. Evaluating the performance of We believe the engagement with investees is an adequate GRI 103-2 Risk Management | GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS1 | FS2 | FS5) | GRI G4-FS10 | GRI G4-FS11) Itaú Asset Management adhered in 2008 to the UN Principles for each company includes the potential impact on cash flows, way to increase our knowledge about them. The purpose is Responsible Investment (PRI). manageability and availability of information. promoting a constructive dialogue and deepening the underThe methodology developed by Itaú Asset Management to standing of how certain ESG issues may impact the comintegrate ESG issues into its listed company valuation process Our Responsible Investment Policy sets up the principles and The output is an estimate of the impact on the fair value of pany’s market value . When appropriate, we encourage the is aimed at pricing the impact of these issues in the tradiguidelines steering Itaú Asset Management’s activities on the company at the evaluation date. The previous knowledge adoption of the best management and corporate governance tional valuation models by analyzing its impact on cash flows responsible investment, with the main purpose of protecting our and pricing of significant ESG issues help identify any events practices to reduce risks and protect our clients’ interests. client’s economic interests. with potential to create or destroy value to the companies. We encourage investees to disclose ESG information that We take into account the relevance of the ESG issues as these Variable income funds with a proactive management take may impact their financial performance and adopt a transmay impact the value of the assets we invest in. into account the analysis conducted based on this methodolparent approach to share our learning, since we believe that ogy in their investment decision-making process. we may inspire other organizations to adopt more sustainability-aligned practices. Therefore, we make available to We do not use negative filters that restrict the investment the public our methodology and take part in a number of universe and adversely impact the return on investments. events in this sector to introduce our method and discuss the integration of ESG practices into the investee assessment process. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 29 and capital cost over time. This process consists of a stage Integrating environmental and social issues into business valuation The percentage of our assets located in sectors that do not for researching and designing sector scenarios followed by pose risks for consumers or third parties, or not allocated in another stage for valuing the impacts on companies. fossil fuel and derivatives production or distribution sectors, ANALYZED EXAMPLE OF was higher than 99% in 2018. DIMENSIONS ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION Methodology RESULTS This proprietary methodology is applied to integrate environWater, energy and DIMENSIONS In addition to the methodology that integrates environmenmaterials Biodiversity mental and social issues in evaluating companies by addressing and land use tal and social variables into traditional valuation models, we eight dimensions, of which four are related to stakeholders relaWaste Hight have developed an internal corporate governance rating to management relevance tions – Workers relations, Community relations, Client relations COMPANY improve the Corporate Governance assessment. This ratand Supplier relations –, and four are related to environmental Climate ing takes into account 11 different governance factors of the dimensions – Water, energy and materials, Biodiversity and land change companies under analysis, including the structure of the Long Short use, Waste management, and Climate change. term term Board of Directors, CEO duality, independent members, comRelationships mittees assisting the decision-making process of the Board of with workers The purpose is to adjust the target price of listed securities and Directors, and the Board members gender diversity, among identify early events that may create or reduce value. For the valRelationships Low other factors deemed as good corporate governance pracwith suppliers relevance uation of fixed income securities, the model is adjusted to estitices. The ratings achieved are used in the individual valumate the absolute impact of environmental and social variables Relationships ations of companies, as well as in the portfolio valuation. with on the issuers’ cash flows. This approach provides flexibility for communities Relationships Therefore it is possible to calculate the governance rating of managers, who use the analyses according to their specific stratwith clients SOCIAL a certain portfolio and its benchmark, allowing a direct comegies and mandates. Our methodology includes variables such as DIMENSIONS parison among them. materiality, sector relevance, temporality, risks and opportunities, measurements and management. We have advanced in the last four years in valuing companies through the Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance GOVERNANCE (ESG) integration methodology. We currently cover about 99% Independence Corporate DIMENSIONS of the companies listed on Ibovespa, 98% on IBrX-100 and 97% and quality of the Board governance on the Business Sustainability Index (ISE) of Bovespa. More than 95% of the assets under the management of Itaú Asset Management are covered by the ESG evaluation. The target for the coming years is to periodically update the analyses in variable income and continue to make progress in the coverage in corporate fixed income. GRI G4-FS10 | GRI G4-FS11 In addition to a structure dedicated to evaluating these criteria that models the ESG impact on investee companies, we have partnerships with independent expert consultants. To learn more, please click here. GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS4) Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 30 Supply chain risks GRI 103-2 Risk Management The Procurement department contributes significantly to improving processes and assessing environmental and social reduce costs and optimize resources through actions such as gains. This operation model fosters specialization in each marWith respect to our suppliers, we seek to build our supplier relapartnerships with suppliers, innovations in our supply chain, ket in order to identify the most appropriate procurement tions with the same legitimacy, quality and reliability we have developing new suppliers, consolidating volumes, redesignstrategy for each type of business and ensure consistent supreached with our clients. We have implemented a management ing the value chain, reviewing specifications, undertaking plier relations. This is a process of three stages: pre-purchase, structure aimed at improving a sustainable relationship, fosterinitiatives to renegotiate contracts, managing consumption, purchase, and post-purchase. ing efficiency and innovation opportunities, as well as our and our partners’ operational improvement. Supplier evaluation process at procurement GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS3) As a link essential to our business, we value and reinforce healthy partnerships that help build long-term sustainable relationships. Pre-purchase We instruct our suppliers on sustainability practices and require them to comply with legislation and the ethical principles that Analysis of Market Definition of the strategy guide business relationships. All these guidelines are published for procurement of goods purchase history analysis on our website. and services Our supply chain is composed of first and second tier suppliers, Scope evaluation and Suppliers prospecting and specification administrative and technical evaluation with which our relationships are based on transparency, sustainability and building shared value. In 2018, we updated our internal policies to guide the management process of our supPurchase pliers and third parties, from the prospection, administrative and technical evaluation of new suppliers and periodic risks Implementation Preparing Signing the monitoring to the termination of the supplying relation. These of bid or negotiation the contract contract policies have guided our relationship with approximately 2,600 suppliers and 8,288 formalized contracts, which totaled R$12.2 Post-purchase billion in business. The goods and services procurement process in our supply Monitoring the delivery of the material or service Performance and risk assessment of suppliers to chain is centrally managed by our Procurement department and monitoring performance indicators to check support decision-making, which can result in the for adherence to quality standards and service level with the involvement of the contracting and legal departagreements established preparation of action plans to mitigate supply risks ments, among other supporting departments. However, there are categories for which business and contractual negotiations are assigned to their technical managers. The remaining conMonitoring and managing consumption and contract period, and centralized managing contract Managing relations with key suppliers to ensure tracting steps are centralized by the Procurement department, efficiency throughout the contract life cycle and renewal ensuring that the supplier goes through an administrative evaluation and negotiated contracts signed are registered in the management system. Monitoring the financial, reputational, regulatory, and environmental and social conditions of suppliers Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 31 Management of supply chain risks GRI 103-2 Risk Management Our suppliers are distributed across all Brazilian regions in accordance with the volume of operations and the location of our administrative centers. For this reason, most of the contracts are entered into with suppliers in Southeastern Brazil. GRI 102-9 Supplier evaluation process The supplier evaluation process is aimed at mitigating risks in our supply chain. Number of suppliers by region in 2018 Registration Internal Administrative Technical Approved Monitoring on the website demand analysis analysis company After being registered in our system, all the companies go • Continuity: analysis of risks associated with the financial health 109 through an administrative approval process, which consists of an and supply impact on the bank’s operations; and North suppliers (0.7%) analysis of the supplier’s adherence to environmental and social Number of responsibility practices, compliance with and adherence to fiscal, • Labor: analysis of the labor risk in service provision to be anasuppliers in tax and labor legislation (regularity of certificates, licenses, paylyzed based on legal criteria. 2018 109 (0.7%) ment of taxes, salaries and contributions), fulfillment of corpo2017 125 (1%) rate obligations through the same tools used to assess clients In addition to this administrative evaluation, we carry out the 340 (credit analysis, indebtedness with the market and suppliers, technical approval of suppliers by analyzing technical informa2016 48 (1%) suppliers Northeast 243 (2.2%) Money Laundering Prevention (MLP), fraud, Anti-Corruption tion and its products and services, identifying whether the prodsuppliers Number of Law and other discrediting facts). ucts and services offered are in line with theorganization’s needs (1.6%) suppliers in and requirements. The procurement of products and services Central-west 2018 340 (2.2%) This process is based on three risk analysis pillars and comprises of suppliers that support operations considered critical for the Number of 13,969 a specific view considering the risks of the category of products bank or feature high technical reliance are evaluated and go suppliers 2017 521 (4%) suppliers in (91.4%) or services supplied. through differentiated negotiations. 2016 271 (4%) 2018 243 (1.6%) • Reputational/regulatory: analysis of risks associated with the After these analyses, and if approved, the company will be able 2017 382 (3%) image and compliance of current legislation; to participate in the contracting processes. 2016 200 (3%) Southeast Supplier evaluation results GRI 103-3 Risk Management Number of 2018 2017 2016 Change (%) 2018–2017 Change (%) 2017–2016 623 suppliers in South suppliers Suppliers approved (Brazil) 13,789(1) 12,989(2) 7,106 6.20(1) 82.80(2) (4.1%) 2018 13,969 (91.4%) Number of New suppliers approved (Brazil) GRI 308-1 | GRI 414-1 1,665 1,678 1,031 (0.80) 62.80 suppliers in 2017 10,858 (84%) Approval rate of suppliers (%) (Brazil) GRI 308-1 | GRI 414-1 94.55 68.30 86.60 38.40 (21.10) 2016 6,060 (85%) 2018 623 (4.1%) Purchases from local suppliers – Brazilian companies and/or 99.50 98.71 96.50 0.80 2.30 2017 1,103 (8%) subsidiaries in Brazil (% of expenses in Brazil) GRI 204-1 Purchases from local suppliers – in the same state (% of local 2016 527 (7%) 54.70 56.00 75.30 (2.30) (25.60) suppliers) GRI 204-1 (1) Upon streamlining the calculation of total suppliers approved we updated the criteria, and as a result the volume of approved suppliers increased by 6.2% from 2017. (2) As a result of the New Procurement Model, we reviewed the administrative evaluation process focusing on improving the analysis of suppliers and streamlining the process for the involved parties. Upon this review, in which the approval validity is eliminated and the risk of these suppliers is periodically monitored, the volume of approved suppliers ranged by 5,886 when comparing 2017 with 2016. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 32 New commitments for 2020 GRI 103-3 Risk Management Among the categories with the highest number of suppliers, We periodically carry out independent external audit proAssessment of 2018 we highlight maintenance, works and equity, which serves the cess on our critical suppliers to map and assess the enviIndicator 2018 target 2020 target target measured complexes and branches scattered throughout the country. ronmental and social risks in our supply chain. In the event 1. Monitoring of risks of GRI 102-9 external audit processes detect irregularities, action plans suppliers with active may be developed to help a supplier solve the problem or, in contracts negotiated by the Distribution of suppliers by category Implement action plan and certain situations, penalties are applied and they may lead Procurement department. Continuity of monitoring governance for suppliers with to suspension or termination of the respective contract. GRI Periodically monitoring the risk 2. Governance set up to cover the risks of suppliers with active Category % identified risks (addressed by associatedwith suppliers preparation of action plans for contracts negotiated by the 103-3 Risk Management | GRI 308-2 | GRI 414-1 | GRI 414-2 | GRI G4-DMA the Procurement department) in suppliers with identified risks Procurement department. Maintenance, works and equity 30.31 Product Portfolio (former FS3) accordance with internal criteria. (addressed by the Procurement Advisory and consulting 15.96 department) in accordance We periodically monitor the approved suppliers and their with internal criteria. Information technology 12.44 Marketing 11.52 employees, considering the risks of the category of products or services supplied. The monitoring criteria are the same as Recommendations for suppliers Training and benefits 4.09 Sustainability recommendations those used in the administrative evaluation process and, if as to labor practices, human, Send recommendations Maintain and update Legal expenses 3.54 sent to suppliers registered in risks are identified, the business relationship with the supplier environmental and social rights, the Procurement Management every six months to 100% of recommendations and Telecommunications 3.27 may be terminated at any time. GRI 308-2 | GRI 414-1 | GRI 414-2 and environmental and social active suppliers by email and publications to 100% of System and included in management incentives for their include them in the website. our suppliers. Call center 2.90 the website. own supply chain Security 2.67 General results of procurement with suppliers Post office, card and check inputs 0.57 General Change (%) Change (%) 2018(1) 2017 2016 Valuable deliveries 0.29 results 2018–2017 2017–2016 Suppliers of Levels 1 and 2 Supplier engagement (specific We carried out a workshop for Tier Make progress on Tiers 1 and 2 Other 12.43 Number of prioritized agreements with discussions, interaction reported 1 suppliers with presentation of supplier engagement agenda by procurement 15,668 16,285 19,010 (3.8) (14.0) criteria defined when necessary Total 100.00 in development programs) the our strategic guidance. conducting workshops. processes by the area. Total amount Supplier contracts include standard clauses such as purchased 12.2 10.4 10.0 17.8 0.0 1. Annual review of the anti-corruption requirements, environmental and social (R$ billion) criticality of categories issues, labor obligations, occupational health and safety was carried out from the Annual review of the criticality Annual review of the criticality (1)The changes in processes and the improvement of controls arising from the Audits conducted on-site sustainability perspective. of the categories and of the categories and standards, compliance with environmental legislation, liaNew Procurement Model have brought a reduction in the volume of purchase 2. Audit process conducted assumptions for the audit. assumptions for the audit. bility for damage and information security, among other orders in 2018. The streamlining of processes, implementation of the screening for suppliers of critical cell, exception flow, consolidation of demands in the pools and delegated applicable to our suppliers and their supply chain. In addipurchase were some of the processes that contributed to this reduction. categories reviewed. tion, we forward every six months the Sustainability Recommendations through an official communication to our suppliers. We seek to avoid potential impacts on our value chain • Impacts on society, which are mitigated by hiring committed through all processes described in this document. Among suppliers, which in turn help promote responsible and ethithem we highlight: GRI 308-2 | GRI 414-2 cal practices in the market, thus cooperating with Brazilian society. It is unacceptable to hire companies associated with • Varied environmental impacts in connection with illegal activities that encourage and/or exploit prostitution, includlabor practices, such as child labor, forced labor, slave labor, ing child prostitution, or companies that carry out its activinadequate working conditions and the impact on human ities using child labor not in compliance with legislation or rights, all included in the supplier approval process; and using labor analogous to slavery. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 33 We believe that we should promote the development of envi• Undertaking the initiative to bring partners to develop an department forwards this information to the Environmental regions. In 2018, our Corporate Plan, designed to generate ronmental and social practices and actions to have a sustainenvironmental and social risk platform; and and Social Risk Management that will be disclosed in the construction financing, was offered mainly to companies able growth in our supply chain by raising awareness of our Bank’s platforms to prevent the company from contracting with annual revenues of over R$50 million, and our portfolio suppliers through sustainability recommendations disclosed • Including the Net Promoter Score (NPS) when selling insurany other products. totaled R$6.4 billion. To assess the risks involved in approvon our website and forwarded to all our suppliers every six ance products. ing the financing for construction of the units, we have develmonths. We are increasingly improving our external audit Itaú Homeowners Insurance pioneered by launching environoped a series of analyses that together deliver a report on process at suppliers and defining indicators related to the Our environmental and social risk assessment in the insurmental services as part of its assistance package, providing possible indications of contamination of soil and water table evolution of companies under analysis over the years. ance activity follows the Principles for Sustainable Insurance sustainable solutions such as: of the site where the construction work will be done, including (PSI), of which we have been signatories since 2012. This volthe sites close to the land in question. The analysis is carried untary commitment provides guidelines to minimize the • Smart disposal: in an ecologically responsible manner, the out by the Engineering department of the Wholesale Banking Insurance process risks GRI 103-2 Risk exposure to environmental and social risks and to boost policyholder requests the collection of waste, such as elecsegment, which works in the contracts of Corporate Plans Management | GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS1 | FS2) proper management by insurance companies. tric and electronic equipment, household appliances, and in all Brazilian regions, and counts on the support of partner In 2018, Itaú Seguros changed its structure and operation furniture. We provide for the disposal in a proper manner, engineering firms. to improve the clients’ experience with its products thereensuring ecologically responsible disposal; fore transforming our essence. Accordingly, we will connect, Insurance product risk management understand the clients’ needs and assist them individually, We have followed at close range the climate change impacts, • Environmental guidance: specialized advice for guidance in Mortgage loan risk management GRI 103-2 Risk Management everything to improve the Insurance clients’ experience. which directly affect the core of the Insurance area. The main the conscious use of water, electricity and tips on garbage With this in mind, it is essential that, among other issues, reason why is that companies seek to protect themselves recycling; and The construction risk analysis process sets off with a risk management comes to the forefront of discussions. The against climate-related claims, which consequently broadens Feasibility Study, which, among other analyses, is responsible Procedure for E&S Risk for Insurance defines general and the insurance companies’ liability and risks. One major chal• Eco-efficient projects: these services make eco-efficient for identifying risks in contracting operations, such as technispecific rules and guidelines for the analysis of environmenlenge faced by the insurance area is measuring these risks projects possible in accordance with the needs of each cal problems in the project, difficulties in sales of units, incontal and social risk, claims, product development and enviand pricing them adequately and concurrently reducing the policyholder. sistent documentation and environmental risks identified, ronmental and social clauses. We have an internal portal to exposure and vulnerability of clients in their operations. such as the presence of contaminating factors in the land or implement the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), In addition to environmental aspects, we have also made region or even the proximity with environmental preservation covering all sustainability related topics and a tool to assess We currently use the climate change variables for pricing efforts to integrate social issues into insurance products. areas, among other possibilities. the environmental and social risks of new products. the Business Insurance. This pricing is carried out according The Proteja (Protect) platform provides tips and guidance to geographic location, frequency and the potential generon protection and insurance through video tutorials with The information collected in this field-visit are input into a Some of the activities carried out in 2018 were as follows: ation of social, environmental and economic disasters. The user-friendly explanations for the main insurance quesstandard questionnaire (Building Site Environmental and Itaú Business Insurance provides coverage, assistance and tion. This platform is aimed at raising awareness of the genSocial Form), which covers general aspects of the building site • Assessing environmental and social risks in the calculation tips on sustainability to some business segments and lines eral public of the importance of this protection and helping and the surrounding area. The client applying for the financof Business Insurance premiums; such as business offices, bars and restaurants, and food and people better understand the insurance sector in a simple ing is also requested to respond to a questionnaire (Client apparel business, among others. The Itaú’s website page for and uncomplicated manner. GRI G4-DMA Product and Service Environmental and Social Form), which covers aspects of the • Preparing materials for the training of employees; the Business Insurance product, related to climate change, Labeling (former FS16) history of the building site and the surrounding area. includes information to clients on policies most suitable to • Launching products intended to different client profiles; their business and tips on sustainability for these companies. Mortgage loan risks GRI 103-2 Risk Management | GRI G4-DMA Product Portfolio (former FS1 | FS2) • Working and mapping opportunities together with the When inspecting the risks of the Business Insurance product, Sustainability department; we check the CNPJ of the contracting party for any activities The guidelines of our Corporate Environmental and Social posing environmental and social risk and, if so, the system will Risk Policy, approved by officers, also apply to loans for com• Taking part in the environmental products Business Challenge; not allow the taking out or renewal. In addition, the Insurance mercial and residential construction projects in all Brazilian Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 34 The following chart presents the path of information, from the field visit to the final report prepared by the Environmental and Social and Social Legal departments in the event indications of contamination are identified. Environmental and social assessment on mortgage loans Enterprise and region data Environmental Social Department + No Environmental and Social Legal Department Environmental • Building Site Environmental and Social Form; License? Building • Enterprise Environmental and Social Form; site visit • Technical analysis of evidence; Risks • Building site photos; • Analysis of site contamination mitigated gathering of information • Document analysis; documentation; and • Consultation of the Contaminated Areas Indication of • Preparation of contractual clauses and conditions Register; and contamination? for release of funds. • Consultation of Google Maps. Operation approved Based on the analysis of the forms completed by the partner company and the client, our internal engineering team makes a consultation in the Contaminated Areas Register of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais (the only states that have such a register) to check whether the enterprise address submitted is included in such register. Opinions issued in 2018 Analysis of environmental and social forms Favorable opinions(1) Unfavorable opinions 2018 2017 2016 61 0 Number of analyses 1 ( ) 61 61 60 (1)Among the “Favorable Opinions” issued, there are operations in which risks of (1) N  umber of analyses refers to the number of Corporate Plan operations contamination and/or other types of environmental damage were identified. analyzed from 2016 to 2018. For this reason, these operations were approved with contractual conditions that mention the remediation plan. The approval of the project and the monthly release of funds are conditioned upon compliance with the contractual conditions After consolidating the analyses carried out in the field visits and the requested by the proper environmental agency responsible for the client, as well as enterprise documentation, we carry out an assessment of indicaupon the provision of accountability to the bank on the progress of the process(es), tions of contamination and, if this risk is identified, we will contact our such as the presentation of decontamination reports and Conduct Adjustment Instruments (TACs), among others. Environmental and Social department for a detailed technical analysis of the operation. Finally, all the documentation of the enterprise is analyzed, which includes the Approved Project, Incorporation Register, The Environmental and Social department will analyze the Site Environmental License and Construction Permit, and may Contamination Reports forwarded by the client, by identifying the contain information about contamination of the land. risks involved in the operation and guiding which steps must be taken for following up the decontamination process and protecting the contract. The involvement of the Environmental and Social Legal department is essential in this stage to point out the contractual clauses clarifying both our and the client’s duties and obligations. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 35 Mortage loans The building site environTechnical analysis for construction financing mental and Submitted to social form is The Feasibility Study is Were other risks in filled out analyzed for other relevant risk specific analysis the operation identified? of exposed risks factors of the business Credit request The client On-site by developer/environmental Environmental and social, construction land and social form risks were identified? 24h companies evaluation is filled out Operation is Is operation Credit denied Start completed approved? END The operation is analyzed by Environmental and Social Credit Feasibility Unit, which will issue a report on credit granting and analysis study • Consultation with determine a risk level to be considered for the operation. the contaminated The Environmental and Social Legal department will be areas register; involved when necessary Lastly, after the visit and the full analysis of Contract prepared with provisions documentation, forms, maps and consul• Document determined tation to the technical Environmental and analysis; and Is the report on Environmental and Social by the Social department, and assurance of the Responsibility favorable? Environmental operation feasibility by the Environmental • Online analysis: and Social and Social Legal department, we will have a Satellite images Legal department full analysis on the risks of the operation and analysis to mitigating factors. Therefore, the operation identify Credit denied will be ready to be carried out by us. indications of contamination END Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 36 Integrity Why is this topic material? GRI 102-16 and Ethics We believe that organizations that wish to live long With this in mind and based on our corporate social do not admit gaining at any cost and that their sucresponsibility before society, we run our business, cess depends on the ability to lead with integrity processes and relationships in order to establish and ethics. In our corporate culture, these values are long-lasting links and create shared value for our non-negotiable and fundamental to our vision: to stakeholders. We are committed to high standards of be the leading bank in sustainable performance and conduct in business and value sustainable relationcustomer satisfaction. GRI 103-1 Integrity and Ethics ships and compliance with laws, rules and regulations wherever we operate or have commercial relations. Moreover, we consider integrity and ethics as the only GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics foundation stone that supports the whole organization and the relations with the several stakeholders. These Based on the confidence obtained and the quality are key components of our activities and essential eleof our products and services, we ensure the busiments for the business longevity and sustainability. ness longevity and customer satisfaction, the latter being understood as the perception by clients that we Society demands transparency and commitment meet the requirements they expect when providing to the goals and commitments assumed from large a service. companies. Small missteps can ruin a good reputation and a brand built up over decades in some hours. Materiality Integrity and Ethics GRI 103-1 Integrity and Ethics Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact 16.5 Significantly reduce corruption and briberies and all We have the Integrity and Ethics Program, which is a set of guidelines and processes aimed their forms. at ensuring the compliance with the organization’s Code of Ethics and principles and values. We are committed with the business conduct standards by ensuring an ethical and transparent conduct and cherishing sustainable relationships, compliant with laws, standards, and regulations. Our Internal Ombudsman’s Office prepares action plans for the constant development of an environment of trust and respect among our employees. We sponsor 16.6 Develop efficient, responsible, and transparent institutions that work with matters such as regulation, government transparency, tax institutions at all levels. agendas, etc., thus contributing to nationwide agendas for the development of both public and private institutions. In 2018, we implemented a Dependency Rule for Rouanet projects that sets a contribution ceiling for each project, taking into account its scope and total amount. The purpose of such practice is to ensure project sustainability and autonomy. Our top management is committed to the premises of the Integrity and Ethics Program. Together with the Internal Ombudsman’s Office, we monitor the guiding or disciplinary actions to 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participative, and address any reports of occurrences at odds with Code of Ethics principles and our organization’s representative decision-making at all levels. standards. We set up a structured governance framework to decide on all sponsorships and donations of the organization, with or without tax incentives, organized into committees that review the risks posed by the entities to be sponsored and the scope of each project. Through affirmative actions, we have consolidated our commitment not only to respect but 16.b Promote and enforce nondiscrimination laws and also to disavowing any type of discrimination by reiterating our open-doors policies so that policies for sustainable development. employees report any type of discomfort or discriminatory feeling. 17.16 Reinforce the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multisectoral partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology, We work with our stakeholders by supporting them and entering into partnerships with and financial resources to support the accomplishment influencers and opinion makers to promote sustainability. of the sustainable development goals in every country, in particular developing countries. Through a partnership consolidated with the Government, on the theme urban mobility, promote dialogue, develop and implement the bike-sharing platform in the main Brazilian metropolis. 17.17 Foster and promote efficient public, public-private, In addition to this initiative, we have partnerships in different cities on Brazil using an education and societal partnerships based on our experience with platform of Itaú BBA, which intervenes in Secondary and Technical education. resource mobilization strategies of such partnerships. In 2018, we launched the senior citizen platform, aiming at building together with local consultancies, new opportunities and empower the Senior Citizen Councils of Brazilian municipalities to train them in drafting and implementing efficient public policies for this age bracket. Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders GRI 103-1 EIntegrity and Ethics Employee Client Stockholder Supplier Society Direct Direct Direct Direct Indirect Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 38 In this chapter... …we demonstrate how these features of our identity reflect, especially in the organizational culture, the principles of the Code of Ethics and the corporate governance guidelines and practices, which, in turn, are GRI topics Related indicators the assumptions of our Integrity and Ethics Program. Counting on the commitment of senior management, Management Approach GRI 103-1 Integrity and Ethics – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary this program comprises a number of policies and procedures, as well as a monitoring system and Management Approach GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics – The management approach and its components communication channels for questions and calls. Management Approach GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics – Evaluation of the management approach We provide details about the Code of Ethics and the General Disclosures GRI 102-12 External initiatives guidelines of our Code of Relationship with Suppliers. Accordingly, we present possible corruption activities General Disclosures GRI 102-13 Membership of associations detected, as well as our prevention measures for General Disclosures GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior different unethical actions, such as money laundering, information leakage and client privacy management. General Disclosures GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Additionally, we present information about managing General Disclosures GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement breaches of our Code, from inside the organization, General Disclosures GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised through the Internal Ombudsman’s Office, which addresses moral and sexual harassment, among other Anticorruption GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures issues. Nevertheless, we present the measures taken, our actions directed to speed up the management of these Nondiscrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken issues, and communication and preventive measures. Public Policy GRI 415-1 Political contributions We present guidelines for selecting sponsorships, Marketing and Labeling GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications memberships and partnerships, and actions for GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of monitoring the impacts of our communication acts Customer Privacy customer data and procedures with stakeholders, media and all government levels. At the end, we share our actions related to reputation measurement, which are aimed at identifying and managing risks and opportunities thus supporting the strategic planning of several of our departments. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 39 Integrity and Ethics Program Senior management’s commitment All employees must adhere to the Terms of the Integrity • Get to know the reporting and doubt solving channels. GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics Policies every year and this adherence process may be carTo ensure that we live up to good national and internaried out electronically or in-person depending on the availThese education and communication practices include: tional corporate integrity practices, we have an Integrity The Board of Directors, through the Code of Ethics, deterability of each unit of the organization. In the foreign units, and Ethics Program, which consists of a set of guidelines mines guidelines on conduct, the attitudes considered the adherence is carried out in accordance with local legislation. • Education Program for Integrity and Ethics: is composed of and processes aimed at ensuring compliance with the most adequate and consistent with the organization values online and in-person training; and Code of Ethics and our conglomerate`s principles and valregarding, for example, professional posture, management The percentage of adherence to the Terms of the Integrity ues. The composition of the Integrity and Ethics Corporate of conflicts of interests, relationship with stakeholders and Policies reached 98% of employees and active manage• Institutional Communication Plan: involves awareness Program is as follows: corporate social responsibility. The Executive Committee ment members in the Company in 2018. campaigns, announcements on specific topics related to and other senior management members, by means of ethics and disclosure of policies and guidelines. integrity and ethics joint committees, define the program Integrity policies (%) GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics Dimensions of the Integrity and Ethics Program guidelines and practices, monitor compliance and other In 2018, the Education Program for Integrity and Ethics actions required for managing the program. The message brought together online the most important training sesAdherence to the terms of the Integrity Policies that comes from the top of the organization is also shared sions of the program. All employees are trained and the Senior management through announcements, videos, talks, team meetings and, training sessions are renewed every two years. In 2018, commitment most important, by leading by example. 98 98 these training sessions were restructured and launched in 95 93 three phases, as follows: GRI 205-2 Policies and procedures GRI 102-16 | GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics 1st phase – training courses under the Integrity and Ethics Management of policies Education Program (%) Policies and procedures comprise the preparation and and procedures updating of the conglomerate`s integrity and ethics guideE-learning 2019 2018 2018 2017 2016 lines, so that they are in conformity with the Code of Ethics, target target applicable legislation and good national and international Ethics 90 85 90 88 N.A.(1) market practices. Stationary 2016 2017 2018 Integrity target​ Anti-corruption 90 86 93 83 and Ethics Communication and training actions Our governance is composed of several corporate policies. Relationship with Program The integrity program includes, but is not limited to, a set of clients and users 90 85 85 N.A.(1) N.A.(1) 12 documents that employees must be aware of and adhere Communication and training (1) N.A. – Not applicable. to their guidelines. These documents are as follows: the Itaú Unibanco’s Code of Ethics, the Code of Relationship with The program's education and communication actions Continuous monitoring of Suppliers, the Itaú Unibanco Commitment with Human Rights contribute for management members and employees to: 2nd phase – Training courses under the Integrity and Ethics indicators and processes and the following corporate policies: Integrity, Ethics and Education Program (%) Conduct, Anti-Corruption, Illicit Act Prevention, Intellectual • Expand their knowledge on the integrity and ethics 2019 2018 Property, Information Security, Relationship with Public guidelines, and their application to business and to the E-learning 2018 2017 2016 target target Agents and Contracts with Public Bodies and Companies process and people management; Anti-money owned by the Government, Relationship with Clients 90 80 82 N.A.(1) N.A.(1) laundering Availability of channels and Users of Financial Products and Services, Integrated • Be capable to identifying, preventing and solving ethiSustainability 90 75 83 N.A.(1) N.A.(1) for questions and calls Management of Operational Risk, Internal Controls and cal dilemmas, conflicts of interest, interpersonal conflicts Compliance and Disciplinary Standards. and misconduct inherent in their daily activities; and (1) N.A. – Not applicable. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 40 3rd phase – Training courses under the Integrity and Ethics Education Program (%) Call channels E-learning 2019 target 2018(1) Canal Channel Assuntos Topics Contact Compliance 90 In progress Information security 90 In progress Questions about: • Email: comitedeintegridadeeetica@ • Code of Ethics; itau-unibanco.com.br Relationship with sup-pliers 90 In progress • Corporate Conduct, Integrity and Ethics Policy; Ethics Consultancy • Anti-Corruption Corporate Policy (HF-22-996); Occupational health and safety 90 In progress • Conflicts of interest; and • Call: 0800-721-4040 (1) The 3rd training phase was launched in November 2018 and for this reason we do not have the result. • Ethical dilemmas. • External emails: ombudsman@ ombudsman.itau-unibanco.com.br or ombudsman.itub@terra.com.br Monitoring GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics | Channels for questions and calls Internal Calls: suspicions, reporting and complaints on: • Internal email: Ombudsman’s inbox GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics GRI 102-17 | GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics | GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics • Interpersonal conflicts; and • Intranet website: Portal Digital Itaú > Ombudsman’s Ombudsman > Site/Blog • Conflicts of interest in the workplace. Superintendence The continuous monitoring of the Integrity and Ethics Management members and employees must promptly Program effectiveness and possible required adjustments communicate actual or suspected violations of the Code • Call: 0800-723-0010 and 0300-100-0341 Questions, suspicions and reporting on: is coordinated by the Operational Risk and Compliance of Ethics and corporate policies. The channels described • Website: www.itau.com.br/atendimento/ • Employee misbehavior; Executive Office with direct involvement of different as follows are open for everyone in order to allow managepravoce/Denuncia • Frauds in electronic channels; • Internal email: Inspector’s inbox departments of the organization and periodically reported ment members and employees to report with total free• Different types of document frauds; • External email: inspetoria@itau-unibanco. to the Audit Committee and joint committees that address dom. These call channels investigate the communications • Corruption and bribery activities; Inspector’s com.br and fornecedor_relatos@itauIntegrity and Ethics issues. This monitoring comprises received on a timely basis and with independence, impar• Theft and robbery against units, clients and employees; Superintendence unibanco.com.br • Burglary in general; testing processes carried out by Internal Controls and tiality and confidentiality, and keep records of all identified • Kidnapping for ransom; and • Mailbag: address: Inspector’s Office/ Compliance, monitoring indicators, information from doubt situations, investigations and decisions. São Paulo • Information, physical, personal and property • Mailing address: A/C Inspetoria – Av. Dr. solving and reporting channels and addressing new regulasecurity incidents. Hugo Beolchi, 900 – Torre Eudoro Villela – tions that might impact the program. Based on the results The Compliance department, which is responsible for the Piso -1 – São Paulo (SP) – CEP: 04310-030 of such monitoring, we identify any needs for adjustment or Integrity and Ethics Program, is open to receive suggesQuestions about personal investments from employees and improvement concerning the Integrity and Ethics Program, tions and answer questions about the Program and its pracmanagement members: which are periodically reported to the Audit Committee and tices. We also provide a reporting channel for employees Control Room • Conglomerate's securities; and Internal email: Monitoring Control Room Integrity and Ethics joint committees, and submitted to the and stakeholders to report any actual facts or suspected • Other companies' assets. Board of Directors. illicit acts. The complaint may be anonymous or identified, ensuring the confidentiality of the claimant identity and an Suspicions and reporting on: • Internal email: Audit Committee’s inbox • Noncompliance with legal or regulatory • External email: comite.auditoria@itauThe Internal Audit carries out an annual assessment of the independent and impartial treatment. Depending on their provisions; and unibanco.com.br Integrity and Ethics Program. The assessment of the procomplexity, these cases are submitted to the Integrity and Audit Committee • Frauds and errors in audit, accounting and internal • Mailing address: A/C Comitê de Auditoria gram compliance and possible improvement opportunities Ethics joint committees and may culminate in dismissal or control activities. Itaú Unibanco Holding S. A. – Praça may also be carried out by an external audit, certification contract termination. The channels for questions and calls Alfredo Egydio de Souza Aranha, 100 – or accreditation company. In 2018, an external company of the Integrity and Ethics Program are listed as follows: Torre Olavo Setúbal, Piso PM – São Paulo Available throughout Brazil, it aims at (SP) – CEP 04344-902 assessed the maturity of our Integrity and Ethics Program, ensuring a transparent environment which was classified as an advanced level program. between us and our suppliers. The contact Reporting Channel for reporting ethical misconduct and •  Email address: fornecedores_relatos@ noncompliance with our Code of Relationship itau-unibanco.com.br with Suppliers was made available. •  Call: 0800-723-0010 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 41 Itaú Unibanco’s Code of Ethics Labour Organization’s (ILO) fundamental conventions and members, employees and controlling stockholders of the People trained on anti-corruption under the Education other international agreements, such as the prevention conglomerate and to non-profit entities associated with Program for Integrity and Ethics by job level (%)(1) GRI 205-2 and Code of Relationship with and fight against illicit acts (such as corruption, fraud, and the conglomerate in Brazil, and to any interaction between Management Middle Suppliers GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics money laundering, among others), elimination of child forced or compulsory labor, combat against all forms of the conglomerate and clients, partners, suppliers and other stakeholders. Additionally, we carried out due diligence in members(2) management(3) Workforce(4) discrimination, promotion of appreciation of diversity, premerger and acquisition processes. 91 93 89 90 One of the main values of our organizational culture (Nosso vention of moral and sexual harassment in the workplace, 82 83 87 84 Jeito – “Our Way”) is “Ethics is non-negotiable”, and our Code and respect to the rights to free union association and colThis document is available for all employees in Brazil on of Ethics is in place to guide, prevent and resolve dilemmas lective bargaining agreements. the intranet and for the employees in foreign units on their 59 and conflicts of interest related to our activities and internal respective portals, in English and Spanish. External stakerelationships. Additionally, we have a Corporate Conduct, Our Code of Ethics is available to all employees on the holders, in turn, can visit the Investor relations website Integrity and Ethics Policy. These three documents together intranet and to our stakeholders on the Investor Relations (here), in Portuguese and in English. This document is also guide our activities and relationships with several stakeholdwebsite here. available in audio format on the link (here). GRI 205-2 ers: employees, clients, stockholders, suppliers, partners, 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Public Authorities, competitors, media and society. We also have a Code of Relationship with Suppliers in Brazil Based on local and foreign legislation (Brazil's Federal Law (1) In 2018, the new training model was implemented by means of the Programa de with the purpose of achieving the same transparency, No. 12,846/2013; the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Educação em Integridade e Ética (Integrity and Ethics Education Program). The Our Code of Ethics is divided into four basic principles: legality, quality and reliability we have with our customers UK Bribery Act, among others), case law and global market topic Prevention of corruption was launched in May and, as such, the percentage of people trained in 2018 is lower than in the previous years for which the results in the interactions with our suppliers and service providers. information, we identify the countries with higher corrupincluded the whole year. • Identity: it shows that we are a company focused on This Code supplements the Code of Ethics, and suppliers tion risk. In all countries where we operate, we have pro(2)  Officers and above. (3) Superintendents, Managers and Coordinators. growth, efficiency and customer satisfaction, based must adhere to its guidelines, ensuring alignment of princesses and controls related to relationships with clients, (4) With no management position. on an ethical corporate conduct and sustainable ciples in business relationship. public sector and third parties according to the specific regdevelopment; ulations and particularities of each jurisdiction. In 2017 and 2018, we carried out in-person seminars and trainThe Code of Relationship with Suppliers aims at governing ing activities on Integrity, Ethics and anti-corruption with 4,092 • Interdependence: it details the way we interact with our interactions between employees and suppliers through The Integrity and Ethics Program includes the Education employees in Brazil and 717 in foreign units for the departstakeholders and society aiming at sharing values and a statement of values that define the expected behavior Program for Integrity and Ethics, which provides in-person ments most sensitive to corruption risk, including the Senior actions that favor the common good; in commercial relationships, called “Our Principles”, which and online training, especially to departments most senManagement of foreign units and the LATAM team based in are: Ethical and Long-Lasting Relationship, Transparency, sitive to the risk of corruption, which have relations with Brazil. Additionally, an online anti-corruption education pro• Good faith: it emphasizes that we act in good faith and Traceability and Integrity, Simplicity and Efficiency, government and suppliers. The percentage of adherence gram is in place in units in Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, take responsibility for our actions and choices; and Sustainable Results, Cooperation and Risk Management. of employees and senior management members to the Portugal, the United Kingdom and Japan. new online training on Prevention of Corruption, launched • Excellence: our work is based on a collective development Anti-corruption GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics in 2018, achieved 86%. GRI 205-2 With respect to third parties and joint ventures, our Antiand depends mainly on the quality of the professional Corruption Corporate Policy applies, in Brazil and abroad, to posture and the way we resolve conflicts of interest. Whereas Brazilian legislation deems only misconduct on the all management members, employees and controlling stockpart of public and private agents as corruption, our purview holders and to any interaction we have with clients, partners, This Code is approved by the Board of Directors and of corruption covers misconduct on the part of public and suppliers and other stakeholders. Currently, 57% of our joint applies to all directors, officers and employees of our conprivate agents, as well as those involving private agents only, ventures adhere to our integrity policies and receive corpoglomerate in Brazil and abroad. It is available in four lanbased on the best global practices regarding the topic. rate training. guages (Portuguese, English, Spanish and Japanese, the local languages where it operates). Our Anti-Corruption Corporate Policy reinforces our commitIn 2018, we received five complaints of possible corruption ment to proactively cooperate with national and international activities involving private agents and, after an internal investiAdditionally, our Code of Ethics provides for our formal initiatives to prevent and combat all forms of corruption. gation, we concluded that three of them were unfounded. The commitment to the topics indicated in the International This Policy applies, in Brazil and abroad, to all management other two had indications of irregularities involving conflict of Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 42 interest, which resulted in the dismissal of five employees and recurrently taken to our executives so they can define guideMoney laundering GRI 103-2 Integrity and We work together with the business and technology departthe termination of contracts with the suppliers involved. Note lines and roles, following up information indicators to help the Ethics | GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics ments to maintain solutions and product architecture with that our investigations did not find any involvement of our decision-making process and alignment of behavior with the the highest degree of safety, following digital world market employees in a corruption cases falling within the scope of departments with security processes to manage compliance Regarding anti-money laundering, the challenge is to identify trends. We also have a dedicated function that works closely the Anti-Corruption Act (or Clean Company Act). with current anti-fraud strategies. We also keep close contact and prevent increasingly sophisticated operations that seek to our foreign units, with the definition of minimum security with the business departments to help them understand risks to conceal the source, ownership and transfer of goods and policies and standards. Possible corruption activities and propose mitigation actions to ensure the sustainability of assets, derived from illegal activities, in addition to ensuring Complaints of possible products and services. full compliance with regulation. Anti-money laundering manIn order to reach this purpose, we use a strategy of protectcorruption activities agement is detailed here. ing an expanded perimeter. Under this concept, information To increase the security of clients from all segments, both must be protected regardless of where it is located, within 5 individuals and companies, we provide security devices for the bank infrastructure, at a third party or a foreign unit. This 3 3 authentications and operations in digital, electronic and Information leakage prevention and strategy also takes into account the entire information lifecyphysical channels. For physical channels, we offer cards with client privacy management cle, from collection to processing, transmission, storage, analchip technology and the use of biometric authentication by ysis and destruction. 2016 2017 2018 Finger Print technology. These devices are introduced on Our clients’ privacy is a very significant issue, handled our website. with secrecy and strictness in accordance with laws and Suppliers contracted by the bank are classified according to a regulations in force. Therefore, we adopt precautionary number of criteria, including the type of information they will Our anti-corruption and anti-fraud efforts were publicly To mitigate frauds, we carry out a preventive monitoring measures to protect all information, by using security, have access to, the supplier size, and type of service provided. acknowledged by the Ministry of Transparency, Inspection of higher risk transactions aimed at assessing, preventincluding digital, mechanisms. Depending on the classification, the requirements for proand General Controllership of the Federal Government (CGU) ing, reversing and prospecting atypical situations, through tection of the supplier’s infrastructure range from providing in partnership with Instituto Ethos (Ethos Institute), in the last advanced analytics techniques and tools that may corroboWhen we process information and data, our ongoing consecurity recommendations to in-site validation of the controls 2017 Pro-Ethics Company list (Empresa Pró-Ética 2017). rate decision-making, such as the history of transactions carcern is carrying out these activities in an ethical, transparent informed by the supplier, in addition to monitoring possible ried out by client, demographics and reference files, focusing and secure way. To ensure these features, we have struccorrections and improvements implemented by suppliers, As of 2018, this acknowledgement will be disclosed every on gaps found between the client profile and the profile of a tured different frontlines focused on these issues, such as: when necessary. We monthly scan specific suppliers for their two years. Out of the 375 participating companies in 2017, fraudulent transaction. Information Security, Business areas, Technology, and Supplier environment and monitor corrections made to any vulnera23 were approved and acknowledged in the Conference on Management. This set of structures and measures have turned bilities identified. Contracts entered into by the organization the Clean Company Act. We were the only financial instituWe carry out awareness campaigns to prevent frauds and out a high level of reliability of our clients. GRI 418-1 and third parties include confidentiality clauses that must be tion to be awarded in this event. Investing in preventing and claims for clients and employees through different channels, followed by the supplier. combating fraud and claims, and meeting security requiresuch as social media, emails, text messages, screen savers Our Information Security department contributes to the ments, based on the best market practices and current laws, and partitions for ATMs, and pop-ups on internet banking for security pillar by handling information and data. This Noteworthy in 2018 are the implementation of new relevant we developed guidelines and rules aimed at preventing illicit clients, as well as training sessions, seminars, talks, distribudepartment is aimed at reducing financial losses and our protection layers in system infrastructure and development, acts, ensuring a safe and controlled business environment tion of leaflets, posters, videos and e-learning for employees. image risk. The bank’s cyber security information strategy is as well as the improvement of the monitoring processes that and mitigating risks to society. The main activities involved designed to prevent breaches of our data security, minimize enable us to identify and carry out increasingly effective in these processes are as follows: In addition to these initiatives and the e-learning training risks of service unavailability, protect integrity and prevent preventive actions. Additionally, we strengthened our relaavailable in the Integrity and Ethics Program, we also provide information leakage. For this reason, our strategy is based tionship with partners such as the Brazilian Army, telecom Fraud prevention GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics | training in more specific topics, such as information leakage on strict control processes aimed at detecting, preventing, companies and other financial market partners, with the purGRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics prevention and information security in general, anti-corrupongoing monitoring and immediately responding to attacks pose of improving the ecosystem security. tion, guidance on frauds and social engineering, care in puband attempts to invade our infrastructure, thus ensuring We are engaged in the management of prevention and hanlic settings, social media and misconduct. In 2018, we offered security risk is managed and a sound foundation is built for For 2019, we will continue to evolve by investing in the protecdling of frauds, seeking new solutions and tools to act on 58 in-person training courses and two e-learning training an increasingly digital future. tion of information over its entire life cycle, in the technology our clients’ needs and expand our business. This agenda is courses to 49,916 employees. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 43 infrastructure, by increasing protection in our foreign units, freedom of expression, inviolability of privacy and transInternal Ombudsman GRI 102-17 | GRI 406-1 | Preventive work partners and third parties, in detecting new external threats parency. In addition, it addresses a number of definitions on GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics | GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics earlier, and in protecting ourselves against information leaktypes of data, data handling scenarios, and roles and responContinuous learning, by reflecting on every call and aimed age and investing in our employee training and technical sibilities regarding data handling. In order to maintain and continually strengthen our commitat preparing specific prevention plans, such as communiqualification. Furthermore, investments in the safe development to ethics, we have an Internal Ombudsman channel in cation actions and training sessions, which favors constant ment of systems will continue to be given priority, with focus In line with our purpose and the institution’s strategic prioriplace – the Internal Ombudsman’s Office, which is an indeevolution in an environment of trust and respect among on continuous improvement in the face of an increasingly ties, we believe that it is of utmost important that our clients pendent department, operating with full autonomy in the employees is an issue that has increasingly become part of digital environment. To ensure that everything follows the know that their data is being handled with the appropriate organization and reporting directly to the CEO. the Internal Ombudsman’s Office focus of operation. planning, independent tests are carried out with the world’s care required to ensure privacy and protection. best and most reliable cyber security companies. Regarding Guided by the foundations of trust, dialogue, transparWith this goal in mind, every year the Internal the regulatory arena, we are getting ready to comply with The impact of this regulation is spread across all sectors ency, owner’s mindset, integrity and ethics, the purpose Ombudsman’s Office attends meetings and panels from the requirements of the new Brazilian General Personal Data of the economy. Any organization handling personal data of the Internal Ombudsman’s Office is to help employees a number of areas, bringing information about the chanProtection Act (LGPD), Resolution No. 4,658/18 of the National will be subject to this law. Initially, the regulation requires resolve interpersonal conflicts and conflicts of interest in nel, its indicators and learning, sharing and improving the Monetary Council, and Circular No. 3,909/18 of the Central current processes to be adjusted by companies and data the work environment, ethical misconduct and nonconforunderstanding of specific topics, and encouraging an enviBank of Brazil, which address the adoption of a cyber security owners, for example, by paying attention when providing mities with related institutional policies, such as moral or ronment of trust and openness. policy and the provision of significant data processing and proprietary information. sexual harassment, discrimination in all diversity spheres, storage and cloud computing services. favoritism, behaviors contrary to risk management, among In 2018, the Internal Ombudsman’s Office held 35 talks with The expected great social impact of this law is that it will raise others, always based on three pillars: confidentiality, neuover 2,500 participants. In 11 years, 511 talks were held and The pages of our website are certified in accordance with the awareness among the entire population, the public and pritrality and independence. about 34 thousand people got to know the work performed Brazilian standard ISO/IEC 27001 to ensure the protection and vate sectors about the importance of respecting privacy by the channel up close. privacy of information provided by clients and other sources. when handling personal data. Indicator reports related to calls received and addressed in this channel and discussions of issues of significance to Furthermore, as from the fourth quarter of 2018, the detailed Brazilian General Personal Focused on complying with legal provisions, a working group was created, composed of members from different the organization are submitted to the CEO on a monthly basis, to the Audit Committee every six months and to the analysis of investigation findings, as they unveiled recurring behaviors and behaviors concentrated on specific departData Protection Act (LGPD) departments in the bank, such as Data, Compliance, Legal, Integrity and Ethics joint committees from time to time. If ments or situations, have led the Internal Ombudsman’s Corporate Security, which is studying all the items addressed required, the Audit Committee may also be called, on an Office to spur the organization on carrying out preventive In recent years, data protection and privacy has been in legislation and raising points for improvement in the extraordinary basis, to resolve on cases involving senior measures, such as revising the leadership training to seek an gaining strength, fostered by technological advancements, Institution’s current processes. management members. environment of more openness and trust. great developments and the emergence of legislations in the global scenario. Among the actions planned for 2019, we'd like to mention: The Internal Ombudsman’s Office completed its 11th anniCommunication versary and over this period more than 24,000 employIn 2018, Brazil became part of the group of countries that • Providing training for sharing knowledge on data privacy; ees were assisted. This figure is the result of the credibility Since it was set up, the Internal Ombudsman’s Office has has adopted a specific legislation regarding the topic. achieved mainly due to the channel commitment to the held internal communications so that employees feel safe, Additionally, the application of the European regulation • Adjusting Data Governance policies; and quality of the work developed over these years and to the emboldened and confident to seek out the channel for help in General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and of the consolidation of its role in the organization – that is, to build ethical dilemmas and conflicting situations. California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), in the State of • Fostering the Privacy by design concept(1) in product and up a company that values respect and integrity in all relaCalifornia in the United States, had become mandatory. service development. tionships and seeks to achieve its goals without deviating Over the year, communication strategies have been adopted from the ethical values we believe in. to adjust to the moment experienced by the channel in the The Brazilian General Personal Data Protection Act (LGPD), We know that this is a great cultural advancement required to organization, such as those supported by analysis of indiwhich will become effective in 2020, provides for personal ensure sustainability in relationships with the conscious use cators, employee satisfaction surveys, direct demands from data protection based on fundamentals such as respect, of information. executives, and among which we highlight as follows: (1) Methodology created in the 90's, aiming the construction of thinking in data protection and security from the moment of the design of the project, product or any other way that requires data manipulation. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 44 • Ethics and Internal Ombudsman’s Office Week – with display problem is. I know how you feel and that’s why I am here. not only to the respect, but also to its objection against any The calls solved in the year were addressed as follows: booths at the complexes and hotsite contents, strengthenI am the Internal Ombudsman’s Office. For 10 years I have form of discrimination, which has positively supported an ing the Internal Ombudsman’s role; been learning how to advance relationships.” open environment for employees to express any annoyance or Calls addressed in the year emotions against expected behaviors. Solved: Solved: Solved: • Campaign with Internal Ombudsman’s Office employees – Furthermore, in the second half of 2018, this channel pro1,362 1,401 1,746 “aproximar e humanizar” (coming closer and humanizing); ceeded with the same communication and introduced to the Calls addressed over the last three years are shown below. The organization its new superintendent. In addition to communiindicators related to calls to the Internal Ombudsman’s Office 1,069 • Videos on the channel operation – “como funciona?” (how cating the evolved humanization of the channel, this commureported in reports for 2017 and 2016 were reviewed – the calls 836 does it work?); nication has portrayed the focus on trust and preventive work. received and dismissed and/or discontinued over the process 761 now are part of the total number of cases. These calls may be 429 • Virtual moral harassment: “do’s and don’ts”; Governance of foreign units classified as follows: 313 385 • Performance pillars – a relationship of trust with the channel; Aimed at ensuring agility and even more effectiveness in • Filed – the caller fails to provide all information that is essential 138 117 115 98 130 118 handling incidents in foreign units, in 2017 the Executive to proceed with the case; and • Good practices in social media campaign; Committee decided that complaints should be dealt with locally. Employees in these units may report to the local • Discontinued – the caller resumes the contact and requests the 2016 2017 2018 • Strengthening the channel’s role – Internal Ombudsman’s Compliance and HR departments, which are the main case to be discontinued. Any cases are only dismissed or disInvestigated Guidance Dismissed or R  edirected to other Office independence and the importance of dialogue in relareporting and guidance channels and are ready to receive continued after assessment by the manager and/or superinand advice discontinued departments tionships; and calls, engage the partner departments in the investigation tendent of the Internal Ombudsman’s Office. whenever needed and assess the best way to handle them. • Messages from the CEO and executives – leadership endorsement. Noteworthy mentioning is that the Internal Ombudsman’s Any case in which the investigation was completed by the The investigations conducted in 2018, 2017 and 2016 Office may be called to help settle the conflict if the engagechannel and await the implementation of recommended meainvolved the number of complaints reported and the share To celebrate its 10th year of operation, in 2018 the Internal ment of the aforementioned departments is not possible. sures are no longer part of the volume of complaints under of legitimate complaints shown as follows: Ombudsman’s Office held a communication to showcase a little analysis, but are now included in the volume of complaints bit of the history of the people who are part of the team, with Calls addressed handled in their respective years. Calls investigated – Internal Ombudsman’s Office GRI 406-1 the goal of demystifying the work performed by the departCalls per year GRI 406-1 Number of Number of Number of ment and “humanize” the employees’ view of this channel. In 2018, the Internal Ombudsman’s Office received an expresemployees employees employees sive volume of calls, representing a rise of 40% from previous Calls 2018 2017 2016(¹) reported: reported: reported: Against the backdrop of its anniversary, the campaign sought years, which we believe is a consequence of the increasing 958 904 1,074 Received in the year 1,871 1,479 1,341 to gather our employees closer to the department’s employtrust placed in this channel. 47 48 ees, by unveiling who are the people willing to listen to them, Solved in the same year 1,595 1,328 1,268 44 44 42 39 strengthening empathy and trust, and lowering the barriers in Some actions carried out in the first quarter of 2018 contributed Under analysis up to 276 151 73 the relationship with the channel, in addition to bringing the to this increased volume of complaints, among them the humanDecember 31 manifesto below as its core message: izing the channel institutional campaign and the disclosure to the Calls solved in the year 14 organization, by way of a notice from the Executive Committee, 12 10 “We share the same corridors, every day. My badge carries of some decisions made based on an investigation conducted by Calls solved 2018 2017 2016 the same brand as yours. And with the task I chose: to help the Internal Ombudsman’s Office, which strengthened the com2016 2017 2018 Solved 1,746 1,401 1,362 you. A commitment that requires empathy. Knowing how mitment to an equal, impartial and independent treatment, no Legitimate Illegitimate Inconclusive Received and solved in to listen. Listening with respect. Listening without judgmatter the hierarchical level of the employee. the same year 1,595 1,328 1,268 ment. I behave with secrecy, neutrality and independence Received in prior years so that you may feel safe, because I share with you the Moreover, 2018 stood out as the year the organization conand solved in the year 151 73 94 will to experience great relationships. No matter what the solidated – by means of affirmative actions – its commitment Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 45 The main behaviors reported in legitimate cases were as follows: Guiding and disciplinary measures GRI 406-1 Behaviors identified – Internal Ombudsman’s Office (%) To guide and discipline employees who have not complied with the principles of the Company’s Code of Ethics and rules and to minimize related risks, the Internal Ombudsman’s Office recommends and monitors the implementation of guiding/disciplinary measures to those involved in the calls investigated and considered legitimate. 0.4 3.8 0.8 0.5 2.3 1.1 1.3 3.8 3.5 The measures implemented in 2018, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 5.7 5.8 26.0 32.9 8.8 9.9 Measures taken 2016 2017 Total: 425 Total: 416 Total: 457 246 244 1.1 0.2 4.4 239 2.4 42.4 51.0 6.2 30.5 110 118 12.8 2018 57 77 55 54 30 22 25 9.7 11 10 32.7 2016(1) 2017(1) 2018 Internal politics deviation Lack of effective management Communication deficiency Sexual harassment Other Dismissal Written warning Conduct Feedback recorded  ssignment to A Disrespect Abusive behavior Moral harassment Discrimination adjustment notice another area (1) As of May 2017, the disciplinary measures scale was updated as per the Disciplinary Standards Policy (RP-29), with the inclusion of a conduct adjustment notice as a measure for a first minor violation (in place of what was previously a Warning). Warning is now applicable to a second minor violation (in place of what was previously a Suspension from work). Therefore, • Disrespect: being authoritarian, harsh, arrogant. • Sexual harassment: act or series of acts performed in a constant and/or for a better understanding, the classification of measures was updated for indicators of 2016 and 2017. GRI 102-48 • Internal politics deviation: improper use of corporate communication tools; selling repeated manner to threaten, oppress or harass a male or female employee any products inside the bank’s facilities. through proposals (verbal or physical) with either explicit or implied sexual • Lack of effective management: lack of support/planning activities, issues with the connotations. department’s management. • Discrimination: making generalizations that are offensive and derogatory, • Abusive behavior: threats of dismissal, being aggressive, expose the employee. telling embarrassing jokes and pulling pranks or denying professional and social • Communication deficiency: lack of clear communications; lack of communication. opportunities in the work environment on the grounds of sexual orientation, • Moral harassment: act or series of acts performed in a manner that is repeated, gender identity, race, gender, looks, age, culture, illness, disability etc. abusive or insistent through behaviors or communications that inflict harm to the • Other: lack of equal treatment; lack of feedback. psychological, physical integrity, the personality or dignity of a person. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 46 Harassment Service Management of the relationship The number of complaints reporting workplace harassment, Evolution of complaints classified as moral harassment in With the reduction of the timeframe for the resolution of calls with stakeholders GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics specifically sexual harassment, in 2018 was significantly the last three years is as follows: in the previous year, the channel established a timeframe of higher than related complaints received in the prior period, 30 business days for 2018. However, the increased volume of Based on transparent communication, respect and honrepresenting a rise of 138%, as follows: Calls reporting moral harassment calls received through the channel in the year, together with esty in the relationship with our stakeholders, and with the recurrence of more complex cases and the preparation of the consequent perception of the way we work, we have Calls 2018 2017 2016 Calls reporting sexual harassment broader plans aimed at prevention, demanded more investibuilt and strengthened the value and the reputation of Received in the year 18 26 26 gative efforts and contributed for the average response time the brand. Therefore, we continuously seek to improve our Calls 2018 2017 2016 Solved in the year 17 20 21 to be longer than that originally estimated, which remains a discourse and practices so that we are always on a path Received in the year 50 21 10 challenge to the Internal Ombudsman’s Office. towards soundness, which supports the reputation we Under analysis until 1 6 5 have built. Solved in the year 46 17 8 December 31st As a consequence of the increase in volume of calls and Under analysis until December 31st 4 4 2 seeking to adjust to the new level of calls received, in addiAs an example, we can find support in our responsible marCalls solved 2018 2017 2016 tion to improving and automating the process, the Internal keting practices and in the management of risks associated Ombudsman’s Office increased the number of employees with the sale of our products and the dissemination of our Solved 23 25 23 Calls solved 2018 2017 2016 by 25% over 2018. The channel’s goal continues to be servservices by means of the above mentioned Code of Ethics, Received and solved 17 20 21 ing employees as expeditiously as possible. However, comthe Sector Policy of Prevention of Money Laundering and Solved 50 19 13 in the year mitment to the quality of service and detailed investigation other internal policies. Similarly, we are supported by our Received and solved Solved in the year and is vital to the work of the department and should be given respect for the rules and regulations of the National Board 46 17 8 6 5 2 in the year received in prior years priority in any circumstances, ensuring that the work is carof Advertising Self-Regulation (CONAR). In 2018, we did not Solved in the year and ried out with a focus on empathy, consideration and respect identify any occurrences of non-compliance with the market4 2 5 received in prior years Calls investigated (%)(1) 2018 2017 2016 towards the employees involved. ing communication codes and no Public-Interest Civil Action was filed against us. GRI 417-3 Calls investigated (%)(1) 2018 2017 2016 Legitimate 55 17 35 Legitimate 28 21 22 Illegitimate 36 83 53 The impacts of our communication actions are monitored by means of: Illegitimate 28 21 44 Inconclusive 9 0 12 Inconclusive 44 57 33 • Customer satisfaction surveys; • Pre-test and post-test surveys of our advertising campaigns to analyze the communication performance, in addition to the monitoring of campaigns in social medias and in our proprietary channels; • Constant monitoring of social networks; and • Monitoring of the number of interactions with and views of communications, from which we can perceive the mood of people from surveys and reports carried out (1) T  he percentage of origin of the manifestations investigated does not necessarily refer to the origin of reported behaviors (moral or sexual harassment). During the course over the period of our campaigns. of the investigation, origin may have been identified for other behaviors.​ Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 47 Additionally, our digital operation is composed of 110 Media GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics project, we made around 100 posts that included 37 video Our exposure in the local and international media is monipeople and divided into three pillars, with teams that are films, reaching an average engagement of 3.9% a rate that is tored by means of an image audit carried out by the Analysis connected every day – including on holidays. We keep an open and transparent relationship with the considered high by the social network’s own measurements – and Survey Department of CDN, a communication agency media and opinion makers in general. We have channels for and the activation of the profiles of our Executive Committee, focused on the construction and strengthening of image and • Monitoring of the brand and campaigns: we listen to specific contacts on our website, emails, exclusive telephone with qualified entries and development of exclusive topics for reputation. The information, analyzed at the quantitative consumers for the purpose of providing feedback to our lines aimed at serving the media and other means of comthe channel. and qualitative levels, results in the Media Exposure Quality Communication Department and increasing its potential munication, an External Ombudsman’s service and consumer Index (IQEM), which is monitored on a monthly basis. in accordance with the interaction generated in our proprotection bodies, among others. Currently, we have nearly 220 spokespersons authorized to GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics prietary channels and outside of them, segmenting the talk to the media. These executives are trained on demand, as Media Exposure Quality Index (IQEM) matters discussed and generating insights for the comIn the interfaces with the media, we work to reinforce the necessary or as new executives are appointed as spokespermunication strategy itself and for the business; main positions and key messages of the bank, contributing sons, in accordance with our internal Press Relations Policy. In Positive exposure of the financial to a proper and clear coverage by the media. 2018, 38 professionals were trained. sector in the local press (%) • Monitoring of crises: whenever some activity related to us is identified in social networks, we analyze it with In 2018, journalists from the main local and international media Our interactions with journalists and opinion makers are con41.0 40.7 respect to the sensitivity of the matter in relation to our outlets were received by executives of the bank. The purpose stantly reinforced and, together with the communication 37.1 brand and the image risk. Then we quantify these menwas to present projects and initiatives adopted with a focus on strategies, they allow us to respond as well as possible to the tions, estimating a scope and dissemination potential customer satisfaction, profitability, people management, interdemands of the media. From the local media, 3,247 topics were and we check the perception related to them. As a result, nationalization, digital transformation, risk management, diverreceived in 2018. This work allows us to endorse our changes of we measure the risk involved in what is being analyzed sity, entrepreneurship and marketing campaigns, among other practices, products and services and reinforce our concern with 2016 2017 2018 to recommend the best solution for managing the incimatters. Additionally, topics such as the economic climate, macthe reputation and appreciation of the brand. GRI 102-43 dent and action plans with the departments related to roeconomic projections, evolution of the service channels and the crisis; and agribusiness were also addressed in these meetings. Around 200 events and relationship meetings were organized Of all the topics we responded to, the demand from the to address issues such as financial orientation education, international media represented 30% of all the requests • War Room: we analyze data in real time, mapping and One of the innovations in 2018 was the partnership between macro-economy, sustainability, urban mobility, investments, made to us in 2018, and the majority of them (92%) referred understanding popular habits and issues. At this point, the marketing and corporate communication teams to incentive to reading, culture and sports, digital channels, to Latin American countries. Chile is the leading country we can also anticipate trends and topics for the purpose increase the production of proprietary content for LinkedIn, External Ombudsman’s Office, women’s entrepreneurship in international demand and the highlight was macroecoof increasing the potential of projects and optimizing an important social network for contacting market profesand agribusiness, among others. We also organized and took nomics in the Latin American continent. Other highlights the engagement of people with our brands and prodsionals, establishing new partnerships, getting to know and part in more than 54 lectures in companies, organizations, were the topics related to digitalization, which were present ucts. We want to become a more modern and contempodisseminating trends and presenting our actions to potenuniversities, conferences and workshops. They were importin interviews with executives of the parent company when rary brand. tial employees and society in general. In six months of the ant places to share knowledge, inspire us and listen. travelling to the other countries. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 48 Relationships with institutions Entities of which we are members GRI 102-13 Representatives Voluntary principles that we joined GRI 102-12 GRI 102-43 | GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics Country Non representatives Brazilian Association of Credit Card and Service Companies (ABECS) Principles Year of joining of operation We also work to positively influence society, establishing relaBrazilian Association of Intellectual Property (ABPI) Brazilian Association of Real Estate Loans and Savings Entities (ABECIP) Global Compact 2003 Global tionships with institutions that help us understand the contribuBrazilian Association of Company Customer Relationships (ABRAREC) Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Markets Entities (ANBIMA) Equator Principles III 2004 Global tion of the financial market in the globalized world, at the same Brazilian Association of Advertisers (ABA) Brazilian Association of Consortia Administrators (ABAC) National Pact for the Eradication time as they provide us with opportunities to listen, share prac2008 Brazil Brazilian Association of Corporate Communication (Aberje) National Association of Brokerages and Distributors of Marketable of Slave Labor tices and absorb trends. By means of these representations, Brazilian Association of Direct Marketing (ABEMD) Securities, Foreign Exchange and Commodities (Ancord) Principles for Responsible we engaged in dialogue with agents from the sector and par2008 Global Brazilian Association of Technical Standards (ABNT) Brazilian Federation of Banks (FEBRABAN) Investment (PRI) ticipated in the preparation of self-regulation policies and the structuring of joint actions with other institutions. Brazilian Association of Institutional and Governmental National Federation of Capitalization (FenaCap) GHG Protocol – Brazilian Program 2008 Brazil Relationships (ABRIG) National Federation of Private Pension and Life Insurance (Fenaprevi) United Nations Environment We chose sponsorships and memberships that are in line with Association of Investors in Capital Markets (Amec) National Federation of Private Health Insurance (Fenasaúde) Programme – Finance Initiative 2008 Global (UNEP FI) our work principles, increasing the scale of our impact; we estabInteractive Media Association (IAB Brasil) National Federation of General Insurance (Fenseg) lished internal and external commitments, created partnerships Corporate Charter for Human BayBrazil Rights and the Promotion of 2012 Brazil and directed the efforts towards the government and civil sociDecent Labor Carbon Disclosure Project Latin America (CDP) ety, in addition to exercising our influence on market players. The largest expenses with associations are, respectively, Brazilian Center of International Relations (CEBRI) Corporate Contribution for with the Brazilian Federation of Banks (R$38,653,197.07), the Promotion of a Green and 2012 Brazil By means of contributions to associations, we helped develop Brazil China Business Board (CEBC) Brazilian Association of Credit Card and Service Companies Inclusive Economy (RIO+20) opportunities for discussion and dialogue with agents from the Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS) (R$3,151,590.92), Brazilian Association of Real Estate Loans International Integrated sector, we guided the preparation of self-regulation policies National Board of Advertising Self-Regulation (CONAR) and Savings Entities (R$883,827.99), Brazilian Association of 2012 Global Reporting Council (IIRC) and we structured joint actions between institutions, using as Abrinq Foundation for the Rights of Children and Adolescents Financial and Capital Markets Entities (R$505,974.00) and a method, in most cases, meetings and working groups with National Federation of Capitalization (R$242,000.00). Principles for Sustainability in 2012 Global Global Banking Alliance for Women (GBA) Insurance (PSI) those involved in the projects. Our memberships are classified, primarily, as representative and non-representative. The former Akatu Institute We encourage the topics that contribute to the developPact for Sports 2015 Brazil are entities from market sectors that carry out activities related Brazilian Institute of Studies on Competition, Consumption and ment of society by means of the organization of meetings, Corporate Initiative for International Trade (IBRAC) 2016 Brazil to the interests of the organization, for the main purpose of workshops, lectures, panels at events, conferences, in addiRacial Equality promoting further interaction between the State, civil society Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC) tion to the relationship with institutions by means of repreCorporate Pact for Integrity and 2016 Brazil and stakeholders. Meanwhile, the non-representative associaEthos Institute of Companies and Social Responsibility sentations that encourage dialogue between agents from Against Corruption tions are entities whose purpose is to congregate, nurture, supNational Pact Institute for the Eradication of Slave Labor (InPACTO) the sector, the preparation of self-regulation policies and Corporate Coalition for Racial and port and develop civic, corporate or institutional activities so as the structuring of joint actions between institutions. Our 2017 Brazil Open Word Institute Gender Equality to produce and add value to society. The duty of these entities intention is to expose relevant information about topics that Women’s Empowerment Lideranças Empresariais Ltda. (LIDE) 2017 Global is not to represent, although they do recognize and promote help understand the contribution of the financial sector in Principles (WEPs) Mobile Marketing Association (MMA) actions that are consistent with their institutional pillars. the globalized world and that work as a way of listening, Task Force on Climate-related United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) sharing practices and absorbing trends. GRI 102-43 2017 Global Financial Disclosures (TCFD) In 2018, we had the representations as follows, which focused on Equator Principles Forum of Companies and topics such as credit environment, banking system taxation, insurBrasil Network Global Compact We present as follows some voluntary commitments 2018 Brazil LGBT+ Rights ance and economic plans. For the trade associations or tax-exempt Reputation Institute signed over the past 15 years that, together with our interStandards of Conduct for groups, R$1,439,652.13 was spent. Meanwhile, for the lobbying, internal policies, support our management and our direct rela2018 Global United Nations Environment Programme – Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Companies (UN) est representation or similar, R$44,188,863.55 was spent in 2018. tions with stakeholders: Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 49 Government relations GRI 102-43 | We interact frequently with lawmakers and public adminAt the state and municipal levels, we monitor the progour business, we engage with many interlocutors in the exercise GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics istrators with distinguished participations and expertise in ress of legislative proposals that are pending in the State of the Government Relations activities and in the monitoring of fields like security, consumer rights, urban mobility, fiscal Legislatures of Brazil and in many City Councils, based on the preparation and enforcement of public policies in general. Our representation of our institutional interests and the interissues and the environment. Examples of such interactions matters that address security, consumer rights, the tax sysFor the monitoring of the processing of political and regulatory ests of the financial system has developed by means of the are as follows: tem, banking transactions and urban mobility, among others. matters of interest to the financial sector, we have specialized monitoring of the regulatory and legislative process, as well consulting firms that provide inputs for the advocacy activities as the provision of information and technical suggestions • Meetings with representatives from the Executive and Legislative propositions at the state and municipal levels of our internal Government Relations team. The total expendiaimed at contributing to the improvement of the Brazilian Legislative branches and from the academic community 2018 2017 2016 tures with these entities amounted to R$1,390,000.00 in 2018. regulatory environment, always observing the applicable to discuss the Tax Reform, focused on the Constitutional legal and ethical precepts. Amendment Proposal No. 293 of 2004, which changes Approximate number We receive and manage the recordings made by our manage8,800 7,000 4,500 of propositions the National Tax System and makes other provisions; ment members and employees of their interactions with public With respect to the strengthening of institutional causes, officials, reporting the data and the situations that are deemed we made, over the course of the year, financial contributions • Meetings with representatives from the Executive We established relations with government entities and necessary to the vice chairman responsible for the department to support projects and activities that contributed to the branch, such as the Office of the President’s Chief of strategic stakeholders for the purpose of supporting, susand to the Integrity and Ethics Committee and the secrecy of development of the public sector. We tried to work in direct Staff, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the taining and developing activities that are in line with our the information provided is maintained. In 2018, more than 500 contact with civil society, academia and third sector entiCentral Bank of Brazil, with the participation of other institutional causes, producing and adding value to society. interactions were recorded. ties for the purpose of cooperating with the development representation entities, to discuss the proposals on proExamples of these relations are as follows: of public policies that converge with the interests of society tection and treatment of personal data, in particular the Additionally, we support political education projects to encourand of the organization. Bill of the House of Representatives No. 53 of 2018, which • Support for the Inclusive Culture Program of the municage the social engagement and citizenship of individuals. regulates the protection of personal data and was conipality of São Paulo (State of São Paulo) so as to promote An example of this is the São Paulo State’s Good Legislative Working with public bodies, in accordance with the issues verted into Law No. 13,709 of August 14, 2018; architectural and communicational accessibility in thePractices Award, which is aimed at stimulating the recognithat involve our business and the causes we support, aters, libraries, museums and other municipal venues, tion by society of the nearly 6,000 city councilors in the State ensures democracy and respect for Brazilian laws and • We cooperated with projects aimed at the developthus ensuring the right of disabled people to culture; of São Paulo who work on the preparation of projects that the principles established by our Code of Ethics and our ment and improvement of the public sector, such as the can positively impact the life of their respective municipaliGovernment Relations Policy, which guide the conduct perGovTech event organized by OSCIP BrazilLab, whose pur• Support for the Social Vegetable Gardens Project in the ties. Additionally, it is also aimed at rewarding the City Councils mitted for and expected from employees in their relationpose was to discuss applications and innovations in the city of Fortaleza (State of Ceará) for the purpose of assurthrough innovative actions in the field of public administration ships with any public agents. technology infrastructure that the government and its ing food security and promoting urban family agriculture organized by their respective presiding tables and public servant partners use to provide services to society; and for the elderly in situations of social vulnerability; and staff, in addition to recognizing what civil society and the third From this standpoint, we make the following efforts at the sector have been doing at the legislative bodies. federal, state and municipal levels. At the federal level, • We understand the importance of public policies and leg• Support for the creation of the Application of the State we monitor the progress of legislative proposals that are islation for the progress of the climate change topic. For Public Security Department of Rio de Janeiro to be Other actions we support include: pending in the National Congress on topics that involve the this reason, in 2018, we supported the structuring of the used by military and civil police officers and municipal financial sector, such as issues concerning tax, consumers, government work monitoring area of the Cyclists Union guards during the service to minorities and vulnerable • Political Initiation Course: offered participants a conlabor and regulations of new technologies. of Brazil, in addition to the work of our Government groups at police stations in the capital city of the State of tent that can change the relation of a common citizen Relations team in the strategy for the approval of the Rio de Janeiro. The initiative is aimed at serving women, with politics. It is an essential program to consolidate the Legislative propositions at the federal level legislative bill that established the Bicicleta Brasil (Brazil children and adolescents, the LGBT+ community and the commitment of society with the democratization of pol2018 2017 2016 Bicycle) Program. One of the main guidelines of this proelderly, in addition to the victims of religious intolerance itics, presenting it in a cross-party manner to society. gram is the reduction of pollutant emission rates, given and racial discrimination. Additionally, we have the annual support for the Public Approximate number of propositions 3,000 2,800 1,900 the positive impact of bicycles as an alternative and susLeadership Center, a non-profit and non-partisan organitainable means of transportation. We care about the maintenance of an ethical and transparent zation that works to promote transformational changes relationship with all public officials, respecting the laws, rules through efficient management and improvement in the and regulations in effect and, in the search for sustainability in quality of public policies. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 50 Investments by area We consider such engagement a process for the establishWe also participate in the main market indexes, such as • Politicize Portal: seeks to offer a first-class education ment of partnerships for the purpose of enabling the opporthe Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the Corporate throughout Brazil through many contents available R$ million 2018 2017 2016 tunities to generate a positive impact. To ensure compliance Sustainability Index (ISE) and the Carbon Efficient Index on the website, YouTube and podcasts, training young Donations for funding the rights with the objectives, the following stages must be followed in (ICO2), the latter two of B3 S.A. – Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão (B3). 12.4 15.6 15.8 teachers-leaders who disseminate content to thousands of children and young people accordance with the description in the AG-71 policy: When responding to the questionnaires used as part of the of people. Rouanet Law to support culture 51.1 67.0 74.4 selective process of the indexes, we make a diagnosis of our • Definition of scope; progress in the implementation of the sustainability projects • Political Awareness Program 2018: cross-party eduSports sponsorships 12.4 16.6 12.4 and identify points for improvement that may be incorpocational content of internal political awareness aimed at Audiovisual activities 0 0.4 0.3 • Identification of stakeholders; rated into our management. We also believe that this practice our employees for the purpose of stimulating participapromotes the sustainability agenda between the companies Other(1) 32.5 30.6 31.9 tion in the 2018 elections. The program included debates • Definition of the level of engagement of each stakeholder; and encourages transparent communication and transacwith leaders of political movements, a lecture by a political Total 108.4 130.2 134.8 tions in the market of responsible investments. scientist, in addition to papers published on the corporate • Management of stakeholders; portal (intranet). (1) This refers to projects related to the Programa Nacional de Apoio à Atenção da Saúde da Pessoa com Deficiência (National Health Care Support Program for Reputation People with Disability – PRONAS), the Programa Nacional de Apoio à Atenção • Method of engagement; GRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics | GRI 103-3 Integrity and Ethics Political campaigns and donations GRI 415-1 Oncológica (National Oncology Care Support Program – PRONON) and the Statute of the Elderly. In conformity with Law No. 9,504/1997, as amended by • Assessment of the risks involved; Since 2008, we have been measuring the reputation of the Electoral Reform (Law No. 13,165/2015), our internal the bank from the general public’s standpoint, using the donations policy prohibits any type of: I) donation Additionally, we used the amount of R$8.7 million as • Action plan; and RepTrak® Deep Dive methodology. In 2018, the monitoring made directly to public officials, bodies or entities of the tax incentives: was extended and it started to incorporate the view of many government, or made to direct or collateral relatives or • Monitoring and reporting. stakeholders, and be customized with specific attributes Tax incentives by area relatives by affinity of public officials, up to the second of our reality. As a result, assessments are made and perdegree, whose purpose is to influence decisions in which we R$ million 2018 2017 2016 We seek to address the surveys carried out by our stakeceptions are obtained of strategic attributes, allowing for have interests; II) electoral donation or donation aimed at holders and provide feedback on them. We provide the analysis and the planning of actions that prioritize spepolitical candidates and parties. Accordingly, in accordance Workers’ food program 7.3 6.3 5.3 accountability based on our sustainability and materiality cific needs and mitigate risks. In 2018, our reputation index, with Brazilian laws and regulations, in 2018, we did not make strategy in a transparent manner for the different stakeknown as Pulse, was 61.6. Citizen company program 1.4 25.6 1.0 any donations of funds to political parties or candidates for holders, with no distinction. GRI 102-44 use in the elections. Total 8.7 31.9 6.3 As a highlight, we can mention the Reputation + Legal Transparency for social, environmental and governance Workshop. The purpose of the meeting is to raise the awareGovernment tax incentives GRI 201-4 data is an essential premise in the search for sustainable ness of the Legal Department and partner offices about In 2018, we invested in culture, education, sports and health Engagement of stakeholders performance. For the purpose of adding further objecthe understanding and monitoring of sensitive topics, so with incentives from Brazilian tax legislation and, in considGRI 103-2 Integrity and Ethics tivity to our accountability, we established a partnerthey can identify them and find solutions as best as possieration, we had a tax benefit in the amount of R$108.4 milship with the International Integrated Reporting Council ble. 55 people participated in the event, ten of which are our lion by means of the following areas: Based on our strategic planning, we established internal and (IIRC) in 2013. Since then, we have been publishing our employees and 45 are representatives of partner law firms. external partnerships for the achievement of the defined Integrated Report on an annual basis. It is a concise pubobjectives. These partnerships must be supported by integrity lication focused on our ability to create value for stakeBased on all the results obtained from the IQEM and and ethics. We show as follows the basic assumptions used for holders in the long term. Our Integrated Report 2018 can RepTrak, the risks to be mitigated and the work opportunithe achievement of the engagement of stakeholders. be accessed here. ties are assessed. The data obtained support the strategic planning of many departments of the bank since reputation is a cross-cutting concern for the institution. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 51 Engagement initiatives GRI 102-40 | GRI 102-43 Engagement with suppliers Engagement method Frequency Description Website, email and telephone are available in Brazil for the purpose of ensuring a transparent and ethical Engagement with clients Communication channels Continuous environment between us and our suppliers. Engagement method Frequency Description Annual meeting between the bank and the units of the Consumer Pro-tection and Advisory Program (Pro-con), Dialogue forum Annual Public Defender’s Office, Public Prosecution Office and consumer protection bodies. Customer service Continuous First line of service regarding complaints, cancellations and general information. Engagement with stockholders Annual survey via telephone contact to study a representative sample of each segment’s portfolio, aimed at assessing Engagement method Frequency Description Telephone contacts for Annual customer satisfaction with respect to the services of the bank at specific business units and comparing the results survey with those of the competition. Realizamos quatro teleconferências sobre os resultados trimestrais durante o ano. Todas são transmitidas em Teleconferences Quarterly tempo real em português e em inglês, podendo ser acessadas por telefone ou pela internet. We conduct satisfaction surveys via telephone contacts, email, SMS and digital channels of the bank itself. Surveys with customers Periodical Additionally, to improve our services and products, we conduct other surveys with different methodologies, such APIMEC meetings Annual In 2018, we held 16 meetings around Brazil. as focus groups, in-depth interviews, client forums with executives, and market analyses. Institutional meetings Continuous In-person meetings with stockholders. The External Ombudsman’s Office is the ultimate body responsible for providing services to clients that expressed Email – Investor Relations External Ombudsman’s Continuous dissatisfaction with the solution presented in the primary channels of the Institution, seeking to solve the claim on a Box and Telephone Continuous Service tool for stockholders – in Portuguese and English. Office definitive basis. It also works on the demands from regulatory bodies and has a permanent dialogue agenda with them. Service Channel www.consumidor.gov.br We are part of the government’s initiative of promoting online solutions for the complaints of clients that are Website Continuous Main means of communication of the Investors Relations Office – in Portuguese and in English. Continuous website directly received by the company via the www.consumidor.gov.br website. Itaú IR Application Continuous Available for Android and IOS. By means of an analysis of the client’s history, we identify opportunities to improve the client’s experience, Structured communication Continuous Investcast Monthly Podcast aimed at the Investor Relations’ stakeholders that can be accessed via Spotify and iTunes. structuring actions for a proactive, customized and digital service. Engagement with employees Engagement with society and media Engagement method Frequency Description Engagement method Frequency Description Notification and guidance channel aimed at helping employees solve interpersonal conflicts and conflicts of Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Medium, YouTube and Instagram. Social media Continuous Internal Ombudsman’s Office Continuous interests in the work environ-ment, ethical misconducts and prac-tices that go against the institutional policies Itaú Cultural has profiles on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Google My Business, TripAdvisor and Reclame Aqui. associated with an Internal Ombudsman’s Office. We have a program to identify needs and opportunities in regions where we have large operational and business centers. Relationships Periodical This process allows us to study ways of working together with the leaders of local communities, organized civil society and We maintain a continuous and trans-parent dialogue with the unions that represent our employees in different with communities Employees union Continuous government bodies to support and implement projects in these places. professional categories, seeking to keep a permanent channel of dia-logue about the many topics of mu-tual interest. We keep in contact with government entities in order to contribute to the development of public policies that Meetings between representatives of the unions of bank employees and representatives of banks with a presentation of Relationships with converge with the interests of the organization and society. Our work with public bodies is based on the principles National Federation of Banks the statistics and indicators of the sector by the National Federation of Banks (FENABAN), establishing, based on the most Periodical Semiannual government entities of ethics, transparency, morality and legality, ensuring democracy and respect for Brazilian laws and the principles (FENABAN) recent Collective Labor Agreement, the commitment to always dialogue and negotiate in advance any and every situation, established by our Code of Ethics. thus avoiding the interme-diation and the interference of the Judiciary. We have Advisory Committees for the urban mobility and diversity topics. The purpose is to bring together Advisory committees Periodical Email (marketing emails, bulletins and statements), intranet, digital panels, screen savers, Itaú Unibanco Magazine, visual specialists in the topics for consultation on investment priorities. Communication channels Continuous communication totems and Corporate TV (Itaú Unibanco TV) and Itaú Unibanco Instagram. There is a message box at the Institute’s headquarters and an email box (atendimento@itaucultural.org.br), and Relationship with Itaú Continuous the messages are responded to within three working days. Since 2010, the Portas Abertas (Open Doors) program has been or-ganizing meetings between employ-ees, the CEO, Cultural’s audience and periodical Public surveys are also conducted at the exhibits of the Ocupação (Occupation) Program. Candido Bracher, and the chairmen of the Board of Directors, Pedro Moreira Salles and Roberto Setubal, to discuss Dialogue with the leaders Annual We hold meetings and workshops to detail relevant information on topics that help clarify the workings of the financial topics related to the organization. The meetings are also a way to disseminate our culture and promote a dialogue Meetings and workshops Periodical with the employees. system for journalists and opinion makers, in addition to their implications in the current context. As part of our scope of operation outside the bank, we combine continuous dialogue with communication strategies Held since 2010, the purpose of this event is to cause all the leaders of the organization, including external foreign Continuous dialogue Continuous to receive and provide proper references to the demands of the media and opinion makers. Meetings between leaders Annual units, to be in line with the current results and challenges and with our strategy for the longevity of our business, ensuring the commitment and continuous engagement of our employees. The monitoring process is continuous, conducted by means of the RepTrak® Deep Dive study and the Media Exposure Quality Index (IQEM) with stakeholders: media, main opinion makers and general public. For the IQEM, The survey is conducted once a year and all employees are invited to participate. The purpose of this survey is to assess Monitoring of reputation Periodical Pulso (Pulse) Survey Annual our measurement is performed on a monthly basis. The RepTrak for the general public – with clipping for clients – is the level of satisfaction of employees with the work environment and management. conducted annually. Customer Why is this topic material? GRI 103-1 Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction The development of our strategic agenda has brought to light a significant pillar for our sustainable performance: client appreciation, which directly impacts our decisions and changes. Our choice of focusing our actions on the client has made us aim at joining the league of the world’s best companies in customer satisfaction, because we believe that by doing so we will be able to provide the best experiences and make clients happier too. Aiming at changing our customer experience, we will focus efforts in two fully interconnected steps. The first one is the very foundation: an internal behavioral change towards a customer centricity culture. The second one, the customer experience, either on retail or wholesale, goes far beyond the mere management of statistics and sorting out problems that reach our External Ombudsman’s Office or the Central Bank of Brazil. The idea here is to reach the causes of what we call the customer’s pains, that is, whatever causes problems. Materiality Customer Satisfaction GRI 103-1 Customer Satisfaction Potential SDGs The 2030 agenda promotes changes that business can also make in the world. We, as a financial organization, we recognized that we have a great In this chapter... potential to promote changes in the word, and that Customer Satisfaction is inherent to our business. Accordingly, we do not relate any SDGs directly to the material matter. Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders …we explore our idea of relentlessly pursuing a new GRI 103-1 Customer Satisfaction level of customer satisfaction and the four signifiClient Employee Stockholder Supplier Society cant steps in this journey of changing the customer Direct Direct Direct Indirect Indirect experience: first, by measuring customer satisfaction in each point of contact. Second, by listening to the GRI topics Related initiatives and indicators customer by capturing, understanding and working on their feedback. The third step involves redesigManagement Approach GRI 103-1 Customer Satisfaction – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary ning journeys; and the fourth step is improving proManagement Approach GRI 103-2 Customer Satisfaction – The management approach and its components ducts and processes based on the client’s vision, by Management Approach GRI 103-3 Customer Satisfaction – Evaluation of the management approach seeking to eliminate any points of dissatisfaction. GRI G4-DMA Product and Service Labeling (former FS15) – Policies for the fair design and sale of financial Product and Service Labeling products and services Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 54 Customer satisfaction GRI 103-2 Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction survey GRI 103-3 Customer Satisfaction We focus on the continuous improvement of the customer experience in their interactions with our institution, by redesigning the compensation of the whole branch staff, commercial Results our processes to simplify, streamline products and improve the measurement of customer satisfaction and capture of feedback. staff and main executives. Therefore, it is essential to measure customer satisfaction and listen to them. 8.05 8.00 Every year we interview over six million customers through a 7.96 We have adopted the Customer Centricity Principles, which guide our behavior to change our customer experience. satisfaction survey designed for all types of Customers from all segments. We carry out monthly surveys on our channels, such as ATMs, SMS and Internet Banking, and have increased our relationship team to respond to issues posted in our WE KNOW AND Customer THE IS PRIORITY IN customer’s social networks. Tactically, we monitor customer satisfaction from time to time in our own service channels and, strateunderstand gically, we monitor satisfaction with competitors together 2016 2017 2018 OUR decision PROBLEM IS MY with major survey institutes. This proximity provides for customer MAKING problem more expeditious and personal feedback on our applications and services. Source: Competition survey. As part of our commitment to improve customer satisfaction, WE INNOVATE, CLEAR, SIMPLE WE RECOGNIZE We carry out satisfaction surveys that assess our activities we also increased the number of studies about the client jourCAPTIVATING THE DO TESTS WITH THE compared to competitors in Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and neys and experiences with different services and products customer customer AND TRANSPARENT and reward for IS EVERYONE’S and quickly learn from communication with the customer Uruguay. These surveys are carried out every year by third parties via phone calls, with a representative sample of each that are part of their day-to-day. Accordingly, a number of customer centricity initiatives were developed, such as crearesponsibility OUR MISTAKES AND SUCCESSES customer satisfaction segment base without identifying our brand so as to ensure unbiased evaluation. Taking into account the business pecuting a Customer Experience dedicated department, focusing on the governance and analysis of the main interactions in liarities and access to specific audiences, the survey is identheir journeys. tified when it comes to the Wholesale Banking Office. The results are shared with the quality departments of each Therefore, at the end of 2017, we started a transition process business to define action plans to improve services and build from our customer satisfaction model to the Net Promoter By ratifying our position, we have the Institutional Policy of Taking into account the efforts to apply the Customer customer loyalty. Our survey department frequently audit Score (NPS), following a world trend in the customer expeRelationship with Customers and Users of Financial Products Centricity Principles, we have placed the customer satisprocesses and monitors the survey quality. rience evaluation scenario. This is a measure widely used by and Services, which states the guidelines and principles to be faction as a concern of the entire company. In addition to major companies that will enable us generate a single indicafollowed by employees, correspondents and partners in all including this commitment into the Institutional Policy of In Brazil, survey data collected from each segment are tor for the organization, in addition to having more potential aspects of client and user relationships of our banking fraRelationship with Customers and Users of Financial Products weighted based on the size of its portfolio and consolidated to mobilize employees. GRI 103-3 Customer Satisfaction mework. In summary, it defines that the origin, offering, purand Services, we expanded the targets related to this topic into an overall customer satisfaction index, and it is possible chase and post-purchase stages of our products and services to not only the Customer Service and External Ombudsman’s that differences from year to year may exist due to the resWe are preparing ourselves to be able to listen to custoshould be guided by the principles of ethics, transparency, departments, but rather to all our departments, and extentructuring and new acquisitions carried out by the company. mer’s at the most diverse moments of their interaction responsibility and diligence, therefore ensuring our commitded them to Superintendents, Officers and the CEO. One In foreign units, these results are submitted to the board of journey. Furthermore, we will also engage the front line in ment to have the best relationship with our clients and users, example of how customer satisfaction affects our emplodirectors of each country and to the committee responsible this customer communication cycle to learn about their allowing for the clients’ free and conscious decision-making yees’ variable compensation is the variable compensafor Latin America. experiences, either good or bad, to generate this virtuous for the products most suitable to their interests, needs and tion system applied to the Retail Banking Office (AGIR), by goals, in addition to caring for ongoing customer satisfaction weighting items such as sale of products, prospecting curand relationship. rent accounts and customer satisfaction. These results affect Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 55 cycle of continuous improvement. Other initiative is the Additionally, working in partnership with our other departComplaints made to customer protection bodies redesign the journeys and implementations of process ments, the External Ombudsman’s Office helps to assess improvements to act in the root cause of pains experienthe client’s vision to create new retail products and services, ced by clients. ensuring compliance with the Consumer Protection Code and focusing on transparency and customer satisfaction. Only 5.4% External Ombudsman’s of the contacts were Together with the Client Service, Business, Operations and forwarded to other Office and customer Quality departments, another pillar of action of the External 57,085 contacts made 94.8% complaints resolved consumer protection bodies (Procon and complaints management Ombudsman’s Office is ensuring an effective Customer Demands Management process and the engagement of with the External within ten Central Bank of Brazil) GRI 103-2 Customer Satisfaction | GRI 103-3 Customer Satisfaction Ombudsman’s Office business days or to the judicial system senior management in the customer satisfaction agenda. (civil lawsuits) The External Ombudsman’s Office works as an improvements Customer Demands Management is an institutional process driver and as the ultimate body for those cases in which cusfocused on improving customer satisfaction by reducing tomers had their complaints handled by primary service complaints. It comprises capturing complaints forwarded to channels but has not been satisfied with the solution given. our Client Service, External Ombudsman’s Office, Consumer The result of these actions is the reduced number of demands Redesigning journeys Among the goals of the External Ombudsman’s Office we Protection body (Procon) and the Central Bank of Brazil, filed with consumer protection bodies, thus improving our highlight maintaining a constructive relationship with the monitoring for analysis and prioritization of critical issues, position in the rankings disclosed by the many Procons, Central and improving products National Consumer Protection System (SNDC) and regulatory bodies, and contributing to the development and strengthediagnosis of root-causes, defining action plans to correct or improve issues, and controlling the implementation and Bank and National Consumer Department. Compared to the previous year, the number of complaints was down 10.8% and processes GRI 103-2 Customer Satisfaction | GRI G4-DMA Product and Service ning of consumer relations. efficacy of plans. with the National Consumer Protection Information System Labeling (former FS15) (Sindec – Procons) and 3.1% with the Central Bank of Brazil. Customer demands management cycle Additionally, we work on the demands received via platform We are continually conducting qualitative and quantitative Consumidor.gov, which is managed by the National Consumer surveys with clients to launch new products, segments Indicators • Sampling Department of the Ministry of Justice, which allows for the or changes in our products. Customers are engaged in • Monitoring Diagnosis complaints; management analysis; and direct communication between consumers and companies. For increasingly earlier stages for the creation of new initiatives, • Customized the demands filed at this platform, our complaint resolution such as in concept tests rather than in ready prototypes only. • Defining critical rate was 80.7%, the best rate among the largest banks, and our information topics; and on root-causes average satisfaction rate, assigned by customers, was 3.2 out We call this practice Customer Experience, which is the basis • Sampling for and classifying of five. The response time also ranked among the most effifor developing tools. A number of our departments, such statistically the nature cient, with average of seven business days. as Channels, Service Design and Customer Experience, use reliable diagnosis. of problems. their knowledge about this practice to manage relationThe work done by the External Ombudsman’s Office has also ships with clients and in digital concept methodologies supManagement been recognized by consumer protection-entities. We received ported by the Design Thinking and Human Centered Design of risks and the Ouvidorias Brasil 2018 award, granted by the Brazilian approaches. These approaches assume a direct and recurconsequences Association of Company and Client Relationships (ABRAREC), ring contact with the client/user to understand their needs, • Monitoring the • Defining action which positively contributes to enhance our reputation. and mental model and “fast tests” to check adherence to and effectiveness of plans for the understanding of the proposed solution. The result of these the plans. root-causes initiatives will be the delivery of a series of improved proidentified; and cesses in client journeys, minimizing the problems that are • Assigning currently detected. valuation and implementation Effectiveness Action plans dates. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 56 To increase our efficiency in terms of deadlines and costs, we We broadened the ways we relate with our corporate clients, sales quality below the parameters defined by our instituhave created an online community for clients and non-cliby making available managers with smartphones, tablets tion. This is a monthly program that is part of the incentives ents to support initiatives such as those described above. and videoconference technology, and with our individual clisystem and monitors the sales of over 30,000 employees. This community is a laboratory to enable us talk to our clients ents, by providing extended office hours, media and a dedThis program is based on four great pillars: information with more agility, providing ground-breaking ideas and refericated team. The standard relation from inside the branch and training of the sales teams; improving the sales quality, ences, feedback and strengthening our relations. Examples was extended so we are able to address recurring demands reducing disagreements with clients and giving employof some tangible results of this laboratory are the developand improve our customer experience. Based on the results ees warnings. Both the employee and their Manager are ment of new functionalities in our main banking app and the of customer surveys, we have created labs to test new informed about this monthly supervision, including the refining of pieces of communication. functionalities and equipment for the branches as we seek history of the last 12 months and the next steps they need excellence in our services. to take to guarantee their sales quality. All training sessions Online community results are online, certificated and involve the following topics: In addition, the quality of our client service is part of our focus on client service, quality sales, and what we look for Activities Parties involved developed in this (both individuals Interactions culture. Based on this principle, a Sales Quality Score was and what we do not tolerate. Since this program was implenew tool and companies) created primarily aimed at satisfactorily meeting our climented, we have improved our position in the ranking of ent’s needs, reducing the number of complaints and ensurcomplaints with the Central Bank of Brazil. This program ing customer satisfaction, by improving the identification has been improved and expanded, in addition to being inte496 586 12,894 and management of possible indicators showing employees grated into our incentive models throughout our hierarchi570 from commercial and operation departments with levels of cal structure. 7,442 282 300 3,400 90 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 57 Why is this topic material? GRI 103-1 Digital Transformation Digital The speed of the world is changing exponentially: we are increasingly faster, more demanding about quality and more connected. Historically, we have always anticipated scenarios and adapted to new realities but, in the current context, we need to be in a constant state Transformation of renewal. In our interactions with clients, we note an increase in the number of electronic transactions, the expectation of immediate service and the need for solutions that are increasingly faster. With our employees, we note that more dynamic cooperation networks and independent and optimized processes are capable of improving the work experience. We have identified that our stakeholders needed quickly updated information. Additionally, we have great potential to be change agents in society, distributing knowledge and collectively creating solutions for challenges. In this movement, we established that we want to go beyond a positive experience within the financial industry. We want to be a reference in relationship experience to continue charming those who are impacted by our activities. For this reason, we chose digital transformation as one of our priority fronts in our development strategy. Only the digital transformation can provide a quick and consistent development, speed up operations and analyses and provide new work and presentation formats. GRI 103-2 Digital Transformation Materiality Digital Transformation GRI 103-1 Digital Transformation Potential SDGs Target Positive impact We promote technologic innovation through Cube, in addition to imple8.2 Reach higher levels of productivity of the economies through diversimenting technologic innovations and new tools facilitating our clients’ daily fication, technologic modernization, and innovation, including through a routine. We increased the number of employees hired to work with data focus on the high value added sectors and labor intensive sectors. use, improvements, and solution development. We also conducted several hackathons to encourage technologic innovations with the civil society. In this chapter... …you will see how we work with technology in a pro9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainable, and resiliente, infrastructure, We promote the technologic entrepreneurship and innovation through prietary manner, using our entire intellectual capaincluding regional and cross-border infrastructure, to support the ecoCubo to fast track, connect, and create businesses between large cornomic development and the human well-being, focused on equitable porations and startups. We also offer workshops, lectures, and matecity to help people, to be more relevant in their lives, access and at prices affordable for all. rial meetings for the innovation ecosystem growth. to save time and create value, undergoing the experience of digital living and power. Currently, almost 80% of the payments made by our clients are made via Internet Banking and applications, which Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders reinforces the division of our efforts into three GRI 103-1 Digital Transformation main work fronts: Experiências DigiUAU (DigiWOW Client Employee Stockholder Supplier Society Experiences), Digital Para Ser Mais Pessoal (Digital Direct Direct Direct Direct Indirect To Be More Personal) and Ser Digital na Essência (Being Digital at Essence). GRI topics Related Initiatives and indicators Management Approach GRI 103-1 Customer Satisfaction – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Digital Transformation – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Digital Transformation – Evaluation of the management approach Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 59 Experiências DigiUAU partnership to operate via PayPal and Google Pay, and we are manner, options for the payment in installments that would GRI 103-2 Digital Transformation the first in this kind of service. Since the launch of these funcavoid the use of the overdraft account limit. We had a return FinTech@CSAIL Following our objective, we split our work focus into tionalities, we have had 970,000 registrations in both portforate that is 500% higher than the traditional campaigns and We are the only member in Latin America to integrate three essential pillars. The first is to promote what we call lios and approved 99% of the transactions that we received 60% of the clients who returned contracted the operation. FinTech@CSAIL, the financial technology research lab Experiências DigiUAU (DigiWOW Experiences), that is, an via these means. of the MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence impeccable, charmingly simple and convenient experience. This technology also allows us to use geo-localization data Laboratory in the United States. We will work with We are talking about the entire process, from the contact To increase the knowledge of the above mentioned technoloto monitor the clients who access our applications and their with the client to the processing of the operation, the service gies, we release video films on our Youtube, channel, in which transactions to identify possible incompatibilities, thereby FinTech@CSAIL together with ten other representatiand the after-sale service, in addition to the product itself. the employees teach clients how to take advantage of all reducing cases of fraud. GRI 103-3 Digital Transformation ves from the participant companies and with the highest functionalities available in the application. authorities in these areas of study to leverage the innoIn recent years, with the launch of innovations such as Ser Digital na Essência vation of state-of-the-art research in order to address Teclado Itaú (Itaú Keyboard), proximity payments and other Digital Para Ser Mais Pessoal GRI 103-2 Digital Transformation significant business problems in the financial industry, among others. With this cooperation, we reinforce our functionalities in the applications, we have been creating a close relationship of trust with our clients. Teclado Itaú is The launch of new applications or functionalities is not The third pillar is to assume the commitment of Ser Digital strategy of being always ahead in the search for innovaan innovation that facilitates bank transfers by means of enough if we do not closely monitor the reaction of users. For na Essência (Being Digital at Essence), creating projects in tive solutions that can address real problems and provide communication applications. Should someone send data this reason, another pillar is the Digital Para Ser Mais Pessoal a more agile way, whether in the development of a flexifor a better experience for our clients and our focus is on for transfer via these applications, all they have to do is to (Digital To Be More Personal): we want to integrate physical ble and efficient platform, or in the process of approval of the identification of existing needs and making use of the open Teclado Itaú and carry out the transaction without opeand remote experiences. Regardless of the relationship chanthe product or in its implementation at the branch, in the benefits that technology provides to make people’s lives ning our application. The acceptance of this tool was surprinel chosen by our client, the experience has to be special. analysis of the processes and in the development of the easier, offering more convenience, agility and security for sing: there were more than 1.2 million activations, more than This means that the same agility, transparency and proximity activities internally. offering products and services. 129,000 transactions in the month of its launch and 75% of must be perceived in whichever point of contact the client positive comments about the product in social networks. has chosen. The Telemetry superintendency, which is responsible for gathering and analyzing our database, had the term We seek to develop dynamics that place people from diffeWe also increased the focus of the Virtual Card, which is used We monitor the notes and the comments of the users to Analytics Coach added to its name in order to represent the rent areas and with different backgrounds to think about to replace the plastic card when a purchase is being made via assess, in a timely manner, the performance of our applicanew duties of this team. The Analytics Coach & Telemetry is solutions focused on the client; therefore, we work based the Internet. It brings together two relevant concepts for a tions. With this closer contact, we started to monitor more intended to work as an orchestrator in the scope of analytics on the rationale that the best solutions come from the mulgood purchase experience: it protects the data of our client closely the demands from our clients for the constant improand serve employees as clients and to disseminate knowtiplicity of visions. Based on this, we have been inviting because it generates a number that can be used for only vement of our applications. GRI 103-3 Digital Transformation ledge so as to encourage digital independence among them. more employees, market professionals and even clients to one purchase, preserving the data of the original card, and it One of the means to this end is the Academia DEOA (DEOA co-create solutions that resolve their main difficulties and at easily facilitates the localization of the purchase data without We increased our contact with clients in social networks Academy) which, since its creation in 2018, has already traithe speed that clients need. the need of the plastic card for carrying out the transaction. and created a team dedicated to monitor and serve clients ned 110 multiplying agents and held 5,100 training sessions, on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn. 4,298 of which were in-person and 817 online. Accordingly, we established a new work format, known as Another functionality available to our clients is the PDF Therefore, we quickly address the simplest demands to be Communities of Delivery, with which we form interdiscipliReader, which reads the bar code contained in a payment file resolved and quickly forward the more complex ones that In 2017, we created the Center of Excellence in Analytics and, nary teams that are not governed by hierarchy, with the and automatically fills out the fields in our application for carrequire other means to be resolved. in 2018, we doubled the evolution projections. The purpose application of an Agile and Lean Framework in the solution rying out the transaction. of the center is to anticipate the needs of clients by means of of challenges and with more independence and collaboAnother way of expanding our relationship with our clients is investments in data analysis. There are more than 20 planration. The results involve quicker deliveries that are betTo increase the list of experiences, we also invested in eWalthe demand for customized offers. Based on the clever use of ned analytics projects, more and more data scientists hired ter aimed at the real solution of problems and increased lets, which are digital wallets that allow transactions to be our database, we created an initiative for default in vehicles and five times more bases in our data lake. To promote further commitment of teams. Currently, we have more than 30 made on mobile phones and proximity payments, without through which, based on the analysis of data on the flow of development in the area, we established a partnership with communities where more than 6,000 employees work, with the use of the physical card. We already operate via Apple current accounts and the maturity of the installments of the the Aeronautical Technological Institute (ITA) and with the an increase of 20% in productivity. We also changed our Pay and Samsung Pay and have already entered into a Motor Vehicle Ownership Tax (IPVA), we offer, in a customized University of São Paulo (USP) for the training of data scientists. internal environment and our relationships to improve our Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 60 partnership with our employees – learn more in the chapter and develops solutions with the employees so that they can them. We have been learning a lot from Cubo when it comes Employee’s Experience on page 62. achieve independence in the resolution of problems. In 2018, to reinventing the process through the use of innovative six Sprints were organized with the adoption of two coortechnologies. Additionally, we organize many events focused This action allowed us, for example, to think of a new dynadination case studies in each of them. One of the coordinaon the attraction of talents since Cubo has become a hub of mic for contracting vehicle insurance for different periods, tion case studies adopted was Sustainability, with the case connections that concentrates the most brilliant minds. intermittent or continuous, like weekends. The innovation study on the Panel of Complaints related to diversity and was prepared by a diversified group of employees of Itaú the automation of the analysis of micro-credit cases which, Soluções Previdenciárias in the 2018 edition of Challenge, together, reduce the operational work from hours or more which is an internal event for the creation of ideas in favor of of processing to just minutes, in addition to mitigating opeBlockchain solutions for our clients, for which 190 ideas were registered, rational errors. Another successful case study was the Sprint We received US$100 million from Standard Chartered and 400 employees participated, 20 ideas were prototyped and in partnership with DWS, in which the PDF Reader was deveWells Fargo through a club loan (similar to a syndicated seven employees won. loped and implemented, reducing the operation from 30 loan). At the same time, we successfully completed, minutes per document to less than seconds and resulting in together with Standard Chartered, the development We are also encouraging other formats of problem solving, time optimization of more than 99%. The Sprints are already and the Proof of Concept (PoC) of Latin America’s first such as Batalhas de Dados (Data Battles) and Hackathons. In moving to an expansion agenda in which other coordinablockchain platform for an operation in this format. the battles, we bring data scientists and professionals from tion case studies with independence in analytics may start The blockchain technology allows individuals and our departments to solve a proposed challenge, always to adopt the Adoption Sprints initiative. Accordingly, we companies to upload data to a shared and authenticated focused on the client and using analytics as the main tool. are working on the dissemination of digital transformation computer network. These data are then replicated to all The people are exclusively dedicated to the challenge for within the bank. participants by means of a mechanism known as a shared a few days and have the opportunity to work in a collaboledger. All data recorded in the network are encrypted rative way, creating a transforming career experience. We Digital Entrepreneurship – Cubo to ensure the legitimacy of the information and that carried out nine editions of the Data Battle, for which more the content had been originated by an authorized than 4,600 employees applied and in which more than 500 As the largest private bank in Brazil, we have been consparticipant. Additionally, the existence of the shared database avoids conflicts that could arise when many employees participated and more than 100 departments tantly reinventing ourselves in order to be in the vanguard agents participate in only one transaction. were involved. in the use of new technologies and tools for the purpose of serving our clients and anticipating their needs in an effiWith the blockchain PoC, the participants were able Meanwhile, for the Hackathons, we sought the participacient way. For this reason, we pioneered in the creation of to monitor loan agreement reviews, comments and tion of the internal public and included professionals from an initiative to promote the technological entrepreneurship the sequence of approvals in a safe, transparent and many departments and with different backgrounds to solve market in Brazil, enhancing our recognition as a technologipaperless manner. As the sequences of changes are preserved, participants may track and, subsequently, a proposed digital business challenge. In addition to creacal and digital brand. audit the changes until the closing of the transaction. ting a number of solutions, this is a talent selection opportunity. In 2018, three Hackathons were organized: the 1st Cubo contributes to our daily routine in many aspects but Simulation tests were successfully carried out in three HackaDEOA, the 1st HackaOPs and the 2nd HackaOPs. For mainly with respect to culture, business, brand and attracstages: (i) negotiation of terms and conditions, including the 1st HackaDEOA and for the 1st HackaOPs, five inimum tion of talents. More than 70 projects and pilot projects betthe review of the loan agreement; (ii) process of Valiable Players (MVPs) were implemented and ten are in the ween us and the startups that are Cubo’s residents are being signatories, informing what had been agreed upon in the implementation phase. With the five implemented MVPs, implemented. The proximity between our departments and previous stage; and (iii) the signature itself. we were able to reduce manual processing by 200 hours, Cubo’s startups bring new acculturation, which helps rethink mitigate image and operational risks in addition to scalabiboth the form of doing business and our internal processes. lity risks in other departments. More than 10,000 employees have been at Cubo and had Internally, we also have the Adoption Sprints, which do not the opportunity to get to know and engage with the startup have a competitive characteristic, in which the Analytics ecosystem. All of our employees have access to the events Coach & Telemetry team adopts a coordination case study and this adds to the professional development of each one of Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 61 Employee's Why is this topic material? GRI 103-1 Employee’s Experience Experience There is a global trend towards the search for With the challenge of changing leagues, which purpose, flexibility, identity and independence at is aimed at fully focusing on the client, we also work. With a focus on these needs, we seek to attract open a work front to empower employees and and retain more well-trained talents by investing in simplify internal processes because we believe actions that can increasingly improve the experience that less bureaucracy and more independence of our employees. GRI 103-2 Employee’s Experience results in more efficiency in our activities, thus allowing greater focus on customer satisfaction. Our Personnel Department started to work in Based on this transformation, we launched communities with the Agile Framework, which is a an internal campaign to promote a trust and resource that facilitates the routine of the project responsibility mindset. and the staff, allowing the progress in this topic to be achieved in a better structured and quicker way. Over Satisfied employees are absolutely relevant for the past year, we implemented innovations in the way the longevity and sustainability of the business we recruit and receive new employees (onboarding) for because they are more committed to providing the purpose of engaging them and preparing them to better services to our clients that, in turn, tend work in the organization in a more agile and productive to be more loyal to companies, establishing way. Additionally, we reviewed processes and policies long-lasting relationships. Accordingly, we seek such as the provision of the Wi-Fi network for personal to create shared value, achieve positive results use and the dress code with the Vou Como Sou (I’ll Go and encourage the development of people, of as I am) campaign, which resulted in a better work society and of the countries in which we operate environment, favoring the employee’s experience. by means of a virtuous cycle. Materiality Employee’s Experience GRI 103-1 Employee Experience Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact 5.1 End will all forms of discrimination against all women We offer benefits on an equal basis for all of our employees, reinforcing our vision and our equality and welcoming and girls everywhere. discourse that affect in particular the female population. We promoted policies and programs for equality of opportunities, reinforcing our vision and our equality and welcoming discourse for situations that affect especially the female population: • Mothers and Pregnant Women Support Policy: outlines the benefits for pregnant women and the homosexual 5.5 Ensure the full, effective participation of women and equality couples after a child is born or adopt, in order to meet the needs of the possible family setups; of opportunities for the leadership at all decision-making levels of • Bebê a bordo (Baby on board): course attended by pregnant employees, employees with the pregnant employees, politics, the economy and public life. and couples in process of adopting that addressed major issues, with guidance on first care of newborn children; • Canto da Mamãe (Mother's Corner): space to extract and store breast milk during working hours; e • Bebê em Casa (Baby at Home): home visit of a nurse in first week after birth to provide guidance about breastfeeding and first care of the newborn child. 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote social, economic, and political We promoted the policy on equality of opportunities between men and women. inclusion for everyone, regardless of age, gender, disability, race, • Mothers and Pregnant Women Support Policy: outlines the benefits for pregnant women and the homosexual ethnicity, origin, religion, economic status, or any other reason. couples after a child is born or adopt, in order to meet the needs of the possible family setups. 10.3 Ensure equality of opportunities and reduce inequality of We conducted affirmative actions for equality of opportunities for women with the change of internal policies and outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and assessment of differentiated performance assessment de when returning from maternity leave with full payment practices and promoting legislation, policies and actions. of profit sharing. Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders GRI 103-1 Employee Experience Employee Client Stockholder Supplier Society Direct Indirect Indirect Indirect Indirect Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 63 GRI Topics Related Initiatives and Indicators Management Approach GRI 103-1 Employee’s Experience – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Employee’s Experience – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience – Evaluation of the management approach General Disclosures GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers General Disclosures GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies General Disclosures GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration In this chapter... General Disclosures GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements ...we describe the practices and innovations that General Disclosures GRI 102-48 Restatements of information we have implemented with respect to attraction, Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover recruitment and retention of talents, training, assessment and development of employees, internal Employment GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees mobility opportunities and compensation actions, GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation recognition and rotation. At the end of the chapter, we share the information related to the well-being, GRI 403-3 Occupational health services health and safety of employees, with the breakdown GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety of data for 2018 related to these topics, as well Occupational Health and Safety as of programs, services and actions offered and GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health promoted by us. GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Training and Education GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 64 The employee’s trajectory Programa Descrição Recrutamento Taxa de retenção GRI 103-2 Employee’s Experience | GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience Recruit students from the best business schools in the United 43 MBA students applied. Of these, 15 States and Europe for summer internship programs in our Not applicable. participated in the Summer Program. Our talent attraction programs have a diversified focus so as to cover different talent profiles. organization with a duration from nine to 12 weeks. MBA Summer Talent attraction programs and Full-Time Seventy-nine graduates applied for Associate We also offer full-time opportunities in our the program; seven employees were Not applicable Program Description Recruitment Retention rate organization for MBA graduates in the best contracted as MBA Full-Time Associate, because the program is schools of the United States and Europe. three of whom had participated in the being restructured. We retained 38.4% of the Summer Program. Jovens apprentices; 81% of whom are Provide for the possibility of a first job for young talents, Aprendizes 2,399 youngsters were still with the bank. preferably in situations of social vulnerability, promoting and (Young contracted as apprentices. We provided a career to 26.2% In 2018, we staged some initiatives related to diversity. In our In addition to the corporate training programs, we offer developing career opportunities with us. Apprentices) of the apprentices contracted process of attraction and retention of youngsters for the Jovens specific training actions that are in line with the career between 2012 and 2018. Aprendizes Program, we have been seeking to contract low-income stage achieved by the employee and customized to their 68% of the interns admitted Corporate Attract and develop young talents with potential to fill entry In 2018, there were 56,554 applicants young people and, for the Corporate Internship Program and Individual Development Plan, including in-person and digital between 2016 and 2018 were Internship positions in the corporate departments; it lasts two years at the in the Corporate Program, 2,393 of whom Program most and offers a specific training grid. were accepted as interns. contracted; 95% of whom are Itaú Unibanco Trainee Program, we have changed the selection training solutions on continued education online platforms, still active in the bank process, reducing the existence of biases upon contracting. More language courses, postgraduate programs, MBAs, seminars, Attract and train young university students, focusing on the details about these processes can be seen on page 80. congresses and short-duration courses in Brazil and abroad. Branch In 2018, 56% of the development of talents for the Branch Network. It lasts 12 55% of the vacancies (operational and Network interns were contracted; months and can be extended to 18 months. For the Branch not manager level) opened for 2018 in the Internship 93% of whom are still Program Network Internship Program, there is a grid of remote training Branch Network were filled by interns. active in the bank. Additionally, we participated in the main surveys that identify the On our Corporate Portal are the policies on development, good programs made up of 56 courses. best companies to work for conducted by the magazines Época, practices and ethics that provide guidelines on planning and To attract talents by offering a corporate experience with For the National Holiday Internship Valor Carreira and Você S/A in partnership with the institutes Great corporate education actions for leaders and their teams. In 2018, challenging projects, supply other talent programs; Program, there were 7,399 applicants in July National Holiday Internship Program: 2018 and 86 were accepted for the program; in Place to Work, Mercer and Fundação Instituto de Administração we invested R$235.9 million in Brazil in training, with more than Holiday Internship it takes place during academic summer (December, January and December 2018, there were 6,464 applicants Not applicable. (Administration Institute Foundation – FIA), respectively. More than R$1.4 million in in-person and digital training programs. February) and winter (July) holidays; and for the National Holiday Internship 6,000 employees are randomly selected by the institutes to answer Program International Graduation Holiday Internship Program: Program, with an estimate of 101 accepted; it takes place from May to October, summer holidays in the and for the International Holiday Internship the surveys and they assess organizational climate management For the better management of the training programs, we Northern hemisphere. Program, 33 interns were accepted. aspects and monitor, in a comprehensive manner, management use two types of indicators: process (budget, volumetry Master’s Attract talents and forge closer ties with Brazilian For the Master’s Summer Program, there were practices and compare them with other companies in the market. and efficiency) and quality (reaction, learning, applicability, academia. Our intention is to bring professionals with Summer more perfected technical knowledge who can carry 466 applicants in July 2018 with an estimate of Not applicable. In 2018, we were elected one of the best companies to work for impact on business and return on investment), which ensure Program 25 students accepted for the program. in all rankings mentioned: first place in the general ranking of the the obtaining of data for the improvement of our programs. out highly complex projects in the Summer period. Itaú Unibanco Trainee Program is aimed at attracting and Best Companies to Start a Career in 2018 in the Você S/A magazine, GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience developing talents by means of a challenging professional first place in Top Companies of LinkedIn in 2018 and Top 20 Best practice, technical and behavioral training, mentoring and In 2017, there were 42,000 applicants for Companies to Work for by GPTW/Época (the only bank among the networking events with our executives. During the program, the selection process, 132 of whom were which lasts for one year, trainees have the opportunity to work on contracted as trainees in 2018. In 2018, there 98% retention rate leaders in the ranking) confirmed the high satisfaction levels. Average rate of adherence to in the 2018 group(1). Itaú Unibanco specific projects of a department or in the job rotation format. were 48,000 applicants, 193 of whom were GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience in-person training programs (%) GRI 404-2 Trainee The program’s purpose is the fast development of these talents, contracted as trainees in 2019. Program allowing for the training of staff and project leaders or reference analysts, in synergy with the needs of our departments. In Paraguay, we were in 1st place according to the Great Place 93.7 92.9 to Work as the best company to work for in the ranking of 92.0 After the Program, the trainees who stood out were A total of 50 former trainees were selected 98% was the retention rate multinational companies with more than 150 employees. offered a Carreira Acelerada (Fast Career) Program for the current Carreira Acelerada Program of the Carreira Acelerada that included training and coaching sessions. from among the 2017 trainee group. Program in 2018. GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience International Develop our employees by means of the MBA/ Sponsorship Sloan/Master (LLM –Master of Laws/MIF – Master 93% is the retention After attracting our talents, we offer many tools for them to In 2018, 244 employees applied. rate of those sponsored (MBA, in Finance) programs in the best business schools in Of these, 24 were accepted in the program. who returned from develop their abilities, making available specific programs that Master, Sloan the United States and Europe, with monitoring by the cover technical and behavioral topics by means of the use of many the MBA in 2018. and LLM) Human Resources Department and executives. 2016 2017 2018 methodologies and media vehicles. We also promote development (1) determined between January and November 2018. and continuous improvement actions for staff and leaders. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 65 Number of employees trained-in-person Total hours and digital activities (in-person and digital – million) (the same employee may participate in more than one program) Assessment of training programs GRI 103-2 Employee’s achieve a level of excellence that is a benchmark in the Experience | GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience contact with clients. To further leverage the preparation 2.2 1,441,287 2.0 To assess and measure training programs on a large scale of new agents, we prioritize the training of tutors that 1,144,271 is one of the most important aspects in the construcreceive the new employees and help them in the first 1.7 1,039,641 tion of a company’s corporate education model. It is the services provided, supporting the understanding of the basis for us to know whether we are on the right track to processes and activities by monitoring the routine and help, in the best way possible, the development of our sharing knowledge. This practice seeks to benefit both employees. Therefore, we established a multidisciplinary those who are tutored, so they feel supported from the working group that involves the Sustainability, Finance beginning of their journey, and those who do the tutoring, and Business School teams for the purpose of selecting who are trained and encouraged to share their knowledge 2016 2017 2018 and analyzing the main development actions and their as a way to consolidate what they have learned. 2016 2017 2018 related impacts in financial terms and other quantitative The purpose of the financial assessment is to measure, Note: In prior-year Reports, we disclosed the numbers related to in-person and qualitative performance improvement metrics. by means of statistical tools, the real quantitative impact training programs only. Starting with this Report, we will disclose the numbers for in-person and digital training programs. The numbers for the Based on impact assessment methodologies(1) for the of the development program. The rationale of the previous years (2017 and 2016) were recalculated. GRI 102-48 Average in-person and digital training hours per assessment is that the agents monitored by tutors reach formulation of training programs, this group started to employee in 2018 GRI 404-1 a level of excellence in less time and positively impact analyze three programs offered over the course of the Scholarships the satisfaction of the clients served who then start to year, as described below. Average training Total de promote the company instead of acting as detractors. Total: 7,276 Total: 7,301 Total: 6,697 hours per employee colaboradores Training Service Center tutors | Analysis completed We consider the indicators Average Transfer Indicator In the search to change leagues and focus on clients, one (ATI), Satisfied Clients Indicator (SCI) and Net Promoter 5,500 5,500 5,500 252 36,700 Score (NPS) to measure the effect of the training proof the programs chosen for the full and detailed assess35,945 gram on those who are tutored and, to get to know the ment of impact was the training of employees who work directly with clients in the service centers. The training return on the training program in monetary terms, we of these agents is essential for the learning curve in this used the results obtained for the NPS, in accordance with 1,427 1,476 activity to be optimized and for the employee to quickly the segmentation of each client: 14,345 976 349 5,592 325 221 29 21 24 18 (1) We considered the Kirkpatrick and Jack Phillips methodologies and used the 6Ds and 70/20/10 concepts. 129 2016 2017 2018 Postgraduate  etermined by the D Language courses Supervisor Administrative Commercial Trainee Intern incentive program 2017–2018 Collective and Operational Labor Agreement To see the full table with historic data, please access 124. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 66 Monetary return on the training program in the Service Center Risk culture | Analysis completed Among the many initiatives of the program, we analyzed the in-person training course for supervisors at the managerial To identify the return on training programs in monetary terms, the results obtained One of the soundest and most important pillars of an for the NPS will be used: level to measure its qualitative impact. This is an 8-hour trainorganization is related to the perception and postures ing course that had the participation of 1,845 supervisors of employees in view of the analysis and measurement 1. Number of clients who went 2. Financial value added by (13% of total supervisors), in which they were subject to an from detractors to promoters a client who goes from of and appetite for risks that are inherent or not to the immersion program about risk management. To manage the after tutorship. detractor to promoter. business. This matter is a central topic for us and, in 2018, impact of this initiative, we analyzed the registration of inciit received greater attention by means of many initiadents with the Operational Risk team and the points raised by tives, such as the Integrity Program, which is a digital path the Audit team. IA 146 IU 18 IA: R$578 IU: R$4,967 directed towards ethical postures taken by employees from all hierarchical levels, and the risk culture, which is By analyzing the results obtained, we verified that, as from composed of in-person and digital training programs, in the moment when there were the initial communications, EMP addition to many institutional communications. These inithere was an increase in the number of risk incidents, which is 12 EMP 7 EMP2 and 3: 2 and 3 IU: R$3.79k tiatives were directed towards all employees of the organiexplained by the fact that the learning process begins before 4 R$32.25k zation for the purpose of increasing the level of knowledge the training course itself, as described by the 6Ds methodolin a broad and general way, seeking to reach a level of ogy. After the provision of the training courses, we verified that Combining the two pieces of information and excluding costs, excellence in the prevention and treatment of risks, prothere was a decrease in the points, which can be explained by we have the ROI on training programs for the next five years: viding increased independence in strategic decision-makthe enhanced management of operational routines and treating processes, generating benefits for us and increasing ment of the risks identified. This action allowed for a reducthe knowledge of each individual so that their activities tion of the historic level of incidents and an environment with IAIU: R$174,497.30 + EMP: R$412,218.10 – Training Cost: R$130,200.00 can be performed with more security and efficiency. increased risk governance, as presented in the charts below: Risk incident tendency line ROI total: R$456,515.40 700 600 IB: Clients from the Individuals segment – Itaú Branches. IU: Clients from the Individuals segment – Itaú Uniclass. COMPs: Clients from the Corporate segments – Companies 2, 3 and 4. 500 400 The Service Center counts on the work of more than 3,300 (R$130,200), the positive impact for the organization and employees, totaling more than 72,000 calls a day. To supemployees, taking into consideration their development 300 port the agents, in the course of 2018, we trained 191 tutors and the satisfaction of our clients. In addition to the finanin 18 classes of 12 hours each. For the study, 1,299 people cial impact calculated according to the NPS, there are also 200 were used as a sample, 299 of whom had tutors who took other benefits that we will monitor over the course of 2019, 100 the program and 1,000 were new employees who received such as the time for the maturation of new employees who tutorship from people that had not taken the training proreach, on average, a level of excellence in three months – 0 Jan/15 March/15 May/15 Sep/15 Nov/15 Jan/16 March/16 May/16 Jul/16 Sep/16 Nov/16 Jan/17 March/17 May/17 Jul/17 Sep/17 Nov/17 Jan/18 March/18 May/18 Jul/18 Sep/18 Nov/18 gram. We could confirm, in financial and procedural terms, showing a reduction of 50% in time when compared to peoby observing the results obtained and comparing them ple that did not receive trained tutors. Jul/15 with the cost realized and projected for the next five years Tendency Appointments Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 67 Open high risk incidents (%) Proportion of open high risk incidents (%) Other training programs that merit attention are those • Connecting the key behaviors with the principles of lean aimed at the construction of agile communities. In 2018, we philosophy and how they apply to leaders and members; worked hard on the consolidation of three essential behaviors for the new model of work in delivery communities. • Establishing a support network for engagement with the 2.2 48 mindset change; Training grids were developed for the purpose of: • Showing, by means of examples and contents, the pos35 1.6 1.5 32 • Aligning the organizational culture with the digital transtures and behaviors expected for the members; and formations that have been taking place; • Establishing the commitment of those involved with 18 0.7 • Activating key behaviors (lean thinking, collaborating and the change. 7 0.4 constantly learning) for teams and leaders of the communities, working in accordance with the agile methodology To support the management of the community leaders and for more constant and fast deliveries; monitor the performance of the deliveries, the communities 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 work with operational indicators and target indicators, as well as with the established central governance process. Leadership Models – Commercial and Operationalz | In 2018, we had an important agenda for the Modelos de Analysis in progress Liderança (Leadership Models) program in which our leaders We believe that a supervisor with welldeveloped leaderwere stimulated by means of the development of strategic Foreign units • Digital Academia: development of a grid of topics related ship skills can strengthen the engagement of our teams. skills based on the mapping of characteristics shared by high to digital transformations and innovations that may impact For the operations of the foreign units, we continue to This line of thought becomes even more important in an performance leaders and with the application of the new our core business. The topics can be explored by means of bet on training programs on development and applicaadverse macroeconomic scenario. For this reason, the new leadership model, which addresses the employee’s journey, in-person and online training courses, lectures, articles and tion of topics that follow our digital transformations, in development grid includes the training of new leaders and recruitment and selection, training and consequence manvideo films. addition to the risk culture. Another front refers to the more senior executives of the organization. agement. This new model was implemented in 2018 and its training programs that strengthen the focus on the client • Journey of Visits (game learning): online game whose impacts will be assessed over the course of 2019. and on the excellence in the service of both physical and purpose is to train the Account Managers of the foreign digital branches. In view of this scenario, the following units about the topic of visits (pre, during and post-visits). training programs have been developed: Training of Coordinators and Managers Average training hours per employee, per hierarchical in the Corporativo de Liderança Program (%) • Agile Framework and Design Thinking: conceptual level and gender (foreign units) GRI 404-1 training program and practice of methodologies that supIn addition to the Modelos de Liderança program for the port innovation and digital transformation initiatives. Hierarchical level Women Men Total Commercial and Operational Department, our Corporativo 99.9 87.0 87.8 • Digital Branches: grid of training programs for the training Manager 23.65 23.09 23.37 de Liderança (Trilha Essencial) (Corporate Leadership of employees who work at the Digital Branches on tools, Administrative 17.18 16.19 16.69 [Essential Track]) program is essential for three topics: peobusiness and behavior. ple and performance management, ethics workshops and Commercial 17.00 15.61 16.31 good labor practices. • Business Management and Commercial Coaching: and Operational 2016 2017 2018 training of Account Managers, providing tools for a betTrainee 11.00 15.00 13.00 ter management of the portfolio with a focus on the chalIntern 35.43 34.48 34.95 lenges of the companies segment of each country. Total 20.85 20.87 20.86 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 68 To support the preparation of the individual development • Axis Y: which assesses whether the employee is compliant a Development Committee so as to define consequence and training plans, we usually carry out annual performance with the behaviors expected by the organization, defined actions. This exercise is recommended but it is optional Turnover assessments of our employees. To this end, we created the based on our organizational culture (Nosso Jeito [Our Way]) for the Coordinator and Analyst levels. The turnover rate is the ratio of admissions and terCiclo de Meritocracia (Meritocracy Cycle) Program, which and based on the way of delivering results. We use two minations (voluntary or involuntary) of employees is focused on driving increasingly better results by means assessment methodologies: for leaders, the 360 model The employees from branches who do not hold a manin a given period. We monitor this rate on a monthly of aligning individual targets with the organization’s chal(peers, partners, team and supervisor); and for teams, the agement position are assessed on a semiannual basis basis and submit it to the Executive Committee (the lenges. We believe that meritocracy is the path towards even 180 model (Supervisor, peers and partners). under another model, the Trilhas de Carreira (Career criteria used does not include employees abroad, more transparent and fairer management of our teams, recTracks), based on the results accumulated in the previApprentices, expatriates, retirees due to disability, ognizing the differentiated performance of our employees. With the results from the Axes X and Y, the People Strategic ous six-month period, on Axis Y, and on their readiness This exercise includes feedback, the offer of development Planning (PSP) is prepared. This planning is prepared by for the next position level. The results are determined by Officers and Interns). Further information can be seen opportunities that are suited to the needs of each employee committees that position people on a matrix with nine means of the individual and/or branch productivity and in the Contracting, Terminations and Turnover tables and the employee’s role in the continuous search for better quadrants (nine classifications) and discuss the relative sales quality – that is, products sold and cancelled are starting on page 125. opportunities. Therefore, the Ciclo de Meritocracia represents performance between peers. All data obtained will be used not considered in the individual productivity. a strong ally in the organization’s constant development. in the future to define the career development, the training Total turnover rate (%) GRI 401-1 and the compensation of each employee. With respect to Every six months, the committee meets, conducted by the Involuntary Voluntary The program takes into consideration the proposed targets, the 2017 cycle, with the most updated information available Personnel Department together with the supervisors for the results obtained and the way to deliver such results until the publication of the Report, 40,426 employees were the individual discussion about the employees. In this dis8.5 because, although reaching objectives is important, all assessed as part of the PSP (including foreign units), which cussion, many individual business, sales quality and results 6.9 6.9 actions must be based on our values. corresponds to approximately 50.25% of total employees(1). indicators are presented and, based on it, employees, on a In 2017, in our foreign units (Argentina, Chile, Colombia, joint basis, are allocated to six possible classifications. In the In this context, the program is composed of two indiUnited States, England, Paraguay, Switzerland and Uruguay) first half of 2018, 34,561 employees were assessed, repre3.1 vidual assessments: 4,400 employees were assessed according to the PSP, which senting 42.96% of total employees(4). GRI 404-3 is equivalent to 89.27% of the employees of these units(2). 1.9 2.2 • Axis X: which assesses the performance of each employee This ensures that 100% of the organization’s employees based on the results of a contract composed of targets. After the PSP, to support the action for the developwere subject to some performance assessment. The pro2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 The process is annual and provides for four stages: split of ment of employees, the Individual Development Plan cess related to the 2018 cycle is still in progress. GRI 404-3 objectives, contracting of targets, assessment of results (IDP) Committee is established. This Committee receives Notes: Calculations based on total terminations/(Total employees and feedback. The individual targets must represent the the employee’s performance history, in accordance with By means of the Oportunidade de Carreira (Career at the beginning of the period + Total employees at the end of the challenges that stimulate the overcoming of challenges their PSP results for the past three years, and analyzes Opportunity) Program, our main internal transfer system, period)/2. Total employees at the end of the period include employees and the development of new skills, in addition to portraytheir career momentum. To this end, management mememployees and interns seek opportunities that are in line at the beginning of the period plus contracting of employees less terminations of employees. It does not include theexecutive board, ing the search for improvements in processes and prodbers align career expectations with the lateral movewith their career expectations. Meanwhile, Management Interns, expatriates and retirees due to disability. ucts to leverage the growth of business and customer ment of the employees in the year prior to this mapping. members can identify people from different departments satisfaction. They must be agreed upon between the whose profiles are compatible with their vacancies. The Management members and the employee, with well-deWith a view to the continuous and structured develprogram works as an internal mobility tool, allowing for fined determination criteria, reflecting the developments opment of each employee, in 2018, 100%(3) of the the expansion of development horizons, encouraging of the strategy of each executive department. Officers, Superintendents and Managers prepared their employees to play a hands-on role in their careers and Individual Development Plan. All plans were discussed at reducing our turnover rate. GRI 404-2 (1) Including the total of 80,449 eligible employees that participated in the assessment system (Brazil and foreign units). (4) In addition to the models already mentioned, the business has been going through transformations that require the consideration of deliveries of results in smaller (2) Including the total of 4,929 eligible employees that participated in the assessment system (foreign units). cycles aligned with the long-term objectives, more collaborative working models that operate in a matrixial way and the demand for new incentives. Accordingly, (3) For the positions of Executive Officers, Officers, Superintendents and Managers, the exercise is compulsory. the Modelo Comunidades (Communities Model) was developed based on partial deliveries that take into consideration collective and individual objectives and on a behavioral adherence assessment (Axis Y) with a single score. Employees will be relativized in PSP Communities, which will guide the compensation, recognition and development actions. Currently, we have 5,462 employees under this model, that is, equivalent to 6.79% of the employees. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 69 Employees transferred under the Oportunidade de Carreira Program Our variable compensation programs are: 2,353 1,957 Types of variable Description compensation 1,699 Profit sharing programs that Use of temporary labor depend on our performance in the business and/or on the individual 2016 2017 2018 For some activities, we opt to contract temporary Profit Sharing performance of the employee, labor. Mandatorily, every use of temporary labor is (PRL/PR) assuring, at least, the amount defined in a collective labor Employees may register their previous interest in the Oportunidade established by the use of temporary employment Our fixed and variable compensation policy is in line with agreement entered into with the de Carreira Program system for up to three executive departments service companies. The employment contracts are the market practices and our compensation strategy varies respective union. and six careers. Whenever a vacancy opens for the chosen careers entered into on an individual basis between the workin accordance with the unit in which each employee works. and departments, an alert is sent via email, notifying them of their ers and the companies approved for this purpose. GRI 102-35 | GRI 102-36 eligibility for the positions in question. The available opportunities A profit sharing program that are also announced by means of the Corporate Portal. The contract of a temporary employee may be effecThe fixed compensation recognizes the skills and seniority depends on our corporate Additional Profit tive for up to 180 days and extended by up to 90 days performance and consists of the of a professional. The employees may have their fixed comSharing Program (PCR) payment of an amount defined in an We also have the Conectando Oportunidades (Connecting and it can be terminated at any time by any of the pensation changed in accordance with our Promotion and agreement with the respective union. Opportunities) program, which connects professionals whose jobs parties. This type of contract does not establish an Merit Policy. The fixed compensation of our employees, plus have changed or no longer exist to departments with vacancies employment relationship between us and the profescharges and benefits, amounted to approximately R$17 bilin which they have the opportunity to take new responsibilities. In sionals appointed for the provision of services, and lion in 2018. 2018, we connected 26% of the participants of this program. the benefits, labor, tax and social security obligations Additional profit sharing for 30% of High Performance the best assessed employees who do and the worker health and safety obligations are the Meanwhile, the variable compensation recognizes the level Compensation not participate in other profit sharing For the foreign units, the internal turnover is carried out by means responsibility of the supplier. of individual performance, the financial result achieved by Program (PRAD) programs. This program also depends of indications and disclosures of the local Human Resources the bank and its sustainability in the short, medium and on the organization’s results. The employee must maintain the confidentiality of any Department via email. long terms. Each employee has targets to be achieved that strategic, commercial, financial, administrative and are linked to the strategy of each department that, in turn, legal information or information of any nature, directly We also promote the employees’ mobility for internal vacancies reflect our global strategy. A long-term compensation or indirectly arising from the contract. program that covers the through disclosures in Uruguay, Paraguay, Colombia, and Argentina. employees in leadership positions We are responsible for ensuring the safety, hygiene Additionally, pay rises and profit sharing are assured to our Differentiated or similar positions in our Employees’ skills updating programs and transition Performance (PD) and health conditions of the temporary workers, as employees based on collective labor agreements and convenorganization. Compensation in assistance programs LATAM GRI 404-2 well as the health and policlinic services and meals tions entered into with the unions of each professional category. the form of our preferred shares (ITUB4)(1) on a deferred basis. This Employees transferred through internal provided to our employees. Country model takes into consideration the disclosure of vacancies individual assessment and is aimed During the term of effectiveness of a temporary agreeat rewarding the professionals who Paraguay 104 ment, any pay rises determined by collective bargaindistinguished themselves in results Uruguay 6 ing of the worker’s professional category are applied to and behavior. Its purpose is to the salary and benefits, and the hours worked are constrengthen people management, Argentina 7 self-development and the trolled by the department that contracted the tempodevelopment of the staff. Chile 115 rary worker. The contracting of temporary workers to replace workers on strike is forbidden. Colombia 140 (1) Information related to the companies of Itaú Unibanco Holding in Brazil managed by the Human Resources Department. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 70 The variable compensation programs described are also applied Customer Satisfaction, Innovation, Risk Management and Benefits granted GRI 401-2 | GRI 403-6 | GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience at the foreign units, except for the programs arising from agreeLeadership topics that promote Nosso Jeito (Our Way) – a set Program Description Results ments with unions that may be replaced by programs that folof values that guide the way we relate with clients, employlow agreements with the unions of each region. In the case of ees, stockholders, suppliers, governments and society in Health and well-being compensation in shares of foreign units, the Phantom Shares are general. In 2018, there were 354 applications, 176 of which used as an instrument of granting and payment. were projects and 178 were leaders and 39 employees were 92,623 employees covered by the health awarded in an event at Sala São Paulo. Each winner received a Offering a network with diverse accredited health care services, including medical plan and 67,022 by the dental plan. Medical and and dental appointments (emergency, outpatient clinics and hospital admissions), These figures include: active employees, In addition to the already mentioned variable compensation recognition trophy, shares of the organization and broad disdental care diagnostic services (supplementary medical examinations) and therapies, in retirees (terminated), special dismissals programs, we also have a long-term incentive program called closure of the projects in the internal media. accordance with the standards of ANS, the private health regulator. (linked to the Voluntary Termination Programa de Sócios (Partners’ Program). This program recProgram), and Interns. ognizes and distinguishes professionals who make a differThe collective labor agreements and conventions cover the Discounts for employees in the purchase of medication and perfumery products On average 27,700 employees benefitted Pharmaceuticals ence, who lead the construction of the organization’s future totality of our employees and many benefits were agreed upon at partner drugstores. from this partnership. and reinforce and disseminate the vision and the posture of in accordance with the respective unions of each professional Nutritional clinical care offered at those centers with the largest number of Nutritional care A total of 2,031 people assisted in 2018. the business’ owner, strengthening and disseminating Our category. The benefits cover obligations such food allowance, employees: CEIC, CAT, CT, ITM and CA Brigadeiro. Culture. Under this program, the employees and managebasic staples allowance, day care/baby sitter allowance, transPartnerships with fitness centers that offer discounts to employees, in addition to Approximately 19,900 employees take ment members who are elected as partners or associates portation voucher, among others. These benefits are offered Fitness center facilities at some of our office buildings. advantage of this exclusive benefit. may invest part of their Profit Sharing in the acquisition of our only to active employees who work in Brazil and who are on the Medical checkup eligible for Officers, Superintendents, Superintendent-level About 2,533 executives eligible, of whom shares, receiving a consideration in shares from the bank. payroll, including employees with reduced work hours or who Check-up specialists, head office managers and Manager-level specialists. 51% had this checkup in 2018. are contracted for a definite period of time. The Free Union Every year, we organize the Walther Moreira Salles Award, Association is the right of employees to unionize with the A personal support pro-gram to our employees and their family members, with a multidisciplinary team available 24/7, offering a free of charge service with one of the most important ways to value our cultural idenunion entity that represents their professional category in their confidentiality, aimed at embracing and guiding employees who are going through tity. The employees of the Brazilian and foreign units may respective union/territorial base under the terms of the legislapersonal, familiar or professional conflicting situations. Services offered are: apply projects and exceptional practices on the Efficiency, tion in effect. GRI 102-41 | GRI 103-2 Employee’s Experience • Psychological evaluation and monitoring or other treatments, in addition to guidance on the adoption of conflict management strategies for employees identified with or who recognize them-selves as having some emotional distress or need. Onsite support is adopted in the case of situations of violence; • Physiotherapy: answering questions in the cases of injuries and global postural reeducation (GPR) or other specific physical and stretching exercises; Telephone service: 2.5 calls/person. Fique OK • Legal: helps with advice on general issues involving criminal, civil, real estate, (Be Ok) Program consumer, family and other legal areas (except for labor); In-person service: 2,082 people impacted. • Nutrition care: advice on information for weight control, pregnancy, breastfeeding, recovery, and doubts concerning suitable food; • Financial support: supporting personal and family financial planning; providing guid-ance in situations of financial difficulties; • Personal trainer: advice on physical conditioning, sports activities and ways to exercise, as well as ways to beat a sedentary lifestyle, and exercises more suitable to be done at the fitness center; • Social work support: advice for people with special needs; retire-ment information and procedures in case of accidents, death and leave. Supporting when a death of family member occurs and the procedures required in this case; and • Pet advisor: guidance on pet breeding, responsibilities and warning signs. Psychosocial Psychology – 1,587 people assisted. Psychological and Social Work care at centers: CEIC, CT, CAT and ITM. services Social Worker – 852 people assisted. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 71 Program Description Results Program Description Results Health and well-being Licenses and maternity support programs Outpatient • Bebê a Bordo (Baby on Board): in-person or dis-tance course run with the General clinical and ortho-pedic care at those centers with the largest number of clinical assistance 19,609 people assisted. participation of pregnant employees and employees with pregnant spouses and employees: CEIC, CAT, CT, and ITM. services couples going through a child adoption process. Important topics are ad-dressed, Influenza Vaccination offered free of charge to employees and interns at the workplace and Coverage: approximately 65% (60,873) with guidelines adopted for the first months of pregnancy, such as nutrition of the vaccination accredited clinics. of employees. mother-to-be, initial care for new-borns, psychological issues, etc.; Baby on Board: 1,078 people. Maternity • Canto da Mamãe (Mom’s Corner) space for pumping and storing breast milk Mom’s Corner: 11,501 female employees Lectures aimed at promot-ing more health and quali-ty of life, offered to teams support programs dur-ing working hours; and used this space. with over 50 employees. Topics available: • Bebê em Casa (Baby at Home): visits from a spe-cialist nurse to the male or Baby at Home: 1,163 families assisted. Leadership • The paths to overcome anxiety, fear and de-pression; female employee’s home in the first week after birth to advise on breastfeeding Support for • Stress: Does it help or hurt?; 24 lectures held in 2018. and initial post-natal care. Health Promotion • Time management; The parental support pro-grams are available to employees at the São Paulo and • Living together in group: easy and hard aspects; and Greater São Paulo units. • How to have more quality of life? Of the total number of employees Program for beginning maternity leave in 2018, 94% We offer a multi-disciplinary team to guide and adjust the job activities of professional 2,183 employees assisted by this program. adhered to the extension under the Citizen employees that, due to health issues, need this help. readaptation Company Program. Movimente-se To support and encourage the adoption of healthier habits, workout classes were In addition, the percentage of female Additional (Get moving) held open to em-ployees, given by Physical Education teachers at cen-ters CEIC, 1,572 employees. We are signatories to the Citizen Company Program, adherence being optional. An employees returning from parental leave in 60 days of program CAT and CT. additional 60 days maternity leave begins on the day immediately following the 2018 and remaining in their jobs for at least Maternity Leave end of the leave period granted under labor legislation: 12 months upon their return was: in accordance We offer Stress Control Training (SCT) to support employees and promote mental • 60 days for the new mother and when adopting children under one year old; with the Citizen health, by way of 12 weekly meetings via Skype. The purpose is supporting the • 30 days when adopting children from one to four years old; and 2017 2016 2015 Company development and broadening of the range of behaviors to handle current stressor • 15 days when adopting children from four to eight years old. Program Total 88.5%(1) 88.7%(1) 86.0%(1) Equilibrium and develop treatment strategies in the future. Entry doors for the program: 395 employees included in the program. Men 91.2% occupational examinations (in accordance with technical protocols upon periodic examinations and return to work), analytics and self-enrollment when the Women 87.6% program opens. (1) Leave due to abortion issues not included. A benefit allowing the male employee to extend the parental leave for 15 days in Extension of addition to the five days he is already entitled to by law, it also applies for cases of 1,138 employees benefitted in 2018. paternal leave child adoption. Program Description Results Licenses and maternity support programs Program Description Results The Mothers and Pregnant Women Support Policy sets benefits for pregnant Mothers and women and homosexual couples after the birth or adoption of children, aimed In 2018, 3,883 employees adhered to the Leisure Pregnant Women at fulfilling the needs of families in their different possible configurations. Mothers and Pregnant Women Support Support Policy To ease the return to the job, mothers have their working hours reduced during Policy (mothers: 2,660; fathers: 1,223). • Lodging: 89,400 daily stays; the first month after the end of maternity leave (RP 71). • Events: 15,200 attendances; Leisure, recreation, cultur-al and sporting activities intended to foster • Visitors: 26,100 people; and Itaú Unibanco integration and quality of life for our employees, retirees and their families. We • Library: 24,900 borrowings. Club have three clubs, located in Guarapiranga dam, Itanhaém and São Sebastião Sessions held on the website (State of São Paulo). www.itauunibancoclube.com.br: 417,800 hits. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 72 Program Description Results Program Description Results Financial Flexibility Itaú Unibanco in the workplace Our Itaú Unibanco World program provides benefits, discounted prices and exOn average 22,700 employees benefitted World Partnership clusive services from several partners in Brazil and Latin America. from this partnership. Flexible work schedule: to enable employees to take care of their personal issues, they Program can compensate overor underworked hours in specific days or exchange them for Financial products Flexible days off and/or arrive after and/or leave before regular working hours, always following Number of employees under the flexible and services working hours what is agreed between the supervisor and the employee during the current month. work schedule: 72,096 in December 2018. with discounts Flexible working hours allow employees to fulfill their working hours in alternative Banking products at dis-counts and/or special fees, such as payroll loans, for employees hours, respecting the limit period established between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. overdrafts, banking charges, auto insurance, home insurance, purchasing conBenefits granted to 100% employees. (loans, purchasing sortiums and real estate loans. We began a pilot project on working from home office for some • Participation of about 2,600 employees consortiums, insurance, administrative departments. in 2018; credit cards) The main goal of this initiative is offering flexibility and improving our employees’ • Satisfaction score 4.7 (maximum 5.0); quality of life. • 96% of employees stated their wish to These are 18 complementary pension plans Complementary pension plans managed by two closed funds and one open fund. Under this pilot, the em-ployee can work remotely for up to two days in the continue working from home; Complementary and, due to voluntary adherence, we have Main goals of these plans are topping up social security benefits and maintaining Home office same week, and these days must be previously agreed with their supervisor. To • 90% of employees stated they now have private pensions 72% of employees joining one of the plans the standards of living for retirees. support the adjustment to this new working model, we have prepared a guide more quality of life by working from we offer. for supervisors and employees with information about the rules, working model, home; and Group life insurance covers a beneficiary’s death or disability. The plan automatically ergonomics and supporting channels. Surveys conducted with participants point • 82% of employees stated that they Group life includes spouses and children and extended funeral assistance coverage. Employees out to high satisfaction levels with this program, from both the viewpoint of the worked more efficiently from home. About 98% of employees have this benefit. supervisor and the employee working from home. insurance who already have life insurance may get a supplementary life policy to increase the amount insured. Hospitalization A structured policy (RP 09) that provides for absence due to hospitalization of a due to illness of relative, provided that a proof of hospital admission is submitted (one business Target: include a one day bonus for spouse, partner, day every 12 months). accompanying elderly every half year. parents or Absences due to personal reasons can be previously negotiated with the super-visor, children with these hours to be made up for at a later time. Designed to prepare employees for a healthy and structured career transition Meu Tempo (My Participation of 120 employees by Program Description Results to retirement. This project addresses topics focused on self knowledge, career Time) Program December 2018. alternatives, health care and financial and personal planning. Groups that joined Education GRI 404-2 Satisfaction rate of 8.91 (range 0–10). this program have showed high satisfaction levels with the value delivered. 5,500 tuition grants, of which 1,000 are Making the dress code more flexible, allowing employees to dress however they primarily for employees with disabilities see fit, while respecting minimum requirements according to their appointments Tuition grants for employees to subsidize part of the costs of first and second allocated in the banking sector; 4,000 Tuition Vou Como Sou and contact with clients. Therefore, we promote the respect for the individuality graduation courses and also postgraduate courses. for bank employees and 500 for non(I’ll go as I am) of our employees and break down barriers between what people are and how All employees in Brazil and foreign units. banking staff (foundations, insurance campaign they dress for work. This initiative had a very positive repercussion throughout and financial companies). the organization, including social net-works and specialized media, in addition to becoming a benchmark for other organizations seeking reference. The organization gave the go-ahead for personnel at the major administrative Accessing Wi-Fi centers to access YouTube and Wi-Fi for personal use. This initiative is in line with Program Description Results Not applicable. and YouTube our goal to empower employees and facilitate new ways of learning and selfFlexibility development, in addition to foster other inspiration and innovation ways. in the workplace We changed the layout and design of our workplace to foster new ways of The electronic control of the working day is based on capturing the arrival and Number of employees eligible for thinking and interacting, by bringing new insights, experiments, multiplicity, Electronic departure records input by employees on their work stations. Workplace Not applicable. the electronic time clock: 72,962 in initiatives, and individual and collective expressions to the day-to-day of our time clock At the branch network and administrative departments, a system was implemented December 2018. employees through diversity in space and configuration. to activate the work station only when the employee records their arrival. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 73 In addition to these benefits, we have developed other health stated in collective labor agreements entered into with workOccupational Description Results and safety related actions for health prevention, early diagers’ unions and the Sub Committee of Occupational Health health and safety nosis and rehabilitation purposes. Besides understanding the and Safety of the Brazilian Federation of Banks (FEBRABAN). Four-hour long in-person training importance of work in the build-up of a person’s identity and Accordingly, we seek to identify working conditions by way of sessions are carried out for 100% of the the complex interactions among personal desires, rules, relafield visits and surveying health indicators, which enable us to Ergonomic adjustment: training is provided by occupational safety experts at employees hired at the telemarketing the São Paulo telemarketing centers and provides ergonomic information for tionships at workplace and the socioeconomic environment, outline action plans to promote safer and healthier workplaces centers upon the on boarding stage, as telemarketing operators, advice on the correct use of furniture and equipment. we follow the Occupational Health and Safety definitions and relationships. GRI 403-2 this is part of the mandatory training Refresher training is periodically provided via e-learning. content; employees undergo a refresher Evaluations and hands-on training are directly run at the workstation on a nontraining via e-learning every six months periodic basis (Postural Blitz). from the last training session. Occupational Health and Safety Indicators GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience | GRI 403-9 1,200 in-person evaluations via Postural Blitz. Occupational Work-related Working Occupational Health and Safety Absenteeism Deaths injuries days lost illnesses Training GRI 403-5 Workplace Safety Representative (RSLT) at branches where a CIPA is not required, we provide training and e-learning for supervisors and supervisors RSLT – project kept and monitored in 2018. 908.44 about occupational accident and disease prevention. 2.36 2.06 2.03 1.87 707.50 2 693.13 Employee Health and Safety (NR-1): employ-ees receive full guide-lines relating Revising the content, which was linked to 1.57 to occu-pational accident and disease prevention via e-learning. the Integrity and Ethics Program. 1.39 1.11 1.18 1.32 1 1 Ergonomics Training for Tellers: following the installation of new cash counters in Training and e-learning program kept the branch network, all tellers are trained in the correct use of the new facilities. and monitored in 2018. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 • Satisfaction survey at 99% for Periodic medical examinations carried out annually, even though NR-7 allows biannual evaluations. These evaluations determine the employee’s fitness for outpatient clinics; work and drive them for specific health programs, based on technical protocols • Satisfaction rate at accredited network Further information can be seen in the health and safety tables on page 126. established. The data obtained generate epidemiological indicators, help the from 96% in 2016 to 93% in 2018; department’s related strategies and allow the evaluation of the impact of actions Occupational health and safety actions in progress. • Increase in the rate of examinations run GRI 103-2 Employee’s Experience | GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience | GRI 403-2 | GRI 403-3 | GRI 403-7 at the accredited network from 67% in We are increasingly improving the quality of medical examinations, regarding 2016 to 92% in 2018; and both aspects of the employee’s experience (waiting time to be assisted, perceived Occupational • Coverage of medical examinations run Description Results quality of medical examination and of the facilities infrastructure) and technical health and safety at facilities directly managed by the aspects (adherence of teams to service protocols).To reach these achievements, we have increased the coverage of the examinations carried out, following bank: 98%. A mandatory commit-tee composed of representatives of the bank’s employees technical protocols and offering bank’s specific programs, under the bank’s direct • 22 committees at the bank; Internal Acci(mostly non-technical) that work on the prevention of occupational accidents and • 322 members trained; Periodic medical management, supplemented by an accredited health care network that provides 98% diseases and survey inputs in debates on occupational health and safety topics 96% dent Prevention • 22 hours of individual training/year; and examinations coverage nationwide: 95% carried out by the bank. Their representatives set the responsibilities and actions • Outpatient clinics: nine at the administrative centers in São Paulo; Committee (CIPA) • 100% of adherence to CIPA training. required to ensure compliance with Ordinances No. 3,214/1978 and SIT No. 14/2007 • Occupational rooms: eight rooms under own management and exclusive service of the Ministry of Labor and Employment. located in Rio de Janeiro (four), Curitiba, Salvador, Recife and Porto Alegre; • Reference network: three management rooms outsourced and shared service; and Held in August – we reached approximately: • Accredited network: a network of clinics with outsourced, non-exclusive service. • In-person: 3,678 employees (9%) (Total Noteworthy mentioning is that to support the medical evaluation of the mental 2018 2018 2019 Held annually at the organization’s major administrative centers with a focus on the active employees in August 2018: aspects of employees' health we have adopted the Self Report Questionnaire – 20 target target(1) Internal Accident (SRQ20), a scientifically validated tool that allows actions in the three levels of health prevention and awareness-raising of occupational accidents related topics. This 42,516); and Prevention Week care intervention (prevention, early diagnosis and rehabilitation); therefore, we initiative is run jointly with CIPA, made up of staff from different hierarchical levels, • Digital platform: 49,093 employees (1) This new target was recalculated due to (SI-PATs) are able to identify early employees with emotional changes and direct them for such as supervisors, coordinators and analysts. (56%)Total active employees in the acquisitions carried out in 2018, which August 2018: 88,172). psychological/psychiatric evaluation/monitoring and/or professional readaptation. followed different rules, and to the inclusions of positions eligible to medical monitoring. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 74 Occupational Occupational Description Results Description Results health and safety health and safety Occupational Uruguai: 79% of eligible population in 4,240 units visited for environmental health Uruguai: every two years. 2018 was examined to date. survey, in accordance with NR9: examinations in Paraguai: every year. Paraguai: 80% employees examined • Lighting: 100%; Sample evaluations are carried out at our units to measure lighting and noise LATAM countries within the period. • Noise: 100%; levels, temperature and speed, relative humidity and quality of the internal air. • Temperature: 100%; 6,501 appointments made These evalua-tions allow the preparation of reports, such as the Environmen-tal • Air speed: 100%; and To identify absenteeism due to health reasons in our population, we have • 2018 target: outperformed. Besides Risk Prevention Program (PPRA), Operation and Control Maintenance Plan (PMOC) Environmental • Internal air quality: implemented the Complementary Clinical Evaluation (ACC), a process carried out being implemented in Salvador and Air Quality Analysis Certificate – these two latter are obtained on a half-yearly Complementary survey • Technologic centers: PMOC and Air at outpatient clinics and occupational rooms (except for Porto Alegre).In addition and Curitiba, the ACC was also basis in accordance with legislation. We are responsible for the PMOC of most of clinical evaluation Quality Analysis Certificate: 100%; to the medical assistance, these evaluations generate inputs for health data bases implemented in Recife. our branches; however, we have some branches in third-party facilities and condo• Wholesale buildings: PMOC and Air and indicators. • 2019 target: expand the program to miniums, which are responsible for the Pocking 2018, due to the amendment to Quality Analysis Certificate: 100%; Porto Alegre. legislation on PMOC, we have been adjusting previously ex-empt branches. • Administrative buildings: PMOC and Air • Carrying out traditional ergonomics Quality Analysis Certificate: 100%; and analyses, identifying any non• Branches: adjustment in progress. conformity and arrangements through Environmental Rates the performance of business units to check physical, chemical and biological the Non-Conformity Reports (NCRs); Risk Prevention hazards in the environment and proposes adjustments required to eliminate 4,240 units visited. Analyses based on field visits to the employee’s workstations, focused on • Carrying out postural guidance Program (PPRA) exposure to these risks. preventing any discomfort when doing their daily tasks, including checking activities and Ergonomics Blitz at the Ergonomic analysis conditions of furniture (desks and chairs), equipment for work, approval of centers, with the help of CIPA and Preparation of workstations ergonomics accessories, description of activities done, organization of working SESMT; and of reports on On-site inspections made at specific business units to identify unhealthy or 54 reports prepared in 2018. hours and workplace. • Responding to request for WorkStation unhealthy or hazardous conditions as required by applicable Brazilian legislation. Conducted at No unhealthy or hazardous condition Evaluation (WSE), carrying out analyses dangerous all workplaces where employees are potentially exposed to environmental risks. was identified in these other locations. and making recommendations for conditions acquisition and/or replacement of furniture, ergonomics facilitators, etc. It includes matters related to damage or risks to our employ-ees’ lives, with objectives and responsibilities described in policies (CN5 and CN 20). In emergency Emergencies 113 removals in 2018. situations, the bank has ten outpatient clinics structured for welfare and emergency • Answering the request for assistance, as well as a company contracted for removal from protected areas. workstation evalua-tion, analyzing With a view to enhance employee’s comfort, the Occupational Safety Specialist and rec-ommending the acquisiand Engineering team undertakes individual workplace evaluations to improve tion and/or change of furniture, In compliance with this policy and current Workstation working postures while carrying out activities, on request of the supervisor ergonomic devices, etc.; legislation, the activities carried out in evaluation or medical recommendation. This action is extremely important for people • 106 evaluations carried out; and 2018 in our administrative units were: with disability because it is aimed at adjusting working conditions to the • The Admission, Occupa-tional Health We have a permanent fire safety policy for the administrative buildings and data Workplace exit • 37 workplace exit training sessions – characteristics that made them fall into this category. and Diver-sity team has advanced center environments, aiming at raising awareness among people and establishing policies and totaling 36,000 people trained; workstation adjustment to newly guidelines, responsibilities and a number of procedures to prevent and fight fire processes • Training of 3,000 new brigade hired PWD. and minimize possible damage if it happens. members; and • Maintaining 10,000 fire prevention and fight equipment. • 309 CATs; • Implementing a Safety Alert tool Investigations of to identify causes, determine occupational and Work-related accident and disease investigation process to determine the action plans and share with all the similar accidents causal relation and indicators (main causes, main regions affected, and time off). Occupational Safety Team; and (submission of Analyzing these indicators allows the monitoring and development of action plans • Maintaining the distance Occupational for intervention. characterization/investigation program Accident Report with data collection by telephone and – CAT) including files in our system, so that the process can be audited. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 75 Our indicators do not identify high incidence of occupational as threatening. Additionally, we already have a network of In October, this survey came out with a satisfaction rate of The survey results are widely shared with all employees, diseases, and periodical workplace evaluations are carried accredited health specialists (such as doctors and psycholo87% with voluntary participation of 81% employees, up 2% who may access overall results and individual figures for out to identify possible noncompliance. Ill-health absenteegists) available through the Health Care, Employee Assistance from the last surveys. This result is viewed very positively, their departments. With these results in hand, with the supism rates are considered adequate and our target for 2019 Program (Fique OK) and outpatient clinics to foster a structure since the organization has maintained consistent high levport of the Business Partners, supervisors and employees is to maintain rates closer to those in the year before. These to handle mental health issues. els of internal engagement and employees’ satisfaction over are encouraged to gather together to analyze the results of indicators also identify low incidence of work-related incithe last three years. For an organization with approximately their departments and prepare an action plan based on our dents/accidents, which are basically due to carelessness or In view of the different programs offered, we always seek 100,000 employees, this indicator is not expected to change Practice Guide to Improve the Organizational Climate. unsafe actions on the part of employees, such as falls comto ensure the best experience to our employees at the most dramatically from one year to another, especially considering muting from their residence to the company and vice versa, diverse moments of their journey with us. Thinking about the the current high satisfaction level. for which cases the company has no management control. best way to measure and monitor our employees’ satisfacAnyway, we provide e-learning training to all employees to tion, in 2018 we redesigned our survey strategy, by discontinminimize incidents/accidents. GRI 403-9 uing the Fale Francamente (Speak Frankly) survey, which was Results of the Pulse survey(1) GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience replaced by Pulse as the main internal satisfaction survey for Based on epidemiological data that identifies an increase all employees throughout Brazil and in the foreign units. 100% 100% 100% 100% in mental disease in the world population, and focusing on GRI 103-3 Employee’s Experience 81% studies that show the speed of growth its incidence, prev79% 79% employees employees 75% alence and impact rates, we have implemented programs We have adopted the Pulse survey to assess our employemployees employees responded responded responded aimed at promoting, preventing, early detecting and rehabilees’ satisfaction. This survey has been applied since 2015 responded itating people subject to this group of condition. We have a to all employees so that we felt comfortable to consider partnership with a large nationwide chain of fitness centers its methodology as more assertive and reliable as well as (Gympass), with partial subsidies for plans (the benefits of more appropriate to the organization’s current context. 85% 87% physical activity are well known in every stage of mental disIt is an internally-developed survey that measures the 84% satisfaction 85% satisfaction satisfaction satisfaction eases), and carried out workplace ergonomic analyses includemployees’ level of agreement with 17 statements divided ing Organizational Psychodynamics aspects. We included a into four evaluation blocks: Individual, Team, Management specific questionnaire, scientifically validated by work-related and Company. medical examination protocols, to assess the risk of mental disorders (SRQ20).We have also implemented the Equilibrium As a result of the many projects for improving the employees’ Program, comprising 12 training sessions provided by psyexperience implemented over 2018, we have conducted the 2016 2017 2018 – 1st half year 2018 – 2nd half year chologists via Skype in a four-month period, aimed at survey twice this year (April and October) for all employees in (1) Survey carried out in Brazil and foreign units. enhancing skills to face situations perceived by the user Brazil and in the foreign units. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 76 Why is this Diversity topic material? GRI 103-1 Diversity We are made up of people and we believe that ethWe believe that having a staff with diversified origins, ics, respecting and valuing these people who have cultures, beliefs, experiences, races, genders, needs, supported our development are the essence of our sexual orientation, gender identities, age groups and achievements. We recognize our role in protectgenerations in the company means broadening pering and fostering diversity at home and in society, spectives, thus contributing for a positive and more seeking to be a role model for the best practices and tolerant climate, encouraging cooperation and syncontinuing to offer equal opportunities for all fair ergy among employees and leaders, and enhancing competition in view of differences. the creative, competitive and value creation potential in our activities. Client centricity is one of our priorIn 2017, we established an important milestone in ity fronts and recognizing this as a business agenda our journey of changing our history and shared means broadening perspectives, innovations and our Diversity Commitment Letter with the market. viewpoints in the decision-making process. Our cliAccordingly, we have assumed a public commitment ents comprise different people, and to better serve to our employees, clients, suppliers, partners and them our teams need to do so as well. society. Learn more about our commitment here. GRI 103-2 Diversity There is a strong connection between inclusion and diversity promotion and increased talent attraction and retention, innovation, improved employee and customer satisfaction, and higher profitability of operations. Materiality Diversity GRI 103-1 Diversity Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact We conduct affirmative actions for equal opportunities: • Clients: a different perspective so that women see themselves in financial products, communication, and services; 5.5 Ensure the full, effective participation of women and equality of • Employee: transparency in recruiting processes and succession committees that have no paropportunities for the leadership at all decision-making levels of politicipation of women, change of internal policies and differentiated performance assessment de tics, the economy and public life. when returning from maternity leave; and • Value chain: promote purchases from suppliers with a higher headcount of women and female entrepreneurs. In this chapter... We promote the awareness of unconscious biases and an inclusive environment for all: • Clients: taking into consideration the progress of clients in entrepreneurism through microcredit; …we present our diversity-related practices. We 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote social, economic, and political • Employees: equality in selection processes, evidencing the institutional position of promoting racial inclusion for everyone, regardless of age, gender, disability, race, ethaddress our governance, present our voluntary inclusion, seeking representativeness and the guarantee of a respectful environment for all our nicity, origin, religion, economic status, or any other. employees, and not tolerating any type of discrimination; and commitments and actions aimed at raising our • Society: support Civil Society in projects created and implemented by the LGBT+ community. employees’ awareness. We have affirmative action policies to address inequality issues in our selection and promotion processes, such as: internal succession committees for leading positions, with a view to having at least 10.3 Ensure equality of opportunities and reduce inequality of results, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices one woman among the candidates and the evaluators, the change of the intern and trainee selection We also share our diversity profile in which we disprocesses so as to ensure equality and reduce entry-level contracting inequalities; and political advoand promoting adequate legislation, policies and actions. cacy to adjust the Apprenticeship Law to Brazil’s reality and to the inequalities in the public and private close the proportion of distribution of our staff education systems. based on gender, age group, people with disabilities, ethnics, among others. We present our diverWe promote the awareness of unconscious biases and an inclusive environment for all, with actions 10.4 Adopt new policies, in particular tax, salary, and social protection towards increased accessibility for our internal stakeholders, such as the change in internal policies sity pillar analysis approach, aimed at identifying policies, and progressively reach greater equality. and different performance assessment for women returning from maternity leave; and formalization the greatest challenges and prioritizing action of identity groups of black employees. plans together with our employees. Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders In addition, we disclose the external recognitions we received in 2018, the details of the internal GRI 103-1 Diversity reporting channel and the actions carried out to Employee Client Society Supplier Stockholder increase our impact in terms of diversity on other Direct Direct Direct Indirect Indirect players of our relationship chain, such as suppliers and clients. GRI Topics Related Initiatives and Indicators Management Approach GRI 103-1 Diversity – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Diversity – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Diversity – Evaluation of the management approach General Disclosures GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics General Disclosures GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Local Communities GRI G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 78 Governance Our diversity governance is the responsibility of the Human Therefore, to foster this agenda, in 2018 the Sustainability Basic principles of internal diversity management Resources department, but other departments actively take Committee approved an integrated operation of the diverpart in it so that we have a consistent performance. sity front, and this governance was expanded. Currently, five departments support, discuss and play different roles in the Implementation of policies and projects for valuing Representation of all groups in the organization institutional agenda. and promoting diversity and accessibility (gender, people with disabilities, LGBT+, race, age group, religion among others) Roles and responsibilities of the departments on diversity Scope Sustainability Personnel Institutional Corporate Institutional and Business, Clients Department Relations Communication Global Marketing Suppliers and Employees and Civil Society Media, Reputation Internal and external Promotion of equal opportunity Trends Executives and Spokespersons positioning in all processes In addition to these forums, we also have a Diversity Blue In order to keep track of our business challenges, in 2017 The Diversity department activities are divided into topWe also brought different departments together, such as Ribbon Committee, which includes directors and external we elected six strategic fronts that have been guiding, and ics: race, gender, People with Disabilities (PWD), LGBT+, External Ombudsman, Compliance, Environmental and Social consultants who help with the agenda proposals, so that will guide, our actions in recent and coming years. One of age group, belief (religion), learning program (Young Risk, Procurement, User Experience and Retail, among others, together we are able to advance the topic beyond people these pillars is People Management, and diversity is one of Apprentice) and unconscious biases. This strategy is carried to address diversity-related topics from the many different management and consequently ensure our stance by taking the work fronts. The diversity-related matters for employout on an institutional basis for demands that change polaspects, such as human rights and diversity in business. The into account: employees, clients, suppliers, society and partees are addressed by the Personnel Department that, in icies and processes throughout the organization and on a purpose of this multidisciplinary group is to gather matters ners. Learn more on the Diversity Blue Ribbon Committee in 2018, included an exclusive Diversity function with a team specific basis for other demands, with projects and studies that are material to business strategies and bring about dischapter Our sustainability governance structure on page 7. responsible for advancing diversity in the organization and focused on each business area, seeking to understand specussions such as new ways to measure the performance of spreading the concept so that it permeates the business cific needs. departments, taking into account the diversity in the client A group composed of leaders from these departments meets and people management. base and the service quality in specific groups. on a monthly basis to discuss, structure and validate these diversity-related actions in progress. Strategically positionAs a recognized and valued topic in our culture, the maning the topic in institutional processes and projects, raising agement of internal diversity is guided by our Internal Policy the organization’s awareness and implementing actions to for Diversity Enhancement, and by the commitments we change specific scenarios are some of its guidelines. signed over time, based on three basic principles: Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 79 Raising awareness among employees Voluntary commitments and programs To enable diversity fronts to be increasingly present in our We held more than 50 meetings with the organization’s departOne of the diversity engagement fronts is the execution of voluntary commitments and participation in programs. Through these culture, in 2018 the Personnel Department started to raise ments that, by playing a leading role, have stated a genuine activities, we monitor the progress of the agenda and increase our communication with other players about Diversity. awareness among our senior management to work with interest in coming closer and engage in Diversity topics. We mental models and unconscious biases. The executives have shared our action guiding concepts and opened room for Voluntary commitments to diversity and human rights received information about what unconscious biases are, debates and clarification of doubts on Diversity. In this way, we Global and voluntary initiative that seeks to provide guidelines for the promotion of sustainable how they come up and how we can prevent them in deciseek to foster respectful dialogue and together fight against Brazil Network Global Compact growth and citizenship through committed and innovative corporate leadership. sion-making. All our Superintendents, Officers and memjudgmental views that lead to discrimination. bers of the Executive Committee received several contents, Program for Promotion of Gender and It consists in spreading new concepts in people management and organizational culture to achieve Race Equality (Ministry of Human Rights) equality between women and men in the work environment. and among the actions taken, one to highlight is the awareConcurrently, we designed on-site training to raise awareness-raising of the managers in charge of the Trainee proness among the Personal Department consulting function. Women 360 Movement Economic empowerment of Brazilian women through incentive, systematization and advancement (Business Movement for Women’s of business policies and practices and engagement of the Brazilian business community and gram selection process. Over two days we aligned concepts, provided guidelines and Economic Development) society in general. engaged people involved in Business departments in their Coalition is a forum for debate, experience exchange and incentive to the implementation and We also carried awareness-raising activities with our employroles as agents of transformation in the diversity journey. Business Coalition for Racial and improvement of public policies and business practices, in a collective effort to overcome gender Gender Equality (Ethos Institute) ees, through seminars, training and internal communication The results have already come upfront, for example, in our and race discrimination in organizations. (talks, information posted on the intranet and videos), we Internship and Trainee programs. To improve the results in Commitment to respect human rights and promote decent work in business activities, developing Corporate Charter on Human Rights showed the importance of valuing diversity of race, gender, diversity indicators, the selection process included specific criteria for direct suppliers and clients, and disseminating these principles in its value chains and the Promotion of Decent Work through positive agendas. PWD, LGBT+, age group, belief (religion), Learning Program related actions. UN has been working to promote the Women´s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) in Brazil and all (Young Apprentice) and unconscious biases. Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) over the world. For the Internship programs, the first step of the selection process is digital and carried out by means of online logical Letter of Commitment of Itaú Unibanco Bank’s commitment to the Diversity agenda. to Diversity thinking tests. Moreover, the applicant’s name, gender, age, address and university are initially not known. Therefore, we Refers to the 10 Commitments the Company has to the Promotion of LGBT+ Rights, as they express Forum of Companies and LGBT+ Rights the understanding of the role of companies. They provide a work agenda for everyone and qualify the were able to significantly reduce bias in hiring and increased demand in the relationship with the State and Civil Society. to 15% from 20% the number of black people in our corporate Internship program. UN developed five Standards of Conduct to support the global business community in tackling UN Standards of Conduct discrimination against lesbian, gay, bi, trans and intersex people (LGBT+). In the Trainee program, the first step of the selection proThe first index that measures indicators, policies, products and commitments to society in Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index connection with gender equality. cess is also an online logical thinking test. Additionally, we became more flexible in terms of English requirements and Global Banking Alliance for Women It leverages women’s growth in business and wealth creation, generating better results to member broadened the search for applicants to all universities. Aiming financial institutions. at mitigating unconscious biases in the in-person selection Women Entrepreneur Network The first and largest network supporting women entrepreneurship in Brazil intended to empower steps, we raised awareness among the managers of their (Rede Mulher Empreendedora) women entrepreneurs to ensure financial independence. impact on the selection process. Consequently, race diversity accounted for 11% and women for 40% among the 193 candidates approved in the selection process. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 80 Our diversity profile Our diversity profile Total employees by pillar (%)(1) Racial equality Main actions by work front 2018 2017 2016 Inclusion of black people This activity was carried out together with the employees engaged in Racial inclusion, whose participation is fundaThe diversity topics are individually analyzed with the Women 59 60 60 Our purpose is focused on increasing the number of mental for the daily advancement of this agenda, and to employees involved and, after being studied and analyzed, black people in our staff. With this in mind, attractiveshare these contents. Black people 22 22 21 we prioritize the biggest challenges and structure action ness events were carried out, such as the Portas Abertas Additionally, we formalized two groups of black plans. GRI 103-3 Diversity (Open Doors), the partnership with the Black youth develPeople with disabilities 4.81 4.70 4.60 employees, one composed of our black leadership opment project (developed by FEBRABAN, JP Morgan (Superintendents and Officers) and one composed of and Zumbi dos Palmares University) and the participation (1) Detailed information on this table are available in the Attachment our employees. The purpose of these groups is to discuss to this report. in different events and fairs to promote racial equality, actions driven to inclusion of black employees and their inclusion and entrepreneurship. career development in our structure. Gender women’s participation in these committees. It will enable We held the Racial Diversity Week, highlighting the instituWomen’s career development us to carry out more assertive analyses and action plans by tional positioning regarding the promotion of racial incluRepresentation of black people in management sion, the search for representation and the guarantee of a positions (%)(1)(3) business department and/or on an institutional basis. Today women are approximately 59% of our total employrespectful environment for all employees, not tolerating any Women Men Total ees. However, this share does not follow the top posiWe have addressed this topic in campaigns to raise awaretype of discrimination. tions in our hierarchical pyramid. We have one woman in ness among employees, engage leaders, and initiatives Officer 0.0 0.8 0.8 our Executive Committee and our Board of Directors has intended for clients and society. Based on internal studies Thirteen on-site talks were organized and eight of them were transmitted live with over 1,400 views. In addition, we created Manager 7.0 7.1 14.1 a woman member for the first time, but this share is still and interviews with female employees, we seek to capture very low when compared to other positions. their professional development scenario in the company totems displaying overcoming stories of our employees, which (1) Detailed information on this table is available in the and, accordingly, bring new gender-related action proposals. were listened by more than 600 people. In the announcements Attachment to this report. This is why our guideline for this front is to encourage about the topic, 5,487 people clicked to read the content. (2) Calculation of representation including total employees by position. women’s career development and use our potential influRepresentation of management positions ence by sharing the principle of equality in our value chain. by gender (%)(1)(3) The support program and the updating of the performance evaluation policy for women on maternity leave Women Men are aimed at ensuring that the evaluation is based on the Officer 13.2 86.8 work performed rather than on the working hours, thus Manager 51.8 48.2 preserving good evaluations that, as a result, keep women eligible for career acceleration programs, education sponSuperintendent 27.0 73.0 sorships and promotions. We also determined that profit Manager 37.1 62.9 sharing will be fully paid, rather than proportionally. Coordinator 54.3 45.7 Additionally, we seek to ensure more diversity in selection Other positions 57.1 42.9 processes. For this reason, we recommend that succession Total (Officers + Managers) 51.5 48.5 committees include whenever possible one woman being evaluated and another woman carrying out the evaluation. (1) Detailed information on this table is available in the Attachment to this report. We have developed a tool to monitor the succession com(2) Commercial and Operational positions with management role. mittees for management positions aimed at monitoring (3) Calculation of representation including total employees by position. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 81 LGBT+ Safe, healthy and respectful environment In that same week, we adhered to the commitment to the Forum of Companies and LGBT+ Rights and to the In 2017 we held the first event Open Doors on LGBT+, with UN Standards of Conduct. People with Disabilities (PWD) the Julia’s profile, a guide dog that provides attitudinal Candido Bracher and Roberto Setubal. This is an initiative Inclusion and training accessibility through information on accessibility, tips to share experiences, histories and perceptions on this At the end of that week, we announced the launch of on coexistence, rights and duties of PWD on posts on topic, where participants are able to express their opinions the LGBT+ Pride (LGBT+ Orgulho) call notice, intended We foster the inclusion of employees with disabilities by on different issues. Therefore, our purpose is encouraging to search for projects that encourage LGBT+ people’s IU Conecta (our internal network). These actions are promoting the six types of accessibility (communicational, a safe and respectful environment, where people are free power of transformation across Brazil. The impact very relevant to this pillar and reflect a great advanceinstrumental, methodological, attitudinal, programmatic to talk openly about their sexual orientation without fear. investment originally forecast was R$200,000 for four ment in the PWD inclusion agenda. and architectural), in addition to the guidelines of the projects, but in view of the number of projects enrolled Brazilian Law for the Inclusion of People with Disabilities In 2018, we launched the internship pilot project for As a result of this engagement, we held the LGBT+ (301) and the quality of the finalist projects, the total (Lei Brasileira de Inclusão da Pessoa com Deficiência) and the PWD. It aims at mapping the accessibility throughout Diversity Week, which was marked by a series of lectures investment ended up at R$360,000. The amount UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. the intern attraction and selection process, making it with market experts and internal employees, including invested will be allocated to sponsor eight projects, possible to expand this action in 2019. discussions about nomenclature and the several differThe purpose is to enhance the leading role of our employwhich will be monitored over 2019 in their respecent concepts of sexual orientation, gender identity and ees with disabilities, increase the employability of the difPWD in management positions(1)(2) tive performance sites, spread over the Northern, sexual expression, among others. We also decorated the ferent types of disabilities and raise awareness among all Northeastern, Central-Western and Southern regions. Women Men Total administrative centers with the colors of the LGBT+ pride employees of inclusion-related topics. flag. Over 2,900 people took part in the activities, which In addition, we had the formalization of the use of our Noteworthy are the projects in partnership with Officer 0.0 0.0 0.0 were transmitted live to all our foreign units, and had employee’s social name on their badges, corporate porSpecialisterne, with 23 employees with autism specover 19,000 interactions in our social networks. tal and email. Manager 0.1 0.1 0.2 trum disorder (ASD) we hired for several activities; the Believe (Acreditar) Program, which includes 43 intellec(1) Detailed information on this table is available in the Attachment Total investment: tual PWD, 38 of them for customer services and operato this Report. (2) Calculation of representation including total employees tional tasks at Personnalité branches; and the launch of of the organization. R$360,000 The amount invested will be Training and career planning for Young Apprentices In 2018, we have a chat with students of a school close to allocated to sponsor eight the CA ITM business center in partnership with the Centre projects eight projects We have increasingly entered into more partnerships with for Integration of Corporations and Schools (CIEE). We had public schools close to our administrative centers, aiming at opportunity to share our work routine, career plans and hiring low-income youth. diversity actions with the youth. spread over the Northern, Northeastern, Central-Western and Southern regions Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 82 Employees’ engagement in the LGBT+ Diversity Week activities Diversity in our relationships Clients GRI G4-FS14 Last year, we multiplied our efforts to bring new experiences to our clients. Our multidisciplinary working groups strengthen As social development agents, we seek to extend our impact these actions and the involved teams support top leaders and on diversity to other players in our relationship chain, in addidepartments so that we are able to include the human rights tion to our employees. and diversity perspective when developing business, services and products actions. This is a mounting challenge, but we Suppliers know that these actions bring consistency to one of our priority strategies, that is, to strengthen us in the client centricity Diversity in our supply chain is a material topic for the susfront and promote rights and equality in society. tainable social development. We encourage our suppliers to adopt commitments focused on valuing human rights and As a practical example of action plan, we held meetings diversity in their agendas by incorporating environmenbetween the LGBT+ employees’ advisory group and the tal and social responsibility policies. The topic is addressed Mortgage department to discuss the kits of forms sent to in our Code of Relationship with Suppliers, Code of Ethics clients taking into account social and demographic changes and Sustainability Recommendations, which can be directly and what questions should be changed. accessed on our dedicated page – click here. We also focus on the accessibility to our financial services In 2018, we held a workshop focused on human rights and so that they are available to our clients, thus supporting the diversity, where we shared guidelines on this topic with our economic development of all people. Accessibility allows surveillance service providers, as they are an important segthe promotion of autonomy for people with disabilities and, ment to serve our end clients. accordingly, we address the importance of providing access for clients with special needs to our physical spaces and digiRecognition of our initiatives Internal reporting channel We also started to map our suppliers aiming at expanding tal channels. diversity in the supply chain, promoting inclusion and the Our efforts were recognized by diversity-related indices, as we We reinforce and disclose the Internal Ombudsman’s Office business development of suppliers from vulnerable groups. Brazil has several regulations that provide for the best way to were ranked as one of the best companies in the 2018 Great also as the reporting channel for situations in which employmake the inclusion of people with disabilities viable, such as Place to Work Women award. We make up the Bloomberg ees feels discriminated against or witness any situation that We also held workshops for some our selection and training Brazilian Federal Law No. 13,146, of July 6, 2015. Additionally, Financial Services Gender Equality Index and, also in 2018, goes against Diversity principles. Additionally, the Internal suppliers, with the purpose of increasing, sharing and proto adjust our physical environment, we follow the ABNT we were recognized by the State Secretary of the Rights of Ombudsman’s Office and the Diversity team periodically moting diversity valuation. (Brazilian Association of Technical Standards) technical People with Disabilities and by the UN for our best practices for meet to develop preventive actions, based on the learnstandards and municipal legislation. In the digital arena, our employability of people with disabilities. ing from complaints handled, in accordance with our letter websites and applications adopt the world’s best renowned of commitment to diversity. To learn more about this issue, practices and guidelines. We follow the Web Content please see the chapter Integrity and Ethics. GRI 102-17 Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), which is an international standard with guidelines on accessibility good practices, to design pages that enable the best access to people with disabilities. For more information about the standard click here. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 83 In 2016, the Technology Quality department has taken an important step by structuring a specialized team dedicated to Digital Graphics content about services/accessibility solution Accessibility. Its challenge was to ensure the quality of our digital channel services to all of our clients. Fale Conosco (Talk to Us): This team works from the inclusion perspective and is made up of people with and without disabilities, all of them specialized our Fale Conosco center Branches: our branches have in quality and tests. The methodology adopted by the team is working with two people, one of them being impaired, according (including call centers, skilled professionals who make to the WCAG standard (world standard), ensuring that a person who is visually, hearing, physically, temporarily or cognitively, External Ombudsman’s sure clients with any disability or impaired will use our services in an independent, safe and dynamic way. Office and Service Center) has special service needs are identified been constantly adjusted for the and receive priority service. best client service, such as using Test-Driven Development (TDD) Important functionalities, such as virtual keyboard, to enter passtechnology, which can send and word and access the bankline, Itoken security code, statements, receive text messages. bills, PDF documents, transfers, mobile recharge, were totally redesigned and Bill: blind or visuallyadjusted to make the client experience User: setting up a team focused impaired clients can receive much more efficient, transparent and on quality and tests in the User credit card bills printed easier. Addressing digital accessibilExperience (UX) department, for in Braille and/or in large print. which a team of employees with and ity goes beyond the functional aspect, In addition, these bills are also without disabilities was structured ensuring our clients’, as well as our available on our digital and audio with the purpose of having our employees’, inclusion. channels upon the client’s request. channels approved to ensure that products and services are made Bills sent in available for everyone. Braille in 2018: 984 bills. In 2018, this team won the Banking Report Award, User Experience – Accessibility Test category, which ensures that our concerns about improving our clients’ journey and experience are increasingly more consistent and evident. We worked on 147 projects and carried out 4,068 accessibility tests. Society In 2018, we invested R$5,483,658.06 in a total of 39 projects And for 2019, the Quality department will seek to spread this methodology to other channels of the bank, also focused on the The strategy to advance the diversity agenda also includes and initiatives from institutions that work with the diversity main journeys of clients. making partnerships with civil society. In order to achieve such pillars we consider priority for advancing the agenda in Brazil: advancement, there is a team dedicated to the dialogue, selecrace, people with disabilities, age group, gender, LGBT+ and tion and monitoring of projects led by people and organizations Young Apprentice. These sponsorships and donations took into working to strengthen the cause and positively impact their account the specific nature of each pillar by developing a stratoperation sites, with either actions that directly benefit society egy to strengthen democracy, guarantee of rights, inclusion, or advocacy with the public sector. equality and diversity valuation. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 84 Human rights + 2,051.23 523.66 Discrimination We designed analytics for complaints and timeline comparisons to identify We have a public commitment to human rights with the mis• International Labor Organization (ILO). + $ against employees evolutions and thus make it possible to discuss internal action plans; sion of respecting and protecting the fundamental rights by counting on specialized partnerships, incorporating the best We have adhered to the Commitment to Human Rights, a market practices and orientation of bodies that set up social document that sets the guidelines for preventing the risks responsibility guidelines, such as: we are exposed to in the relations with our most sensitive Discrimination We reviewed clients’ complaints based on indications of violations and/or audiences, comprising our business and relationships with against clients controversies involving human rights related to our service, products and/or services; • Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UN); employees, clients, suppliers, partners and society. One of the tools we use to comply with this commitment is the Human • International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (UN); Rights due diligence, which is carried out every two years. We periodically conduct external audits at selected suppliers in connection with GRI 103-3 Diversity Suppliers protection and respect for human rights, in addition to addressing environmental and • International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural social issues; and Rights (UN); and The process consists of four stages: 1 We have identified the impact that migrating from physical to digital branches 4 had on our employees’ health, among others identified, and designed the Jornada 2 3 Research and mapping Occupational da Saúde (Journey of Health) project, aimed at raising awareness among the by reviewing the Reaching conclusions health population of health and illness, self-care and the management’s role in promoting Defining priorities in the Identifying and & safety Commitment to and making the health of teams. We conducted training sessions to raise awareness among all assessment of impacts, reviewing the outpatient clinics’ teams of the professionals’ new needs in view of the changes and Human Rights, policies, recommendations risks and identification of challenges of the UN workplace psychodynamics carried out at digital branches. processes, products, for improving the improvement opportunities. Guiding Principles. services and interviews Human Rights with those involved. management process. Please see our main Diversity policies and commitments here, on unfair treatment received by our clients, sentencing us to such as Code of Ethics, Corporate Ethics Policy, Sustainability pay damages. No legal actions were filed in connection with In 2017, we carried out our second due diligence process to This process resulted in a list of priority issues that were suband Environmental and Social Responsibility Policy, Antiour LATAM branches. assess actual or potential impacts on human rights by means mitted in 2018 for review of the Governance, through the Corruption Policy, Corporate Governance Policy, Information of our activities or as a result of our commercial relations. We Sustainability Committee, and will be addressed over the year. Security Policy, Commitment to Human Rights, among others. It should be reinforced that the risk map in our human rights also assessed the management of human rights, monitored due diligence process has not identified any discrimination the compliance with our commitment guidelines and ensured After mapping the risks, we set up working groups by topic and incident involving clients as a critical aspect of our operations respect to human rights according to the UN Guiding Principles, created action plans for mitigation and remediation, in addition Cases of discrimination Nevertheless, we keep working to prevent and identify the under the Protect, Respect and Remedy framework. to monitoring schedules mainly focused on these risks manreasons why discrimination incidents happened, aiming at agement. In 2018, our priorities were: GRI 103-3 Diversity In spite of having an External Ombudsman’s Office, which preventing these situations from happening again. We also receives questions, criticisms and complaints from clients, cerkeep engaged in our commitment to monitoring all cases to tain alleged discrimination incidents end up being taken to the prevent similar incidents in the future. courts or to other customer protection bodies. Client data For further information on our communication chanWe set up the Internal Data Committee, which analyzes project data security and In 2018, 16 legal actions involving clients and discrimination nels, please see page 44 (Internal Ombudsman’s Office) in security and privacy management and decides on whether to proceed with these projects. privacy were settled. We entered into settlements with eight of them Employee’s Experience and page 56 (External Ombudsman’s and for the remaining a judgment was issued and concluded Office) Customer Satisfaction. GRI 102-17 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 85 Financial Why is this topic material? Inclusion and GRI 103-1 Financial Inclusion and Orientation People’s consumer habits change constantly, as new demands and new habits come up on daily basis. When we look from a business perspective, we realize Orientation that the best relationship between our clients and us requires understanding these changes and people’s needs. This way we can offer knowledge and appropriate financial solutions so that they have a more balanced relationship with money. We know that changes come from individual behavior and we believe that our role is to orient our employees, clients, and society, and offer tools so that they make more appropriate financial decisions depending of the their stage in life and create products that facilitate actual realizations and thus have positive impacts. GRI 103-2 Financial Inclusion and Orientation Materiality Financial Inclusion and Orientation GRI 103-1 Financial Inclusion and Orientation Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact 1.4 By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular poor men and women, have equal rights to We will promote social and financial inclusion through Itaú Microcrédito by allowing that more microentrepreneurs economic resources, as well as access to basic services, have access to financial citizenship, helping with income distribution and small business growth, thus contributing ownership and control over the land, and other to the country’s economic sustainability. Most of the clients served by the program are in the poor suburbs of São forms of ownership, inheritance, natural resources, Paulo (State of São Paulo), Rio de Janeiro (State of Rio de Janeiro), Campina Grande (State of Paraíba), Fortaleza appropriate new technologies, and financial services, (State of Ceará), Teresina (State of Piauí), and Montes Claros (State of Minas Gerais). including microfinances. We expanded the scope of the Itaú Microcrédito program by allowing the financial inclusion of higher number of microentrepreneurs with encumbered access to credit services. We changed the product policy by eliminating 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote social, economic, and political inclusion for everyone, regardless of the borrowing ceiling and the need to have a bank account, and reduced the activity period to grant a loan. We build the capacity of women-led small businesses, developing new financial and nonfinancial solutions through In this chapter... age, gender, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, the Itaú Mulher Empreendedora Program, stimulating the growth and empowerment to take a prominent economic status, or any other. position in their business, job creation, and income generation. Through financial orientation projects, we ...we talk about our financial orientation initiatives support people, clients and non-clients, at different times of their lives to plan their finances, making the best aimed at employees, clients, and society. Thus, decisions to escape indebtedness, and investing their income to reach financial balance. we show several products, services, and contents 10.5 Improve global markets and financial institutions Consistently with the overdraft account autoregulation standards on new sales and communication rules, aimed at preventing indebtedness of our regulation and oversight, and strengthen the for a better relationship of clients with the product, we published a page with quick tips and replies to stakeholders. With regard to financial inclusion, we implementation of such regulation. frequently asked questions on the overdraft account. outline our credit lines aimed at funding production activities by microentrepreneurs – including the results of 15 years of Itaú Microcrédito – and the Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders developments in women-led businesses. We also GRI 103-1 Financial Inclusion and Orientation share the results and the impacts obtained through our actions and awards received. Society Client Employee Stockholder Supplier Direct Direct Direct Indirect Indirect GRI Topics Related Initiatives and Indicators Management Approach GRI 103-1 Financial Inclusion and Orientation – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Financial Inclusion and Orientation – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Financial Inclusion and Orientation – Evaluation of the management approach Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector Product Portfolio GRI G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose GRI G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type Local Communities GRI G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people Product and Service Labeling GRI G4-DMA Product and Service Labeling (former FS16) – Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 87 Employee-driven program investment selection, conscientious use of financial credit, individual on-line sessions on how to organize their finances The highlights of this program in 2018 were as follows: and financial rebalance. and plan for achieving their goals. The knowledge gathered Providing financial orientation to employees is one of our in this pilot program will be used to build financial orientaAutoregulation of overdraft account actions to help people around us to grow. And to make it posIn-person course tion actions that will meet more needs of our employees in In order to report the changes in the overdraft account rule, sible, we train people to become financial literacy multipliers, their relationship with money. we launched a page with tips on situations where this type of both when engaging in their professional activities and within For employees to realize their dreams and become more credit is recommended, simulator, and information on the use their families. As a result, we created the Employee-driven independent in their decision-making, we offer a Personal Papo que Rende Campaign of the overdraft account. Program, which consists of online and in-person training, Finances in-person course free of charge and voluntary. and financial advisory. GRI G4-DMA Product and Service Our endomarketing campaign Papo que Rende (Enriching My Finances Labeling (former FS16) Divided into two four-hour separate modules (Module 1 – Chat) seeks to inspire employees to think about financial Bank statements now include options to highlight expenses Financial Planning and Module 2 – Investments), it totaled health. The campaign raised issues aimed at instigating per category and compare average movements on a month We offer online and in-person courses, financial advisory seseight training programs throughout the year and was employees to reflect on their own behavior in the different basis. This novelty is a facilitator for clients and makes it easy sions, and other employees-development actions, such as finanattended by 469 people in São Paulo. spaces, such as on the corporate televisions, our corporate to organize and control personal finances. Approximately cial coaching and in-house campaigns that encourage people to portal, email and Instagram. four million clients have already used this service at once reflect about consumption and individual goals and the way peoFinancial advice since it was launched. ple manage their finances. GRI 103-2 Financial Inclusion and Orientation In 2018, the subject was addressed in in-person gatherOur financial advice helps our employees understand the ings, such as the Financial Behavior Workshop and the Number of employees impacted by this action time of their lives and support them in making better deciInvestments Workshop, where we encouraged our employIndebtedness prevention sions. The purpose of financial advice is to go beyond basic ees to think about financial health and inviting them to get and attention Online course In-person course Financial advice concept and give practical tips on how to have a good relaacquainted with the employee-driven program. tionship with money. The on-line service it provided by an To avoid clients to face financial unbalances and support those 76,775 outside financial planning specialist, confidentially and free We have also created a page on the Corporate Portal that allows that in debt distress we offer: 1,052 1,068 of charge; in 2018, we reached 653 employees. employees to get to know which are the financial orientation ini737 tiatives intended for our employees, society and our clients. Sponsoring the Serasa Truck project Financial coaching We partnered with Serasa Experian to sponsor a traveling 35,870 687 653 Initiatives for clients team that renegotiates debts and provides financial advisory. In search for enhancing financial orientation solutions, we In December 2018, the truck started to travel and it will visit 40 369 have developed a financial coaching pilot program for employand society GRI 103-2 Financial Inclusion and Orientation cities nationwide to facilitate access of more people to finanees that have attended other training programs and felt they In order to promote financial orientation and created condicial information, guidance, and opportunities to renegotiate needed closer monitoring of their finances. Through in-person tions that would allow people to make increasingly sounder debts. We trained ten multipliers who will provide guidance to 5,506 meetings and group gatherings mediated by a specialist and financial decisions, we act in the offer of products and ser20 teachers in each city so that they will be able to pass on this individual on-line sessions, we have supported the developvices, in the prevention of indebtedness and producing contype of content in their schools. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 ment of these employees and acknowledged their role in multent and sharing information with our different stakeholders. tiplying knowledge and the transformation in society. Active management Online courses Product and service offerings We monitored our credit clients and, if we detect any sign of For this program, we selected employees that were divided a possible financial unbalance, we contact such client to proCourses taught via e-learning on the Escola Itaú de Negócios into groups based on the stage of their lives. Throughout We draw on a group of skilled people to disseminate and add vide guidance and offer options more appropriate products (Itaú Business School) portal, with voluntary enrollment and the program we covered historic and cultural references, an orienting, inclusion, and financial soundness standpoint and renegotiation. accessible by all employees in Brazil. individual and family relationships with money, and how to to our business. Taking all these aspects into consideration promote financial orientation in their activities as employwhen developing or reframing products and services, helps Currently the available courses in the syllabus address ees, as well as identifying the triggers that have an impact our clients to be more independent and capable of leading a subjects such as money use behavioral analysis, on financial planning. The participants also attended five more balanced financial life. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 88 Saia do Vermelho Customer Site Branches Review of the financial orientation In order to educate people that need to rebalance their We have a Financial Orientation Program for Corporate finances, we provide, in the EduK platform, the Saia do Clients that provides content, videos, and free lectures to operating strategy Vermelho (Get Out of The Red) free online course. Lasting employees of over 590 companies where there is a cusapproximately two hours, the course offers practical tips to tomer site branch (CSB). Our goals for the period from 2015 to 2018 were: anyone who needs to organize his or her finances to pay debts and improve the control over his or her personal budget. In Volunteering Program Enable real achievement Empower better decision-making Enhance the topic across society 2018, 11,930 people enrolled in the course. As part of our volunteering program, we engage people to •D  evelop new online • Expand the audience impacted by the visit schools and social organizations to encourage people to training for employees, distance learning solutions focused on • G et more knowledgeable on financial behavior for Sistema Único de Finanças talk about money within their families, reflect about life projoffering custom tracks recovering financial balance and becoming specific audiences, such as those from different This year we sponsored the Sistema Único de Finanças (Single ects, and make financial planning to realize their dreams. In in accordance with their free from indebtedness; generations; and 2018 goal profile; and •E  xpand the offer of financial guidance on • Proceed with financial entertainment strategy for young Finance System) of Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande 2018 we had: 117 volunteers working on the Responsible Use •O  ffer financial guidance digital format for corporate clients; and people and expand campaigns for a larger audience, do Sul (PUC-RS), a university. The goal of this initiative is to grant a of Money and 334 beneficiaries. solutions for small •E  nhance digital engagement of employees working this topic across institutional communications. comprehensive, free-of-charge solution, including financial orienentrepreneurs. in topics that involve financial guidance. tation, to people who look for help to get out of debt. ENEF Week • We deepen the knowledge about the employees’ In association with Fundação Itaú Social (Itaú Social objectives segmented by generation in the Information and content Foundation) and Instituto Unibanco (Unibanco Institute), we  e had discussion rounds •W • Using our digital channels, we maintained the Saia do Vermelho course available, online, financial coaching lab; proceeded with the partnership with the Estratégia Nacional •B ased on the Female Financial behavior launched with employees to create free-of-charge training, and tips to recover In order to expand our discussion on finances within the socide Educação Financeira (ENEF – National Strategy of in 2017, we included an empowerment personal and a language for in-house the financial balance; professional and leadership view in the review of the ety and provide useful information so that people handle their Financial Education), for a transmedia project that offered training and developed • We launched an online financial orientation impact of the Itaú Muher Empreendedora program finances carefully, we provide content on different actions: content to students of public schools all over Brazil, through new content scripts; No workshop and held the second edition of to monitor the developments in these indicators; 2018 new online training was the Aceleração Itaú Mulher Empreendedora educational series broadcasted by TV Escola (School TV), • We sponsored the survey The Voice and Time status implemented; and (Women Entrepreneurs Acceleration Itaú), Responsible Use of Money website and a digital platform that gathered video, games, library •W  e activated the Growth an intensive training program for female Diversity in the Consumer and Entrepreneurship Market, a study conducted by Instituto Locomotiva Our website Responsible Use of Money offers quick tips to help and distance education courses for elementary and secondPlan online course, which entrepreneurs; and (Locomotive Institute) ordered by Instituto Feira Preta people make the best choices in different financial situations, ary school teachers. covers key aspects • We proceeded with the Papo que Rende and which shows an overview of black consumption regarding small-business campaign, which promotes releases in on how to balance their budgets, come out of the red, reach in Brazil; and management. in-house communication portal on financial goals, save, and invest and protect their achievements. The Our financial orientation initiatives received a certification • In 2018 the third episode of TV Vida Real series on orientation and tools available to employees. social networks to expand the conversation with website has already had about three million views from 2014 of the ENEF for its alignment with our strategy’s principles youngsters about financial entertainment. to 2017. Click here for more. and guidelines. TV Vida Real Campaign We started a work to define the Sustainability Strategic Guidelines and build commitments, indicators, and targets that have a In 2017 we prepared a campaign to help youngsters to reflect positive impact in the society (for further details, please see page 7). Based on this, the financial orientation operating strategy on their finances and consumption choices. TV Vida Real (Real will be reviewed and definitions for the subject and new goals will be presented in 2019. Life TV) consisted of several clips broadcasted in social networks that included humor, testimonials from people who realized their dreams even without or very little money, practical tips, and even cartoons. In 2018, we launched the third episode of the series, which totaled over 110 million views. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 89 Financial orientation initiatives in LATAM We also had initiatives in the countries of Latin America where we operate: Paraguay Audience Initiatives Responsible Use of Money Program for Employees To inspire the reflection about the responsible use of money, we organized talks about personal and family finances, investments, personalized financial counseling, and audiovisual materials with testimonies from employees. The talks were opened to pairs of employees, and the Employees Financial Counseling Sessions. Number of talk participants: 70. Number of Financial Counseling participants: 18. Managing my money for clients with a Personal Finances expert The Multipliers Program, initiated in 2015, was developed for client companies that hire the salary payment service for their employees. This program makes available to the clients content about the responsible use of money, in the format of talks, guides and digital and hardcopy communications that can be used in the companies and include advice, recommendations, practical examples, and exercises about how to use financial resources correctly. The talks conducted present four subjects: “Consume and Save”, “Out of the Red”, “Use Your Money Well”, and “Family and Money”. These talks are developed by employees from the Bank’s branches, who were trained in presentation, public speaking, and financial orientation content techniques. In 2018 we held 383 talks as part of the Multipliers Program, which were attended by 5,895 people from 228 client companies. Financial Orientation Multipliers Program for Clients We conducted the talk “Managing My Money”, during which we provided guidance and tools to keep your personal and family finances organized. We held 24 talks in 16 companies in the year that impacted 1,825 people. Responsible Use of Money Website and radio and television shows On the “Responsible Use of Money” website, at www.itau.com.py/usoconscientedeldinero, clients have access to financial orientation guides, a budget simulator, and test about consumption habits. On the other hand, the television show “Talking about Money” has the support of Itaú and the participation of representatives from different departments of the bank to discuss specific matters about financial tools. In addition, on a weekly basis we broadcast shows with advice about personal finances in two far-reaching national radios. Content on social media Clients and The bank’s social media profiles are used to propose content about the responsible use of money, provide guidance on personal finances and calls inviting followers to reflect about decisions related to the use of money. community Bank of Options Financial Orientation Program for High School Students Bank of Options is the name of the program developed to offer guidance about the responsible use of money to sophomore and senior high school students, give them the opportunity to start to use the financial planning tools, and the preparation of fundraising actions to meet their objectives. The students are monitored by Itaú and a consultant to guide them and monitor the progress of their action plans. Over 220 students will attend the first edition of the program. Participation in the National de Financial Inclusion Strategy Itaú participates of the National de Financial Inclusion Strategy (ENIF) since 2014, together with different public institutions and private sector actors. The purpose of this initiative is to develop citizenship skills focused on personal finances management and to reach 500,000 people through 2018. Through: • Awareness raising campaigns about financial inclusion; • Train high school students in Economic and Financial Education; and • Train partners, users, and/or program beneficiaries and public and private programs. Global Money Week We participated of the Global Money Week, an activity locally promoted by the Central Bank of Paraguay (BCP), the Paraguayan Foundation, and the AMCHAM Foundation; at the global level, the Global Money Week is celebrated in hundreds of countries with the incentive of Dutch organization Child and Youth Finance International. The purpose of this initiative is to increase the level of knowledge about financial concepts among between children, adolescents, and youngsters. To do it, we call organizations dedicated to this subject by inviting them to develop activities that help reaching this goal. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 90 Paraguay Audience Initiatives Action Oranges With Children The “Learning in Family” Oranges Action on the Responsible use of Money is intended for children and was developed to highlight the value of work and savings. The children participate in an activity (organized in fairs and shopping malls), during which the children can pick gifts that they price in number of orange juices that they are supposed to sell (deliver to people in the audience) to get the gift. The kickoff was a campaign in social media that showed a series of episodes during which children have the experience of visiting an orange grove and participate of the juice and gift workshop. The material included reflections about money from the children’s standpoint and also conveyed a message about the value of work and created an opportunity to talk about money with them. Link to the videos: https://youtu.be/ISGlZ58TCu4. Clients and Participants: 370 children. community Responsible Use of Money Voluntary Work The program consists of a series of gatherings with youngsters and adults during which we present money management concepts and tools. During these gatherings we work on people’s consumption attitudes and habits; people learn to work with tools such as the budget, test a planning of personal and family projects, and ends ups with the activities with a game of questions and answers, followed by a wrap-up with the main findings In 2018, the program was run in two occasions and was attended by 40 people, among adolescents, youngsters, and adults. Uruguay Audience Initiatives To create dialogue forums and communication channels that help eliminating obstacles and be able to talk about financial concerns, we made an internal call among employees to be part of a financial education workgroup. We also conducted an internal survey to understand the needs associated to the financial education of our employees and build the program’s content. 16% of our staff answered the survey. To train our employees in personal finances and at the same time promote actions and good practices that encourage savings, we held a workshop on Investments conducted by the Itaú Personal Bank team. The purpose was to build our employees’ capacity to build their own investment Employees portfolio. As are result, 12% of our employees are qualified to invest. We used the savings month to talk about and train people in banking products, exclusive benefits and financial instruments that are better suited to people’s goals, in the form of an internal campaign that addressed the financial benefits that employees can access because they work at Itaú, financial intelligence advice, planning, savings, and the correct use of credit cards. To align the consolidation of the FE program for employees with our digital strategy, together with the launching of the Employee Portal, we made available to our employees a special Financial orientation section. In order to provide relevant information on the use of financial tools to ensure that people have a healthy relationship with money, we organized talks about tools and capacity building to help client companies and suppliers improve their management. These talks include contents on how to manage money, consume, and save, get people out of the red, and sound use of financial products. In 2018, we managed to integrate our program and extend it to companies and organizations from Paraguay’s inland, Itaú Foundation Training Center students, and social organizations supported by the Itaú Foundation. Consolidated results: Clients and • 23 talks – a 90% increase compared to 2017; community • 350+ participants; and • 31 volunteers. Social media We were the first private bank to talk about financial orientation in social media. We produced notes and tools with proprietary contents about how to draw up a budget, take control of one’s expenses, get ready for emergencies, and reflect about consumption habits. In addition we created a microsite on the responsible use of money where we make all the materials available. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 91 Argentina Audience Initiatives Employees Investment capacity building Lectures with financial orientation experts Investment strategies for the non-expert: 210 participants. Entrepreneur newsletter Monthly newsletter for entrepreneurs. More than 9,000 subscribers. Crowdfunding Platform The Itaú Argentina Foundation supports entrepreneurs who are part of the Buenos Aires Province Crowdfunding platform. It is a new crowd-funding program that allows the early purchase of products (presales). One of the selected projects was Verde agua that consists of the design and implementation of hydroponic gardens; the other selected project was Klink that creates science and technology kits and recreational, innovative experiences. Drawing on both projects, we developed workshops in schools and for Itaú employees. Clients and community Online Finances Course for Companies Ten theoretical and practical modules that address the struggles usually faced by a gym owner to make his or her business grow. This course had more than 900 enrollments. Financial Orientation Challenge The Itaú Red Hat challenge, a proposal that fosters the development of an entertaining financial orientation app for 14 to 18 year olds. The proposals are submitted by college students and the winners will be announced before the end of the year. Financial and Entrepreneurship Training Courses In-class training sessions in public and private universities: the courses are the result of a concern expressed by our stakeholders with the lack of education in subjects relevant for the financial industry. We started with the idea of providing access to basic knowledge about finances and immediately went ahead to building the different programs. During 2018 we performed 15 training activities for entrepreneurs in: Finances and costs; Digital marketing and neuromarketing; Social media and on-line sales channels; Communication and branding; Processes and logistics; Investment strategies; Design thinking, etc. The courses were attended by 1,670 entrepreneurs and more than 1,143 we awarded the corresponding certificate. Chile Audience Initiatives Business Advice Program We want to contribute significantly for our clients’ businesses, beyond the value we deliver through our products and services. That is why, through customized talks and workshops, this program conveyed financial knowledge to partners and managers of small and medium-sized companies from Santiago, Valparaíso and Concepción. Clients The program was divided into four modules that will address the following contents: “Tax Laws and Regulations”, “Accounting and Finances”, “Business Model”, and “Responsible Borrowing”. In each module, firstly a speaker exposed the general concepts and ideas about the subject and then the attendants had the opportunity to put together small groups for a customized advisory session, applied to the specific reality of their organization. More than 400 people, from 200 different companies attended these workshops, who assessed the activity with 96% of overall satisfaction. Finally, the contents covered in these workshops were made available on the bank’s internet page (www.itau.cl) through manuals and briefs, for the purpose of expanding the program’s impact to more people and companies. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 92 Colombia Audience Initiatives Itaú Method Our goal is to educate people about personal finances, the reason why one of our great challenges was to develop our own methodology, which we called the Itaú Method, to build the capacity of our group of volunteer facilitators. This methodology seeks to, through an educational workshop, teach people about the responsible use of money, depending on what point in life each person is. We conducted 38 workshops that benefited 599 people: 290 employees; 28 clients; 17 suppliers; and 264 partners and community members. Currently we work in the digital front, developed using the Itaú Method. This is part of the digital ecosystem in Colombia that started to posting content on social media in 2018, but which will expand its content in 2019. The postings pursued an interaction with our followers to strengthen and educate them in terms of personal finances, while increasing brand recognition in Colombia. Employees, clients, and Trade Association Membership community Itaú has active role in the different Financial Orientation committees and initiatives of trade associations such as Asobancaria and the stock market self-regulator AMV. Global Money Week Itaú participated of the world day promoted by the organization Child and Youth Finance International that consisted of visiting the high schools Instituto Henao y Arrubla and Unidad Educativa Jean Piaget to build the capacity of youngsters and children about savings and investments and provided the tools that they will use to become self-confident economic citizens. 535 trained youngsters. Ten volunteers involved. Two educational institutions. Two activities, dream map, and business round. International Savings Month We participated actively by sending tips to both our employees via internal channels and external stakeholders via social media (Facebook and Instagram). Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 93 Itaú Microcrédito 15 years of Itaú Microcrédito GRI 103-2 Financial Inclusion and Orientation In 2018, this line completed 15 years and throughout this jourSocial and economic indicators of entrepreneurs supported by microcredit (R$ thousand) Itaú Microcrédito is a credit line aimed at financing the ney, initiated in 2003 at Unibanco, we reached 35,500 formal GRI 103-3 Financial Inclusion and Orientation | GRI 203-2 | GRI G4-FS6 | GRI G4-FS7 production activities of small entrepreneurs, whether forand informal entrepreneurs, located primarily in the metropolmal or informal (with annual billing of up to R$200,000), itan regions of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. In June 2018, Itaú 2016 2017 2018 in accordance with the National Productive and Guided Microcrédito expanded its operations and reached Campina 2% 1% 1% 6% Microcredit Program (PNMPO), which was developed to Grande, Paraíba, the first Northeast city to have access to (179) (57) (138) (777) encourage job creation and income generation among this product, followed by Fortaleza (State of Ceará), Teresina 58% 53% 42% (5,339) (5,238) 18% (5,784) small entrepreneurs and used the methodology based on (State of Piauí), and Montes Claros (State of Minas Gerais). This (2,533) the direct relationship with the entrepreneur, through a novelty will be gradually extended to other locations in the credit agent. The credit agent conducts a social and ecoregion, prioritizing regions that concentrate a large number of nomic survey with the microentrepreneur to assess the microentrepreneurs and constrained access to credit. In seven Portfolio Portfolio Portfolio business’s potential and the required funding and paymonths of operation, we have already granted loans to 2,300 (Total: 9,269) (Total: 9,833) (Total: 13,909) ment ability of the borrower. GRI G4-FS13 entrepreneurs. The expansion represents a major step for the operation, the target of which is to reach 15,000 clients and 40% 45% Itaú Microcrédito is available in the São Paulo and Rio de increase production by 280% in 2019. (4,457) 35% (3,694) Janeiro metropolitan areas, and in Campina Grande (State (4,814) of Paraíba), Fortaleza (State of Ceará), Montes Claros (State Microcredit as an inclusion tool of Minas Gerais), and Teresina (State of Piauí). The lowClients Clients Clients est extended credit facility is R$400.00 and can reach Our challenge for the next year is to ensure the connection R$14,500.00. GRI G4-FS13 with the microcredit operation with our private social invest36% (1,747) ment. Drawing on initiatives with partners, we will promote 57% (1,585) 52% (1,325) Itaú Microcrédito’s lending procedures are guided by the the inclusion of small entrepreneurs, promoting a develop28% (1,332) Product Policy, which conceptualizes the product, proposers ment ecosystem and local participation, through training and and areas involved by setting loan hiring, amending or canfinancial and digital inclusion. 41% (1,129) 46% (1,155) 26% (1,245) celling rules. We also use the Credit Policy to ensure portfo0% (9) 2% (55) 2% (44) 11% (508) lio quality. In 2018, the lending policy was reshaped to meet Additionally, the change in laws and regulations (Enactment client specificities. of Law No. 13,636, of March 20, 2018) now allow the use of Total: 2,778 Total: 2,524 Total: 4,832 digital and electronic technologies in the management and São Paulo Rio de Janeiro Paraíba Rio Grande do Sul Ceará Other(1) We recognize this product as an opportunity to exercise our offering microcredit, which increases the capillarity of our (1) Unidentified information. role of providing knowledge and financial solutions appropriactions. As a result, one of our challenges in 2019 is to underate to society, thus fostering an ecosystem of small entreprestand the needs of our client and develop a digital transforneurs and ensuring their financial inclusion. mation path of the business by promoting product scalability. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 94 Social and economic indicators of entrepreneurs supported by microcredit (R$ thousand) GRI 103-3 Financial Inclusion and Orientation | GRI 203-2 | GRI G4-FS6 | GRI G4-FS7 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 0% 0% (24) 16% (1) 19% 54% 51% 53% 21% 52% (2,586) 59% (1,488) (2,094) (4,968) (5,036) (7,324) (5,130) (8,160) 20% (1,831) Portfolio Portfolio Portfolio Portfolio Portfolio Portfolio (Total: 9,269) (Total: 9,833) (Total: 13,909) (Total: 9,269) (Total: 9,833) (Total: 13,909) 23% 64% 27% (3,163) 46% 49% 47% (5,949) (2,609) (4,277) (4,797) (6,585) Clients Clients Clients Clients Clients Clients 56% (1,549) 54% (1,356) 57% (2,749) 62% (1,716) 52% (1,311) 62% (2,978) 28% (711) 44% (1,277) 46% (1,168) 22% (616) 22% (1,057) 43% (2,083) 0% (2) 16% (446) 20% (502) 16% (797) Total: 2,778 Total: 2,524 Total: 4,832 Total: 2,778 Total: 2,524 Total: 4,832 Female Male Other(1) Commerce Service provision Production and trade Other(1) (1) Unidentified information. (1) Unidentified information. Banking inclusion ratio: In 2003 to 2018, 21.6% of the current account holder clients opened account after hiring microcredit. Microentrepreneurs’ profile analysis • Over 40% completed at least High School; •A t least 85% of applicants are homeowners, and 98% of such homes have already been settled; and • 52% are married; •A pproximately 20% are formal businesses, of which 95% • Average age is 44; are sole-proprietorships. • 55% have dependents (average two dependents); Note: Microcredits approved in 2013 to 2018. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 95 Itaú Women The program is steered by these three values: (i) build womSector distribution per age bracket Solutions of female entrepreneurs (%) GRI 103-3 Financial Inclusion and Orientation | GRI 203-2 Entrepreneurs Program GRI G4-FS14 en’s capacity to improve management techniques and Linha do tempo The purpose of the Itaú Women Entrepreneurs Program maximize results in their businesses; (ii) inspire women to envision success paths; and (iii) connection so they can Commerce Manufacturing Services The IME program has in-person and online solutions and tools, some of which are exclusive for our clients: (IME) is to support the development of women-led busiexpand networking. The program was created in 2013 as Between 18 and 25 years old 54 2 44 nesses using an online platform that offers solutions and a result of a partnership with the IFC, the World Bank, and Between 26 and 30 years old 46 3 51 Online Platform tools that empower women, introduce inspiring referrals, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Since it was The platform (available in Portuguese here) contains busiBetween 31 and 40 years old 38 4 58 and facilitate contacts between female entrepreneurs. designed, the program is undergoing constant developness administration papers, inspiring videos, interviews with ment, represented as follows: Between 41 and 50 years old 31 5 64 female entrepreneurs, online video classes, management tools, events, and IME social network to allow women to Between 51 and 79 years old 27 7 66 contact each other. Data survey Acceleration Program and Total 37 4 58 and gathering Female Behavior survey Online plataform Satisfaction evaluation: 7.64/10.0 Sector distribution per level of education Program Solutions for female among female entrepreneurs (%) consolidation microentrepreneurs and networking Number of people Number of enrolled on accesses to Commerce Manufacturing Services the platform the platform 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Incomplete 1,479,901 41 10 49 secondary education Complete 43 8 49 20,800 secondary education Incomplete 39 5 56 college education Creation of the Creation of the Digital expansion and 8,056 Complete Pilot Program institutional agenda National Campaign college education 31 5 64 5,997 128,161 Post-graduation 19 4 76 96,806 Itaú Women Entrepreneurs Program (IME) reaches a wide audience. Approximately 20,000 female entrepreneurs, most of whom are 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Total 35 5 60 31 to 40 years old (44%), have a high level of education, and are mostly microentrepreneurs (55%) working in Services and Commerce (58.2% and 37.4%, respectively). We note that the younger female entrepreneurs, withIaTA Ú M lower U LofHeducation level REEND E R E M Poperate E D O RinA primarily commerce, while female entrepreneurs over 30 and a higher level of education focus on manufacturing and services. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 96 Video Classes Acceleration Program Our commitments to In addition, we are part of other commitments related to this subIn association with Eduk, we developed the course Growth In order to strengthen the development and consolidation ject, such as the Female Empowerment Principles, the Women’s Plan: How to Transform Businesses into Success Stories, of women-led businesses, we promoted the second edition female entrepreneurship Movement 360, the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index and the which presents the key success drivers of your business, such of the Acceleration Program that addresses the key business Women’s Policies Department’s Pro Gender and Race Equity as: developing a business model, market analysis, financial administration dimensions in a three-month course free of With the goal of expanding knowledge and reach, the Itaú Program, which are described in the Diversity Chapter, page 80. diagnostic, financial control, sales techniques, and customers charge. At the end of the program, the female entrepreneurs Women Entrepreneurs program has entered into strategic and people management. defend their business growth plan and receive feedback from partnerships with local and international organizations that #VAIGAROTA Campaign an assessment panel consisting of teacher, bank executives, promote gender equity. and angel investors. Five projects are selected to receive speIn 2018, we promoted a nationwide campaign called Vai Garota Video classes cific consulting, handed by Fundação Getulio Vargas de São Women Entrepreneurs Network (Go Girl) for the Itaú Women Entrepreneurs program. The camFrom April to December 2018 Paulo, which a reference university in the education of execThe first and largest network supporting female entrepreneurpaign represents the attitude, union, and transformative power utives in Brazil. The Acceleration Program has already beneship in Brazil, aimed at empowering female entrepreneurs by of women. Produced by a mostly female team, the movie shows The 2 most watched video class of the Eduk platform nd fited 60 women, 30 in 2018 and 30 in 2017. ensuring their financial independence. diverse women and has a powerful message on sisterhood. See 21,976 accesses to the classes more in the video available on Youtube. 88% of the people enrolled watch at least one video on Acceleration Program Global Banking Alliance for Women (GBA) GBA leverages women’s growth in business and wealth creThe campaign’s results were positive as it expanded the knowlthe platform 2,856 enrollments ation by generating superior results for the member finanedge about the program nationwide, increased the number of cial institutions. enrollments, publicized the program, increased the number of 30 attendants website visitors, and promoted positive acceptance and discusWorkshops 33% of attendants are not from São Paulo sion of this subject. In association with Fundação Getulio Vargas, São Paulo, Assessment of attending female entrepreneurs: we created an online workshop aimed at expanding the Main results of the #VAIGAROTA campaign 9.17/10.00 knowledge of the tools and financial aspects of female entrepreneurs enrolled in the program who are our clients. Online workshops Forum Event consisting of lectures that give successful female Engagement on Spotify ​25 million views on YouTube Six editions held entrepreneurs as opportunity to share their experiences, misPositive 163 attendants takes, successes, and tips that inspire and build capacity. The acceptance + 1 million + Spontaneous + event gathers over 200 women attending the program, thus of the subject media/publicity Overall assessment of female entrepreneurs: 9.0/10.0 facilitation their networking. on social media accesses to on both digital the website and traditional Forum (2018 edition) Increase of media outlets knowledge about 208 participants 2,000 online viewers (online format) the program 15,8% of Increase of returning users Overall satisfaction score: 9.11/10.00 enrollments in the program Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 97 When they accessed the platform, women were asked about Program impact on businesses’ fiImpact of the program on leadership their engagement in their own organization. We concluded that nancial health and level of empowerment approximately 50% of the women make the relevant decisions Average We believe that it is crucial to develop leadership skills among for their businesses; the younger and smaller the project, the leadership level In previous studies, we noted that the women participating these women to empower them by making them the protaglower is the level of involvement in relevant decision-making. (In a scale of 0 to 1) in the IME have managed to increase their financial margins, onists of their businesses and the leaders of their lives, a key IME seeks precisely to reverse this scenario by training business service margins, and revenues and improve their credit ratcondition to ensure they are fully realized both professionwomen to take a tops positions in their businesses and plan and 0.81 ings. The new survey shows that this did not change: ally and personally. In the first year, we measured the level of decide their future. leadership and empowerment of female entrepreneurs. We 75% of Approximately developed a methodology based on academic studies on the Our current survey, with a sample of 507 participants shows that the female 70% of the female Current account holders who entrepreneurs matter and adapted to the reality of Brazilian female entrethese women have the attitude and inclination to do it. In a scale of have a leadership entrepreneurs have participated in the propreneurs. The first figure shows the leadership areas defined 0 to 1, we noted that female program participants have an average consistently show level ranging gram average an overall maxattitudes such as in our methodology and the next figure shows the profesleadership level of 0.81, and 75% of the female entrepreneurs have from 0.75 to 1. developing their imum credit limit(1) 77% higher sional and personal empowerment areas. a leadership level ranging from 0.75 to 1. Approximately 70% of the employees’ skills and than other current account female entrepreneurs consistently show attitudes such as developtheir activities have holders (by controlling market are based on a sense Measured leadership areas ing their employees’ skills and their activities have are based on a of reliance. and revenue risk). sense of reliance. Leadership 86% of the interviewed female Level of We have also noted that the level of empowerment is 0.83 (76% 76% have a level entrepreneurs empowerment of empowerment The credit limit is related to the intensity of the client’s interhave a level of empowerment ranging from 0.75 to 1). The surconsistently feel (In a scale of 0 to 1) ranging from 0.75 to 1. action with the bank, i.e., the more intense use of our prodTrust vey shows that 86% of the interviewed female entrepreneurs self-reliant when making a decision ucts in a healthy way has a positive impact on the credit consistently feel self-reliant when making a decision in their in their organization. 0.83 limits. Additionally, these female entrepreneurs show a lower organizations and 56% always participate actively in the deciProactivity and motivation Business knowledge probability of default as compared to other bank clients, sion-making process of their organizations. At the personal which confirms the result presented in the previous survey: level, more than 60% constantly feel confident when making 56% always participate the Program generates positive impacts both on the parDevelop your Future vision decisions about their personal lives and are responsible for actively in the decisionticipating female entrepreneurs and the bank. Additionally, subordinates their personal finances. Additionally, more than 90% constantly making process of their organizations. these female entrepreneurs say they are satisfied with our and actively participate of the decision-making process about More than 60% services (satisfaction index of 86%). domestic matters. constantly feel confident when making decisions Professional and personal empowerment areas More than 90% about their personal lives The initiatives offered by IME include several types of interconstantly and and are responsible for Account holders participants of Itaú Mulher actions with female entrepreneurs, such as the Acceleration actively participate their personal finances. Empreendedora Program are less likely to default on Professional and Program, forum consisting of lectures from female entreof the decisiontheir obligations than the other account holders. personal empowerment making process about preneurs and specialists, and management workshops. We domestic matters. noted that the engagement in these activities tends to have Control your business and a positive impact on female entrepreneurs’ level of leader(1) Added limit of all other products. Control personal resources Women who take part of the most intensive activities, your professional life ship and empowerment, i.e., women who take part of the such as the Acceleration Program, show the highest levels program’s most intensive activities, such as the Acceleration of leadership and empowerment Make personal choices Control your Program, show the highest levels of leadership and empowcompared to those who take part of less business resources erment (0.86 and 0.87 respectively) compared to those who intensive activities, such as the Workshops 0,86 and 0,87 take part of less intensive activities, such as the Workshops (0.84 and 0.84, respectively). (respectively) (0.84 and 0.84, respectively). Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 98 Average level of leadership and empowerment, per type of program activity Participants (%) Leadership Empowerment New financial funds The 2019 program Acceleration Program 7 0.86 0.87 As a way of continuing supporting the development Itaú Mulher Empreendedora faces new challenges for 2019. Forum 41 0.84 0.85 of Brazilian female entrepreneurs, we entered into a In addition to bringing greater visibility to the program, the Workshop 31 0.84 0.84 partnership with Inter-American Development Bank #VaiGarota national campaign increased significantly the (IDB) to fund micro, small and medium-sized businumber of registrations and introduced a segment of female nesses controlled by women in Brazil, thus contributentrepreneurs with different management, finances, and The recurring distribution of this questionnaire in the coming years will allow us to monitor the impact of the program on the ing to expanding credit to this market. entrepreneurship demands since they are still in the early development of empowerment and the attitude toward female leadership, as well as the businesses’ performance and their stages of the business. To meet these new demands we conrelationship with the bank. Total fund US$100 million, lent by IDB Invest in 2017 ceived three development pillars for 2019: and maturing in November 2020 should fund women-led businesses, with annual revenue of no more Evolution of the credit portfolio R$3.1 billion, more than the double of the 2016 portfolio, than R$8 million. This type of funding contributes to 1. Develop solutions for female microentrepreneurs: new soluwhich reached R$1.4 billion. tion formats that supplement the demands of female entreexpanding credit to the female entrepreneurs’ market The credit granted to female entrepreneurs is an important preneurs who own small businesses or are still in an early stage; and the development of women-led businesses. way to support female entrepreneurship. As a result, we monThe graph below evidences that the growth has been itor the evolution of our portfolio and entered into partnerpersistent in all segments over three years (both in abso2. Increasing networking among female entrepreneurs: ships with multilateral banks to expand the access to credit lute amounts and in percentage of the total portfolio), make the program an actual connection and networksmall and medium-size enterprises. In 2018, the volume of which also evidences an increase of the women’s repreBeyond entrepreneurship: ing agent between female entrepreneurs by providing lending transactions to companies owned by women (more sentativeness in Itaú Unibanco’s loan portfolio for small physical and digital communication channels to promote than 51% of ownership interests) reached approximately and medium-size enterprises. the female financial behavior conversation and increase the engagement with the available solutions; and Volume of credit granted to women-led businesses To broaden our understanding of women's relationship with (>51% stake) and percentage of total loan portfolio the financial universe, also at the individual level, we con3. Bring the business internal functions closer: make it a more ducted a new qualitative survey. We noted that despite the dynamic experience, connected with our other financial Annual revenue Annual revenue Annual revenue recent increase in female independence and women’s particsolutions, with customized offerings to program participants of up to 1.2 mi of 1.2 mi-8.0 mi of 8 mi-30 mi ipation in spaces of power, including at the economic level, who are our clients. financial self-esteem (the confidence to manage own funds) R$ 1,493,642,546 is not increasing at the same pace. This means that even The goal for 2019 is to increase registrations in the Itaú Women R$ 881,343,840 13% 14% R$ 706,374,029 though many women have conquered financial power by Entrepreneurs platform by 30% and reach a total of 27,040 R$ 1,005,313,919 R$ 514,096,990 going into the job market or earning money with their busifemale participants. 10% 10% R$ 593,147,410 R$ 660,635,969 R$ 359,439,095 9% ness initiatives, many do not feel sufficiently capable of manR$ 411,047,826 7% 7% 7% aging their finances and talking to banks. For further details, 4% please see the full report here. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 99 Corporate Why is this topic material? GRI 103-1 Corporate Citizenship Citizenship As a financial institution, we recognize our role as transformation agents and local development promoters. As such, we work to encourage projects, institutions and individuals in an innovative manner towards the construction of a better world. GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship The causes are the materialization of our purpose. Our strategy focuses on social development actions, such as education, culture, sports, urban mobility, aging and entrepreneurship. In partnership with several internal and external institutions, we support different initiatives, which are extended to the media, opinion makers, the market and various social organizations. We also work together with the government, at its many levels, to improve public policy models in the many countries where we operate. Materiality Corporate Citizenship GRI 103-1 Corporate Citizenship Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact 4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys attend and finish free, equitable, and quality We provide access to equitable, quality learning through Itaú Social, and sponsor the training of teachers, schools managers, education primary and secondary education that leads to relevant and efficient learning results. board technicians and managers, educators, and managers of civil society organizations. 4.4 By 2030, increase significantly the number of youngsters and adults with material Through Itaú Social, we stimulate youngsters to acquire relevant skills and education improvement, and we sponsor the training of skills, including technical and professional skills to enter the job market, find decent teachers, schools managers, education board technicians and managers, educators, and managers of civil society organizations. work, or open a business. 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all students acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for We promote access to education and culture through our Institutes and Foundations, with training, gender equality promotion, and sustainable development, including, but not limited to, through education for sustaincultural diversity programs, in addition to supporting and having an active part in building the Base National Common Curricular Basis able development and sustainable life styles, human rights, gender equality, promoting Reform through IBBA Educação by also working with state education boards to train teachers and manage Professional and Higher a peace and nonviolence culture, global citizenship, and valuation of cultural diversity Education schools and projects. and culture’s contribution for sustainable development. We preserved and promoted the collection of Itaú Cultural, consisting of more than 15,000 artworks – the largest corporate collection in Latina America and one of the largest in the world, built up using own funds and accessible by the public through free exhibitions – and 11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage. we supported technically and financially projects related to the identification, cataloging, and safeguard of data related to the production of Brazilian artists or artists who worked in Brazil. 11.a Support the economic, social, and environmental positive relations between urban, We promoted access to education, culture, sports, and mobility through our causes, initiatives, and investments, where we do advocacy peri-urban, and rural areas by strengthening national and regional development planning. work through our involvement in municipal boards and discussion forums. 17.16 Reinforce the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multisectoral partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology, and financial resources to support the accomplishment of the sustainable development We strengthen our regional cultural partnerships to promote culture through Itaú Cultural with the Rumos (Directions) Project. goals in every country, in particular developing countries. We promoted sponsorships, donations, and partnerships entered into by the Bank and our Institutes and Foundations, through private 17.17 Foster and promote efficient public, public-private, and societal partnerships social investment, sponsored projects that resulted in public policies or influenced the political sphere through advocacy. We contribbased on our experience with resource mobilization strategies of such partnerships. uted to the institutional strengthening of civil society and network organizations by promoting sustainable development within and outside the bank. Relationship between the material matter and our stakeholders GRI 103-1 Corporate Citizenship Society Stockholder Client Employee Supplier Direct Indirect Indirect Indirect Indirect GRI topics Related initiatives and indicators Management Approach GRI 103-1 Corporate Citizenship – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Corporate Citizenship – Evaluation of the management approach General Disclosure GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Economic Performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Performance GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic Performance GRI G4-DMA Economic Performance Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 101 In this chapter... ... we present our main actions related to private social connection and similarities between them and investment in Brazil, in favor of the development correcting the main asymmetries. Accordingly, we of society, and we call this corporate citizenship. restructured the Working Group of foundations Our social investment and our practices related to and institutes to stimulate discussions in common our participation in the community are reflected by means of a unified agenda schedule, making in actions aimed at reinforcing our institutional the topics and communications spread across presence and strengthening our government them. Our communication with the foundations relations, in addition to voluntary solidarity practices and institutes became closer, we achieved a with the community. We also describe our actions greater understanding of the affinities and related to urban mobility with our pioneering initiative integrated projects that have a unifying axis. in active transportation and support for institutions and studies related to the topic. We developed the Governance Policy for Foundations and Institutions, which centralizes Our social investment in education is aimed at in a single department the communications of promoting learning opportunities for all during formal all those involved, to ensure that they all share a education, mainly during High School, through the consistent discourse. An expressive and consistent investments of Itaú BBA, Fundação Itaú Social (Itaú visibility reinforces the message of commitment to Social Foundation) and Instituto Unibanco (Unibanco the promotion of Brazilian culture. Institute). With respect to the promotion of activities that stimulate culture, we present the main practices Along the way, we monitor the impact of our of Instituto Itaú Cultural (Itaú Cultural Institute) and actions by means of the Reptrak survey, a the actions of Espaço Itaú de Cinema (Itaú Cinema reputational index that measures the emotional Complex), in addition to the sponsorship of projects connection with each organism and the level of from different cultural fields. With respect to sports, admiration, trust, respect and esteem that the we believe that it contributes significantly to develop interviewees have for each of our organizations. critical citizens, which encourages us to invest and We noted that the institutions maintained by the sponsor important sporting activities. We also bank enjoy a high level of admiration and respect. present our practices for longevity through Itaú Viver The people surveyed who know the causes very Mais (Itaú Live Longer) and for the technological well assigned a score of up to 14 points higher entrepreneurship market in Brazil through Cubo Itaú. than those who do not have contact with them. In the media, when we assess the Media Exposure Given the relevance of this topic for us, in 2018 we Quality Index (IQEM), the content related to the reformulated the governance of our foundations causes represent 17.2% of the brand’s visibility. and institutions, aiming at jointly deepening the GRI 103-3 Corporate Citizenship Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 102 Private social investment and sustain impact, driving SDG delivery within national Breakdown of the private social investment GRI 201-1 GRI 201-1 | GRI G4-DMA Economic Performance | development agenda. As regards this topic, we also joined 2017 2018 GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship the Global Compact, in the Brazilian Committee, with the Brazil Brazil LATAM(3 Total commitment to adopt, in our business practices, fundaUnder the assumption of contributing to the society that mental and internationally accepted values in the fields of Amount Number of Amount Number of Amount Number of Amount strengthens us, historically we are one of the most importhuman rights, labor relations, environmental protection (R$ million) projects (R$ million) projects (R$ million) projects (R$ million) ant players in private social investment in the places we are and combating corruption. Patrocínio Patrocínio present, whether through direct contributions, projects Not incentivized 1 ( ) 414.3 668 485.1 1,086 33.1 125 518.3 supported by incentive laws or by means of our foundaIn 2018, we invested R$631 million in more than 1,400 projtions and institutes. ects, 82.1% of which were invested through donations and Education 181.0 520 266.6 501 4.9 45 sponsorships provided by us, and 17.9% were invested Culture 148.5 50 105.9 240 13.1 43 We formalized in an internal policy the ruling that all of through funding subsidized by the Rouanet Law and Sports 1 ( ) 7.2 7 4.9 4 0.7 2 our social investment should contribute to the Sustainable Sports Incentive Law, contributing to projects in the eduUrban mobility 64.9 45 64.3 45 10.5 3 Development Goals (SDGs) and consider, as a priority, the cation, health, culture, sports and mobility fields. This year, N.A. N.A. 7.6 44 Diversity influence on public policies and the collective agendas at we revised the organization of our social investment in Development and global, national or local levels, because we believe in buildorder to achieve further transparency and alignment with N.A. N.A. 11.4 69 3.4 21 local participation ing new models of collaboration among the different secglobal trends. Accordingly, three new lines were included tors of society and in the integration of the SDGs into the in our positioning: Development and local participation, Innovation and N.A. N.A. 24.5 183 0.6 11 entrepreneurship plans and policies of states and municipalities. Innovation and entrepreneurship, and Diversity. Thus, we redistributed the information that used to be part of the Institutional support 10.4 43 N.A. N.A. Accordingly, we joined the UNDP’s Sustainable Institutional Support and others and the Seniors cateand others Development Goals Philanthropy Platform, a global initiagories. In addition, we included the work and investment Seniors 2.3 3 N.A. N.A. tive that connects philanthropy with knowledge and netof our international units in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Incentivized 2 ( ) 133.1 212 109.1 216 3.6 11 112.7 works that can deepen collaboration, leverage resources Uruguay and Paraguay. We present as follows a breakdown Education 15.8 38 12.4 58 0.9 10 of our work in 2018: GRI 201-4 Culture 69.4 119 51.6 83 2.7 1 Sports 16.9 18 12.4 24 Health 20.3 35 31.0 37 Seniors 12.3 16 Total (not incentivized + 547.4 880 594.2 1,302 36.8 136 631.0 incentivized) (1) Own resources of the bank’s companies and budget of foundations and institutes. (2) Resources with tax incentive through laws such as Rouanet, Sports Incentive, among others. (3) The amounts in foreign currency were converted into reais on December 31, 2018. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 103 Bicycle sharing system Bicycle stands Understanding the challenges of large cities to develop In this sense, we seek to work by supporting and partnerefficient cycling policies, we support organizations such ing with civil society organizations, whether through our Because we are located in essentially urban areas and By considering bicycle stands essential to encourage mobilas the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the Institute for institutional presence or through voluntary actions with recognize the importance of valuing active transportaity via bicycles, we undertook the operation of five public Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) to help in the employees. Reinforcing our local participation, we want to tion for the sustainable development of cities, we defined stands, the Estações Bike (Bike Stations). In São Paulo (State technical training of municipalities on topics associated with impact and dialogue, directly and indirectly, with the differurban mobility as a pillar of investment within our sustainof São Paulo), and Salvador (State of Bahia) combined, they sustainable urban mobility, public participation and impleent players, collaborating to social transformation. ability platform and fostered the integration of bicycles were used almost 80,000 times in 2018. mentation of large projects. into the transport model of cities jointly with the Public Institutional presence Authorities and society, seeking to influence public poliWe opened, for the first time, a bicycle sharing station in a For the purpose of advancing on the evaluation of indicies that promote the use of bicycles in people’s day-to-day suburban region, Cidade Tiradentes, in the city of São Paulo, cators and measurement of impact, we developed, in In the scope of the institutional pillars, we also work with life. The cause is in line with the SDG Sustainable Cities and the largest housing complex in Latin America. The station 2017, in partnership with Insper Metrics, a protocol for civil society and third-sector entities in order to drive the Communities, encouraging access to safe, affordable and allows rentals for up to 12 hours, thus making commutes the evaluation of social projects and their results related articulation of private social investment with causes and sustainable transport systems. easier for people who live there. The project strengthens the to the SDGs. In 2018, the methodology was applied to public policies in different cities of Brazil. inclusive potential of bicycles and is intended to collaborate Bike Itaú by the Brazilian Center of Analysis and Planning Taking into consideration the relevance of transport emiswith innovative solutions for the complex problems related (CEBRAP), bringing a new impact rationale to the active Among our main actions in this field is, firstly, our partnersions in total greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted in urban to transport in the suburban regions of large cities. mobility topic. GRI 103-3 Corporate Citizenship ship with Instituto Mara Gabrilli (Mara Gabrilli Institute) areas, we understand that offering a sustainable and whose main mission is to promote the autonomy of disnon-polluting transport option is an important contribution Besides the effort to support the promotion of public polTo develop academic studies on the topic, we have been abled people, disseminating knowledge on accessibility and to the climate change agenda and a real action to reduce icies for cycle mobility, we are committed to encouraging funding, since 2017, the Desafio Itaú Cebrap de Mobilidade carrying out actions that make society more inclusive and the emission of these gases. employees and clients to adopt the bicycle as a means of por Bicicleta (Itaú Cebrap Challenge of Mobility by Bike), human. We support the Cadê Você (Where are You) projtransport through: which awarded five academic scholarships to students ect, which identifies disabled people who live in low-income Bicycle sharing system from graduate to doctoral levels who are conducting communities in the municipality of São Paulo, disseminatOur bicycle sharing system began in the city of Rio de Janeiro • Internal campaigns; research on the subject. The winning research gave rise ing important information about the services offered in the in 2012 and it was subsequently extended to other cities, to the already published book Estudos de Mobilidade sobre fields of health, education, labor and law. such as São Paulo (State of São Paulo), Porto Alegre (State of • Bicycle stands at four administrative hubs of the bank in Bicicleta (Studies on Mobility by Bike) and received more Rio Grande do Sul), Salvador (State of Bahia), Recife, Olinda the city of São Paulo, as well as changing rooms and lockthan 500 visits on Amazon. In 2018, we supported the In the State of Rio de Janeiro, meanwhile, we have a partnerand Jaboatão dos Guararapes (State of Pernambuco) and ers. In the Faria Lima hub, the bicycle stand has spots with challenge once again in order to create a continuous trainship with Instituto Novo Brasil Pelo Carimbo Solidário (New Belo Horizonte (State of Minas Gerais). In the following year, specific chargers for electric bicycles; and ing program. Brazil Institute for the Solidarity Seal), which works to regulate we implemented the system in Santiago, Chile, expanding the housing situation of the residents of communities, seekour actions in Latin America, and the Bike Buenos Aires, in • Ibike, a digital client relationship platform with content on Learn more about our activities here. ing local development and the autonomy of the inhabitants. Argentina. The project reached the mark of 6,899,130 trips urban mobility and sale of bicycles. since its inauguration, more than 660,000 registered users Development and Public authorities and over 19,000,000 kilometers traveled, which is equivalent Actions for strengthening the strategy to more than 470 around-the-world trips. In 2018, we provided institutional support for various projlocal participation We also participate in discussions, events and actions that ects, such as União de Ciclistas do Brasil (Union of Brazil’s GRI 102-43 | GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship | contribute to the improvement and strengthening of comIn order to improve the sharing system and the user expeCyclists), Bike Anjo (Angel Bike), Bike é Legal (Bike is Cool), GRI 201-1 | GRI G4-FS13 munities around our major business hubs in Brazil, seeking to rience, Bike Itaú now counts on a cutting-edge technolTransporte Ativo (Active Transportation) and Ameciclo encourage projects, institutions and individuals in an innovaogy, new in Brazil, with a better operation standard, which (Lovecycle), among others. We understand the importance Our impact goes beyond business operation: we have to pay tive manner, towards the construction of a better world. provides more comfort, safety and convenience. The Itaú of investing in initiatives of organized civil society in order attention to the needs and players in the different places orange bicycles (laranjinhas) are lighter, more ergonomic to strengthen the movement in favor of active mobility and where we operate because we want to act together with the As regards our actions in partnership with the public secand resistant. support local and regional projects on topics such as social local community with cross-cutting support that positively tor, we highlight two main projects: Horta Social (Social inclusion and diversity. impacts the development of the regions. Vegetable Garden) and Cultura Acessível (Accessible Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 104 Culture). The first is an initiative in the city of Fortaleza sustainable development. The better the quality of edufamily ties, women’s empowerment and diversity in eduSergipe, São Paulo and Tocantins. The Escrevendo o Futuro (State of Ceará), and its purpose is to promote the developcation, the better trained and more capable citizens are to cation. Additionally, reinforcing her commitment to world portal, with 384,000 registered users, provides input for ment of homeless people who are served at the Temporary achieve better job opportunities and quality of life, thus education, the entire amount allocated to the Malala teachers to improve their knowledge, come up with innovaShelter Centers (CTAs) and Shelter Centers, by means of strengthening Brazil’s economy, which is the key for our Fund was transferred to initiatives of Brazilian women tive learning strategies, and share experiences. In 2018, the training in urban agriculture focused on the production of business. We believe that equal public education promotes who fight for this cause, with projects such as the promoinvestment made was R$6.7 million. organic food in the city. access to culture, creating autonomous citizens with a crittion of a working environment that tolerates differences ical ability to assess their reality and propose the necesand diversity, the creation of an online course on genAdditionally, as regards reading, it is worth mentioning the Leia Meanwhile, the Accessible Culture is focused on the dissary changes. der equality and the current assessment of the impact of para uma Criança (Read to a Child), which is aimed at encourabled people pillar and it promotes visits by disabled people Brazilian education on girls. aging reading and sharing stories to expand the child’s cultural in situations of high social vulnerability to cultural institurepertoire and strengthen emotional, family and community tions and events in the municipality of São Paulo. Our supties. We send collections of children’s books with guidance for port will cover expenses with transportation in adapted Fundação Itaú Social reading mediation to all states every year. In 2018, the target buses, Libras (Brazilian sign language) interpreters, audio GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship of the program was to distribute 820,000 children’s books and description services and visual communication items. 6,443 book collections for children and young people to the netCreated 25 years ago, Fundação Itaú Social (Itaú Social work of the Reference Centers in Social Welfare (CRAS) through a Additionally, we maintain public areas, such as the Alfredo Foundation) contributes to improve the quality of Brazilian partnership with the Ministry of Social Development; we distribEgydio de Souza Aranha Square and the Lina e Paulo public education, focused on elementary and middle school. uted 407,000 collections made up of two children’s books each Raia Park, and sponsor cultural activities in the district of By means of partnerships with the three levels of government, and 6,443 book collections with 50 books each. Also this year, Jabaquara in partnership with the local community. We civil society organizations (CSOs) and companies, it works on 1.6 million collections were distributed to 1.6 million individuals also hold meetings with local Public Authorities to identify two lines: training education professionals and strengthenand 200,000 children’s books were sent to partner Civil Society opportunities to work within the institutional pillars. ing CSOs that work with children and young people. In 2018, Organizations (CSOs) and State Education Departments. Among 23,434 people were trained and 601 institutions were supthe accessible books, 2,000 collections of books in Braille and Actions with employees Malala: a discussion on education ported, benefiting around 3.3 million children and young peo2,000 collections of audiovisual books were distributed to 4,000 ple. Our institutional targets are in line with the SDGs. The individuals. The investment made was R$9.8 million. and women’s empowerment The voluntary actions of our employees reinforce Our Way Foundation is supported by an endowment, the income from of being. We encourage solidarity and leadership practices How can books and education change the story of a which makes its programs and partnerships possible. The working line of strengthening civil society organizations that contribute toward the development of the surroundperson? It is based on this reflection that we promoted focuses on increasing the opportunities for the full developings. Every year, we organize the Gincana da Solidariedade the Itaú Apresenta: Malala (Itaú presents: Malala) event, To meet the challenge posed by low performance and high ment of children and young people based on two programs: (Solidarity Treasure Hunt), an action that engages our in São Paulo (State of São Paulo). We invited Malala dropout rates among Brazilian school children, the line of Investimento na Sociedade Civil (Investment in Civil Society), employees from all over Brazil for the purpose of collectYousafzai, the Pakistani activist, student and youngest training education professionals is focused on two programs: and Redes e Arranjos (Networks and Arrangements). Among ing clothes, blankets, toys, personal hygiene products, Peace Nobel laureate, to debate on the topics of eduLetras e Números (Letters and Numbers), focused on readthe main projects of Investimento na Sociedade Civil is the books and even bicycles. Our volunteers engage with the cation and women’s empowerment. When Malala was ing, writing and mathematics, and Melhoria da Educação Prêmio Itaú-Unicef (Itaú-Unicef Award), which is aimed at community to collect the donations and forward them to 15, she was shot by the Taliban because she had spoken (Improvement of Education), focused on improving municipal recognizing comprehensive education projects carried out by charitable institutions throughout Brazil. This year, we colout against the prohibition of education for women. administration. One of the main projects of Letras e Números, CSOs in partnership with public schools. In the 2017 edition, lected 175 metric tons that were delivered to more than 140 The student recovered, continued her campaign and, Escrevendo o Futuro (Writing the Future), provides in-person 1,651 partnerships between CSOs and public schools, from all institutions and allocated 40,000 blankets and bed sheets as a co-founder of the Malala Fund, she has been develand online training to Portuguese teachers. In 2018, 8,633 Brazilian states, applied. In 2018, the program had 3,657 applithroughout Brazil with the help of 70 leader volunteers. oping a global movement aimed at ensuring 12 years of people attended the training course, reaching around 1.8 cants, carried out 25 mobilization actions throughout Brazil education for girls. million students. The program promoted in-person training and 100 CSOs and 40 public schools were awarded, with an Education We brought together women who stand out in the in 23 states: Acre, Alagoas, Amazonas, Amapá, Bahia, Ceará, investment of R$10.7 million. defense of education, children and women in Brazil. Espírito Santo, Goiás, Maranhão, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso Investment in education is one of the driving forces towards Together, they discussed how education can change the do Sul, Mato Grosso, Pará, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Piauí, Rio In order to prepare social managers to carry out evalusocial transformation and a basic pillar of a country’s world, including topics such as the benefits of reading, de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Norte, Roraima, Rio Grande do Sul, ations, we provided courses on Economic Evaluation of Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 105 Social Projects. In 2018, in-person training was offered • Support and incentive for projects and initiatives that are In 2014, the Institute started a line of call notices called Gestão To comprise its project and initiative promotion strategy, in the State of São Paulo. In this period, the target of the aligned with the challenges of High School. Escolar para Equidade (School Management for Equality), dedthe Institute supports other actions that are committed to program was to organize two groups for the Course for icated to ethnic and racial and gender discussions, for the purimproving the quality of public education, such as surveys Managers, one group for the Advanced Course and six Its main and largest program is Jovem de Futuro (Youth of pose of strengthening the education field. This working line and projects on ethnic and racial relations in schools, in partgroups for the Online Course. One Advanced Course group the Future) that, since 2007, has been developing and implesupports technically and financially civil society organizations, nership with CEERT (Center for Studies of Work Relations was organized, with 41 participants, in addition to six menting management solutions in partnership with public human rights funds and academic institutions dedicated to and Inequalities) and Ação Educativa (Educational Action). Online Course groups for Social Managers, with 375 parschools for the purpose of improving the learning results of the development of educational technologies and reflections Additionally, it has an analysis and feedback platform for ticipants. Additionally, there were two In-Person Course the young people enrolled in the last three years of the comaimed at improving the quality of education in Brazil. educational indicators developed by the Tuneduc startup, groups for Social Managers, with 90 participants. The pulsory school period. The Management Circuit, which is the which increases the use of evidence in the decision-making investment made was R$640,337.00. central piece of the program, focuses on the students’ full In this work front, the Institute focuses on the topic of process of education managers, a project which is supported development and on the reduction of dropout rates; on the equality management. The initiatives expect to identify in partnership with Itaú BBA. Finally, there is our Volunteering Program, which is internal consistency and co-responsibility of all levels of the and foster promising experiences that generate consistent aimed at mobilizing and preparing our employees to carry educational systems; and on the management cycles with results and can be replicated in scale: By increasing the dialogue with the National Council of State out social actions, connecting them with civil society orgacontinuous learning. Jovem de Futuro supports the educaEducation Secretaries (Consed), we maintained our instinizations from our networks that do volunteer work. In tion departments on seven fronts: governance, technical Edital Juventude Negra (Young Black People Call Notice): tutional partnership, technically and financially supporting 2018, all states benefitted from volunteering actions by assistance, data systems, protocols, assessment, communiein partnership with Baobá – Fundo para Equidade Racial the work of four working groups: School Management, High means of the 40 Itaú Mobilization Committees (groups of cation and training. (Baobá Fund for Racial Equality) and Universidade Federal School, Evaluation and Financing. volunteer employees), totaling 470 volunteering actions de São Carlos (Federal University of São Carlos) invested and 2,766 volunteers. In 2018, 32 training meetings were held for around 5,000 R$606,860.97 in 2018. The program received 185 applications With the participation of technical staff from the High education managers in more than 2,262 schools in six states for its 2nd edition in 2017, and enabled the development of School Working Group, we held the first training program More information on Fundação Itaú Social can be accessed here. (Ceará, Espírito Santo, Goiás, Pará, Piauí and Rio Grande do projects in nine states in 2018. The selected projects contribon the formulation and implementation of public policies to Norte). The total amount of the investment in this program ute to improve indicators such as school access, completion, restructure High School, in partnership with Itaú BBA and Instituto Unibanco was R$2,226,849.40 in the year. attendance, performance, number of black students who Insper. The program trained 108 technical staff from the 26 GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship are admitted to higher education courses and other related states and the Federal District with analytical and concepSince its creation, the Jovem de Futuro program has already indices. Most projects presented are supported by Law No. tual public education management tools. In this program, Founded 36 years ago, Instituto Unibanco (Unibanco contributed to the professional qualification of around 10,639/2003 that provides for the mandatory teaching of participants were challenged to develop a strategic plan for Institute) is an organization that works to contribute to the 86,000 education professionals (school managers, superviAfro-Brazilian and African history and culture in the schools. reorganizing the High School policy of each state. improvement of the quality of Brazil’s public education, sors and technical staff from the regional offices and central focused on improving the learning results of High School bodies), positively impacting the learning of more than 2.9 Edital Elas nas Exatas (Girls in Exact Sciences Call Notice): With the Consed Financing Working Group, we developed students and producing knowledge about this education million youngsters in 11 education networks. organized in partnership with Elas – Fundo de Investimento and shared knowledge of the level and quality of spending in cycle. The Institute develops and implements management Social (Girls – Social Investment Fund) and Fundação Carlos education in the Brazilian states in order to support national solutions committed to the effective capacity of the public Over the ten years of the program, we have had a positive, relChagas (Carlos Chagas Foundation) and with the support of the financing policies and state proposals for reducing spending. schools to ensure the right to education for all students. evant and consistent impact on the learning of Mathematics Brazilian office of UN Women; R$930,512.78 in 2018. The activand Portuguese, measured based on the students’ grades ities proposed are varied and include training in robotics, proWith respect to corporate volunteering with the support of The actions are structured on three fronts: in standardized tests in the states. During the entire period, gramming and development of games and apps, construction of employees, Instituto Unibanco runs the Estudar Vale a Pena the average impact is of around four points in the SAEB (Basic prototypes for electric energy generation, classes and debates (Studying is Worthwhile) program. The program is aimed at • Conception, development, implementation and evaluation Education Assessment System of the Brazilian Ministry of about the history of women scientists, among other things. promoting the meeting of public High School professionof solutions applied to education management projects; Education and Culture) scale, which means a 30% gain in the als and students so that the exchange of experiences can learning average of the SAEB scale. In addition to the impact Partnership with Instituto Rodrigo Mendes (Rodrigo motivate the development of their life projects. In 2018, • Production and dissemination of knowledge through on learning, there is strong evidence of improvement in the Mendes Institute): stimulates the design and implethe program involved 873 volunteers from the states of research, studies and debates focused on solutions based quality of school management, in the professional developmentation of public policies to ensure access, attendance São Paulo and Espírito Santo who visited 53 schools and on empirical evidence and scientific investigation; and ment of school supervisors and principals, and in the school and learning by students with disabilities. An amount of impacted 5,426 students and, for the second time, the volclimate. GRI 103-3 Corporate Citizenship R$400,000 was invested in the projects in 2018. unteer teams from the conglomerate’s foundations and Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 106 institutes in the five countries where it operates (Argentina, year, prioritized flexibility for High School curricula comeducation evolve in Brazil in a systemic way by means of a Culture Brazil, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay) met to think about bined with the inclusion of vocational and technical courses. set of measures that can promote structural changes; and the simultaneous development of mobilization and social The positive impact of culture on the dissemination of intelengagement actions. Instituto Unibanco also took part in The specialization course Program for Training in Planning • Profissão Professor (Teaching Profession), which is aimed at lectual assets and the promotion of learning in society canthe initiative called Ação Global (Global Action) by means of for the Implementation of Public Policies and Development of guiding public policies for teachers based on four pillars: not be denied. Increasing people’s contact with cultural the Estudar Vale à Pena program. The investment this year High School Education, a partnership of Itaú BBA with Instituto teaching references, attractiveness of the profession, inidiversity is a way to create new paths of social development. was R$1,267,468.11. Unibanco (Unibanco Institute) and Insper, was maintained. tial and continued education, career and working condiThe course had the participation of all states and benefited tions. Learn more here. By believing in this, we support the democratization of culThe institute is supported by an endowment. Learn more about 54 technicians from all Education Departments of Brazil who ture through investments by our foundations and institutes Instituto Unibanco here or directly in the activities report. attended it in-person and another 54 technical staff who took Itaú BBA has been, since 2011, participating in the Educação and through a range of sponsorships. the distance learning course. The course, which started in 2017, Compromisso de São Paulo (Education Commitment of São Itaú BBA Educação ended in 2018 with the presentation of the high school develPaulo) program and, with State Education Department, Instituto Itaú Cultural GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship opment project for each state, prepared by the respective it works to support evidence-based educational policies. GRI 103-2 Corporate Citizenship teams. The total amount invested in the support to Consed in Together with a group of third sector organizations, we For four years, Itaú BBA has been making investments the course organized by Insper was R$515,000.00. believe that, by persisting in this direction, the São Paulo After completing 30 years of existence, Instituto Itaú Cultural focused primarily in the formulation of a new High School state school system can, in just over a generation, reach inter(Itaú Cultural Institute) defined its purpose and a new visual Education model that is flexible and articulated with As part of the actions with the states for a better managenational standards of quality, that is, be one of the world’s 25 identity. This purpose seeks to translate an abundance of Technical Education and professional qualification. ment of public education, Itaú BBA supported, in partnerbest systems and position the teaching career among the ten activities, a way of making and stimulating culture and art. ship with Instituto Unibanco and Fundação Lemann (Lemann most desired in the State. The amount invested in the project In 2018, we highlight the technical support provided in Foundation), the use, by the partner states, of the Foco was R$250,000.00. At the beginning of 2018, the Institute introduced a new the states of Santa Catarina, Paraíba, Mato Grosso do Sul, Aprendizagem (Learning Focus) platform, produced by the schedule: Tuesdays dedicated to cinematography, with Pernambuco, Bahia, Sergipe, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceará, Tuneduc startup. This platform, which has a personalized We also support Parceiros da Educação (Partners of movie sessions, courses and other activities. Music, theater Espírito Santo and the Distrito Federal in the formulation of name in each state, delivers qualified information for teachEducation), a non-profit association created in 2004 that and dance were held on Thursday and Sunday evenings. High School education models that integrate professional ers and managers based on the analysis of teaching indicaworks for public education with quality in Brazil. Itaú BBA There were 246 performances with an 85% occupancy rate. education with vocational and technological courses whose tors, significantly increasing the management perspective institutionally contributes to the Association and sponsors curricula are articulated with those of high school. of the class and of the school. two state public comprehensive education schools in São The sculptor Véio, from the State of Sergipe, one of the winners Paulo. The amount invested in the project was R$1,052,136.90. of the Itaú Cultural Award 30 years, in 2017, was the topic of the As part of this action, meetings were held to define the comRepresentatives of Itaú BBA integrate the Movimento pela first major exhibit of the year: Véio – a imaginação da madeira position of the education departments’ teams, to formulate Base Nacional Comum Curricular (Movement for the National We also published the studies: Formação Técnico-Profissional (Véio – the imagination of wood). The production of the archiand detail the implementation proposals and to organize the Common Core Curriculum – BNNC), a non-governmental (Technical and Vocational Education), by Laís da Costa Manso tect and designer Sergio Rodrigues was celebrated in Ser Estar II Meeting of Itaú BBA Partner States, which had speakers with group of education professionals that, since 2013, has been Nabuco de Araújo and Maria Helena de Castro Lima; Curricular – Sergio Rodrigues (To Be – Sergio Rodrigues); and the work high international influence in the field of education. For two working to facilitate the development of a quality curricuModels for High School: Desafios e respostas em onze sisteof the ballerina and choreographer Angel Vianna and the litdays, State Education Secretaries, technical staff and adminislum. The amount invested was R$222,000.00. mas educacionais (challenges and answers in eleven educaerary critic Antonio Candido was addressed in festivals of the trators of the education departments of the ten Brazilian states tional systems), by Alejandra Cardini and Belén Sanches, and Ocupação Itaú Cultural (Itaú Cultural Occupation) program. The supported by Itaú BBA, in addition to representatives of civil Itaú BBA supported Todos pela Educação, which is a civil sociArticulação Curricular e Projetos Empreendedores (Curricular amount invested in the program was R$3,049,477.86. society organizations, participated in debates and exchanges ety movement founded in 2006 for the purpose of improvArticulation and Entrepreneur Projects): an innovative practice of experiences about making curricula more flexible to combine ing Brazil’s education and driving the quality and equality of in the Paraíba state school system. In the last quarter of the year, the exhibit about the phoHigh School Education with vocational and technical education. Basic Education. The amount invested in the Movement was tographer German Lorca and the occupations by Paulo R$550,000.00 and the main actions supported were: Itaú BBA has been making an important contribution so that Mendes da Rocha and Ilê Aiyê took place. The first was a We continue to provide technical and financial support to vocational education combined with high school can gain tribute to a career of more than 70 years dedicated to phothe National Council of State Education Secretaries (Consed) • Educação Já (Education Now), which consists of a short-, strength in the agenda of the implementation of the high tography, the second was a selection of the production of with a focus on the Meetings of Working Groups, which, this mediumand long-term action to make basic public school reform. the architect based on the relation of his work with water, Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 107 and the third told the story of Brazilian Carnival’s first afro The Itaú Cultural website had more than 22 million accesses in the Our structure has eight movie theater complexes in six Brazilian cities We also carried out the free airing of the documentary Elo Perdido group. The exhibit Imagens Impressas was the last of the year. year. The accesses to the collection of Enciclopédia Itaú Cultural – Brasília (the Federal District), Curitiba (State of Paraná), Porto Alegre (Missing Link), of Renata Falzoni, during the Mobility week and, The audience at the head office totaled 472,634 people, a growth de Arte e Cultura Brasileiras (Itaú Cultural Encyclopedia of (State of Rio Grande do Sul), Rio de Janeiro (State of Rio de Janeiro), in partnership with the Administration Office of the City of São of 48.39% in relation to the previous year. Brazilian Art and Culture), consisting of 172,000 entries, continue São Paulo (State of São Paulo) and Salvador (State of Bahia) with 57 Paulo, we ran the Yellow May campaign in our sessions. to increase, reaching more than 1.5 million a month. movie theaters and 198 seats for people with special needs. In 2018, The institute organized the seminar Proteção e Circulação we received more than 2.9 million people in our movie theaters. In 2018, we also carried out the Mulheres Negras (Black Women) de Bens Culturais: combate ao tráfico ilícito (Protection and Many of the actions of Itaú Cultural meet the UN’s project in the Brazilian audiovisual campaign. Espaço Itaú de Circulation of Cultural Assets: combat of illicit trafficking), with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a subject that is In addition to offering movies of different profiles, our comCinema Augusta organized a scriptwriting workshop with black representatives from government bodies and entities from increasingly prioritized at the Institute. In 2018, a Working plexes also allow for access to different types of content, such women and the meetings were run by one of Latin America’s the sector, and organized the third edition of Mekukradjá – Group on the topic was created. as sports, musical and educational events, which are broadcast most distinguished scriptwriting consultants, the Cuban writer Circulo de Saberes (Mekukradjá – Circle of Knowledge), a cycle live via satellite. Since we are concerned with providing access Eliseo Altunaga. The idea of the workshops arose from the desire of debates on indigenous issues. The Classificação Indicativa: Diversity to culture to the entire population, all movie theaters offer to support Brazilian black female scriptwriters and their authorial -18 (Indicative Classification: -18) audiovisual festival, of short Diversity is part of the governance of Instituto Itaú Cultural. Over accessibility and seats for disabled people. narratives. Fifteen black female writers, from across Brazil, had and feature films targeted at young people, and partnerthe course of 2018, diversity continued to guide the institute’s the opportunity to develop their arguments in practical and theships such as the Mostra Internacional de Teatro de São Paulo activities. The fifth edition of Todos os Gêneros: mostra de arte e Among our social programs is the Clube do Professor (Teacher’s oretical classes. This action was a partnership between Espaço (International Theater Festival of São Paulo) (MITsp) and diversidade (All Genders: art and diversity festival), which reflects Club) whose purpose is to extend the cinematography expeItaú de Cinema and the website Mulheres Negras do Audiovisual the É Tudo Verdade (It’s All True) – International Festival of on notions of gender, sexuality and affection in society, was carrience of teachers. The ticket for the session is free for teachBrasileiro (Black Women of Brazilian Audiovisual). Documentaries at the 42nd São Paulo Film Festival. ried out in May and the topic was living with HIV. The event had ers who have the Clube do Professor’s card plus a companion. In the exhibit of short films, debate panels, theater performances, 2018, 28,415 teachers used this benefit, 16% fewer than in 2017 We also organized the round table conversation Olhos Negros – With respect to the touring exhibits, the cities of Rio de performances in general, in addition to a concert by the singer (33,748 teachers), which is below the 10% increase target estabCinema Negro e a Formação das Novas Gerações do Audiovisual Janeiro (State of Rio de Janeiro), Ribeirão Preto (State of São Almério, from the State of Pernambuco, a party, Cabaré de Todos lished. In 2016, 37,661 teachers benefited. (Black Eyes – Black Cinematography and the Training of the New Paulo), Curitiba (State of Paraná), Porto Alegre (State of Rio os Gêneros (All Gender Cabaret), and the launch of the book Tente Generations of Audiovisual) to discuss the ways black cinemaGrande do Sul), Brasília (Federal District), Florianópolis (State Entender o que Tento Dizer – Poesia HIV/Aids (Try to Understand Another social program is the Escola (School) Project whose purtographers and their topics can bring new generations closer to of Santa Catarina), Fortaleza (State of Ceará), Brumadinho what I Try to Say – HIV/AIDS Poetry), organized by the writer, jourpose is to integrate different forms of expression, always seekthe world of movie-making and contribute to racial discussions. (State of Minas Gerais), and Buenos Aires, in Argentina, nalist and human rights activist Ramon Nunes Mello. In the secing to relate fields of knowledge in its programs. In addition to Traditionally far from the places that make, think about and show received exhibits with works that are part of the bank’s Art ond half of the year, in August, there was the above mentioned showing movies, the project also carries out workshops, debates Brazilian movies, the prospect of black youngsters is to touch the Collection. These activities were visited by 181,416 people and third edition of Mekukradjá – Círculo de Saberes (Mekukradjá – and other additional activities to address the content and underaudience that identifies with their stories and build, together, the received an investment of R$453,265.13. Circle of Knowledge), which reflects the struggles of indigenous standing of the topics presented. Accordingly, it seeks to conbridge that can take them from the place of the subject matter people in multidisciplinary activities. The latter takes place on tribute to the development of people who have a critical sense to the subject of their representation and representativeness. In May, the 109 winning projects for the 2017–2018 edition of an annual basis and proposes reflections on life in the cities. and who are more active in society. In 2018, 14,629 students parThe purpose of the meeting was to broaden the perspective for the Rumos Itaú Cultural (Itaú Cultural Directions) were disIn December, there was the third edition of the project ticipated in the project, 19% fewer than in 2017 (18,168 students), Brazilian cinematography on and off the screens. closed. The investment for the call notice was R$820,065.41. || Entre || Arte e Acesso (|| Between || Art and Access), with the which is below the 10% increase target established. In 2016, we Selected from among more than 12,000 applications – from topic accessibility and culture. The event gathered many artists catered to 13,702 students. Learn more about Espaço Itaú de Cinema here. all Brazilian states – the projects reflect topics related to black with disabilities from different fields of expression to explore the awareness and gender and indigenous issues, among others. worlds of art and culture from the accessibility standpoint. We have cross-cutting actions with the audiences of the other instiOther cultural investments tutions we work with. We offer free movie sessions to the particiIn 2018, the Institute carried out 1,117 activities that were attended Espaço Itaú de Cinema pants of Itaú Viver Mais (Itaú Live Longer) focused on the longevity In 2018, we sponsored important projects from the most varby more than 758,000 people. In addition to the actions, there topic in all movie theaters every last Tuesday of the month, with a ied cultural fields, such as the 42nd São Paulo Film Festival (State were exhibits at Espaço Memória (Memory Room) and perforSince its inauguration in 1995, the main purpose of Espaço Itaú de debate on the matter at the end of the session. In 2018, 9,547 seniors of São Paulo), Brazil’s most important film festival, and the mances at the Ibirapuera Gymnasium. At the head office of Itaú Cinema (Itaú Movie Theater Complex) has been to provide differparticipated in the sessions, representing an increase of 21% comInternational Photography Festival of Porto Alegre (State of Cultural, on Paulista Avenue, is the Espaço Olavo Setubal (Olavo ent views of cinematography, create critical audiences and leave pared to 2017 (7,917 seniors), which was higher than the 10% increase Rio Grande do Sul), which was created to help expand the visiSetubal Room), a permanent exhibit that has already received a legacy for society, always supporting projects that value and target established. In 2016, 7,906 seniors benefited. bility of Brazilian photographers and today is one of the intermore than 241,635 visitors since its opening in December 2014. reinforce our commitment to the democratization of culture. GRI 103-3 Corporate Citizenship national events on contemporary Brazilian photography, in Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 108 addition to A Primeira Estrela (The First Star) exhibit, which took In addition to our work in Brazil, our Latin American units also supour support since 2016 and caters to around 200 youngsters a Diversity place at the Soccer Museum in São Paulo and talked about the ported some projects, both large events and permanent cultural year at the Villa Lobos Park in São Paulo (State of São Paulo). Brazilian National Soccer Team of 1958, which won the World institutions. In Chile, we were the master sponsor of Lollapalooza, Over the course of the year, we formalized our commitment to Cup for the first time. the largest musical festival in that country. Meanwhile, in The Centro de Treinamento Itaú/Instituto Tênis (Itaú Training the strengthening of civil society in favor of diversity, working Uruguay, we have a strong presence in Montevideo Rock, the Center/Tennis Institute), a project that we have been supportbased on topics such as LGBT+, race, gender, disabled people and We also support relevant literary projects, such as the most prestigious rock event in Montevideo. ing since 2009, is focused on the training of high-performance seniors. We believe that the investment in this cause as a whole is International Literary Festival of Paraty (FLIP) and the Literary junior athletes and support to take these tennis players to the not only cross-cutting but also a new front of consolidation and, Festival of the Outskirts (FLUPP), which takes place in the city According to the institutional purpose of supporting the main tournaments around the world. for this reason, we decided to include it at the forefront of our of Rio de Janeiro (State of Rio de Janeiro), in addition to the democratization of culture, we support the Centro de las Artes Social Investment. 26th São Paulo International Book Fair. 660, a relevant cultural center in the city of Santiago, Chile. In The mission of Tennis Route is to transform the life of young tennis Paraguay, we support many cultural institutions, such as the players through the sport and education, offering opportunities In this chapter, we are focusing on the activities related to the Another cultural expression we support is dance through festiCentro Cultural del Lago (Del Lago Cultural Center), Fundación to create routes towards professional or university tennis. Thiago seniors pillar. To learn more about our other actions and our view on vals such as the Dance of Joinville (State of Santa Catarina), and Migliorisi (Migliorisi Foundation), Centro Cultural Manzana de la Wild, one of the Institute’s athletes, was the second Brazilian junior Diversity, please see the Diversity Chapter in this report on page 77. the Denise Stoklos International Festival of Solo Performance, Rivera (Manzana de la Rivera Cultural Center) and the musical champion in the Junior U.S. Open 2018 Grand Slam. which takes place in Irati (State of Paraná). We also support project Comunidades Musicais Transformadoras (Transforming Seniors the dance company Cisne Negro Cia. de Dança, such as its Musical Communities). Additionally, representing women, we have been supporting, Ballet Paraisópolis Project, which was founded in 2012 in the since its beginning in 2010, the International Female Tennis’s The aging of the population is a phenomenon that is occurParaisópolis community in São Paulo (State of São Paulo) and We also support projects via tax incentives from the tax deduction Future Circuit, which allows youngsters to accumulate points ring on a global scale, particularly in the developed countries. which, through the teaching of classical and contemporary program of the Ministry of Culture in Buenos Aires, Argentina. In in the world ranking and have the chance to participate in This process is characterized by the constant growth of life ballet, encourages children and young people to seek better 2018, we provided support of more than R$2.5 million. high-performance championships outside Brazil. expectancy and the drop in fertility. opportunities in life. Sports With a high performance since 2015, we are the main sponsor We are experiencing a technological revolution that will Eight years ago, we sponsored SP Arte (SP Art), one of Latin of the Miami Open, the Masters 1000 event of the Association essentially transform the way we live, work and relate to othAmerica’s major art fairs that takes place in São Paulo. Also We sponsor many projects in three sports (soccer, tennis and of Tennis Professionals (ATP), a project that we have been supers. In its scale, scope and complexity, the transformation will in the field of visual arts, we supported the 33rd São Paulo multidisciplinary) whose purpose is to promote social inclusion porting since 2009, which is one of the world’s most important be different from anything that man has experienced before. International Arts Fair. through sports, the strengthening of our brand and the traintournaments that has taken place every year, until 2018, in Key In this context, the global economic system is being redefined ing of people to disseminate the practice of sports, thus transBiscayne, State of Florida. In Brazil, we have sponsored the Rio based on disruptive forces that work simultaneously, related Because we care for the democratization of and access to culforming people’s worlds. Open, the largest South American tennis tournament, since its to technology and demographic change. Although separately ture, we also support, every year, large public institutions, such first edition in 2014 until 2018. these phenomena are well known, there are still few studas the Museum of Modern Art (MAM), the Assis Chateaubriand Our involvement with soccer started more than 20 years ago ies that address the topics in an integrated manner and only São Paulo Art Museum (MASP) and the Bienal Foundation. through the sponsorship of television broadcasts such as With respect to the multidisciplinary projects, we have been recently have we observed their impact on society. Accordingly, we encourage the construction and continuity of the Brazilian Championship, the FIFA 2014 World Cup and the sponsoring, since 2009, the Caravana do Esporte (Sports inclusive and pluralistic venues for society. Brazilian National Soccer Team. Since 2008, we have been Caravan) – a touring program that serves Brazilian municipalWe believe that we can contribute to society, sponsoring inisponsoring both the Male and Female Brazilian National Soccer ities indicated by Unicef as having a low Human Development tiatives, training people and supporting governments and civil Music is another cultural expression for which we have signifiTeams in all categories: Principal, Olympic, under-23, under-20, Index (HDI) and that promotes the training of teachers. It society to address demographic change and its impacts. cant projects. The Trancoso Music Festival (State of Bahia) was under-17 and under-15. We also sponsored the Chilean National has already benefited, since the beginning of our support, created to turn classical and popular music into a permanent Soccer Team from 2015 to 2018. 178,000 children and young people and trained 5,000 teachSeniors Funds source of personal and social development through the eduers, in addition to two million indirect services. Since 2015, we cation of people. We support the Philharmonic Orchestra of We also have a long history of support for tennis and we prehave been supporting the Campeões da Vida (Life Champions) In 2018, the strategic review of Itaú Viver Mais (Itaú Live Minas Gerais and the Symphonic Orchestra of the State of São pared a complete platform that goes from the junior category Project of the Guga Kuerten Institute, which caters to nearly Longer), a non-profit association focused on people over 55, Paulo (OSESP), with which we have been partners since 2007. to high performance. In the sports initiation phase, we support 700 people a year in the region of Santa Catarina, encouragwas completed with improvements and a new value proposal the Bola Dentro (Ball Inside) Project, which has been receiving ing the practice of sports. for the projects. In order to promote the culture of longevity Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 109 and work on the development of public policies aimed at Elderly people diagnosis: according to the guidelines of Cubo Itaú is located at the Vila Olímpia district in the city of • Business generated between large companies seniors, Itaú Viver Mais has been aiming its efforts at the the World Health Organization (WHO) for active aging, an São Paulo (State of São Paulo) and houses in its physical space and startups: establishment of Municipal Councils of Seniors. The purpose indicator matrix was created to guide the development of around 1,250 residents from different segments, such as +720 contracts until July 2018 | +370 in 2017; is to promote governance and transparency practices and public policies for seniors. This action was carried out in health, education, fintech, logistics, industry, retail, among othqualify the investments made by means of the seniors funds, seven cities: Rio de Janeiro (State of Rio de Janeiro), Belo ers, in addition to more than 250 startups that are present on • Residents’ billing: thus contributing to the development of municipal public Horizonte (State of Minas Gerais), Salvador (State of Bahia), the Cubo Digital platform, which includes entrepreneurs from +R$230 million until July 2018 | +R$110 million in 2017; policies. The initiative has been carried out in the cities of Rio Porto Alegre (State of Rio Grande do Sul) and São Paulo, all over Brazil. de Janeiro (State of Rio de Janeiro), Porto Alegre (State of Mogi Mirim and Poá (State of São Paulo). • Investment by large companies in the business models Rio Grande do Sul), Salvador (State of Bahia), Belo Horizonte For a startup to become a resident of Cubo, it needs to offer a of startups: (State of Minas Gerais) and São Paulo (State of São Paulo). Entrepreneurism real solution with scale potential. Cubo’s selection criteria take +R$50 million until July 2018 | +R$50 million in 2017; into consideration the relevance of the business for the market at By means of the elderly person incentive act, we donated As the largest private bank in Brazil, we have been conwhich it is targeted and the capacity for transformation offered to • Startups of the ecosystem assessed: R$12.2 million to support 16 projects in 16 funds all over Brazil. stantly reinventing ourselves in order to continue to be at society. Some points, such as its stage of operation in the market, +500 until July 2018 | +300 in 2017; and the vanguard in the use of new technologies and tools. With ability to perform, scope of scale and value proposition to other In 2018, the Associação Itaú Viver Mais (Itaú Live Longer this motivation, we pioneered in the creation of an initiative residents are also taken into consideration. At Cubo, we have • Events organized: Association) reached approximately 2,434 people in 36 to promote the technological entrepreneurism market, in startups that work with artificial intelligence, gamification and +790 until 2018 | +700 in 2017. municipalities, and the total annual investment amounted addition to investing more than R$24 million in civil society Internet of Things, among other technologies that are acceleratto R$2.1 million. The activities were distributed among initiatives, both domestically and internationally. ing digital transformation in Brazil and around the world. the states of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Paraná, Bahia, Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais and the Federal District. Cubo Itaú The space, which was created in 2015, has been such a success that, in 2018, it increased fourfold and expanded its connecThe association promotes the following projects: Inaugurated in September 2015 in partnership with Redpoint tion capacity. The expansion follows the growth of entrepreeventures, Cubo Itaú is a non-profit organization and the largneurism in Brazil and Cubo’s representativeness in the market. Physical and cultural activities: yoga, pilates, dance and est hub for the promotion of technological entrepreneurism in Additionally, Cubo also started to pay more attention to some tai chi chuan classes, and workshops with musical instruLatin America, which speeds up the connection and creation of fields that are part of the hub’s structure today. Health, fintech, ments and craftwork in 29 locations in four states – São business between large companies and startups. industry 4.0, education and retail are the promising segments Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul, identified as bets to develop the innovation ecosystem. serving 1,940 people. The purpose of Cubo Itaú is to offer an inspiring environment to connect brilliant people with a will to transform business, Connecting the main agents to promote the technological Itaú Viver Mais Cinema (Itaú Live Longer Movies): 77 technology and people’s lives better. We want to generate and entrepreneurial ecosystem has proven to be the real value commented sessions of movies, for free, in São Paulo (State the exchange of experiences, the sharing of knowledge and proposition of Cubo Itaú in its three years of operations and, in of São Paulo), Salvador (State of Bahia), Rio de Janeiro (State the disclosure of opportunities for entrepreneurs, students, this period, the hub has reached very significant figures. of Rio de Janeiro), Porto Alegre (State of Rio Grande do Sul), investors and professionals of large companies or startups. Curitiba (State of Paraná) and in the Federal District, with • More than 2,000 people using the space per day; 9,547 tickets distributed. Cubo makes available its event venues for workshops, lectures and relevant meetings for the growth of the innovation eco• More than 3,000 jobs have been created by the resident Diálogos Itaú Viver Mais (Itaú Live Longer Dialogues): an system. Additionally, Cubo has eight programs to constantly startups to date; event dedicated to the exchange of knowledge about matters discuss some topics that have been identified as priority in this related to seniors in partnership with the Pontifical Catholic ecosystem. They are: Diversity in Tech, Corporate Venture, VC • More than 24,000 candidates applied for jobs on the platUniversity of São Paulo (PUC-SP). Two events were held in São for founders, Best Practices, Open Coffee Club, Cubo Day, Brasil form of Cubo startups and more than 4,400 job vacancies Paulo (State of São Paulo), with the presence of 182 people. ao Cubo (Brazil Cubed) and Cubo Talks. were disclosed; Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 110 Environmental Why is this matter material? Management The creation of shared value for employees, clients, Even if our financial business creates a low environsuppliers, stockholders and society is key for us to mental impact as compared to other industries, this continue pursuing our vision of becoming the leadmatter’s materiality increases when we consider the ing bank in Sustainable Performance and Customer size and structure required for financial institutions Satisfaction. As a result we acknowledge our responto operate efficiently. In light of the size of our opersibility to have a transformative role by acting beyond ations in large urban centers, our main action place, our operations and contributing to create positive we understand the importance of recognizing, meaimpacts on the market and society. suring, and managing the environmental impact of GRI 103-1 Environmental Management our activities since this is the only way to reduce our direct strain on natural resources. An example of the We strengthen this commitment by actions such positive and negative impacts of the operation of as the implementation of the Environmental financial institutions is our Itaú Conceição Corporate Management System (based on Standard NBR ISO Center, with more than 12,000 employees divided in 14001:2015), joining Voluntary Commitments and five building located in the Jabaquara district, São Compacts, supporting the development of public polPaulo. The implementation of these buildings reinicies and other initiatives, and through transparency vigorated the local economy and attracted more in reporting financial and nonfinancial information. investments to this micro-region, in contrast to the GRI 103-2 Environmental Management consumption of water, energy, and land occupation related to their construction and use. Materiality Environmental Management GRI 103-1 Environmental Management Potential SDGs Targets Positive impact 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of We promoted the use of renewable energies by installing solar panels in our administrative buildings, and implemented renewable energies in the global energy matrix. Solar Farm projects to supply solar power to 200 branches in Minas Gerais. We reduced the consumption and are continuously improving the efficiency in the use of natural resources in our facilities 12.2 By 2030, reach the sustainable and efficient use of through sustainable with certifications, consumption monitoring, emissions offset, efficient use natural resources with natural resources. water and energy decrease de consumption actions, in addition to making our goals public. 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce the generation of waste In this chapter... We conducted actions to decrease the volume of waste disposed in landfills. through prevention, decrease, recycling, and reuse. ...we present our key actions regarding this matter, including our goods practices, the environmental 13.3 Improve education, increase awareness, and management system (ISO 14001 certifications), and We contribute to raise the awareness and decrease emissions with the initiative of the Climate Commitment Program in human and institutional capacity about the mitigation, other sustainability-related certifications. association with other organizations, aiming at offsetting carbon credits and promoting projects focused on the decrease adaptation, decrease of impacts, and early alert of of emissions. climate change. We highlight the main challenge faced concerning the volume of consumption information and manRelationship between the material matter and our stakeholders agement, in light of the wide-ranging a geographiGRI 103-1 Environmental Management cal distribution of our operations. We also share our Society Supplier Employee Stockholder Client environmental management goals and the detailed Direct Direct Direct Indirect Indirect management of our key resources used and our key environmental aspects. At the end we present our investments in eco-efficiency, aimed at mitigating GRI topics Related initiatives and indicators and preventing our environmental impacts. Management Approach GRI 103-1 Environmental Management – Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management Approach GRI 103-2 Environmental Management – The management approach and its components Management Approach GRI 103-3 Environmental Management – Evaluation of the management approach Material GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Effluents and Waste GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Compliance GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 112 Our environmental We have been conducting tests in our branches of new buildKey Performance Indicator (KPI) of our environmental commitments management ing concepts and following up the results of such tests. The GRI 103-2 Environmental Management | GRI 103-3 Environmental Management GRI 103-2 Environmental Management refurbishment concepts are based on the principle that a Electric energy building’s existing structure and materials must be respected Water consumption consumption (total) In order to encourage, control, and disseminate the creation to produce the least waste possible during construction. This and implementation of projects that pursue a decrease in the project also promoted this model’s branch expansion initiative 2018 performance(1) 2018 performance(1) consumption of natural resources and more efficient environand in 2018 we implement a project to expand this concept to mental management, we created a working group within centwo other branches in different regions of Brazil to check the We reduced our absolute tral management focused on efficiency in utilities. As a result performance of the solutions under other conditions. We reduced our absolute water consumption of the group's activities, in 2018, we had 27 eco-efficiency by 14% and or relative energy consumption initiatives implemented in 18 administrative buildings that led In general, one of the key challenges of environmental manindicator by 35%. by 12% and or relative indicator by 33%. to a decrease of consumption by 4.0 GWh of energy, 13,000 agement for an organization of our size and our geographiCM of natural gas, 26,000 CM of water, 57,000 liters of diesel, cal distribution is the consolidation of resource consumption avoiding the emission of 469 tCO₂e. data and the management of these data. In our pursuit to 2021 2021 centralize the data on our administrative units, our branch Absolute target Relative target Absolute target Relative target In addition to our efficient consumption actions, our purchain, and our Technology Centers (TC) throughout Latin Reduce by 13% Reduce by 51% Reduce by 15% Reduce by 52% suit to improve environmental management allowed us America (except for Colombia), we implanted a cloud-based our water our water our energy our energy to certify the Itaú Unibanco Corporate Center under ISO Environmental Management System (SGA) that will increase consumption in consumption per consumption in consumption per 14001, still at the end of 2017. Added to the certifications the effectiveness of data transmission and tracking, thus mit2013-2021. R$1 million in 2013-2021. R$1 million in of our Corporate Center and our Tatuapé Administrative igating auditand reporting-related risks. banking products banking products Center (certified under ISO 14001:2015 since 2011), we curin 2013-2021. in 2013-2021. rently have 47.2% of our central administration employSetting goals and commitments and their follow-upmonees in Brazil allocated to certified buildings (except for itoring is key for an efficient environmental management. the wholesale banking buildings). The ISO establishes and Accordingly, we share our long-term commitments for our Renewable energy consumption Power usage effectiveness (PUE) manages international standards for quality management environmental indicators (key performance indicators) set (administrative buildings) procedures, and the 14001 series includes specific stanfor our operations in Brazil. It is important to note that our dards for the management of environmental impacts and targets for 2020 (with a base year in 2013) were reviewed, 2018 performance(1) 2018 performance(1) people safety. GRI 103-3 Environmental Management due to the acquisition of other companies by the Itaú Unibanco group, which unable us to previously consider Also regarding our certifications, our FL 3500 building them in the targets. As a result, our target was extended to We reached an indicator of 93% has since 2016 the triple LEED Gold Seal certification for 2021. In addition, for our energy, emissions, waste and busisustainable constructions, granted by the US organizaness travel indicators, we revised the base year because we of energy from We reached tion U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), in the categochanged the accounting methodology. This way, the annual renewable sources. a PUE of 1.77 ries LEED O+M (Operation and Maintenance), LEED BD+C value for these goals were also revised. (Building Design + Construction), and LEED ID+C (Interior 2021 2021 Design + Construction). Our CTMM was awarded the certiFor the definition of the new emissions targets of Scopes 1 Absolute target Relative target Absolute target Relative target fications LEED Gold (New Construction), LEED Silver (New and 2, we use the Science Based Target methodology. Reach a indicator of 96% Not applicable. Reach an This is an absolute Construction) – both awarded by the U.S. Green Building indicator of indicator. No scale. Council, and TIER III Gold, categories Design Documents, of energy from renewable 1.73 by 2021. sources consumed by 2021. Constructed Facility, and Operational Sustainability, which is the highest level of certification granted by the Uptime (1) Comparative data considering the consumption in 2013. Institute: global standard for datacenter. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 113 Key Performance Indicator (KPI) of our environmental commitments GRI 103-2 Environmental Management | GRI 103-3 Environmental Management Water GRI 303-1 | GRI 303-3 | GRI 103-2 Environmental Management by the water utility. In 2018 we consumed a total of 77,830.23 CM of treated reused water that was used in our toilet flushes, Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions Our water management is based on two pillars: reducing our our air conditioning equipment (such as the cooling towers), consumption and diversifying water supply sources of our and in the cleaning of outside areas and facades. As a whole, administrative buildings, branches, and technology centers. in 2018 we consumed 1,449,038.20 CM of water (94,101.95 CM 2018 2018 performance(1) performance(1) We currently use the public supply water grid in our domesof which from artesian wells). In the previous year, we had 34 tic operations and in some administrative centers we also use Wholesale banking units whose water consumption was not Since we changed the potable water sourcing through artesian wells. computed because they were located in multi-company conmethodology and the dominiums. However, with changes in our control, in 2018 we Since we changed the methodology and base year 2018, we the base year 2018, we can not calculate the can not calculate the In addition to our sources of potable water, in our adminismonitored the water consumption of these units, which justiperformance for 2018. performance for 2018. trative and technology centers we collect, reclaim and treat fies the present increase in consumption and consequently a rainwater and wastewater to reduce the use of water supplied proportional adjustment in the 2018 target. 2021 2021 Absolute target Relative target Absolute target Relative target Water consumption GRI 103-3 Environmental Management | GRI 303-3 Reduce by 4% Reduce by 28% Reduce by 6% Reduce by 29% our Scope 1 our Scope 1 our Scope 2 our Scope 2 emissions in emissions per emissions in emissions per R$1 million 2018–2021. R$1 million in banking 2018–2021. in banking products products in 2018–2021. in 2018–2021. Waste/landfill Business travel 2018 2018 total Target 2017 2017 total Target 2016 total 2018 performance(2) 2018 performance(1) 2019 target target(6) consumption(5) met? target consumption(1(2) met? consumption(1(2) Cubic meters (CM) 1,460,999.00 1,460,999.00 1,449,038.20 1,389,968.50 1,390,142.00 1,410,592.40 Since we changed the methodology and CM/R$ BP 12.14(4) 14.02(3) 13.91 12.90 12.76 13.03 the base year 2018, we can not calculate We increased by 5% the the performance for 2018. (1) Does not take into account our 34 Wholesale banking units located in multi-company condominiums. (5) Consumption includes our 34 Wholesale banking units located disposal of waste in landfills. (2) Does not include LATAM data (2016 and 2017). in multi-company condominiums. (3) Uses the actual banking product (BP) amount for 2018 equivalent to R$104,200,000.00. (6) 2 019 target includes our 34 Wholesale banking units located in 2021 (4) Uses the BP amount estimated for 2019. multi-company condominiums. 2021 Absolute target Relative target Absolute target Relative target In 2018, we implemented 14 projects to reduce water conflow control valves. The efficiency of these actions will conReduce by 7% Reduce by 30% sumption and obtained savings of 26,000 CM of water, tinue to be captured in the coming years. Reduce by 4% We do not calculate the number the number a relative indicator with an investment of R$432,000 and a financial return of the disposal of kilometers of kilometers of waste by our in this case. travelled in travelled per banking R$481,000 in the administrative office buildings (except In 2019, we are also studying nine other projects to reduce administrative units in 2018–2021. product in 2018-2021. Wholesale and Technological Centers). water consumption, with estimated savings of 37,000 landfills in 2017–2021. CM. These include building a wastewater treatment plant The main implemented projects were: using reused water in (WWTP) in our Corporate Center; installing flow control (1) Comparative data considering the consumption in 2018. gardening and air conditioning equipment, upgrading our valves in our toilets and faucets; use reused water in our toi(2) Comparative data considering the consumption of 2017. lake water filtering system, installing flow restriction valves on let flushes, and a pilot project to replace our current toilets The details on the management of each resource, natural otherwise, are shown as follows. the restrooms, installing faucet aerators, and installing water for vacuum toilets. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 114 Also in this context, we set a goal to collect 30,000 CM of In addition to equalizing the use of equipment and spaces The energy consumed in our administrative buildings and technical areas, the upgrading of the characteristics and reused water in 2019. within the properties, it also allowed us to prevent waste and technology centers has low environmental impact and very operating data of all air conditioning and lighting equipoperation failures. low carbon emissions, since 93% of this energy comes from ment to facilitate access to information and operating We installed equipment automation and consumption monrenewable sources such as small hydropower plants, biomass management, and the adjustment of the ventilation operitoring in 200 branches that allow the integrated control and The initiatives in 2018 to meet the proposed commitments power plants, solar power plants, and wind farms, according ation hours. As for our Tatuapé Administrative Center, we management of lighting, air conditioning, water, and energy. and make our operation increasingly more efficient are listed to the statements of the suppliers. Accordingly, our strategies installed a boiler system to preheat water, which reduced in the following table. to decrease the consumption of nonrenewable energy are the consumption of natural gas, greenhouse gas (GHG) focused on energy efficiency research and new technologies. emissions, and energy consumption. Efficiency Initiatives – water GRI 303-1 The main examples of our initiatives in our administrative As a result of the projects implemented in our administrative buildings in 2018 include, specifically in our FL3500 buildbuildings, in 2018 we avoided the consumption of 4.0G Wh of ing, the replacement of fluorescent lights for equivalent electricity, with investments of R$2.6 mi and a financial return LED bulbs with lower energy consumption in garages and of R$1.8 mi. Electric energy consumption GRI 103-3 Environmental Management | GRI 302-1 Initiative Summary Investment (R$) Savings (CM/year) Return (R$) Installing aerators in restroom faucets of the Brigadeiro Aerators 18,996.00 1,368.00 28,454.40 Administrative Cen­ter and the Corporate Center Lake water filtering Filtering the water of the Corporate Center lakes 144,000.00 5,145.00 68,440.80 Installing flow control valves in the restrooms of our Flow control 65,390.00 7,498.00 157,946.00 administrative buildings Water reuse (collect rainwater, use rainwater in gas Reuse 203,680.00 11,916.00 226,362.00 cleaners) of the Tatuapé Administrative Center Unit of 2019 2018 2018 total Target 2017 total Target 2016 total Change the temperature set point of the air Source 2017 target measure target target consumption met? consumption met? consumption(2) conditioning equipment for Information Technology Cooling tower environments in the CTSP. The actions were performed 0.00 7,101.30 199,593.10 Renewable MWh 219,000.00 219,000.00 209,794.50 219,000.00 218,609.00 203,919.90 in chilled-water units (CWUs) and in the environments energy(1) where our equipment is installed GJ 788,400.00 788,400.00 755,260.20 788,400.00 786,992.00 734,111, 64 Total 432,066.00 33,028.30 680,796.30 Non renewable MWh 346,743.20 360,855.10 397,151.50 6( ) 363,923.40 351,885.00 1 6 ( )( ) 409,253.57(1)(6) energy(1) GJ 1,248,276.00 1,299,078.36 1,429,745.40(6) 1,310,124.24 1,266,786.00(6) 1,473,312.85(6) Energy GRI 103-2 Environmental Management Electric energy sources (%) MWh 606,946.00(6) – 607,888.00(4)(6) – 630,245.26(4)(5)(6) 2018 2017 The undue consumption of energy could be linked to several Total absolute MWh 565,743.18 579,855.10(1) 575,507.00(6) 582,923.40(1) 570,494.00(1)(6) 613,249.26(1)(6) Administrative buildings and technology centers(1) 53 42 factors that in turn could be related to the equipment used consumption Renewable energy 93 95 GJ 2,185,005.60(6) – – 2,177,914.00(4)(6) – 2,268,882.94(4)(6) (such as the use of very old electric and electronic appliances; Nonrenewable energy 7 5 GJ 2,036,675.00 2,087,478.36(1) 2,071,825.20(6) 2,098,524.24(1) 2,053,778.00(1)(6) 2,207,697.34(1)(6) the lack of air conditioning equipment maintenance, and the use of inefficient bulbs, for example) or the power grid users, Branch network 47 58 Relative MWh/ Renewable energy 0 0 4.70(3) 5.56(2) 5.52(2) 5.39(1) 5.23(1) 5.44(1) who do not have a conscientious use of this resource. We are consumption BP(1) concerned, therefore, with performing the maintenance of Nonrenewable energy 100 100 PUE – datacenters 1.77 1.77 1.77 1.83 1.81 1.90 our air conditioning equipment, raise our employees’ aware(1) Beginning 2018, we started to compute the energy consumption of new ness, upgrading our IT equipment, and follow market trends, wholesale banking buildings. These new buildings still use energy supplied by (1) Data do not include LATAM units. (4) Includes LATAM. the utility company, we justifies the drop in the use of renewable energy and the (2) Uses the actual BP amount for 2018 equivalent to R$104,200,000.00. (5) Excludes Chile. as shown as follows. increase in the use of nonrenewable energy. (3) Uses the BP amount estimated for 2019. (6) The total amount could include consumption estimates based in monthly average for the year. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 115 In 2018, we also conducted actions involving Information Year-on-year, our total electric energy consumption in 2018 The table below shows our energy efficiency initiatives Technology infrastructure and environment of the CTMM increased by 0.5% in our operations, which is equivalent to in our administrative buildings, technology centers, and the CTSP, which increased the conscientious and effialmost 1,600 MWh. and branches. cient use of electric energy. This is the first year that, thanks to the partnership with the involved areas, we were able to Efficiency Initiatives – energy GRI 302-4 quantify the results obtained with the actions applied to the management of the equipment installed in our datacenters. Despite our efforts, however, in 2018 we were unable to meet the Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) target set for our datacenters as a result of unforeseen changes in these buildings’ use strategy. PUE is an IT infrastructure efficiency metric that compares the total energy consumption of a datacenter (electric system, cooling system, lighting, etc.) with the consumption of the installed IT equipment (servers, storages, mainframes, etc.), and calculates the ratio of these two figures. Initiative Summary Investment (R$) Savings (kWh/year) Return (R$) As a way of increasing the share of renewable sources in Lighting Replacement of fluorescent light for LED lights in administrative and technical areas. 896,981.50 2,012,000.00 818,256.30 total supply, we started to operate a photovoltaic power Building automation Expand the automation system to improve operation management, consumption, and equipment failure detection. 0.00 457,687.00 175,975.50 plant that operates by Distributed Generation to offset the New energy sources In 2018 we operated with three photovoltaic technologies in our administrative center, one of which was considered extremely 1,247,800.00 6,310.00 22,176.00 energy consumed by Minas Gerais state branches. (photovoltaic) innovative and identified as the first ventilated façade attached to a building in Brazil. Higher performance Replacement low performance equipment for high performance equipment: new chilled water unit, electric motors, and water 1,811,442.00 1,346,050.00 748,789.00 In the first stage we started to generate 1 MW that was fed equipment control valves in our administrative buildings. back to the power utility operating in the State, CEMIG, Upgrading of 42 elevators of our Corporate Center to obtain better energy efficiency, with an energy regeneration system, higher Elevators 30,554,169.50 405,405.00 151,343.25 level of user comfort, and higher service speed. thus covering part of the energy consumption of our 200 branches, located in 133 cities in Minas Gerais (approxiImprovements in the We implemented actions in several segments of the cooling system of the CTMM datacenter environment and facilities. System 695,000.00 722,644.00 296,000.00 CTMM Cooling System improvement and upgrading actions to increase efficiency. mately 45% of the Itaú Unibanco network in Minas Gerais). Datacenter enhancement: review of how environments are occupied to increase the efficiency of the IT infrastructure and environments The second stage will run from January 2019 to mid-2019, DCE (CTMM and CTSP). 0.00 2,353,116.00 870,652.92 during we will generate and offset an additional 1 MW, which LED Lighting should cover all the consumption of these 200 branches. We Replacement of fluorescent lights for LED lights in the parking lots, infrastructure area, and external area (CTSP). 191,249.99 358.64 102,579.33 (Technology Center) plan to expand this initiative to other Brazilian regions by Kaizen Servers Enhancing and reducing the consumption of electric energy in IT environment servers (CTSP). 0.00 1,001,694.32 622,000.00 2020, to cover a higher number of branches and strengthen Reduction of mainframe the share of renewable sources to offset our consumption. components Decommissioning of components of some mainframe equipment to reduce electricity consumption (CTMM and CTSP). 0.00 238,412.20 175,296.00 We also conducted tests of new technologies and projCPU upgrading Consolidation CPUs and reuse of inactive and energized computers to avoid buying new machines (CTSP). 0.00 814,330.00 322,718.80 ects at our Butantã branch during 2017 (for further inforAutomation of branch mation, please read our 2017 Annual Consolidated Report), Automation of the air conditioning and lighting equipment of 200 branches. 5,154,633.55 530,628.00 424,502.30 equipment which allowed us to test and select the most energy effiRetrofit air conditioning Retrofit of equipment in 200 branches. 30,112,079.95 530,628.00 424,502.30 cient equipment and rolled out this equipment to our other equipment branches, such as equipment automation and consumption Distributed generation Operation of the photovoltaic power plant to offset the energy consumed by branches in the State of Minas Gerais. 358,231.00 monitoring units. Total 70,663,356.49 10,777,494.16 5,154,791.70 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 116 Emissions GRI 103-2 Environmental Management | The Brazilian GHG Protocol Program covers the methOur emissions management is based on the developduly planned dates so that it did not require firing the GRI 103-3 Environmental Management odological guidelines used to identify and register the ment of projects intended to reduce the impact that we power generators. In aggregate these actions caused emission sources and the GHG Protocol calculation methcause and offset the emissions that cannot be avoided. the reduction of diesel consumption by 161.521 liters, More than eight years ago, we voluntarily started to prepare an invenodology, by ISO 14064 and IPCC, which are organizations Compared with the 2017 results, in 2018 we posted a 6.5% which represents 386.5 tCO2e. GRI 305-5 tory of our greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Brazilian GHG globally recognized for their work in this area, which genreduction of total emissions and Scope 2 showed the Protocol Program methodology and started to disclose its results in erates a consistent output, comparable to the market. Our largest reduction. Scope 2 the Emissions Public Register which is a local platform allowing transinventory includes the emission of CO2, N2O, CH4 and HFC More than 90% of our Administrative Buildings conparent communication of data on emissions from participants of the in the calculation. In 2019, we will roll out eco-efficiency projects aimed sume energy purchase in the deregulated market, from program. The final result of our inventory will be available through the at reducing diesel consumption by power generators, renewable sources, according to the statements of the program in the second half of 2019 and may be visited here. We also In 2018 we revisited our emissions targets and started using energy consumption, and the volume of wastes disposed suppliers. We were able, therefore, to dissociate ourhad our inventory checked by an independent third party, certified by the Science Based Targets methodology for Scopes 1 and 2. in landfills. selves from the emissions from the national grid. Inmetro, which granted us the Gold Seal recognition by the program. Therefore, we set the targets for this new methodology. Scope 1 In other locations where we do not use deregulated marGreenhouse gas emissions GRI 305-1 | GRI 305-2 | GRI 305-3 | GRI 305-5 In the last year, our Scope 1 emissions totaled 19,521 ket energy, the conversion of electric energy consumptCO2e, or a year-on-year increase of 145%. The main tion into greenhouse gas emissions is made using the source of our Scope 1 emissions is the air conditioning emission factor of the National Interconnected System, equipment. which is benchmark used for this type of calculation and which is changed annually according to the system’s In our administrative buildings and our branches there electric energy supply characteristics throughout the was a substantial increase in the use of air conditionyear. The volume obtained using this conversion factor ing cooling gases due to our initiative to replace R22 decrease by 20% compared to 2017. GRI 305-5 type gases – harmful for the ozone layer – by R407C and R410A gases. In 2019 we will also try to increase the effiIn 2018, the energy electric consumption by our units 2018 Target 2017 Target 2016 ciency of the recycling of these gases. totaled 607,000 MWh, or a year-on-year decrease of 2019 target 2018 target 2017 target emissions met? emissions(3)(8) met? emissions(3) approximately 0.16%. As a result of this difference, our Absolute indicator: 19,521(3) During 2018 we streamlined the use of generators that year-on-year Scope 2 emissions dropped 23.9%, thanks 18,359.00(6) 18,900.00(6) 10,422.00 7,960 10,895.00 Scope 1 (tCO2e) 18,658(6) result in a 8% decrease in diesel consumption in our to the actions implemented in all our administrative Relative indicator: 0.187(3) 0.153(5)(6) 0.181(4)(6) 0.096 0.073 0.101 Central Administration buildings. This reduction was posbuildings, Technological Centers and branches. Scope 1 (tCO2e)/BP(4) 0.181(6) sible because we decreased the number of tests made Absolute indicator: 50,898(3) 66,848 41,103.00(6) 41,714.00(1)(6) 54,054.50(1)6) 54,340.00 in the power generation systems of our Administrative Our targets include only the emissions of our operScope 2 (tCO2e) 41,678(6) 53,736(6) Buildings and Technology Centers and reduced the operations in Brazil and should be compared to the 2017 Relative indicator: 0.488(3) 0.61(4) 0.50 0.341(5)(6) 0.400(1)(4)(6) 0.49(1)(6) ation period of generators after a power supply failure. result of 53,736.7 tCO2. Scope 2 (tCO2e)/BP(4) 0.400(6) 0.49(4)(6) Absolute indicator: Scope 3 (tCO2e) -(2) -(2) 158,263(7) -(2) -(2) 169,526 -(2) 99,556.00 The diesel-powered generators of our Technology Scope 3 Relative indicator: Centers (used in case of power supply failure) continue to Our Scope 3 emissions totaled 158,263 tCO2e in 2018, -(2) -(2) 1.519(7) -(2) -(2) 1.56 -(2) 0.91 operate for hours long after the power supply is resumed 6.6% down from the previous year, when these emisScope 3 (tCO2e)/BP(4) Total absolute as a conservative way to ensure that the Technology sions totaled 169,526 tCO2e. The main sources of 228,682.00(7) 244,334.00 164,791.00(7) emissions(6) Centers continue to operate regularly. This year, howemissions in this category were employee trans(1) Target designed using the Average Emission Factor of the Brazilian Network in 2017 – 0.0927 kgCO2/MWh. (5) Uses the BP amount estimated for 2019. ever, we conducted a study at the CTSP that evidenced portation, generation of solid waste, and business (2) We do not have a set target for Scope 3 emissions. (6) Amount referring only to emissions from operations in Brazil. that the period during which generators operate after travelling. Currently our Scope 3 does not include (3) Amount corresponding to emissions of operations in Brazil and Latin America. Fugitive emissions (7) Data from road and air mobile combustion emissions of some from Chile estimated based on the data reported in 2017. suppliers of Redecard and for the transportation of materials to a power failure can be reduced. In addition, the maintegoods and services acquired, capital assets, leased (4) Uses the actual BP amount for 2018 equivalent to R$104,200,000.00. For 2017 and 2016 the PB branches, estimated based on amounts reported as from 2017. nance of the CTMM power substation was performed on assets, products sold processing, franchises, and amounts were used. (8) The values for 2017 were updated in 2018 and started to consider the emission figures of other companies acquired at the end of 2017. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 117 investments, as laid down in the Brazilian GHG Protocol for the supply chain of large companies. Even though we Emissions Offsetting Program and Natura’s emissions. In previous years, our offsetting of Program categories for this scope. monitor the fluctuations of our Scope 3 emissions, we still In September 2017, we issued the call notice Commitment Scope 2 emissions was partial since it only took into condo not have an absolute or relative target to guide our to the Climate for carbon offsetting, in partnership with sideration the emissions of our Mogi Mirim Technology In addition to our annual monitoring of Scope 3 emissions, work towards the reduction of these emissions. We know Natura, aimed at together offsetting 500,000 metric tons Center. Finally, we defined as our strategy for this issue to we are signatories to the CDP Supply Chain program, which this is a major challenge for the coming years, since our of CO2 through independent projects, which correspond to offset 100% of our greenhouse gas emissions (from Scopes steers the carbon emission agenda and its management emissions are mostly concentrated in Scope 3. GRI 305-5 the emissions of both companies between 2016 and 2017. 1 and 2) in 2017 and the following years. We received the applications of more than 100 projects, Business travel GRI 103-3 Environmental Management from 25 Brazilian states that together consolidate a volOf the seven projects selected by the program, we picked ume of over 5 million tCO₂e. At the end of the call notice three to offset only our greenhouse gas emissions, which period, we selected seven projects to offset our emissions in 2016 and 2017 total 98,000 tCO2e. These are: Total travelled Total travelled Total travelled 2019 target(2) Target met? 2018 target Target met? in 2018 in 2017 in 2016 Kilometers – – – 178,161,381 – 227,009,386 187,197,506 (air and land) Business (land)(1)(2)(3) 1,856,278 1,999,811 1,789,386 2,078,805 2,323,491 (1) Until 2017, the target of business travel considered air travel, taxi and taxi reimbursement. (2) The assumptions previously applied for this target purposes were revised for the 2018/2019/2020. (3) Target of not to exceed 3.8% of km travelled year-on-year.​ REDD+ Manoa Efficient Stoves Project Photovoltaic A Deforestation and Degradation This is an initiative undertaken by Complex – Forest Emissions Reduction (REDD) projInstituto Perene that has helped changLocated in Areia Branca, Rio The monitoring of our emissions related to business travelcenters of Itaú Unibanco. The executive cars remain parked ect that specifically targets avoided ing the reality of the people living in Grande do Norte state, the comling is structured using data on the transportation of docat the headquarters of Itaú Unibanco (Corporate Center) and unplanned deforestation. The benethe Recôncavo Baiano region (Bahia’s plex generates clean source uments and air and road travel by employees and e third carry our officers and people is higher positions. fits offered to the affected commuLowlands). The construction of sustainpower (photovoltaic) that is fed parties of our holding company Itaú Unibanco Brasil. And nity include training the members of able cooking stoves, which also use fireback to the National Integrated to be able to control these emissions, our service providers Considering all means of transportation (used exclusively local associations and farm employwood, to replace rudimentary stoves, Grid. The project will reduce provide the requested information, which is consolidated for our activities or not) used by our employees in Brazil, we ees in subjects such as sustainable decreases significantly the volume of greenhouse gas emissions by and stored by our Travel Management team responsible to were responsible for the emission of 25,056.6 tCO₂e in 2018. agriculture and environmental eduwood used and will benefit more than replacing the electricity that ensure the accuracy of the information. cation. To date we have already 3,000 households with a technology that would be generated by fossil fuelYear-on-year, the number of kilometers traveled in 2018 acquired 10,000 tCO2e of the total has a high potential of being replicated fired thermal power plants conThe management of Scope 3 transportation includes vans, decrease of approximately 27.5% due to the streamlining generated by the project, which will in other areas of the region. As in the nected to the grid. In addition, buses, and executive cars fully dedicated to the users from of fleet use processes and monitoring, which are based on continue to generate carbon credits case of the photovoltaic complex, project this project will generate carbon our holding company Itaú Unibanco Brasil. The vans carry our GPS-based mileage tracking tools of the chartered buses, in the coming years. Efficient Stoves will also generate carbon credits in the coming two years. employees between our centers, while the buses are used as and a decrease of nine vans that carried employees to our credits in the coming two years. shuttles between metro stations and some administrative Poá (State of São Paulo) center. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 118 In August 2018, we launched the platform of the Commitment Waste GRI 103-2 Environmental Management In 2018, we expanded the scope of our composting model traceability of the correct disposal of construction waste. to Climate Program and invited other organizations to partic(disposal of food and gardening waste) from three to Additionally, we applied reverse logistics to double sided ipate in this initiative. As a result, we are promoting the volunWe generate low environmental impact waste, which is disseven centers, as a result of an expansion study. Now our scrub sponges and recycle coffee capsules and approxtary carbon market, even though it is not yet regulated at the posed in landfills and composting sites, or sent for recycling. We Pinheiros, Brigadeiro, ITM e Zona Leste administrative cenimately 15.4 t of paper towels used to dry off hands in national level. are always seeking to improve our information by expanding ters are also covered by this service, which increases the restrooms per month. our control scope and our involvement of new partners in our volume of waste sent from composting by 24%. In addition For further information on the Commitment to Climate efforts. We are constantly working with our value chain in awareto composting, we also implemented and reviewed the Solid Information Technology Program call notice, please click here. ness raising initiatives and programs to reduce and ensure the Waste Management Plan in our administrative buildings, Waste Electrical and Electronic correct disposal of waste generated by our activities. technology centers, and Wholesale banking buildings. Equipment (WEEE) Other initiatives undertaken in our administrative buildAs a financial institution for which technology is extremely Waste generation GRI 306-2 | GRI 103-3 Environmental Management ings include the use of reverse logistics for plastic cups relevant in its business, we are responsible for the proper and bottles, the replacement of cardboard boxes for disposal and return of the waste from electrical and elec100% returnable boxes (in our wholesale banking buildtronic equipment. Our IT-related activities have the largest ings), and installation of environmental collectors for impact on this category. We have a process to dispose of cigarette litter in our FL 3500 building. We also increase the waste electrical and electronic equipment since 2009 the number of selective sorting collectors, created and in this period up to 2018 we have properly disposed of the Construction Works Waste Unit that increases the over 35,000 metric tons of this type of waste. Information Technology waste electrical and electronic equipment GRI 306-2 2019 2018 Generated Target 2017 Generated Target Generated target(3) target(3) in 2018 met? target in 2017 met? in 2016 Landfill (t) 23,419.00 23,555.00 23,555.00(3) 835.00(5) 22,373.16(3) 1,084.01(4) Landfill/hazardous – – 0.00(6) – – 12.69(6) – 53.99(7) waste (t) Composting (t) – – 577.72(6) – – 466.00 – 447.65 Recycling (t) – – 837.82(6) – – 795.44 – 862.81(4) 2019 2018 Target 2017 Target 2016 Recycling of hazardous 2018 2017 2016 – – 20.96(6) – – 33.02 – 2,645.64(6) target(1) target(1) met? target(1) met? target(1) waste (t)(2) Recycling of waste electrical Outros (t)(1) – – 4,356.69(6) – – 1,757.2(6) – – and electronic equipment 178.00 235.60 882.62 274.72 4,093.79 556.78 2,643.45 (in metric tons) (1) Landfill of Inert Waste or Class A Waste. (1) The target set is only related to a part of the total waste generated, including IT equipment at branches and head office (monitors, desktops and notebooks) only. (2) In 2018 we recycled 13,778 fluorescent lights. (3) Figures updated taking into account the branch network with 100% coverage of our facilities in Brazil. (4) Figures include administrative buildings and Wholesale banking buildings only. (5) The consumption to be compared to target is 1,045 metric tons, equivalent to administrative buildings (other than wholesale banking) and technology centers. (6) Figures include administrative buildings and technology centers only. (7) Figures include technology centers and Wholesale banking buildings only. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 119 We dispose of waste electrical and electronic equipment as mass or energy, thus eliminating the disposal of remainPaper GRI 103-2 Environmental Management | GRI 301-1 in Brazil in an environmentally correct manner. When it ing material in landfills. reaches the end of its useful life (obsolescence), equipWe engage in paper-intensive activities, especially the documentation of movements and correspondence. Bearing this ment undergoes a reverse logistics and reverse manufacIn 2018, we implemented projects targeting the reuse of this in mind and in line with our constant modernization process, we are increasingly expanding the digitization process and turing process and are later reintroduced in the production equipment by avoiding the purchase of new machines and to become an increasingly digital bank, we strongly contribute to reducing paper consumption. Currently our operation is chain as raw materials. Under the current process, the total the disposal of idle equipment. In addition to the mentioned divided into digital and traditional bank and, therefore, correspondence sent to our clients represents a large portion of the disposed material is recycled by adopting the Zero Landfill benefits, these projects, implemented by the Information paper generated by our activity. concept, in which all the machine’s components are reused Technology Operation function, allow the reuse of the optical and electrical infrastructure at CTMM and CTSP. Paper consumption Efficiency initiatives – disposal of electronic equipment Volume (metric tons) Type 2018 2017 2016 Large paper rolls 1,802.87 1,662.27 1,505.95 Envelops 213.97 197.27 343.31 Correspondence to clients Forms 6.38 5.80 56.05 A4 paper 73.06 67.83 82.40 Checks Checkbooks 256.75 288.41(2) 455.30 Initiative Description Results Savings (R$/year) Investment Itaú + Network + IBBA A4 paper 1,424.63 1,498.70 1,807.00 Reuse of the SAN switches with idle + branches printing(1) A3 paper 0.48 0.60 0.30 Reuse of the optical and status. Reuse of the optical and electrical electrical infrastructure Tangibles (invoice notifications) A4 paper 2,386.10 2,680.00 2,859.00 infrastructure without the need to Upgrading of the SAN equipment and implement new infrastructure. The 32,000,000.00 0.00 Mainframe switches postponement of the Total 6,164.24 6,400.88 7,109.31 action undertaken at CTSP allowed investment in this postponing the investment in new segment by two years (1) The branch network does not request A3 paper. equipment by two years (2) Value has been revised. Consolidation of CPUs with the reuse Reuse of the optical and Swap of CPUs of the entire optical and electrical 500,000.00 0.00 electrical infrastructure We do not use recycled paper in our operations due to its overall volume of paper consumed in 2018 decreased of infrastructure at CTSP low quality for the type of printing used in the corporate approximately 4% year-on-year. Reuse of the electrical boards thus Less than 3,300 kg of environment. However, the reams of paper used in all our Electrical boards avoiding the disposal of material and the 968,435.46 230,000.00 WEEE correspondence are certified by the International Forest For 2019, we are finishing the implementation of the PDF purchase of new board at CTSP Stewardship Council (FSC), as well as other paper and furni24 program that allows us to convert a text document Total 33,468,435.46 230,000.00 ture used in our operations. directly into the pdf format to avoid it to be printed and them scanned, and we will continue to raise our employees’ Our efforts to reduce paper consumption are guided by the awareness through communications with guidelines of the existing internal streamlining and electrolysis projects. The conscientious use of paper. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 120 Eco-efficiency investments One of the ways of controlling our initiatives related prevention, mitigation and protection of environmental impacts is to keep track of our investments and expenses. In 2018, we continued to invest money and energy in the environmental management of our operations. Investments in mitigation and prevention of environmental impacts (R$) 2018 2017 2016 Waste management – treatment and disposal 3,933,033.00 2,376,744.26 2,994,983.00 Purchase and use of emission certificates(1) 608,200.00 Conduct Adjustment Agreement – management of contaminated areas and 40,584.00 40,584.00 40,589.10 restore vegetation Remediation of contaminated areas 1,166,729.06 686,916.00 747,393.20 Subtotal 5,748,546.06 3,104,244.26 3,782,965.30 External environmental management services(2) 108,563.73 861,422.90 54,957.50 External certification of management systems(2) 35,809.30 41,719.90 494,452.67 Extra expenses to install cleaner technologies/other costs 3 ( ) 3,135,720.93 8,169,790.90 6,916,813.64 Subtotal 3,280,093.96 9,072,933.70 7,466,223.81 Total 9,028,640.02 12,177,177.96 11,249,189.11 (1) Our GHG Emissions Offsetting Program has a biannual periodicity. No carbon credits were purchased in 2017 (the year it was created). (2) Expenses on legal advisory, internal and external audit, and operating costs of the ISO 14001 systems. (3) Includes investments in cleaner technologies for the administrative buildings to reduce water, electricity, diesel and gas consumption. Note: We did not identify any nonmonetary sanctions or significant fines for noncompliance with environmental legislation. GRI 307-1 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 121 Organizational profile Employees by hierarchical level GRI 102-8 Hierarchical level(1) 2018 2017 2016 Officers 121 118 107 Supervisors 14,224 13,783 13,591 Administrative 35,945 27,180 26,007 Commercial and Operational 36,700 41,738 40,928 Attachments Trainees 129 139 122 Apprentices 2,604 2,482 2,743 Interns 5,592 4,743 4,213 Total employees 95,315 90,183 87,711 Total employees under the Consolidation of Labor 86,998 82,840 80,648 Laws (CLT)(2) (1) S upervisors refer to employees of branches and administrative departments who manage people. Administrative refers to employees of administrative departments who do not manage people. Commercial and Operational refer to employees of branches who do not manage people. (2) Employees hired under the Consolidation of Labor Laws. These figures exclude Officers, Apprentices and Interns. Number of third parties 2018 2017 2016 Third parties 1 ( ) 47,832 41,293 42,115 (1) Call center and collection service providers were not included. Employees with indefinite employment contracts GRI 102-8 Commercial and Supervisors Administrative Trainees Total Year Operational Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Total 2016 6,938 6,653 13,898 12,109 27,318 13,610 44 78 48,198 32,450 80,648 2017 7,084 6,699 14,355 12,825 27,860 13,878 62 77 49,361 33,479 82,840 2018 7,373 6,851 18,467 17,478 25,489 11,211 49 80 51,378 35,620 86,998 Employees with other types of employment contract GRI 102-8 Officers Apprentices Interns Year Women Men Women Men Women Men 2016 13 94 1,925 818 2,461 1,752 2017 15 103 1,750 732 2,739 2,004 2018 16 105 1,842 762 3,107 2,485 Note: We only consider the information of the Itaú Unibanco companies under the management of the Human Resources department, except IU Seguros S.A. and foreign units. Own employees by region, age and gender GRI 102-8 Salary ratio between genders LATAM (2018 – %) GRI 405-2 Women Job category Paraguay rate(1) Uruguay rate(2) Argentina rate(3) Chile rate(4) Colombia rate(5) Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Total Officers 0.00 69.14 83.00 87.95 Region 84.40(6) 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Supervisors 83.00 86.85 88.00 88.73 South 1,938 1,337 1,247 2,212 2,213 2,260 497 501 522 4,647 4,051 4,029 Administrative 101.00 85.25 85.00 98.30 92.33 Southeast 17,950 13,627 12,855 25,065 23,635 23,291 2,822 2,864 2,941 45,837 40,126 39,087 Commercial and Central71.00 85.50 87.00 77.00 95.46 931 696 686 1,087 1,091 1,094 147 149 131 2,165 1,936 1,911 Operational West Northeast 894 665 684 1,802 1,689 1,637 237 211 201 2,933 2,565 2,522 (1) Considers only Banco Itaú Paraguay S.A. employees. Does not include outsourced workers. (2) The data correspond to Banco Itaú Uruguay. North 320 256 260 420 410 372 21 17 17 761 683 649 (3) The data refers to Itaú, Itaú BBA and Itaú Valores. Total 22,033 16,581 15,732 30,586 29,038 28,654 3,724 3,742 3,812 56,343 49,361 48,198 (4) Considers the operations of the bank and its subsidiaries in Chile. Accordingly, it does not consider the New York office or the subsidiary in Colombia. (5) Group information. (6) The ratio between Officers and Supervisors is not separately disclosed. Does not include the salary of the General Supervisor. It is calculated on the gross salary. Men Terminations GRI 401-1 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Total Region Women Men 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Total South 934 630 582 1,118 1,173 1,232 617 593 665 2,669 2,396 2,479 Region Southeast 12,602 8,789 8,021 16,961 15,925 15,658 3,315 3,261 3,235 32,878 27,975 26,914 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 CentralSouth 256 231 274 269 209 192 108 90 101 159 157 155 136 112 147 93 110 105 1,021 909 974 463 356 343 543 546 576 216 223 209 1,222 1,125 1,128 West Southeast 1,795 1,622 1,768 2,222 1,929 2,070 721 675 748 1,666 1,435 1,510 1,773 1,471 1,614 536 524 719 8,713 7,656 8,429 Northeast 595 451 411 892 874 883 297 270 252 1,784 1,595 1,546 Central107 105 125 122 111 139 32 15 36 76 83 92 56 77 91 30 28 51 423 419 534 North 169 151 153 218 206 197 32 31 33 419 388 383 West Total 14,763 10,377 9,510 19,732 18,724 18,546 4,477 4,378 4,394 38,972 33,479 32,450 Northeast 70 71 86 124 94 154 33 24 32 63 65 84 96 67 90 21 26 19 407 347 465 North 22 35 39 35 29 48 6 6 5 15 31 30 21 17 42 4 5 4 103 123 168 Ratio of women's basic salary to men's by hierarchical level 1 GRI 405-2 ( ) Total 2,250 2,064 2,292 2,772 2,372 2,603 900 810 922 1,979 1,771 1,871 2,082 1,744 1,984 684 693 898 10,667 9,454 10,570 Hierarchical level 2018 rate 2017 rate 2016 rate Officers 1.0 1.0 1.0 Supervisors 0.9 0.9 0.9 Administrative 0.9 0.9 0.9 Commercial and Operational 1.0 0.9 1.0 Trainees 1.0 1.0 1.0 Apprentices 1.0 1.0 1.0 Interns 1.0 1.0 1.0 (1) S upervisors refer to employees of branches and administrative departments who manage people. Administrative refers to employees of administrative departments who do not manage people. Commercial and Operational refer to employees of branches who do not manage people. Note: We only consider the information of the Itaú Unibanco companies under the management of the Human Resources department, except IU Seguros S.A. and foreign units. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 123 Contracting(1) GRI 401-1 Women Men Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Total Region 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 South 749 750 468 45 24 20 0 0 0 408 369 233 51 25 13 0 1 1 1,253 1% 1,169 1% 735 11% Southeast 5,605 5,772 4,148 1,015 680 424 4 5 0 5,329 4,524 3,066 1,097 805 495 5 6 1 13,055 15% 11,792 14% 8,134 12% Central-West 306 301 283 15 19 6 0 0 0 156 177 172 21 21 12 0 0 0 498 1% 518 1% 473 16% Northeast 249 242 219 22 15 18 0 0 0 194 203 160 14 19 16 0 0 0 479 1% 484 1% 413 10% North 96 105 72 8 11 6 0 0 0 46 61 49 11 5 7 0 0 0 161 0% 182 0% 134 13% Total 7,005 7,170 5,190 1,105 749 474 4 5 0 6,133 5,339 3,680 1,194 875 543 5 7 2 15,446 18% 14,145 17% 9,889 12% (1) The hiring rate in 2016 was calculated by dividing total hiring by region by total employees within that region. In 2017 and 2018, however, this rate was calculated by dividing total hiring by region by total employees hired under the Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT). Training hours by hierarchical level and gender (in-person and digital) GRI 404-1 Average training hours by employee (in-person and digital) GRI 404-1 Women Men Total Women Men Total Hierarchical level Hierarchical level 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Supervisors 139,191 117,412 93,706 165,551 154,782 104,162 304,742 272,194 197,868 Supervisors 19 17 14 24 23 16 21 20 15 Administrative 346,960 296,655 306,549 313,943 358,914 319,067 660,903 655,568 625,616 Administrative 19 21 22 18 28 26 18 24 24 Commercial and Commercial and 695,583 608,299 494,400 384,359 288,335 249,401 1,079.942 896,634 743,801 27 22 18 34 21 18 29 21 18 Operational Operational Trainees 12,160 17,927 9,914 20,317 21,947 16,703 32,477 39,873 26,616 Trainees 248 289 225 254 285 214 252 287 218 Interns 70,647 73,705 58,366 63,346 62,159 45,297 133,993 135,864 103,664 Interns 23 27 24 25 31 26 24 29 25 Total 117,412 1.113.997 962.936 947.516 886.136 734.629 2.212.057 2.000.133 1.697.565 Average 23 21 18 25 25 21 24 23 19 Notes: Notes: • In 2018, as we revised the methodology to present in-person and digital training hours, the figures for 2017 previously presented have changed. GRI 102-48 • I n 2018, as we revised the methodology to present in-person and digital training hours, the figures for 2017 previously presented have changed. GRI 102-48 • Supervisors refer to employees of branches and administrative departments who manage people. Administrative refers to employees of administrative departments • S upervisors refer to employees of branches and administrative departments who manage people. Administrative refers to employees of administrative departments who do not manage people. Commercial and Operational refer to employees of branches who do not manage people. who do not manage people. Commercial and Operational refer to employees of branches who do not manage people. Note: We only consider the information of the Itaú Unibanco companies under the management of the Human Resources department, except IU Seguros S.A. and foreign units. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 124 Turnover (%)(1)(2)(3) GRI 401-1 Percentage of employees with performance analyses LATAM (2018) GRI 404-3 Women Men Hierarchical level Paraguay(1) Uruguay(2) Argentina(3) Chile(4) Colombia(5) Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Total Supervisors 100 100 100 90 Region 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 Administrative 100 100 100 91 South 5.70 5.70 7.71 12.40 10.00 8.89 23.10 18.90 20.27 9.20 10.00 11.18 11.90 9.70 11.21 17.00 18.90 16.91 11.60 Commercial and 100 100 100 90 Southeast 6.20 5.60 6.67 9.20 8.70 9.36 27.60 27.10 26.48 9.50 8.20 9.65 10.80 9.50 10.22 17.20 19.00 23.58 10.00 Operational Central-West 5.60 6.30 9.42 11.40 10.50 13.39 23.90 14.40 29.68 9.90 11.10 14.53 10.20 14.00 15.14 14.40 15.20 26.35 10.30 Total 100 100 100 73(6) 90 Northeast 4.30 3.30 9.11 7.10 5.80 9.82 15.70 15.20 20.38 6.40 4.90 12.53 10.80 7.60 9.97 8.00 12.70 10.98 7.80 (1) Considers only Banco Itaú Paraguay S.A. employees. Does not include outsourced workers. The data refers to employees, does not include college interns or employees who have an employment relationship with the organization, as outsourced workers. North 5.30 7.70 9.39 9.10 7.60 13.88 34.50 52.60 24.00 8.80 10.10 15.08 9.40 8.70 21.80 13.80 23.30 9.52 8.60 (2) The data correspond to Banco Itaú Uruguay. Total 6.00 5.60 7.03 9.40 8.70 9.55 26.20 25.00 25.40 9.30 8.30 10.14 10.80 9.60 10.55 16.40 18.50 22.03 10.00 (3) The data refers to Itaú, Itaú BBA and Itaú Valores. (4) The data refers to the bank and the subsidiaries in Chile. (5) Group information. (1) C  alculations based on total terminations/(Total employees at the beginning of the period + Total employees at the end of the period)/2. Total employees at the end (6) Does not correspond to 100% because it includes only employees with indefinite employment contracts. of the period include employees at the beginning of the period plublacks employees contracted less employees terminated. It does not include Officers, Interns, expatriates and retirees due to disability. (2) Calculations based on the number of terminations in each category by the total number of employees of the same category. (3) We only consider the information of the Itaú Unibanco companies under the management of the Human Resources department, except IU Seguros S.A. and foreign units. Turnover LATAM (%) GRI 401-1 Women Men Total Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Region 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Paraguay(1) 5.94 7.69 11.84 5.77 8.07 7.12 0.00 14.29 16.67 13.82 14.48 10.26 5.30 15.12 10.78 0.00 0.00 0.00 6.85 10.82 10.01 Uruguay(2) 0.70 0.52 0.68 0.52 0.52 0.17 0.52 0.87 1.35 0.52 1.22 0.51 0.87 0.17 0.68 0.70 1.56 1.69 3.84 4.87 5.07 Argentina 3 ( ) 0.23 0.06 0.09 0.86 0.45 0.47 0.08 0.16 0.09 0.35 0.09 0.05 1.48 0.48 0.07 0.35 0.15 0.29 3.36 1.39 1.70 Chile(4) 28.40 35.00 -(6) 16.60 20.30 -(6) 15.00 28.00 -(6) 33.70 38.50 -(6) 17.60 20.40 -(6) 8.80 12.40 -(6) 18.20 22.60 -(6) Colombia(5) 9.00 11.00 14.00 10.00 10.00 8.00 9.00 7.00 6.00 14.00 21.00 14.00 8.00 10.00 11.00 5.00 8.00 6.00 10.00 11.00 10.00 (1) Considers only Banco Itaú Paraguay S.A. The data refers to dismissals of employees alone, without including interns or outsourced workers. (2) The data refers to Banco Itaú Uruguay. (3) The data refers to Itaú, Itaú BBA and Itaú Valores. (4) Considers the operations of the bank and its subsidiaries in Chile. Accordingly, it does not consider the New York office or the subsidiary in Colombia. (5) Group information. (6) The 2016 data was not presented because in that year the bank was merged and this information in not comparable with subsequent periods. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 125 Employee health and safety Diversity Employees by gender(1) GRI 405-1 Contractors are responsible for controlling data from outsourced staff. Gender 2018 % 2017 % 2016 % Employee health and safety indicators by gender GRI 403-9 Female 56,343 59.11 53,865 59.73 52,597 59.96 2018 2017 2016 Male 38,972 40.89 36,318 40.27 35,114 40.04 Rate Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Total 95,315 100.00 90,183 100.00 87,711 100.00 Work-related injuries 2.59 2.02 2.36 2.14 1.46 1.87 2.44 1.49 2.06 (1) Employees by gender, divided by the total number of employees. Working days lost 1,050.66 689.97 908.44 807.47 518.51 693.13 853.86 493.37 707.50 Employee per gender LATAM (%) GRI 405-1 Occupational illnesses 2.23 1.72 2.03 1.58 1.09 1.39 1.84 1.18 1.57 Paraguay(1) Uruguay(2) Argentina(3) Chile(4) Colombia(5) Absenteeism(1) 1.35 0.76 1.11 1.44 0.79 1.18 1.62 0.88 1.32 Gender 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 (1) Calculation of absenteeism: Absenteeism = (total days of absence for health reasons in the period/total days worked by internal public in the same period) x 100. Female 56.94 55.88 54.93 46.21 46.00 45.80 43.80 43.53 43.66 52.45 47.62 -(6) 56.60 56.82 56.71 Employees’ health and safety indicators by region (%) GRI 403-9 Male 43.06 44.12 45.07 53.79 54.00 54.20 56.20 56.47 56.34 47.55 52.38 -(6) 43.40 43.18 43.29 Work-Related Injuries (WRI) Working Days Lost (WDL) Occupational Illnesses (OI) Absenteeism (TA)(1) (1) Considers only Banco Itaú Paraguay S.A. employees. Does not include outsourced workers. This calculation includes employees and interns. (2) The data correspond to Banco Itaú Uruguay. (3) The data refers to Itaú, Itaú BBA and Itaú Valores. Region 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 (4) Chile: considers the operations of the bank and its subsidiaries in Chile. Accordingly, it does not consider the New York office or the subsidiary in Colombia. South 3.00 3.70 3.72 2,234 2,254 2,530 2.64 3.20 3.36 1.19 1.10 1.01 (5) Group information. (6) The 2016 data was not presented because in that year the bank was merged and this information in not comparable with subsequent periods. Southeast 1.46 1.30 1.88 373 373 566 0.93 0.83 1.52 1.30 1.15 1.10 Central-West 1.36 1.40 2.04 1,348 1,301 1,255 1.31 1.33 1.84 1.48 1.19 1.17 Employees by hierarchical level and gender (2018)(1) GRI 405-1 Northeast 12.20 8.50 9.16 3,909 3,338 3,977 11.86 8.23 8.96 1.85 1.75 1.47 Hierarchical level Women % Men % Total % North 2.56 2.20 1.89 1,012 958 1,073 2.41 2.26 1.74 1.15 1.10 0.96 Officers 16 0.03 105 0.27 121 0.13 Brazil 2.06 1.87 2.36 707.50 693.13 908.44 1.57 1.39 2.03 1.32 1.18 1.11 Supervisors 7,373 13.09 6,851 17.58 14,224 14.92 (1) Calculation of absenteeism: absenteeism = (total days of absence for health reasons in the period/total days worked by internal public in the same period) x 100. Administrative 18,467 32.78 17,478 44.85 35,945 37.71 Commercial and Operational 25,489 45.24 11,211 28.77 36,700 38.50 Absolute number of deaths(1) GRI 403-9 Trainees 49 0.09 80 0.21 129 0.14 2018 2017 2016 Apprentices 1,842 3.27 762 1.96 2,604 2.73 Category Women Men Women Men Women Men Interns 3,107 5.51 2,485 6.38 5,592 5.87 Employees 0 1 0 2 1 0 Total 56,343 100.00 38,972 100.00 95,315 100.00 (1) E  mployees by hierarchical level and gender, divided by the total number of employees. (1) Death by accidents commuting to work. Employees hired under the Consolidation of Labor Laws were included in the calculation. Note: We only consider the information of the Itaú Unibanco companies under the management of the Human Resources department, except IU Seguros S.A. and foreign units. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 126 Employees by age group(1) GRI 405-1 Employees by hierarchical level and age group (2018)(1) GRI 405-1 Age group 2018 % 2017 % 2016 % Hierarchical level Under 30 % Aged 30 to 50 % Over 50 % Under 30 36,796 38.60 34,182 37.90 32,197 36.71 Officers 0 0.00 94 77.69 27 22.31 Aged 30 to 50 50,318 52.79 47,855 53.06 47,285 53.91 Supervisors 920 6.47 11,231 78.96 2,073 14.57 Over 50 8,201 8.60 8,146 9.03 8,229 9.38 Administrative 12,564 34.95 20,337 56.58 3,044 8.47 Total 95,315 100.00 90,183 100.00 87,711 100.00 Commercial and Operational 15,007 40.89 18,636 50.78 3,057 8.33 (1) Employees by age group, divided by the total number of employees. Trainees 127 98.45 2 1.55 0 0.00 Employees hired under the Consolidation of Labor Laws were included in the calculation. Apprentices 2,604 100.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Interns 5,574 99.68 18 0.32 0 0.00 Total 36,796 38.60 50,318 52.79 8,201 8.60 (1) E  mployees by hierarchical level and age group, divided by the total number of employees. Employees hired under the Consolidation of Labor Laws were included in the calculation. Employees per job category level and age group LATAM (2018) GRI 405-1 Paraguay(1) Uruguay(2) Argentina(3) Chile(4) Colombia(5) Job category Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 Aged 30 to 50 Over 50 Officers 0 1 1 0 4 5 0 7 2 0 6 6 0 62 20 Supervisors 9 131 16 1 69 32 1 201 61 22 750 173 27 487 75 Administrative 112 209 8 92 163 77 152 469 120 261 886 281 368 943 124 Commercial and Operational 232 122 5 19 87 28 52 556 80 541 2,285 427 459 725 141 Total 353 463 30 112 323 142 205 1,233 263 824 3,927 887 854 2,217 360 (1) Considers only Banco Itaú Paraguay S.A. employees. Does not include outsourced workers. We hire a woman in the Officer category who is not included because she is also the Chief Executive Officer of Itaú Paraguay. (2) The data correspond to Banco Itaú Uruguay. (3) The data refers to Itaú, Itaú BBA and Itaú Valores. (4) Considers the operations of the bank and its subsidiaries in Chile. Accordingly, it does not consider the New York office or the subsidiary in Colombia. (5) Group information. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 127 Employees by hierarchical level and minorities – black people (2018)(1) GRI 405-1 Employees by hierarchical level and minorities – people with disabilities (2018)(1) GRI 405-1 Hierarchical level Women % Men % Total % Hierarchical level Women % Men % Total % Officers 0 0.0 1 0.8 1 0.8 Officers 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Supervisors 995 7.0 1,005 7.1 2,000 14.1 Supervisors 78 0.1 69 0.1 147 0.2 Administrative 3,510 9.8 3,178 8.8 6,688 18.6 Administrative 847 1.0 1,000 1.1 1,847 2.1 Commercial and Operational 6,417 17.5 3,115 8.5 9,532 26.0 Commercial and Operational 1,220 1.4 973 1.1 2,193 2.5 Trainees 1 0.8 9 7.0 10 7.8 Trainees 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Apprentices 864 33.2 369 14.2 1,233 47.4 Apprentices 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Interns 925 16.5 605 10.8 1,530 27.4 Interns 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Total 12,712 13.3 8,282 8.7 20,994 22.0 Total 2,145 2.3 2,042 2.3 4,187 4.8 (1) Employees by hierarchical level, gender and minorities (black people), divided by the total number of employees in each hierarchical level. Prior years’ reports disclosed this (1) Employees by hierarchical level and minorities (people with disabilities), divided by the total number of employees. information by dividing each category, based on hierarchical level, gender and minorities (black people), by the total number of employees of the organization. GRI 102-48 Employees by hierarchical level and minorities – black people (2017)(1) GRI 405-1 Employees by hierarchical level and minorities – people with disabilities (2017)(1) GRI 405-1 Hierarchical level Women % Men % Total % Hierarchical level Women % Men % Total % Officers 0 0.0 1 0.8 1 0.8 Officers 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Supervisors 956 6.9 960 1.1 1,916 13.9 Supervisors 64 0.08 63 0.08 127 0.15 Administrative 2,697 9.9 2,263 2.5 4,960 18.2 Administrative 611 0.74 804 0.97 1,415 1.71 Commercial and Operational 6,673 16.0 3,530 3.9 10,203 24.4 Commercial and Operational 1,315 1.59 1,071 1.29 2,386 2.88 Trainees 1 0.7 5 0.0 6 4.3 Trainees 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Apprentices 851 34.3 367 0.4 1,218 49.1 Apprentices 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Interns 755 15.9 453 0.5 1,208 25.5 Interns 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Total 11,933 13.2 7,579 8.4 19,512 21.6 Total 1,990 2.40 1,938 2.34 3,929 4.74 (1) Employees by hierarchical level, gender and minorities (black people), divided by the total number of employees in each hierarchical level. Prior years’ reports disclosed this (1) Employees by hierarchical level, gender and minorities (people with disabilities), divided by the total number of employees. information by dividing each category, based on hierarchical level, gender and minorities (black people), by the total number of employees of the organization. GRI 102-48 Employees hired under the Consolidation of Labor Laws were included in the calculation. Employees by hierarchical level and minorities – black people (2016)(1) GRI 405-1 Employees by hierarchical level and minorities – people with disabilities (2016)(1) GRI 405-1 Hierarchical level Women % Men % Total % Hierarchical level Women % Men % Total % Officers 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Officers 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Supervisors 902 6.6 947 7.0 1,849 13.6 Supervisors 62 0.07 62 0.07 124 0.14 Administrative 2,552 9.8 2,088 8.0 4,640 17.8 Administrative 613 0.70 813 0.93 1,426 1.63 Commercial and Operational 6,127 15.0 3,288 8.0 9,415 23.0 Commercial and Operational 1,345 1.53 1,103 1.26 2,448 2.79 Trainees 5 4.1 5 4.1 10 8.2 Trainees 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Apprentices 780 28.4 296 10.8 1,076 39.2 Apprentices 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Interns 708 16.8 384 9.1 1,092 25.9 Interns 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Total 11,074 12.6 7,008 8.0 18,082 20.6 Total 2,020 2.30 1,978 2.26 3,998 4.56 (1) Employees by hierarchical level, gender and minorities (black people), divided by the total number of employees in each hierarchical level. Prior years’ reports disclosed this (1) Employees by hierarchical level, gender and minorities (people with disabilities), divided by the total number of employees. information by dividing each category, based on hierarchical level, gender and minorities (black people), by the total number of employees of the organization. GRI 102-48 Employees hired under the Consolidation of Labor Laws were included in the calculation. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 128 Corporate Environmental and Social Risk Policy and Equator Principles In 2018, we had no project finance-related transaction rejected due to environmental and social issues. Finance project transactions(1)(2) closed (Equator Principles III criteria) GRI G4-FS6 Project-related corporate loans (Corporate Finance)(1) closed and assessed by using Environmental and Social Policy criteria GRI G4-FS6 Number of projects Total investment(3) (R$ million) Itaú Unibanco’s share(3) (R$ million) Number of projects Total investment(2) (R$ million) Itaú Unibanco’s share(2) (R$ million) Category Category 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 A 1 1 409.79 671.60 125.21 200.00 A B 1 2 173.44 3,027.64 27.95 701.36 B 7 1 1 144.87 123.46 1,544.83 120.10 45.00 115.73 C 3 1 859.62 2 799.25 0.34 C 6 8 1,324.79 364.89 407.20 172.80 Setor Sector Cement 1 409.79 125.21 Sugar and ethanol 4.00 6 104.37 217.37 52.18 93.89 Energy 2 1 1 214.40 2 842.81 68.94 0.34 49.18 Agribusiness 4 1.00 1 79.34 125.00 36.91 79.34 110.28 36.91 Logistics 2 2,856.43 852.19 Logistics 1 1,544.83 115.73 Hotels 1 72.66 12.26 Telecommunications 1 110.61 42.00 Infrastructure 1 746.00 746.00 Energy 1 1.00 16.00 1,095.42 16.00 244.74 Location Health care 1.00 123.46 45.00 Northeast Brazil 1 842.81 49.18 Infrastructure 2 49.53 24.77 North Brazil 1 671.60 200.00 Location Colombia 1 1 72.66 2,184.83 12.26 652.19 Southeast Brazil 5 3.00 3 87.47 1,150.50 107.38 62.70 272.28 47.67 Brazil (4) 1 2.00 125.21 South Brazil 1.00 2 123.46 61.05 45.00 46.91 Uruguai 1 409.79 125.21 Central-West Brazil 2.00 2 145.01 85.85 120.28 36.22 Argentina 3 960.47 815.00 Northeast Brazil Independent consultant Brazil 3 ( ) 2 1.00 2 57.40 29.28 1,655.44 57.40 14.64 157.73 Transactions analyzed with Total 7 7 9 144.87 1,448.25 1,909.72 120.10 452.20 288.52 1 1 3 173.44 409.79 3,699.24 27.95 125.21 901.36 independent consultant Transactions analyzed (1) Itaú Unibanco’s Corporate Environmental and Social Risk Policy. No Corporate Finance meeting Equator Principles Criteria was closed. (2) If in a different currency, transaction-day exchange rate was used. without independent 3 1 859.62 2.00 799.25 0.34 (3) Projects located in more than one region of Brazil (e. g. linear infrastructure, CAPEX for chain stores, etc.). consultant Note: Project related-corporate loans (Corporate Finance) are usually covered by existing credit limits rather than approved for specific operations. Total 4 2 3 1,033.06 411.79 3,699.24 827.20 125.55 901.363 (1) Project Finance as defined by Basel on www.bis.org/publ/bcbs107.pdf. (2) One of the Project Finance transactions did not fall into Equator Principles because of its financial volume. (3) If in a different currency, transaction-day exchange rate was used. (4) Projects located in more than one region of Brazil (e. g. linear infrastructure, CAPEX for chain stores, etc.). Notes: Brazil is a non-designated country, while Chile is a designated country. One Project Finance transaction was not included in this table because it did not reach EP triggers. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 129 Other project finance transactions closed and assessed by using Environmental and Social Policy criteria(1) Environmental and social risk in Corporate, Wholesale, Bridge loan(3) Project guarantee Total Middle Market and Retail operations 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Number of transactions Number of client analysis carried out in Wholesale 4 10 10 29 11 12 33 21 22 contracted Favorable environmental Unfavorable environmental Adequacies and Total Amount of transactions contracted and social opinion and social opinion adjustments(1) Total investment Category 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 635.00 10,340.00 10,822.00 20,555.53 26,644.63 30,013.50 21,190.53 36,984.63 40,895.50 (R$ million)(2) Itaú Unibanco’s share High 385 269 378 121 80 284 67 55 149 573 404 811 635.00 981.50 1,282.05 4,284.12 2,248.95 1,571.97 4,919.12 3,230.45 2,854.02 (R$ million)(2) Medium 979 1,067 1,383 225 108 582 117 75 185 1,321 1,250 2,150 Category of transactions contracted Low N.A. 68 185 N.A. 3 43 N.A. 8 17 N.A. 79 245 A 1 0 2 8 2 3 9 2 5 Rural clients 132 141 0 1 0 0 132 142 B 3 9 8 19 8 8 22 17 16 Restricted List 105 134 136 168 44 45 285 347 274 C 1 2 1 1 2 2 1 Total 1,601 1,679 1,946 482 360 909 228 183 351 2,311 2,222 3,206 Location of projects associated to transactions contracted Brazil 1 3 1 4 (1) Favorable opinion after measures taken to comply with environmental and social policies and regulations in force. Central-West 4 1 4 1 Northeast 2 7 7 15 7 7 17 14 13 North 1 5 1 1 5 1 1 Southeast 1 2 2 3 2 4 4 South 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 Sector Energy 3 10 10 21 11 11 24 21 21 Logistics 1 1 Infrastructure 1 8 9 Total 4 10 10 29 11 12 33 21 22 (1) Itaú Unibanco’s Corporate Environmental and Social Risk Policy. (2) If in a different currency, transaction-day exchange rate was used. (3) Based on the Equator Principles III, bridging loans address the specific requirements. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 130 Loan portfolio by sector GRI G4-FS6 Environmental and social risk on vehicle financing GRI G4-FS6 Companies In R$ million Vehicle financing portfolio percentages by sector Sugar and ethanol 5,680 Agribusiness and fertilizers 16,954 Portfolio value (R$ million) Portfolio value (% of business line) Sector Food and beverages 13,826 2018 (1) 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Banks and other financial institutions 8,328 Transportation 3,261.35 2,346.10 2,824.34 48.1 50.0 51.9 Capital goods 4,231 Commerce – sundry 29,635 Construction materials 402.91 335.54 477.48 5.9 7.1 8.8 Sundry 15,245 Power and sanitation 9,394 Light and heavy vehicles 865.00 438.59 371.29 12.8 9.3 6.8 Pulp and paper 1,988 Food 495.63 414.03 511.11 7.3 8.8 9.4 Education 1,977 Pharmaceuticals & cosmetics 5,350 Other (with portfolio value significantly lower 1,760.17 1,159.59 1,255.48 25.9 24.7 23.1 Real estate 17,887 than the four main sectors) Leisure and tourism 4,774 Total value of business line (R$ million) 6,785.06 4,693.85 5,439.70 Construction materials 4,286 Metallurgy/steel and iron 7,268 (1) Includes Itaucred, branches network and Wholesale Banking. Media 640 Mining 6,808 Vehicle financing portfolio percentages by region Infrastructure 8,850 Portfolio value (R$ million) Portfolio value (% of business line) Oil and gas 5,985 Region 2018(1) 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Petrochemicals & chemicals 9,326 Health care 2,528 Southeast 3,104.75 2,030.29 2,289.84 45.8 43.3 42.1 Insurance, reinsurance and pension plans 23 South 1,901.82 1,397.89 1,678.97 28.0 29.8 30.9 Telecommunications 2,216 Central-West 704.68 474.54 518.68 10.4 10.1 9.5 Trading 1,703 Transportation 15,760 Northeast 782.13 565.66 681.74 11.5 12.1 12.5 Vehicles/auto parts 10,104 North 291.68 225.47 270.47 4.3 4.8 5.0 Industry – sundry 9,297 Total value of business line (R$ million) 6,785.06 4,693.85 5,439.70 Services – sundry 38,571 Technology 4,215 (1) Includes Itaucred, branches network and Wholesale Banking. Individuals Real estate loans 68,724 Consumer loans/overdraft 101,372 Vehicles financing 16,497 Credit cards 83,039 Note: Among our financing tools, we currently have three categories with known negative impact: (i) carbon-intensive products, (ii) those threatening public, food and nutritional security; and (iii) those that indirectly cause damages to the physical or psychological integrity of users or third parties. This amount accounts for 2.7% of our loan portfolio. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 131 Vehicle financing portfolio percentages by size Itaú Seguros (Itaú Insurance) Portfolio earned premiums, by Portfolio value (R$ million) Portfolio value (% of business line) in numbers business line and sector in 2018 2018(1) 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 GRI G4-FS6 Portfolio earned premiums, by business line in 2018 GRI G4-FS6 Very small companies (0–2.40 million) 1,645.68 1,242.70 1,497.16 24.3 26.5 27.5 Overall insurance result Card protection insurance Small companies (2.40–16.00 million) 2,474.64 1,678.66 2,137.15 36.5 35.8 39.3 Cancellation Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) Share of Type of insurance free earned portfolio (%) premium (R$) Commercial banking 299,375,768.66 53 Middle-market companies (16–90 million) 1,735.82 1,187.12 1,210.35 25.6 25.3 22.3 Card protection 561,786,584.16 12 Financial 262,410,815.50 47 Middle-market/large companies (90–300 million) 572.10 424.97 461.35 8.4 9.1 8.5 Home 391,527,695.16 8 Total 561,786,584.16 100 Large companies (over 300 million) 346.25 160.28 127.97 5.1 3.4 2.4 Lenders 864,700,435.26 18 Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the rounding up of decimal places. Information not available 10.58 0.12 5.72 0.2 0.0 0.1 Group life 191,184,379.27 4 Individual life 1,771,801,703.49 37 Home insurance Total value of the business line (R$ million) 6,785.06 4,693.85 5,439.70 Property 61,306,346.27 1 Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) (1) Includes Itaucred, branches network and Wholesale Banking. Other 406,093,948.34 9 Commercial banking 67,139,736.07 17 Travel 19,940,027.30 0 Multiple-service Environmental and social risk on mortgage loans GRI G4-FS6 Itaú Auto and Home 484,932,985.51 10 banking 128,015,15 0 Financial 324,259,943.94 83 Mortgage loans portfolio percentages by sector​ Total 4,753,274,104.77 100 Total 391,527,695.16 100 Portfolio value of business Portfolio value (R$ million)(1)(2) Portfolio value (%)(4) Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the Sector line (R$ million)(1)(3) Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the rounding up of decimal places. 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 rounding up of decimal places. Residential property 3,295.66 4,619.03 5,940.92 5,891.88 7,099.43 9,341.20 55.94 54.76 58.07 Credit life Commercial property(1) 3,178.42 3,816.20 4,289.78 3,879.48 4,460.98 5,198.39 81.93 45.24 41.93 Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) (1) Malls, corporate offices, hotels and office buildings. Other 652,467,463.67 75.5 (2) Debtor balance + delinquent installments. (3) Debtor balance + delinquent installments + installments to be released. Financial 100,117,419.47 11.6 (4) Percentage of business line. Commercial 31,660,280.84 3.7 banking Commerce – companies not 29,680,179.76 3.4 classified Other activities 50,775,091.53 5.9 Total 864,700,435.26 100.0 Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the rounding up of decimal places. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 132 Travel insurance Individual life insurance Other insurance lines Portfolio earned premiums, by State in 2018 GRI G4-FS6 Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) Brazilian States Total earned premium (R$) Other 19,940,027.30 100 Other 1,642,939,680.57 93 Other 170,543,538.62 42.0 Acre 1,825,388.75 Total 19,940,027.30 100 Financial 122,923,019.40 7 Public Alagoas 9,393,488.88 administrating 43,298,158.79 10.7 Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the Other 5,939,003.52 0 services Amazonas 22,566,667.19 rounding up of decimal places. Services – Total 1,771,801,703.49 100 Amapá 3,025,580.35 companies not 42,817,518.96 10.5 Group life insurance classified Bahia 74,919,444.92 Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the rounding up of decimal places. Commercial Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) 39,907,860.71 9.8 Ceará 39,427,757.31 banking Property insurance Industry – Distrito Federal 48,716,884.72 Other 64,885,880.37 33.9 companies not 24,005,843.40 5.9 Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) classified Espírito 26,116,757.72 Commerce – companies not 38,870,784.78 20.3 Commerce – Civil construction 13,461,577.51 3.3 Goiás 112,435,754.81 classified companies not 49,924,124.04 81.4 Commerce – Maranhão 11,991,911.24 Services – classified companies not 8,344,256.94 2.1 companies not 11,069,371.66 5.8 Services – classified Minas Gerais 613,452,731.62 classified companies not 1,484,107.37 2.4 Caixa Econômica 5,147,288.67 1.3 Mato Grosso do Sul 20,696,368.38 Sale of food and classified 7,001,125.43 3.7 beverages Sale of food and Transportation 4,364,820.37 1.1 1,355,943.72 2.2 Mato Grosso 24,939,002.62 Industry – beverages companies not 5,160,918.35 2.7 Other activities 54,203,084.37 13.3 Pará 31,266,817.31 classified Other 1,086,804.51 1.8 Total 406,093,948.34 100.0 Paraíba 11,298,803.43 Companies operating Companies 4,915,316.18 2.6 operating in 715,675.42 1.2 in several lines Pernambuco 60,324,147.61 several lines Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the Transportation 4,859,364.96 2.5 rounding up of decimal places. Piauí 5,870,439.35 Steel and iron 666,057.32 1.1 Civil construction 4,545,900.02 2.4 Itaú Auto and Home Insurance Paraná 257,806,363.30 Other activities 6,073,633.89 9.9 Repair, maintenance, 3,531,260.93 1.8 Rio de Janeiro 594,101,926.78 installation services Total 61,306,346.27 100.0 Business line Earned premiums (R$) Share (%) Steel and iron 2,634,619.73 1.4 Rio Grande do Norte 11,807,604.09 Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the Other 458,443,275.51 94.5 Sale of construction rounding up of decimal places. Rondônia 7,612,059.24 2,384,797.38 1.2 Financial 22,145,292.62 4.6 materials Roraima 2,559,484.53 Professional Other 2,295,510.53 1.2 4,344,417.37 0.9 technical services activities Rio Grande do Sul 110,428,399.83 Sale of vehicles and Total 484,932,985.51 100.0 2,240,800.00 1.2 Santa Catarina 84,854,007.15 auto parts Other 36,788,728.96 19.2 Note: Only activities with a share of over 1% of the portfolio are disclosed. Sergipe 5,883,962.93 Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the rounding Total 191,184,379.27 100.0 up of decimal places. São Paulo 2,555,675,194.66 Note: Any minimum difference in the total sum or percentage arises from the Tocantins 4,277,156.05 rounding up of decimal places. Total 4,753,274,104.77 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 133 (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Independent auditors' limited assurance report on the Responsibilities of the Moreover, the aforementioned standards require that the The procedures selected are based on our understanding sustainability information included in the Sustainability work be planned and performed to obtain limited assurance of the aspects related to the compilation and presentation Report for 2018 GRI 102-56 Company's management that the information included in the Sustainability Report for of the information included in the Sustainability Report for The Company’s management is responsible for the prepara2018, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. 2018, other circumstances of the engagement and our analTo the Board of Directors and Stockholders tion and fair presentation of the sustainability information ysis of the areas in which significant misstatements might Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. included in the Sustainability Report for 2018, in accordance Our responsibility is also to express a conclusion on the exist. The following procedures were adopted: São Paulo – SP with the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRIprocess of engaging stakeholders and defining materiSTANDARDS) and for such internal control as it determines ality, based on our limited assurance engagement con(a) planning the work, taking into consideration the mateIntroduction is necessary to enable the preparation of information free ducted in accordance with AA1000 Assurance Standard riality and the volume of quantitative and qualitative from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, ( AA1000AS ) 2008 Type 1, which establishes the followinformation and the operating and internal control sysWe have been engaged by Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. and is also responsible for complying with the principles ing procedures: tems that were used to prepare the information included (“Itaú Unibanco” or “Company”) to present our limited defined in AA1000APS as regards the process of engaging in the Company’s Sustainability Report for 2018; assurance report (i) on the compilation of sustainabilstakeholders and defining materiality. • confirm the existence of a process for identification and ity information included in the Sustainability Report for participation of key stakeholders; (b) u nderstanding the calculation methodology and the 2018 of Itaú Unibanco, for the year ended December 31, Independent auditor's procedures adopted for the compilation of indicators 2018, and (ii) on compliance with the principles defined in AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standards 2008 responsibilities • confirm the existence of a transparent procedure for determining the materiality of significant issues; and through interviews with the managers responsible for the preparation of the information; (“AA1000APS”) as regards the process of engaging stakeOur responsibility is to express a conclusion on the inforholders and defining materiality. mation included in the Sustainability Report for 2018 based • confirm the existence of a communication process with (c) applying analytical procedures to quantitative informaon our limited assurance engagement carried out in accorkey stakeholders, and also for the presentation of a tion and making inquiries regarding the qualitative infordance with the Technical Communication CTO 01, Issuance well-defined structure in the Sustainability Report, as mation and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in of an Assurance Report related to Sustainability and Social regards the process to be able to respond to sustainabilithe Sustainability Report for 2018; and Responsibility , issued by the Federal Accounting Council ty-related issues. (CFC), based on the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, (d) comparing the financial indicators with the financial Assurance Engagements Other than Audit and Review , A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance statements and/or accounting records. also issued by the CFC, which is equivalent to the interwith the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, ISAE 3000 and national standard ISAE 3000, Assurance engagements AA1000AS mainly consists of making inquiries of manageThe limited assurance engagement also included applicaother than audits or reviews of historical financial informament and other professionals of the entity involved in the tion of procedures to assess compliance with the guidelines tion , issued by the International Auditing and Assurance preparation of the information, as well as applying analytand criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRIStandards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that we ical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a STANDARDS) applied in the preparation of the sustainability comply with ethical and independence requirements, and limited assurance conclusion on the information, taken as information included in the Sustainability Report for 2018, in other responsibilities, including in relation to the applicaa whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires the addition to the checking of the compliance with the princition of the Brazilian Standard on Quality Control (NBC PA 01) performance of additional procedures when the indepenples of AA1000APS in the engagement of stakeholders and and, therefore, the maintenance of a comprehensive quality dent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead the audiin the definition of the materiality. control system, including documented policies and procetor to believe that the information taken as a whole might dures regarding the compliance with the applicable ethical present significant misstatements. requirements, professional standards and legal and regulatory requirements. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 134 We believe that the evidence we obtained is sufficient Non-financial data is subject to more inherent limitations Conclusion and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the assurance conclusion. methods used to determine, calculate and estimate these Based on the procedures performed, described herein, data. Qualitative interpretations of the relevance, materialno matter has come to our attention that causes us to Scope and limitations ity, and accuracy of the data is subject to individual assumpbelieve (i) that the sustainability information included in the tions and judgments. Furthermore, we did not consider in Sustainability Report for 2018 of Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. The procedures applied in a limited assurance engageour engagement the data reported for prior periods, nor has not been compiled, in all material respects, in accorment are substantially less detailed than those applied future projections and goals. dance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of (GRI-STANDARDS), and (ii) that the process of engaging which is the issuance of an opinion on the sustainability The preparation and presentation of sustainability indicastakeholders and defining materiality has not been perinformation included in the Sustainability Report for 2018 tors followed the criteria of the GRI-STANDARDS and, thereformed in accordance with the guidelines established in the and on the compliance with the principles of AA1000APS. fore, were not designed to assure compliance with laws and AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard. Consequently, we were not able to obtain reasonable social, economic, environmental or engineering regulations. assurance that we would become aware of all significant However, those standards require the presentation and São Paulo, April 30, 2019 matters that might be identified in an assurance engagedisclosure of possible cases of non-compliance with regulament, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion. tions to avoid sanctions or significant fines. Our assurance PricewaterhouseCoopers If we had performed an engagement with the objecreport should be read and considered in this respect, in the Auditores Independentes tive of issuing an opinion, we might have identified other context of the selected criteria (GRI-STANDARDS). CRC 2SP000160/O-5 matters and possible misstatements in the sustainability information included in the Sustainability Report for Washington Luiz Pereira Cavalcanti 2018 or incidence of non-compliance with the principles of Contador CRC 1SP172940/O-6Ga AA1000APS. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on this information. Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 135 Declaration of Independence To the Board of Directors and Stockholders Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. São Paulo, April 30, 2019 In connection with our work related to the issue of our Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report (i) on the sustainability information included in the Sustainability Report for 2018 of Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. and (ii) on compliance with the principles defined in AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standards 2008 (“AA1000APS”) as regards the process of engaging stakeholders and defining materiality, we declare that PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes is independent of Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A., and there was no conflict of interest in the process of verifying the environmental and social data related to the sustainability information in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and local rule of the Federal Accounting Council (CFC), Resolution NBC PA 291(R1). Yours faithfully, PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5 Washington Luiz Pereira Cavalcanti Contador CRC 1SP172940/O-6 Index 2018 Sustainability Report Itaú Unibanco 136
