NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM TOP MANAGEMENT MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER SUSTAINABILITY AT NISSAN SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT INTERNAL EFFORTS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY LONG-TERM VISION AND GOALS FOR 2022 MANAGING THE ADVANCEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE ALLIANCE REFORMING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE E:ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY CLIMATE CHANGE AIR QUALITY RESOURCE DEPENDENCY WATER SCARCITY THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STRENGTHENING OUR BUSINESS FOUNDATIONS S:SOCIAL SOCIAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY HUMAN RIGHTS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION TRAFFIC SAFETY PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT LABOR PRACTICES EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT G:GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE ESG DATA EDITORIAL POLICY GRI CONTENT INDEX QUICK GUIDE FOR INVESTORS 1/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-14 MESSAGE FROM TOP MANAGEMENT The auto industry is in the midst of a significant transformation driven by technological innovation around next-generation mobility, centered on CASE (Connected, Autonomous, Shared & Service and Electric) technologies. This trend is bringing about major changes to markets and business structures. Nissan is committed to creating innovative cars and services and delivering value while complying with laws, rules, and regulations as a reliable company under the corporate vision of “Enriching People’s Lives.” Societal challenges differ depending on the times. Throughout our history, we have addressed challenges from a long-term perspective. The mindset of delivering excellent technologies to as many customers as possible has been passed down unbroken from generation to generation. This is part of our DNA. We started mass production of vehicles in Japan in the 1930s. Toward the end of the 1960s, we launched the Fairlady Z and made sports cars which most people in Japan had only dreamed of owning more accessible. We introduced the world’s first mass-market 100% electric vehicle, the Nissan LEAF, in 2010. In 2016, we introduced our ProPILOT driver assistance technology in the Nissan Serena minivan and the e-POWER electrified powertrain in our Nissan Note compact car. We have always been working to offer innovative technologies to a large number of customers. Nissan’s DNA remains unchanged. We want Nissan to evolve to be a brand that’s integral to the new mobility society. “Zero emissions” (the elimination of CO2 emissions from new Nissan vehicles) and “zero fatalities” (the elimination of virtually all fatal traffic accidents involving Nissan cars) are at the basis of the future mobility that we envision. In order for Nissan to lead in providing new corporate value through innovation, we formulated our sustainability strategy in 2018, “Nissan Sustainability 2022.” It renews our commitment to contribute to a more sustainable society through our activities in terms of three aspects: environmental, social and governance. 2/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Reforming Corporate Governance Corporate governance is at the heart of creating value. Reforming and strengthening corporate governance is a top priority for our management. Following the approval of a resolution at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held in June 2019, we transitioned to a three-statutorycommittee format. Nomination, compensation and audit committees were established. We are rigorously pursuing the separation of supervisory and execution functions. Seven out of the eleven directors who were elected at the shareholders meeting are independent outside directors. Each committee, and the board, are chaired by independent outside directors. We have created a governance structure that meets global standards. By involving independent outside directors from diverse backgrounds, we are enabling more active discussions and accelerating the decision-making process. Under the new structure, we aim to build a sound business foundation for further development, give full attention to our stakeholders, and be a company that people can trust. Business Strategy and Sustainability We are reviewing our business strategy from the standpoint of sustainability. We are shifting away from a short-term focus to build a healthy operational structure by improving the quality of sales and enhancing brand power. We are actively investing in next-generation mobility and providing attractive products and services under the Nissan Intelligent Mobility strategy. The new Nissan Skyline, which was unveiled this year, is equipped with ProPILOT 2.0, the world’s first driver assistance system to combine navigated highway driving with hands-off single-lane driving capabilities. We intend to continue developing and launching such innovative products and technologies as the basis of a business strategy that enhances brand power over the long run and improves our performance. At the same time, we are further bolstering the Alliance relationship with Renault and Mitsubishi Motors. Working Environment that Generates the Benefits of Diversity Diversity of talent is one of Nissan’s key assets. We strive to provide opportunities for people from diverse backgrounds to play an active role in turning our corporate vision into reality. The source of our competitiveness lies in our ability to create innovative products and services based on healthy exchange of different opinions and a solid understanding of diversifying customer needs. We hire people from a variety of backgrounds in terms of gender, nationality, culture, age, gender identity, sexual orientation, education, lifestyle, work history and other factors as part of our business strategy. We are embedding diversity into our DNA and increasing diversity and inclusion in the workplace to create an environment where people respect each other’s values and appreciate and interact with each other with a sense of togetherness. We are deploying training programs across all 3/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 our operations to comprehensively instill this culture of diversity and inclusion, while further accelerating the development of global leaders who can effectively direct and guide a diverse workforce. Embodying the Idea of Enriching People’s Lives As a socially responsible corporate citizen, Nissan consistently adheres to the universal principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we signed in 2004. In pursuit of our corporate vision, we will continue to deliver sustainable value to all of our valued stakeholders, and we look forward to accelerating these efforts through Nissan Sustainability 2022. Yasuhiro Yamauchi Representative Executive Officer Acting President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. 4/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-14 GRI102-19 GRI102-20 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER Accelerating Sustainability Initiatives Toward Realizing a ZeroEmission, Zero-Fatality Society In fiscal 2018, Nissan unveiled a new sustainability strategy called Nissan Sustainability 2022, including sustainability goals designed to meet the expectations of society and stakeholders. With the deepening of social issues like climate change, traffic accidents and inequality, the global economy places increasing emphasis on initiatives toward resolving them, and global corporations are expected to play a greater role than ever before. Against this background, in order to achieve our sustainability goals, we have established a Global Sustainability Steering Committee to discuss the progress of sustainability initiatives and new issues for the company. By implementing a swift PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle for existing initiatives and exploring potential ways to address new issues, we seek to further improve our performance on sustainability. Nissan Sustainability 2022: On Track to Meet Our Goals Nissan Sustainability 2022 sets goals for 2022 covering the three aspects of Environmental (E), Social (S) and Governance (G), and the initiatives to meet these goals are on track to achieve their targets. 5/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 E: Environmental The four key pillars of the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) midterm environmental plan are Climate Change, Resource Dependency, Air Quality and Water Scarcity, and initiatives addressing all four are well underway. Particularly with respect to electrification as a way of contributing to CO2 emissions reduction, we are actively expanding our efforts to establish a firm leadership position. Total cumulative sales of the Nissan LEAF, 100% electric vehicle (EV), exceeded 400,000 as of March 2019, and we plan to develop eight new EVs by fiscal 2022. Additionally, the Nissan-developed electric powertrain e-POWER, which has earned high praise from customers after seeing use in the Note and the Serena, will soon be rolled out globally. What’s more, by encouraging the adoption of solutions that take advantage of EV batteries’ ability to store and discharge electricity, we are making a powerful contribution to the realization of a zero-emission society by establishing an entire ecosystem around EVs. S: Social We are advancing initiatives to respect the rights of all stakeholders in the areas of traffic safety, diversity and inclusion, quality, supply chain, employees and community engagement. Cars equipped with our ProPILOT driver assistance technology are coming to market around the world, with cumulative sales exceeding 350,000 as of the end of March 2019. In July 2019, we announced the first car featuring ProPILOT 2.0, the Skyline, to be released for sale in Japan. With traffic accidents involving older drivers an acute concern in Japan recently, actively pursuing the development of advanced driver assistance technology helps to reduce accidents and contributes to the realization of a zero-fatality society. G: Governance Governance is the foundation of our corporate activities and a vital part of being a company that is trusted by society. Issues such as nonconforming final vehicle inspections and the misconduct of our former Chairman and other individuals led us to reassess the challenges we face with respect to compliance and corporate governance. We identified the laws and regulations that we must obey in each area of operations in Japan, and then carried out checks to ensure that every department was in strict compliance. We are currently extending this initiative to overseas operations to improve our compliance framework. Regarding corporate governance, based on the recommendations from the Special Committee for Improving Governance, at the June 2019 Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, a resolution was approved to transition to a company with three statutory committees. By clearly separating management functions from supervision and auditing, we are making rapid progress toward the reconstruction of our governance. 6/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Constantly Adapting to New Expectations from Society to Build Stakeholders’ Confidence We will continue to strengthen our internal structures and management and make steady progress on every initiative toward achieving the goals of Nissan Sustainability 2022. New issues for contemporary society are constantly arising. Our belief is that the important thing is to listen to voices from society, develop a solid understanding of stakeholders’ demands and ensure that both are reflected in flexible and fast-paced sustainability initiatives. By proactively disclosing information about the progress of all initiatives in a transparent and timely manner, we hope to maintain our position as a company trusted by all stakeholders. Hitoshi Kawaguchi Executive Officer, Executive Vice President Chief Sustainability Officer Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. 7/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT NISSAN SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT INTERNAL EFFORTS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY LONG-TERM VISION AND GOALS FOR 2022 MANAGING THE ADVANCEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT 8/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AT NISSAN GRI102-11 GRI102-15 GRI102-16 GRI102-46 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Sustainability at Nissan Guided by the corporate vision of “Enriching People’s Lives,” Nissan provides unique and innovative automotive products and services that deliver superior values to all stakeholders. As it develops as a company through its full range of global activities, Nissan seeks to not only create economic value but also contribute solutions to society as a leading global automaker. Nissan is committed to all stakeholders—including customers, shareholders, employees and the communities where it does business—and to delivering valuable and sustainable mobility for all. Furthermore, we pursue the realization of a zero-emission, zero-fatality society by actively contributing to the sustainable development of society. Corporate Vision Nissan: Enriching People’s Lives Analyzing Key Societal Issues At Nissan, top management regularly discuss key societal themes in order to determine which issues Nissan and all its Group companies should address as both a global corporation and an automobile manufacturer, and then ensure that the results are reflected in its sustainability strategy. Nissan also reviews key issues in light of the latest trends, including stakeholder concerns and interests as well as technological developments, and incorporates them into the formulation of its sustainability strategy. 9/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability Strategy: “Nissan Sustainability 2022” Today’s society is broadly affected by megatrends like demographic shifts and advancing urbanization, both of which are increasing global demand for mobility. Rapid technological advances are transforming the automobile industry, inaugurating a period of unprecedented change. To allow Nissan to lead in responding to these social trends and providing new value through innovation, the company has formulated a sustainability strategy, called Nissan Sustainability 2022, as part of the midterm plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022. Under Nissan Sustainability 2022, Nissan clarifies its activities in terms of the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) aspects (important sustainability topics). Nissan Sustainability 2022 also outlines Nissan’s initiatives toward contributing to the sustainability of society as well as its own sustainable growth as a company. GRI102-47 Key Themes for Sustainability: Realizing a Zero-Emission, ZeroFatality Society The wide availability of automobiles has let countless people enjoy the convenience that comes with automotive mobility as well as the pleasure of driving itself. At the same time, however, increased greenhouse gas emissions and traffic accidents are increasingly pressing issues for the world today. Nissan is using its position as a world-leading automaker to pursue the ultimate goals of achieving zero emissions, through the elimination of CO2 emissions from new Nissan vehicles, and zero fatalities, through the elimination of virtually all fatalities that result from traffic accidents involving Nissan cars. To this end, the company will work together by growing as an inclusive organization that supports a diverse range of employees in demonstrating their abilities and developing as professionals over the medium and long term. 10/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental: Under its environmental philosophy of “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature,” Nissan contributes to resolving environmental challenges based on social needs together with long-term vision. Nissan Green Program 2022 Nissan’s midterm environmental action plan Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) calls for actions to be taken on four challenges: Climate Change, Resource Dependency, Air Quality and Water Scarcity. Social: Nissan respects the rights of all stakeholders. Traffic safety Aiming for virtually zero fatalities in traffic accidents involving Nissan vehicles as an ultimate goal, Nissan will promote the development and implementation of autonomous driving and other effective safety technologies. Diversity and inclusion Nissan will build an inclusive, innovation-creating organization designed for sustainable development, where individual employees with diverse backgrounds in terms of gender, nationality, ethnicity, race and age can demonstrate their potential to the fullest. 11/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Quality With the voice of the customer as our top priority, Nissan will provide top-level quality in its products and services around the world. Supply chain Nissan will establish a sustainable supply chain with due regard to human rights and the environment. Employees To ensure that each individual employee can continuously learn and develop their potential to the fullest, Nissan will provide opportunities for learning that employees can access wherever and whenever they wish. Furthermore, Nissan will also aim to create lively workplaces where the health and safety of employees is the top priority. Community engagement Through activities that contribute to local communities on the themes of “zero emission,” “zero fatality” and “zero inequality,” Nissan will aim to realize “a Cleaner, Safer and More Inclusive Society.” Governance: Nissan complies with laws, regulations and rules and engages in business activities that are just, fair and transparent. Corporate governance/internal control Nissan will strengthen its corporate governance and enhance its compliance systems globally, promoting business activities that comply with laws and regulations and are highly transparent. 12/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Selecting Key Report Themes To share the company’s sustainability activities and the thinking behind them to as broad an audience as possible, each year Nissan publishes a Sustainability Report. By sharing this information, we increase the level of transparency of our actions while creating opportunities to improve our activities by incorporating feedback from stakeholders, thereby contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Reporting themes are selected on the basis of potential impact on business activities and level of interest from stakeholders. Potential impact on business activities is evaluated by referring to previously recognized issues, various sustainability guidelines, trends and current global events inside and outside the automobile industry. Stakeholder interest is evaluated based on interviews conducted as necessary with both internal and external stakeholders and analyses provided by external consultants. GRI102-12 Participation in the U.N. Global Compact Nissan actively supports a number of international guidelines and agreements, respecting international policies and standards as it conducts its business operations. Since January 2004, Nissan has participated in the United Nations Global Compact, a corporate responsibility initiative built around 10 universal principles regarding human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The U.N. Global Compact was originally proposed by U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan in an address to the World Economic Forum (Davos forum) in 1999. Businesses may pledge to support its principles of their own free will. Nissan’s sustainability management aims to enhance the full range of the company’s activities based on these 10 principles. Click here for more information on the U.N. Global Compact. 13/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-21 GRI102-40 GRI102-42 GRI102-43 GRI102-44 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Dialogue with Stakeholders Nissan defines its stakeholders as those individuals and organizations that affect or are affected by the company’s business. Our management approach aims to align corporate activities with societal needs. We focus on gathering feedback from stakeholders and building relationships of trust, reflecting this input in our operations. We pay close attention to society’s views, work to identify opportunities and risks in their early stages and provide a variety of opportunities for dialogue with stakeholders. This interaction takes place at Global Headquarters and at other business facilities in Japan and overseas. Structures are in place to ensure that feedback is shared within the company. For specific examples of our dialogue with stakeholders, see the pages introducing our sustainability strategy. 14/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Stakeholder Interests, Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Main Topics Customer service interaction, contact through dealers, websites, showrooms, motor shows, Reflect customer feedback Customers events, safety driving forum, customer surveys, (via various touchpoints) media (TV, magazines, social media), owners’ in products and services meetings, vehicle maintenance, mailing service Explain from the CEO to employees, the previous Direct contact (including whistleblowing fiscal year’s business Employees system), intranet, internal events, interviews, results and directions for surveys the new fiscal year (presidential address) Suppliers conferences, dealer conventions, Spread understanding of business meetings, direct contact, briefings, midterm plan, purchasing Suppliers and Dealers corporate guidelines, websites, dedicated portal policy for each fiscal year site etc. (suppliers’ meetings) Direct contact with IR team, shareholders Explain corporate results, Shareholders and meetings, financial results briefings, IR events, business strategies, ESG Investors IR meetings, websites, Annual Report, mailing initiatives etc. service Direct contact, joint research, studies, Governments, automotive and non-automotive organizations Undertake joint programs Industrial Associations (Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, with local governments and Business Partners WBCSD etc.), roundtables, working groups, (Blue Switch etc.) conferences, events, assistance via foundations Consider areas to conduct Direct contact, philanthropic activities, activities and activity NGOs and NPOs partnerships, donations, disaster relief activities, content (operation of events, assistance via foundations philanthropic programs) Promote activities to raise Direct contact with business facilities, local awareness of traffic safety events, plant visits, conferences, sponsoring, Local Communities in local communities traffic safety awareness campaigns, assistance (Omoiyari Light Promotion via foundations etc.) Promote understanding of global environmental issues Direct contact, philanthropic programs, plant through experiments and Future Generations visits, endowed courses, events, assistance via ride experiences (Nissan foundations, websites Waku-Waku Eco School etc.) Contact with PR team, press conferences, PR Conduct briefing on Nissan Media events, press releases, interviews, mailing M.O.V.E. to 2022 (press service, websites conference) 15/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nissan’s Approach to Shareholder and Investor Engagement Nissan’s shareholders and investors are partners in the creation of a more sustainable society. To facilitate a deeper understanding of our company, we have an active investor relations (IR) program that provides information both promptly and transparently. Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the IR function conduct constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors. To build trust, we communicate our long-term vision, the innovations we are adopting to boost our competitiveness and the latest market trends on a timely basis. The IR department reporting to the CFO is responsible for working with the relevant sections, such as corporate planning, general affairs, finance, accounting and legal affairs, to collect the information needed to make appropriate disclosures. The questions and opinions of our shareholders and investors are reported to our executives by the corporate officers in charge so that they can be reflected in our management decisions. To prevent insider trading, we refrain from conducting dialogue after preparations for the announcement of our quarterly results have begun. Communication with Shareholders and Investors To communicate with shareholders and investors, our IR team holds quarterly results briefings, meets frequently with institutional investors and sell-side analysts and responds to inquiries in a timely manner. We proactively disclose information on our operations through business briefings and participation in conferences hosted by securities companies. We also cooperate with securities companies to hold briefings for individual investors. The latest information is also available on our IR website. Each year we hold events to present our business activities to investors and analysts, focusing on themes most relevant to them and making available our divisional and regional managers to actively provide the required information. In fiscal 2018, presentations covered such topics as our product strategies and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives, the latter featuring, for the first time, our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). We will continue to disclose information appropriately to meet the needs of stakeholders and investors, thereby increasing understanding of our business. 16/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 120th Shareholders Meeting The 120th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders was held at Pacifico Yokohama on June 25 2019, and was attended by 2,814 shareholders. The General Meeting of Shareholders is an opportunity for Nissans executive team and the company’s owners to communicate directly. We aim to develop trust through these meetings and various other forms of interaction with shareholders, paying full attention to their opinions and offering careful explanations to enhance their understanding. Click here for more IR information. 17/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-11 GRI102-26 GRI102-27 GRI102-28 GRI102-31 GRI102-32 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 INTERNAL EFFORTS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY Company-wide management of specific activities under Nissan’s sustainability strategy, from setting goals to monitoring progress, is the responsibility of the Global Sustainability Steering Committee chaired by the company’s Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). The committee meets biannually and includes management representatives from functions involved with the environmental, traffic safety, diversity and inclusion, and other areas. While each function is responsible for advancing its own activities, progress is reported to the committee. Nissan swiftly implements the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle in pursuit of improved sustainability performance. As in past years, two committee meetings were held in fiscal 2018. Decisions on sustainability policies and future initiatives are made after the discussions at the Global Sustainability Steering Committee are reported and proposed to the Executive Committee (EC), Nissan’s highest decision-making body. Nissans Sustainability Decision-Making Process 18/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-16 GRI102-31 GRI102-47 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 LONG-TERM VISION AND GOALS FOR 2022 In promoting its sustainability strategies, Nissan Sustainability 2022, Nissan has established goals for 2022 in accordance with initiatives for each of the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) aspects. By 2022, we aim to achieve these goals based on our Long-Term Vision, which takes into consideration opportunities and issues in our business operations, as well as societal expectations and issues. In achieving goals for each of the initiatives, we are aiming to achieve both our own sustainable growth and the sustainable development of society. Approach to Nissan’s Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 19/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Long-Term Vision Initiatives and Main Goals for 2022 Activities of Long-Term Main Goals ESG aspects Vision for 2022 Manage the environmental dependence/impact caused by our operations and products to a level that can be absorbed by nature, and pass on rich natural capital to future generations Carbon-neutral Product CO2 emissions Achieve 90% reduction: 40% reduction of CO2 reduction of CO2 emissions from emissions from new cars new vehicles by (vs. FY2000; JPN, U.S., 2050 (vs. Europe, China) Climate FY2000) change Overall reduction of CO2 Achieve 80% emissions from reduction of CO2 corporate activities: emissions from 30% reduction of CO2 corporate emissions per vehicle activities by 2050 sold (vs. FY2005; (vs. FY2005) global) Zero new material resource use New resource usage minimization Environmental Resource Reduce Reduce new natural dependency dependency on resource usage by 30% new materials by per vehicle 70% Cabin air quality improvement: Promote research on Air Zero technical solutions quality impact Reduce VOC from MFG: Promote reduction of VOC per paint area (vs. FY2010) Water withdrawal reduction Water Zero (manufacturing): scarcity stress 21% reduction of water withdrawal per global production (vs. FY2010) 20/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75% reduction from 1995 Traffic Reduce the number of fatalities involving levels in fatalities involving safety Nissan vehicles to virtually zero Nissan vehicles by 2020 Achieve sustainable development by creating innovation through building an Improvement in ratio of inclusive organization where individual women in managerial Diversity employees with diverse backgrounds in positions and terms of race, nationality, gender, religion, inclusion Global: 16% by 2023 disability, age, place of origin, gender identity and sexual orientation can Japan: 13% by 2023 demonstrate their potential to the fullest Product Strive for top-level quality from the customer’s quality perspective Quality Sales Achieve top-level quality in all focus markets and and maintain top-level quality for sales and service service quality over the longer term Aim to establish a All of our suppliers follow Renault-Nissan CSR sustainable supply Guidelines for Suppliers Supply chain with due chain regard to the Aim to reduce our collective environmental environment and footprint through environmental data survey and human rights collaboration with suppliers Create a continuous Social learning culture at Nissan by: Launching an integrated development framework Nurture an ability to Driving manager and Learning cope with a range of employee accountability and potential future development for learning developments Providing digital Employees solutions to realize “anytime, anywhere learning” utilizing great digital solutions Reduce lost-time injuries frequency rate (globally) Realize zeroOccupational safety by 50% by FY2022 vs. accidents, zeroand FY2016 illnesses and a safe health (Total lost-time injury workplace cases ÷ total working hours × 1 million) All regions are executing philanthropy programs for Community Realize a cleaner, safer and more inclusive strategic areas, such as engagement society “zero emission,” “zero fatality” and “zero inequality” 21/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enhance monitoring of each compliance risk area, and establish framework to oversee A fully functioning framework for the progress of each Compliance prevention of conduct violations and for monitoring activity compliance at Nissan globally Enhance third-party compliance system to Governance ensure entire Nissan business process is compliant Achieve benchmark levels Achieve benchmark levels for maintenance for maintenance and and enhancement of information security, Risk enhancement of prevention of information leaks, damage management information security in limitation and maintenance of transparency each area, including new in the event of leaks environments and areas 22/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-29 GRI103-2 MANAGING THE ADVANCEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY PDCA Cycle to Promote Sustainability At Nissan, sustainability activities are promoted through the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle. After the Global Sustainability Steering Committee and Executive Committee (EC) decide the overall direction on sustainability initiatives, progress on activities is managed, societal views are incorporated into corporate activities, and external trends are analyzed. PDCA Cycle Working with Dealerships Nissan undertakes various measures to ensure that its approach to compliance is shared with dealerships and to enhance its internal controls. We are strengthening lines of communication with dealerships to further improve our sustainability management. 23/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Working with Dealerships for Sustainability Management To promote consistency in the sustainability management approaches taken by Nissan and its dealerships, we carry out activities on an ongoing basis aimed at helping dealerships in Japan enhance their compliance. Nissan organizes self-inspection programs at all dealerships to enhance understanding of compliance matters and improve their compliance management status. The dealerships check their current compliance status and issues based on Nissan’s self-assessment checklists and use the PDCA cycle to make voluntary improvements. Nissan also annually updates, edits and expands the checklists based on audit results, informing dealerships of changes and ensuring compliance. The program status is shared among applicable Nissan departments and reports are made to the Board of Directors of dealerships as necessary. Through measures to check improvements and their effectiveness, and a unified approach with dealerships, Nissan strives to further improve its sustainability management. When major compliance issues occur, the legal, communications, external and government affairs and other applicable Nissan departments work together with dealers to take prompt and appropriate action. 24/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT Today companies are assessed on their environmental and social performance as well as their financial performance. An increasing number of investors use these assessments to guide their socially responsible investment (SRI) decisions. To meet these investor needs, Nissan takes a focused approach to sustainability activities and proactively discloses information about its business operations. Our initiatives for sustainability have received high praise from external assessors. FTSE4Good Index Series Nissan continues to be a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index, an ESG Equity Index Series of FTSE, after its 2018 review. Click here for more information on the FTSE4Good Index Series. FTSE Blossom Japan Index Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE Blossom Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The Blossom Japan Index are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products. Nissan continues to be a constituent of the FTSE Blossom Japan Index for the third consecutive year. Click here for more information on the FTSE Blossom Japan Index 25/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CDP Climate Change Program In the CDP Climate Change Report, announced in January 2019, Nissan received a Leadership-level ranking for the fifth straight year. Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators 2018–19 For the sixth consecutive year, Nissan was selected as one of the Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators by Clarivate Analytics. In deciding this award, Clarivate Analytics uses its proprietary database of patent information to analyze not just recipients’ advanced and innovative technologies but also their development of solutions with broad application in the real world. The award recognizes the most innovative companies and organizations in all industries around the world. Development Bank of Japan Environmental Ratings As well as being recognized by the Development Bank of Japan as a “company with excellent advanced environmental initiatives,” the bank’s highest environmental rating, Nissan’s outstanding evaluation results also entitled it to a Special Prize reserved for model corporations. 26/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-12 CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS With the world population expected to reach nine billion by 2050, societies are facing a range of issues, such as climate change, poverty and ongoing urbanization. To deal with such issues, the United Nations has adopted a set of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and companies have an increasingly important role to play in achieving these goals. The automobile industry, too, faces an increasingly important responsibility to provide value to society by delivering safe, secure and sustainable mobility for all. Nissan supports the SDGs. 27/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Goal Nissan’s FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 SDG Nissan’s Approach Indicators Targets Targets Contribution Results Results Results Through community engagement activities, aim to realize a cleaner, Improving 1 1.2 safer and more livelihoods inclusive society where everyone is given equal opportunities. Ascertain the needs of Emergency areas affected by 2 2.1 food natural disasters, assistance providing supplies and other support. Number of fatalities from Reduce the traffic accidents 75% reduction Reducing fatalities by taking involving (Most 72% 73% compared to 3.6 traffic measures in the areas Nissan recent data reduction reduction 1995 levels by accidents of vehicles, individuals vehicles is 2017) 2022 and society. compared to 3 1995 level (Japan) Improve air pollution in Reducing urban areas through 3.9 health impacts the spread of zeroemission vehicles, etc. Provide educational programs that make Supporting 4.2 use of the knowledge youth 4.3 and technologies built education up during business activities. 4 Promote understanding Promoting of sustainability among understanding 4.7 employees, sales of companies, business sustainability partners and others. Promote support for advancement of women Advancing in the workplace 5.1 gender globally through equality diversity and inclusion and community engagement activities. 5 Establish an inclusive organization where Ratio of Advancing individual employees Global target managerial 5.5 gender with diverse 14% 14% 13.6% of 16% by posts filled by equality backgrounds can 2023 women demonstrate their potential to the fullest. Manage and reduce 21% reduction Rate of water usage at all of in water usage reduction in Improving production plants at water usage 6 6.4 efficiency producing Nissan 15.7% 16.2% 18.7% manufacturing per vehicle in water usage vehicles and parts plants across produced (vs. located all over the the world by 2010) world. 2022 28/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Promote adoption of renewable energy according to the characteristics of each region by taking three Renewable approaches: generating Increasing energy usage its own power in 7.2 renewable rate in 9.2% 10.0% 10.2% company facilities; energy usage manufacturing sourcing energy with a plants 7 higher proportion of renewables; and leasing land, facilities and other Nissan assets to power companies. Promote initiatives to Improving Energy per reduce energy 7.3 energy vehicle 1.80 MWh 1.68 MWh 1.73 MWh consumption in the efficiency produced manufacturing process. Encourage the growth of Economic the world economy 11.7 trillion 12 trillion 11.6 trillion 16.5 trillion 8.1 Net sales development through automobile yen yen yen yen (2022) manufacture and sales. Provide every member of Offering a diverse workforce with Hours per 8.2 learning opportunities for self 28.8 30.6 21.5 trainee opportunities development “anytime and anywhere.” Promote workstyle reforms that provide a crucial foundation for Establishing supporting diversity and Employee 8.5 4.3% 5.4% 6.2% decent work inclusion, allowing turnover rate employees with a range of values and life needs 8 to perform at their best. Promote initiatives based on the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement Respect for in recognition of the U.N. 8.7 human rights Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as the standard reference. Set up occupational health and safety management systems Lost-time Reducing and put in place injuries 8.8 industrial 0.36 0.37 0.35 structures for the steady frequency rate accidents implementation of (Japan) employee safety and health activities. Work to protect the environment through Investment: Investment: Investment: business activities and Environmental 3.87 billion 4.67 billion 3.79 billion the provision of conservation yen, Cost: yen, Cost: yen, Cost: revolutionary products, costs (Japan) 177 billion 174 billion 171 billion technologies and yen yen yen Improving services. environmental 9 9.4 preservation Solicit the necessary technology facility proposals from each global site, preferentially allocating investment based on the benefit in CO2 reduction compared to project costs. Establish an inclusive workplace where Advancing individual employees 10 10.2 diversity with diverse backgrounds can demonstrate their potential to the fullest. 29/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Through community engagement activities, and together with Creating partners such as NGOs, 11.1 sustainable aim to realize a cleaner, cities safer and more inclusive society where everyone is given equal 11 opportunities. Contribute to the development of a Establishing sustainable mobility resilient 11.2 society through use of transport electric vehicles, infrastructure autonomous driving and other technologies. VOC emissions 11,933 tons 11,152 tons 10,166 tons (main regions) NOx emissions 430 tons 619 tons 418 tons Reduce air pollutants Reducing 12.4 from the manufacturing SOx emissions 31 tons 36 tons 34 tons air pollutants process. Emissions of (Most substances 4,472tons 4,422 tons recent data designated by is 2017) PRTR Incorporate the three Rs End-of-life 12 at the new car design vehicle 99.7% 99.7% 99.6% stage and reduce waste recovery rate materials. (Japan) Reducing 12.5 BAU –2% waste Reduce waste materials 10.2% (Japan) and from the manufacturing Waste reduction (Japan) BAU –1% 3% 10.5% process with methods rate (BAU ratio) 2.6% (overseas) of such as recycling. (Overseas) waste reduction Providing Provide stakeholders information with information through 12.6 about a sustainability report sustainability and other media. CO2 emission Reduce CO2 reduction from emissions by Reduce CO2 emissions new cars (vs. 40% relative 32.6% 33.4% 33.0% from new cars. FY2000: Japan, to FY2000 U.S., Europe, levels by China) FY2022 Reducing greenhouse Reduce CO2 13 13.1 gas CO2 emission emissions by emissions Reduce CO2 emissions reduction per 30% relative 22.3% 29.2% 31.4% from corporate activities. vehicle sold (vs. to FY2005 FY2005) levels by FY2022 Use carbon credits and Credit amount 43,424 t-CO 45,477 t-CO 42,787 t-CO reduce CO2 emissions. (Spain) 2 2 2 Manage the water quality of waste water at Preventing all of our manufacturing 14 14.1 marine sites according to pollution standards that are even stricter than local regulations. Based on the U.N. Millennium Ecosystem Assessment framework, Preserving identify issues and 15 15.5 biodiversity implement initiatives that include cooperation with outside organizations. 30/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Significant violations of laws and Respect Strengthen the legal regulations 16.3 for the rule order through strict None None None which resulted of law adherence to law. in government penalties (Environment) 16 Thoroughly comply with Preventing export control laws and illegal 16.4 regulations that relate product to national security trading issues. Reduce violations by Reducing carefully following the 16.5 corruption Nissan Global Antiand bribery Bribery Policy. Technological Serve as a technology cooperation leader in the automobile 17 17.16 toward industry through the a sustainable Renault-Nissansociety Mitsubishi alliance. 31/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Alliance The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance is the longest-lasting and most productive cross-cultural partnership in the auto industry. The goal of the Alliance is to turbocharge its member companies’ growth and performance. In 2018, the Alliance sold more than 10.76 million vehicles, maintaining its position as the world’s largest automotive group in terms of passenger car and light commercial vehicle (LCV) sales. The Alliance member companies offer vehicles under 10 brands: Nissan, Infiniti, Datsun, Venucia, Renault, Renault Samsung, Mitsubishi, Dacia, Lada and Alpine. Alliance Operating Board On March 12, 2019, Jean-Dominique Senard, Chairman of Renault, Hiroto Saikawa, CEO of Nissan at the time, Thierry Bollore, CEO of Renault, and Osamu Masuko, CEO of Mitsubishi Motors at the time, signed a letter of intent committing to a “fresh start” for the Alliance including the creation of an Alliance operating board. The new Alliance Board will be the sole body overseeing the operations and governance of the Alliance, undertaking projects to drive incremental value for the three member companies. Technology Leadership The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance is working to build the vehicle of the future: electric, autonomous and connected. The Alliance is the undisputed leader in zero-emission mobility, with more than 725,000 electric vehicles sold globally since its first EV, the Nissan LEAF, went on sale in December 2010. The Nissan LEAF remains the world’s best-selling EV and Renault ZOE the leading EV in Europe. In March 2018, the Alliance announced the creation of a Business Development function under the leadership of Hadi Zablit, focused on future activities and breakthrough innovation. This includes development of the Common Module Family A-segment platform, outside partnerships, connected vehicles and mobility services, as well as Alliance Ventures. 32/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Announced in January 2018, Alliance Ventures is a new corporate venture capital fund that plans to invest up to $1 billion to support open innovation over five years. The fund prioritizes open innovation in new mobility, including electrification, autonomous systems, connectivity and artificial intelligence. It is the largest corporate venture capital fund in the automotive industry. GRI102-13 World Business Council for Sustainable Development Membership The Alliance is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The WBCSD is an international association of forward-thinking companies that galvanizes the global business community to create a sustainable future for business, society and the environment. 33/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-14 GRI102-15 GRI102-19 GRI102-23 GRI102-28 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 Reforming Corporate Governance In November 2018 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. announced it had confirmed matters related to the misconduct of the company’s former Chairman and other individuals that had been discovered through an internal investigation spurred by whistleblower reporting. In light of this incident, we recognized the urgency of reforming and strengthening our system of corporate governance, and in December 2018 established the Special Committee for Improving Governance, which consists of three independent outside directors and four independent third-party committee members. In line with the recommendations of the committee, in March 2019 it was confirmed that preparations would be made to transition to a company with three statutory committees in order to construct a sound system to serve as a foundation for future business activities. The Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 25, 2019 approved amendments to the articles of incorporation and the transition to a company with three statutory committees, marking the start of the new system. In addition, in order to facilitate the new system, detailed rules and policies were established or amended on for the new system of governance, including corporate governance guidelines, standards of director independence, board and committee regulations, and general internal control policies. Governance is the foundation of our corporate activities and an indispensable part of being a company that is trusted by society. We will continue to engage in our efforts to improve corporate governance as a top-priority management issue, while also developing our business activities with an eye to the demands of society and our social responsibility so that we can contribute to the development of a sustainable society. See below for more details about Corporate Governance. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/GOVERNANCE/g_report.pdf https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/PROFILE/CORPORATEGOVERNANCE/ 34/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Message from Chair of the Board of Directors Yasushi Kimura At the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held in June 2019, I was selected as one of the independent outside directors of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. and appointed as the Chair of the Board of Directors. In recent years, the automobile industry is being called on to play an increasingly important role in helping to realize a sustainable society. It goes without saying that Nissan must continue providing value to all of its stakeholders through contributing further to technical innovation and providing beneficial mobility to society, but at the present time another particularly pressing issue for us is strengthening the governance and compliance at the foundation of all those activities. I have many years of management experience in the oil industry, a field that has brought important value and change to people’s lives and the global environment. Both the oil and automobile industries have long sustained and contributed to the affluence of people and prosperity of society, and both are now approaching a major turning point in relation to the issue of realizing a sustainable society. One might say that these industries must undergo significant structural reforms in order to better balance affluence with sustainability. As the Chair of the Board of Directors, I intend to draw on my management experience to date to allow the Board of Directors to operate in a way that enables lively discussions and provides effective advice and supervision to executive officers. The decision was made at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders for Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. to shift to a three-statutory-committee system, and in order to guarantee the effectiveness of the new system the Board of Directors will function to supervise the executive officers. For us to regain the trust of our shareholders and all other stakeholders, it is vital that we have a reliable system of management in place. I want to engage in managing and invigorating the Board of Directors in the spirit of transparency and impartiality. I am confident that the various experiences and perspectives of the independent outside directors, who come from a wide variety of backgrounds, will contribute greatly to further developing Nissan’s diversity—already one of the company’s strengths. With the automobile industry undergoing major changes involving electrification, intelligent functions and new mobility services, I intend to ensure that the Board of Directors fulfills its duties so that we can sustainably raise our corporate value and contribute further to the sustainable development of society. Yasushi Kimura Chair of the Board of Directors Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. 35/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY FOR ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE PRODUCT INITIATIVES CORPORATE ACTIVITY INITIATIVES AIR QUALITY RESOURCE DEPENDENCY WATER SCARCITY THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STRENGTHENING OUR BUSINESS FOUNDATIONS 36/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY Nissan’s Understanding of Environmental Issues Nissan’s Steps to Address Environmental Issues Environmental Principles Global Environmental Management Framework and Governance System Environmental Action Plan: Nissan Green Program 2022 Key Issues and Challenges GRI102-12 GRI102-15 GRI103-1 Nissan’s Understanding of Environmental Issues Environmental and social issues are attracting more and more attention in recent years. With the world’s population expected to reach 9 billion by 2050, society faces problems in areas such as poverty and hunger, energy, climate change and various conflicts. To address these issues, the United Nations adopted a resolution in September 2015 titled “Transforming Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” The Agenda contains 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 targets, and there are high expectations that corporations as well as nations will play a major role in realizing the SDGs. Nissan supports the SDGs, as it recognizes the growing importance of delivering safe, secure and sustainable mobility for all and providing value to society. The auto industry is dependent on the global environment in complex and diverse ways, while also having significant impact on the environment. Nissan is tackling a range of issues to promote sustainability by advancing measures to mitigate climate change and conserve energy, preserve air quality and other natural capital, use mineral resources efficiently, properly manage chemical substances, efficiently allocate scarce resources and promote good health. We are also restructuring our business to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. As a global automaker, we take active steps to identify the direct and indirect environmental impacts of our activities, working with business partners and society to minimize the negative impacts of our 37/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 products and services throughout their lifecycle. We acknowledge that our activities and efforts must be continuously improved and advanced; we seek to provide greater value to society by delivering sustainable mobility for all while alleviating environmental impacts associated with climate change, resource dependency, water use and other issues. We decide which environmental priorities we address and to what degree based on social trends, materiality assessment results and consultations with various stakeholders. * Click here for more information on how Nissan supports the SDGs. 38/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-29 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 Nissan’s Steps to Address Environmental Issues To positively contribute to the resolution of global environmental issues, Nissan believes in the importance of listening to diverse voices in society and undertaking an assessment process to identify priority issues. These materiality assessments involve analyzing latent opportunities and risks, determining material issues that are of mutual relevance to Nissan and our stakeholders and drafting mediumto long-term environmental strategies. In assessing environmental materiality, we applied the methods of the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR),* developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) in cooperation with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the Meridian Institute based on the U.N. Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). As a result, we specified three priority areas on which we should focus as an automaker: Procurement of Energy, Procurement of Material Resources and Usage of Water Resources. A fourth area that is linked directly to people’s health—Air Quality—was cited as being within the scope of consideration, as the swelling of urban populations and economic development are often accompanied by deteriorating air quality. These four areas were analyzed inhouse in terms of opportunities and risks for Nissan with reference to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, centered on the SDGs, as well as the discussions at the World Economic Forum, the Paris Agreement adopted at the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) and other global agendas. Through direct discussions with international environmental experts, investors and NGOs/NPOs, as well as through separate dialogues with our Alliance partners, we subsequently identified Climate Change, Resource Dependency, Air Quality and Water Scarcity as our four key pillars. We further analyzed these key environmental issues and their subcategories in terms of importance for our stakeholders and relevance for Nissan. Mind maps were created reflecting these priorities. In order to create new value by contributing to the resolution of the four environmental issues, we are actively strengthening our business foundations through continuous stakeholder dialogues. * Click here to read “Ecosystem Services and the Automotive Sector,” a report outlining the conclusions of the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review conducted by Nissan. 39/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Materiality Matrix (Environment) Nissan relevance High Very high Extremely high Electrification Energy efficiency at Fuel economy facilities Transition and Extremely high Emissions from physical risks products, in-cabin air induced by climate quality change Human health Introduction of renewable energy at facilities Emissions from facilities Reduce, reuse, recycle Promotion and Stakeholder Material sourcing development of MaaS relevance Very Resource efficiency (Mobility as a high Service)* Wastewater and landfill management Water use at facilities Stakeholder engagement Chemical substance management Occupational health and safety Ecosystem services High and biodiversity * MaaS: Car sharing and other mobility services that do not require actual car ownership. 40/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-16 Environmental Principles Nissan’s Corporate Environmental Principles were established to realize its Corporate Vision: “Enriching People’s Lives.” We provide customers with innovative products and promote the effective use of energy and resources by diversifying our sources and making active use of renewable energy and recycled materials. These are just some of the ways in which Nissan is striving to achieve “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature.” To this end, we have clearly defined our environmental principles and vision, including our ultimate goal: “To reduce the environmental impact and resource consumption of our corporate operations and vehicles throughout their lifecycle to a level that can be absorbed naturally by the Earth.” This means endeavoring to leave as small an ecological footprint as possible. Nissan’s Environmental Philosophy: A Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature In addition to deepening our understanding of the environment, we conduct all of our operations, including production and sales, with consideration for people, society, nature and the Earth, as a means of contributing to the building of a better society. 41/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ultimate Goal We will manage the environmental impact caused by our operations and products to a level that can be absorbed by nature and pass on rich natural capital to future generations. What We Want to Be: A Sincere Eco-Innovator Sincere: Proactively address environmental challenges and reduce our impact on the environment. Eco-Innovator: Develop a sustainable mobility society through innovative technology in products and services. 42/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-20 GRI102-31 Global Environmental Management Framework and Governance System To promote comprehensive environmental management as a global company while responding to a diverse array of environmental issues, Nissan has a governance system built on dialogue and partnership with each region and many corporate functions, as well as with a variety of stakeholders. The Global Environmental Management Committee (G-EMC), co-chaired by a board member, determines overall policies and the content of reports put before the Board of Directors. Its meetings are attended by corporate officers chosen based on the issues to be discussed. Executives also clarify the risks and opportunities before the company and determine the specific programs to be undertaken by each division, using the PDCA cycle to manage and operate the environmental programs efficiently. In addition, environmental risks are regularly reported in the Internal Control Committee meetings to strengthen corporate governance. Corporations today are expected to disclose their environmental initiatives and related decisions in a reliable and transparent manner. We actively communicate with a broad range of stakeholders through our Sustainability Report and by answering inquiries from various environmental rating agencies. Global Environmental Management Framework 43/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental Management Organization 44/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental Action Plan: Nissan Green Program 2022 We first announced the Nissan Green Program (NGP) midterm environmental action plan in 2002 to achieve our environmental philosophy of “A Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature” and to ultimately reduce our environmental dependence and impact to levels that nature can absorb. Under NGP2016, launched in fiscal 2011, we fully achieved our targets for the four key initiatives of zeroemission vehicle penetration, fuel-efficient vehicle expansion, corporate carbon footprint minimization and natural resource use minimization. In fiscal 2017, we launched NGP2022,* annually disclosing the indices and achievements for the activities undertaken in the four key initiatives. We are accelerating our efforts to address environmental issues, not only in manufacturing-related divisions like R&D and production but also in sales and services, while strengthening our business foundations and creating social value. Evolution of NGP * Click here for more information on NGP2022. 45/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-29 GRI102-31 Key Issues and Challenges Under NGP2022, we will address the following key issues, striving not just to attain compliance but also to meet society’s expectations and to realize our long-term vision. Climate Change: We aim for carbon neutrality Promote society’s decarbonization through vehicle electrification/intelligence and innovative future monozukuri Resource Dependency: We aim to eliminate the use of new material resources Create systems that use resources efficiently and sustainably, and promote services that use vehicles more effectively (circular economy) Air Quality: We aim for zero impact Ensure cleaner exhaust emissions and create a comfortable in-cabin environment to protect human health and reduce the impact on ecosystems Water Scarcity: We aim for zero stress Reduce water consumption and manage water quality with monozukuri that is considerate of impact and dependency on ecosystems NGP2022 will contribute to the achievement of our new midterm plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022, announced in November 2017. 46/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NGP2022 Action Plan Activities NGP2022 Objectives FY2018 Results Climate change (Product) Long-term vision: Achieve 90% reduction of CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 2050 (vs. 2000) 40% reduction of CO2 emissions Product CO2 emission 1 from new cars (vs. FY2000; Reduced by 33.0% reduction Japan, U.S., Europe and China) Launched Nissan LEAF e+. Nissan LEAF retained its position 2 Solid EV leadership — as the world’s best-selling EV, with accumulated sales of 400,000 units Pilot program with connected 3 Support driver’s behavior Activities underway cars Global expansion of V2X for 4 Expansion of vehicle usage energy management (Japan, Promoted expansion of usage U.S. and Europe) Climate change (Corporate) Long-term vision: Achieve 80% reduction of CO2 emissions from corporate activities by 2050 (vs. 2005) Overall reduction of CO2 30% reduction of CO2 emissions 5 emissions from corporate per vehicle sold (vs. FY2005; Reduced by 31.4% activities global) 36% reduction of CO2 emissions Reduction of CO2 emissions 6 per vehicle produced (vs. Reduced by 33.7% at manufacturing sites FY2005; global) 12% reduction of CO2 emissions Reduction of CO2 emissions per production (vs. FY2005; 7 Reduced by 14.3% of logistics Japan, North America, Europe and China) Reduction of CO2 emissions 12% reduction of CO2 emissions 8 at offices (including R&D Reduced by 12.7% per floor area (vs. FY2010) sites) 12% reduction of CO2 emissions Reduction of CO2 emissions 9 per floor area (vs. FY2010; Reduced by 12.6% at dealers Japan) Increased rate of renewable Expansion of renewable Expansion of renewable energy 10 energy use in manufacturing energy use introduction plants to 10.2% 47/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Air quality Cabin air quality Promotion of research on 11 Activities underway improvement technical solutions Promotion of VOC emission Reduction of VOC emissions 12 reduction per paint area (vs. Reduced by 27.2% at manufacturing sites FY2010) Resource dependency Long-term vision: Reduce dependency on new materials by 70% Development of Promotion of research on 13 Development underway biomaterials technical solution Implementation of the Alliance Proper use of chemical Strengthened Alliance policy and 14 policy on chemical substance substances continued steady implementation management New resource usage 30% reduction of new natural Promoted activities toward 2022 15 minimization resource usage per vehicle target Expansion of Duplation of remanufactured Promoted activities toward 2022 16 remanufactured parts item coverage (vs. FY2016) target Expansion of the EV battery 17 Expansion of battery reuse Promoted EV battery reuse reuse business Adoption of die-less Plan and implement technical 18 Development underway forming development Waste reduction BAU 2% (Japan) and BAU 1% Reduced by 10.2% (Japan) 19 (manufacturing) (overseas) reduction of waste Reduced by 2.6% (overseas) Waste to landfill reduction Reduced waste to landfill ratio to 20 Landfill ratio reduction (manufacturing) 4.0% (global) Water scarcity 21% reduction of water Water withdrawal reduction 21 withdrawal per global production Reduced by 18.7% (manufacturing) (vs. FY2010) 48/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Business foundations Implementation of our Adhered to environmental 22 Governance enhancement environmental compliance policy compliance policy Continued to reduce Measure lifecycle environmental environmental impact, including 23 Further application of LCA impact of vehicle and new of products with electrification technology technologies Implementation of environment Improved score ranking by data survey to promote 24 Engagement with suppliers conducting CDP surveys and engagement and reduce engaging directly with suppliers environmental impact THANKS activities Further promotion of Supplier Continued to promote THANKS 25 promotion THANKS activities activities Made substantial revisions to the Nissan Green Purchasing Nissan Green Purchasing 26 Adoption of updated policy Guidelines in line with NGP2022, Guidelines and adhered to updated guidelines Education program for the Global expansion of Nissan 27 Conducted trial activities in Brazil next generation Waku-Waku Eco school program Continued joint projects with Collaboration with NGOs for Enhancement of collaboration 28 WWF and Conservation ecosystem conservation and partnerships with NGOs International 49/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY FOR ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE Toward a Carbon-Neutral Society Nissan’s Steps to Reduce CO2 Emissions Efforts at Every Link in the Value Chain Building a Resilient Climate Change Strategy GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Toward a Carbon-Neutral Society In 2015, the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) adopted the historic Paris Agreement to keep the increase in global temperature to “well below” 2 degrees Celsius. At COP24, held in 2018, parties agreed on concrete guidelines to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement, namely, to achieve the peaking of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as early as possible and to strike a balance between GHG emissions from human activity and carbon absorption by nature by the second half of this century. One of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), announced in 2015 as part of its 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, is to “take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.” Nissan is responding to these developments by focusing on electrification and other innovative technologies and by promoting decarbonization through reductions in CO2 emissions across the value chain, including by suppliers. 50/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nissan’s Steps to Reduce CO2 Emissions The business structure of the automobile industry is changing greatly in the face of demands to reduce CO2 emissions and dependence on fossil fuels. As a global automaker, Nissan considers emissions across the entire value chain it shares with its suppliers, from procurement of raw materials to transportation and operation of vehicles. We understand how important it is to balance environmental initiatives with business activities, and strive to reduce emissions through new technology development, renewable energy use and other measures. Efforts at Every Link in the Value Chain The Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) aims to achieve carbon neutrality by reducing emissions from our corporate activities, products and services. CO2 Emissions in the Value Chain* * Actual emissions in 2018. 51/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-11 GRI102-15 Building a Resilient Climate Change Strategy The incremental move toward decarbonization could generate major new risks for businesses. In addition to transition risks resulting from changes in policies and regulations, technologies, markets and reputation, there are also growing physical risks, as climate change raises the frequency of extreme weather conditions. Recognizing climate change as a risk for the financial system, the G20 Financial Stability Board established the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to encourage disclosures that would enable investors to make informed decisions. In its June 2017 final report, the Task Force proposed a recommendations framework for information disclosure. Nissan considers climate change to be an issue that goes to the heart of its operations. The Global Environmental Management Committee (G-EMC), co-chaired by a board member, identifies trends in climate-related risks and business opportunities and adopts strategies accordingly. Climate change and other environmental risks comprise a category of risks for corporate management and are regularly monitored by the Internal Control Committee to strengthen corporate governance. We analyze climate-related risks on an ongoing basis, and have specified as major risks tighter regulations on fuel economy and CO2 emissions, intensifying competition in the EV market and physical damage due to extreme weather conditions. We determine specific measures to be taken by each division after clarifying the risks and opportunities—including those relating to climate change—for our company. Additionally, climate change also greatly heightens customer needs for energy-efficient mobility. We are meeting those needs by clearing stringent CO2 emissions regulations, as outlined in the Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022 midterm plan calling for annual aggregate sales of 1 million 100% EV and e-POWER vehicles by fiscal 2022. In our corporate activities, we are actively advancing energy-saving measures, shifting to climate-efficient logistics and introducing renewable energy sources. In the light of these climate-related risks and opportunities, we established a long-term vision for climate change* 1 and drew up the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022)* 2 midterm environmental action plan. We will reinforce the resilience of our climate change strategy to enable responses to multiple climate change scenarios and seek to disclose information in line with the TCFD framework in order to facilitate the understanding of investors and other stakeholders. 52/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 * 1 Long-term vision for climate change: Products: Reduce CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 90% compared to 2000 levels by 2050. Click here for more information on Policies and Philosophy for Product Initiatives. Corporate activity: Reduce overall corporate CO2 emissions by 80% compared with 2005 levels by 2050. Click here for more information on Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Initiatives. Climate change indices, targets and achievements, along with Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are contained in this report under “NGP2022 Framework and Action Plan,” “Product Initiative: Achievements” and “Environmental Data.” * 2 Click here for more information on NGP2022. 53/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CLIMATE CHANGE PRODUCT INITIATIVES Policies and Philosophy for Product Initiatives Management of Product Initiatives Product Initiatives: Achievements Electrification and Internal Combustion Engine Initiatives Initiatives for Lighter Vehicles Initiatives for Partnerships with Society GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Policies and Philosophy for Product Initiatives Reduction of Emissions from Products and Services According to a 2014 report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the transport sector was responsible for 14% of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions from all economic sectors in 2010. As a business in this sector with continued growth in both unit sales and amount of passenger activity, Nissan is aiming to decouple emissions from company growth. 54/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our Long-Term Vision In 2006, based on calculations incorporating the findings of the IPCC’s Third Assessment Report and the goal of keeping global temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius, we set a scientifically grounded target for 2050 of reducing product CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 90% compared to 2000 levels. Recognizing that this would require to drastically reduce “well-to-wheel” CO2 emissions from new vehicles, we set about developing a new scenario for powertrain technologies. Under the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), to remain on track with this target, we are aiming to reduce CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 40% compared to fiscal 2000 by 2022 (in Japan, the U.S., Europe and China) throughout the value chain as a whole. As a global leader in technological advancements through the electrification of our products, we believe we can substantially contribute to the global efforts to keep the temperature rise “well below” 2 degrees Celsius. These initiatives also reinforce the sustainability of our own business. We are driving the evolution of new technologies and businesses. Under the umbrella of Nissan Intelligent Mobility,* we take a unified approach to introducing, marketing and deploying new technologies, functions, businesses and services. Our CO2 Reduction Scenario * Click here for more information on Nissan Intelligent Mobility. 55/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Pursuing a Zero-Emission Society Electric vehicles (EVs) demonstrate that what is good for drivers and the planet is also good for business. Widespread use of zero-emission vehicles, which produce no CO2 emissions during operation, is an effective way of moving toward a sustainable society. The auto industry must go beyond simply producing and selling these vehicles to help establish the infrastructure necessary to make them economical to use. No company can achieve this on its own. We consider the introduction and adoption of zero-emission vehicles one of the pillars of our corporate strategy. We are taking a comprehensive approach that involves boosting production and sales of zero-emission vehicles along with other activities coordinated with a variety of partners to popularize their use. We are committed to becoming a leader in the field of zero-emission vehicles. Not only are we increasing our development and production of zero-emission vehicles, we are forging numerous zero-emission partnerships with national and local governments, electric power companies and other industries to promote zero-emission mobility and explore how the necessary infrastructure can be built. We participate in a comprehensive range of vehicle-related initiatives, including the development of lithium-ion batteries, secondary use and recycling of batteries, construction of vehicle-charging infrastructure, helping to make smart grids a reality and standardization of charging methods with other manufacturers. Increasing uptake of zero-emission vehicles will bring lifestyle changes that lay the groundwork for a new mobility society. We provide more than just EVs themselves—we also embrace the new values that they represent. Building a Zero-Emission Society with EVs 56/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Establishing Leadership in the EV Sector Our commitment to sustainable mobility addresses concerns over climate change and supports the sustainable growth of the company. Our 2010 launch of the first Nissan LEAF made us pioneers of mass-produced EVs. Since then, we have sold more than 530,000 EVs (including joint venture sales) around the world in total, and our midterm plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022, calls for even more Nissan EVs, designed to appeal to customers with an ever-wider range of needs. Furthermore, our history with EVs goes deeper than simply manufacturing and selling the vehicles themselves. We helped to establish an environment allowing EVs to become part of our customers’ lifestyles, and developed the Nissan Energy solution for enjoying life with an EV to the fullest. Together, these initiatives created what we call the Nissan EV Ecosystem. As we continue to strive for a zero-emission society, we will expand and develop the Nissan EV Ecosystem even further. Nissan EV Ecosystem 57/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 Management of Product Initiatives Key Activities in NGP2022 The CO2 emissions of a vehicle in use are influenced not only by engine performance and fuel type but also by traffic conditions and driving skills. Decarbonizing society will require new vehicle usage patterns. Nissan takes a threefold approach to mitigating real-world CO2 emissions that addresses vehicle, driver and new mobility value. 1. Adopt cleaner energy to reduce vehicle CO2 emissions Extend electrification across all brands under the Nissan Intelligent Mobility strategy.* 1 Expand electric vehicle (EV) lineup and deploy e-POWER technology in core Nissan products. 2. Promote technology-based driver assistance and accelerate connected car development and commercialization 3. Provide new mobility value Provide new mobility services and expand the value of vehicle use. Pursue global expansion of V2X* 2 energy management solutions (commercialization in the United States and Europe, and expansion of LEAF to Home in Japan) and engage with stakeholders to support V2X device commercialization. * 1 Click here for more information on Nissan Intelligent Mobility. * 2 V2X: Abbreviation for Vehicle to Everything, a term describing technology and systems for handling communication in vehicles. One example of V2X technology is Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G), which allows smart optimization of electricity supply according to demand. 58/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI203-1 GRI203-2 GRI302-5 Product Initiatives: Achievements Toward a 40% Reduction in New Vehicle CO2 Emissions Nissan strives to develop technologies that maximize the overall energy efficiency of conventional internal combustion engines and improve transmission performance. We are also working to boost the efficiency of electrification systems that capture and reuse kinetic energy from braking. Electrification is just one of our concrete monozukuri initiatives in technical innovation. We select the optimal fuel economy technologies for particular vehicles, taking into consideration factors like space within the vehicle, usage and economics, and bring them to market. Our goal is to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions without sacrificing the pleasure and ease of driving. By fiscal 2022, we aim to achieve a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions* compared to fiscal 2000 levels. * From new vehicles in the Japanese, U.S., European and Chinese markets. CO2 Emissions from New Vehicles (Global)* In fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions in Nissan’s main markets of Japan, the U.S., Europe and China were 33.0% lower than fiscal 2000 levels, as measured by Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE). This was a slight regression from fiscal 2017 due to changes in the powertrain sales mix in the EU. * Reduction in CO2 emissions calculated by Nissan. 59/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI302-5 Electrification and Internal Combustion Engine Initiatives Nissan LEAF Sales Exceed 400,000, Further Reducing Environmental Burden The Nissan LEAF emits no CO2 or other exhaust during operation. Since its launch in 2010, it has earned high praise for the smooth, strong acceleration and quiet operation of its electric motor powered by a lithium-ion battery. As part of our midterm plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022, we are aiming for annual aggregate sales of 1 million 100% electric vehicles (EVs) and e-POWER vehicles by fiscal 2022. With total cumulative sales of the Nissan LEAF worldwide exceeding 400,000 vehicles as of March 2019, it remains the best-selling EV in the world. In China, we manufacture the Nissan Sylphy Zero Emission model, which inherits the core technologies of the Nissan LEAF, for the local market. While the low environmental impact of Nissan’s EVs is attractive, these figures were likely driven at least in part by consumer awareness of other factors, such as low fuel and maintenance costs and superior acceleration and steering performance. Our calculations show that the Nissan LEAF and other EVs can produce fewer CO2 emissions over their entire lifecycle compared to gasolinepowered vehicles of the same class―from the extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, logistics and use, to end-of-life disposal. By contributing to the shift to renewable energy, EVs play an essential role beyond transportation in helping to achieve a low-carbon society. Nissan LEAF * Click here for more information on Nissan LEAF lifecycle assessment. Launched in October 2017, the new Nissan LEAF is a zero-emission vehicle equipped with innovative semi-autonomous drive technologies like ProPILOT, ProPILOT Park and e-Pedal. It offers greater power output, a longer driving range and more convenience than ever. 60/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 This significant improvement in power output and driving range is made possible by a lighter and more compact high-capacity lithium-ion battery. We have adopted a new material*1 capable of storing a higher density of energy, decreasing the battery’s size but increasing its capacity. This innovation made it possible to expand the Nissan LEAF’s driving range from 200 kilometers (for the original 2010 model) to 322 kilometers* 2 for the new Nissan LEAF, while at the same time improving electricity consumption. In January 2019, Nissan introduced the Nissan LEAF e+, equipped with a newly developed e-POWER powertrain that further enhances its acceleration capabilities during high speed operation and increases its maximum speed by about 10%.* 3 * 1 Our newly adopted layered structure for cathode material contributes to larger battery capacity by helping to store lithium ions at high density. * 2 Measured in WLTC mode (equivalent to 400 km in JC08 mode and 150 miles under U.S. EPA standards). * 3 458 km in WLTC mode and 570 km in JC08 mode. The maximum range is 226 miles under U.S. EPA standards and 385 km in European WLTP (combined cycle). Enhancing Our 100% Electric-Motor-Powered e-POWER Drivetrain and Its Lineup In November 2016, in Japan, we launched the first vehicle to feature our innovative new ePOWER drive system: the new compact Note ePOWER. In March 2018, the e-POWER system was further expanded to the Serena, also for the Japanese market. Both the Note e-POWER and the Serena e-POWER have received high praise from customers, achieving No. 1 sales rankings in their respective segments. The e-POWER system combines an electric motor, which drives the wheels, with a gasoline engine that charges the vehicle’s battery. * CO2 emissions calculated from the fuel consumption rate in JC08 mode (measurement method of Japan’s Ministry Because the e-POWER uses gasoline as its of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism). power source, it eliminates the need to charge the battery. In addition, because the actual drive comes from an electric motor, it offers driving comfort similar to that of an EV, making e-POWER a new powertrain completely different from the hybrid systems commonly used in previous compact cars. As the gasoline engine does not directly drive the wheels, it can be run under optimal conditions (RPM, load) at all times to generate electricity. In city driving, where it is expected to see frequent use, the Serena e-POWER achieves top-class fuel economy* compared with standard hybrid vehicle types. 61/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In e-POWER Drive mode, the driver can accelerate or decelerate simply by using the accelerator pedal, and the regenerative brake system also helps improve fuel economy by charging the battery. * As of when the model first went on sale, as measured in JC08 mode: Serena e-POWER, 26.2 km/L. The e-NV200: A Practical, Sustainable City Delivery Vehicle Based on the Nissan NV200, a multipurpose commercial van, the e-NV200 retains the roominess and versatility of the NV200 and adds the acceleration performance and refinement of an EV. It has been produced at our Barcelona Plant in Spain since June 2014 and is sold mainly in Europe and Japan. The eAs a mobile power source, the e-NV200 has a range of NV200 is used by taxi services in Barcelona and business applications. Amsterdam. In Japan, it has been adopted by a wide range of customers, from urban delivery businesses to local authorities. Compared to commercial vehicles using internal combustion engines, the e-NV200 reduces operating costs and excels in environmental performance with reduced noise pollution and other features. Equipped with two power outlets that can draw a maximum of 1,500 watts of power from the battery, the vehicle provides a convenient and safe electrical power source that comes in handy for offsite jobs and outdoor events as well as emergencies. At construction sites, the e-NV200 contributes to reducing noise levels by providing electricity in place of engine generators. Progress in Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) are hybrid cars that can run on electricity charged from an external source as well as fuel. With this combination of engines and electric motors, they provide motor operation equivalent to EVs. We are actively developing PHEVs, leveraging Alliance technologies with a view to launching them in the future. Fuel-Cell Electric Vehicles Powered by electricity generated from hydrogen and oxygen, fuel-cell electric vehicles (FCEVs) are another type of zero-emission vehicle that does not produce CO2 or other harmful emissions. We believe that, as part of building a sustainable mobility society, both FCEVs and EVs are viable options 62/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 from an energy diversity perspective. In alignment with Japanese government policies, we joined forces with Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and other companies to establish Japan H2 Mobility, LLC (JHyM), targeting the full-fledged development of hydrogen stations for FCEVs in Japan. Addressing the key issues raised during the initial stage of FCEV promotion, JHyM will ensure that infrastructure developers, automakers and investors all do their part to support the successful strategic deployment of hydrogen stations and effective operation of the hydrogen station business in Japan. New e-Bio Fuel-Cell Technology Announcement In June 2016, Nissan unveiled an e-Bio Fuel-Cell system that runs on bio-ethanol electric power. The new system—a world first for automotive use—features a solid oxide fuel-cell (SOFC) power generator. SOFC technology can produce electricity with high efficiency using the reaction of oxygen with multiple fuels, including ethanol and natural gas. Infrastructure to support e-Bio Fuel-Cell usage is relatively easy to deploy, and vehicles using this technology feature running costs as low as those of EVs, promising a smooth introduction to the market. Because our technology combines the efficient electricity generation of SOFC with the high energy density of liquid fuels, it can enable driving ranges on a par with gasoline-powered vehicles. Commercial users that require higher uptime for their vehicles should increasingly be able to take advantage of this solution thanks to the short refueling times it offers. Development of the VC-Turbo The VC-Turbo is the world’s first production-ready variable compression ratio engine, first deployed in November 2017 in the new QX50, part of our INFINITI brand’s premium vehicle lineup. The VC-Turbo has also been deployed in the United States, in the new Altima. It delivers the power of a V6 gasoline engine with greatly improved fuel economy. The engine swiftly selects the optimum compression ratio between 8:1 (for high performance) and 14:1 (for high efficiency) based on driving conditions and driver input. Lighter and more compact than comparable non-turbocharged engines, the VC-Turbo also delivers reduced fuel consumption and emissions, lower noise levels and reduced vibration. 63/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Development and Introduction of New Powertrains Nissan is working to enhance fuel economy by improving gasoline-powered engines, the engines that are still the most widely used in the automobile market. In the United States, we launched the new Altima equipped with a newly developed 2.5-liter directinjection engine. The vehicle’s direct-injection system, cooled exhaust gas recirculation system, electric intake valve timing control and mirror bore coating technology all combine to improve fuel economy. In Europe, we adopted a new 1.3-liter turbo gasoline engine in the Qashqai. The new engine features gasoline particulate filters to reduce air pollution, and improves fuel economy by 7% through reduced wear loss and optimized designs for the combustion chamber and turbo system. In Japan, we launched the new Nissan Dayz in March 2019, a “kei” minicar equipped with a newly developed 0.66-liter gasoline engine. Its innovative powertrain combines a new continuously variable transmission (CVT) with a smart and simple hybrid system that achieves significantly improved fuel economy. 64/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Initiatives for Lighter Vehicles Toward Lighter Vehicles Making vehicles lighter is an important part of improving fuel economy. We are promoting vehicle weight reduction by optimizing vehicle body structure, developing better forming and joining techniques and substituting materials. In 2013, we developed 1.2 gigapascal (GPa) Ultra High Tensile Strength Steel with High Formability, the world’s first material to combine these levels of tensile strength and formability, and put it to use in the INFINITI Q50 (marketed in Japan as the Skyline), the Murano and the INFINITI Q60. In 2018, we adopted 980 megapascal (MPa) Ultra High Tensile Strength Steel with High Formability, which features further improvements in collision energy absorption performance, for the INFINITI QX50. Ultra High Tensile Strength Steel reduces the amount of material used while allowing production on the same lines, making it possible to create lighter cars with thinner components and lower total costs, and we have been expanding our use of this material in other models as well. It is already used for the body frame parts of the new Altima (1.2 GPa class/980 MPa class), launched in 2018, and the new Nissan Dayz (1.2 GPa class), launched in 2019. We will continue to pursue ambitious development of weight reduction technologies, including these Ultra High Tensile Strength Steels, in order to reduce CO2 emissions and dependence on newly extracted natural resources. 65/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI203-1 GRI203-2 Initiatives for Partnerships with Society Nissan Energy: Solutions that Enrich Life and Society with EVs As part of our efforts to help build the EV ecosystem, we launched a group of solutions we call Nissan Energy. Nissan Energy has three main components, each of which is designed to support our customers’ lifestyles with EVs in a different way. Nissan Energy Supply Nissan Energy Supply includes various electric charging solutions that bring ease and convenience to the lifestyles of our EV customers. The majority of our EV customers find it convenient to charge their EVs at home. To help ensure that our vehicles can be charged safely, we guide customers to use suitable charging equipment and engage qualified installers to install electrical outlets dedicated to EVs. The Nissan LEAF offers an ample driving range for daily use, but customers venturing further from home can make use of a fast-growing charging network. Our dedicated EV app lets customers find and check the real-time status of charging stations. This not only makes charging easier and more convenient but also provides a seamless charging experience. As of the end of March 2019, approximately 24,000 quick chargers conforming to the CHAdeMO protocol have been installed worldwide. Nissan Energy Share The electricity stored in the Nissan EV’s battery can do more than just power the vehicle; it can be shared with homes, buildings and local communities through power conditioning systems. Using inexpensive electricity during off-peak periods and excess electricity generated by solar panels during daytime reduces electricity costs and helps promote a model of self-generation of electricity for self-consumption. Furthermore, Nissan Energy Share makes it possible for EVs to provide backup power during blackouts or emergencies. Local communities can connect EVs to regional energy grids to store or discharge excess electricity, which contributes to the stability of the entire community’s power grid and promotes renewable energy use. It is difficult to control precisely when electricity is generated by renewable energy sources like 66/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 solar power, which has created high expectations for the potential of large-capacity EV batteries in particular to support our social infrastructure by storing renewable energy. Nissan Energy Storage The life of an EV battery is not over when it has finished its first life of powering a car. As more and more customers switch to EVs, the supply of batteries capable of secondary use is expected to increase significantly. In 2010, Nissan, as an EV pioneer, joined forces with Sumitomo Corp. to establish 4R Energy Corp., which specializes in repurposing lithium-ion batteries. The intention is to fully utilize resources by promoting the four Rs of lithium-ion batteries—reuse, resell, refabricate and recycle—with the aim of building an efficient cycle of battery use. Reducing Congestion and Enhancing Environmental Performance with ITS A vehicle’s fuel economy depends not just on its own capabilities but also on how and where it is driven. We are using the Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) as part of our active efforts to create infrastructure that will help to improve traffic environments. Starting in 2010, under commission from Japan’s New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO), we worked with the Beijing Municipal Commission of Transport. In the Chinese capital, we conducted tests of a dynamic route guidance system (DRGS) using IT terminals and eco-driving support to alleviate traffic congestion in the city. In one experiment lasting approximately a year, around 12,000 resident drivers in Beijing’s Wangjing district used Portable Navigation Devices with DRGS and eco-driving support. Results from the experiment showed that DRGS cut travel time by 5.1% and increased fuel economy by 7.6%. Because avoiding busy roads and using less crowded routes disperses congestion, it can also make it possible to improve driving speeds across the entire area. Furthermore, by helping drivers cultivate better driving habits, eco-driving support increased fuel economy by 6.8%. A simulation conducted at the same time estimated that if 10% of Beijing’s traffic used DRGS, travel speed throughout the city would increase by approximately 10%, while both fuel consumption and CO2 emissions would decrease by approximately 10%. The Beijing Municipal Commission of Transport presented Nissan with an award for its major contributions toward easing congestion, saving energy and improving the environment in Beijing through this successful project. In an official publication, China’s Ministry of Commerce also gave the company a Corporate Leadership Award. As the next step, we are conducting research projects in cooperation with Chinese government 67/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 authorities and universities aimed at raising air quality using ITS and EVs. We have learned that ecodriving support services, which encourage gentle braking and acceleration and maintenance of stable speeds, lead to safer driving. This can reduce traffic congestion caused by traffic accidents and help to improve air quality. Our study also proved that in China, which relies heavily on coal for power, EVs not only contribute to saving energy but also lead to reductions in air pollutants like PM2.5 and well-towheel CO2 emissions. The research further indicates that use of bus lanes as reserved lanes for zeroemission vehicles will improve traffic flow, also contributing to reduction in CO2 emissions and other positive environmental effects. These research results, acclaimed by the Chinese government and the Beijing municipal government, are incorporated in their respective environmental plans. Nissan is promoting Nissan Intelligent Mobility (NIM) including new mobility services, and this research explores the potential effect of widespread NIM adoption on traffic and the environment. We will continue to actively work toward improvement in urban environments and air quality. 68/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Expanding EV Usage in California California’s active promotion of zero-emission vehicles has helped make it the U.S. state with the largest volume of private EV sales. Even so, drivers still tend to use EVs for short-distance travel such as shopping or commuting. At the request of NEDO, and with the California government’s cooperation, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (NML) and Kanematsu Corp. started a project in November 2016 in partnership with U.S. charging infrastructure service provider EVgo to install over 55 fast chargers in more than 25 locations along one of California’s most important travel arteries. Additionally, the project has created information service systems to guide EV users to the most appropriate fast charger. These initiatives are part of a pilot business to demonstrate the efficacy of expanding the driving range of EVs. The project is designed to expand the driving range of EVs to include intercity travel, and will run until September 2020, collecting and analyzing a range of EV data to establish models for further expansion of EV usage. 69/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Nissan New Mobility Concept The Nissan New Mobility Concept is an ultracompact 100% electric vehicle that was developed in response to social trends like rising numbers of senior citizens, single-member households and the increasing use of automobiles for short-distance trips by just one or two people. Even smaller than a “kei” minicar, the Nissan New Mobility Concept offers the driver excellent visibility and a good feel for the dimensions of the vehicle, making it an ideal The Choimobi Yokohama round-trip ride-sharing service using the Nissan New Mobility Concept. choice for use in residential neighborhoods and other areas with narrow streets and poor visibility, as well as regional cities and islands pursuing compact-city policies. Since fiscal 2011, with cooperation from Japan’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), we have conducted tests and surveys through driving trials held together with corporations and local governments. Based on MLIT’s January 2013 announcement of an authorization system for use of ultracompact vehicles on public roads, we are currently testing vehicles in 25 areas, including the area covered by Choimobi Yokohama, a round-trip urban ride-sharing service that we operate together with the city of Yokohama. To date, the vehicles have mainly been used for tourist purposes as part of regional revitalization, but, in preparation for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, we have been testing ultracompacts as rental cars for sightseeing on the island of Shikine-jima, Tokyo, since May 2018. This is a trial business aimed at expanding the use of EVs on small islets, an idea promoted by the Tokyo metropolitan government. We make full use of the knowledge and information acquired from all of our nationwide projects, offering advice on new uses for EVs and ways to improve traffic flow and implement smart mobility for the next generation. * Click here for more information (environmental data) on Climate Change (Products). 70/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CLIMATE CHANGE CORPORATE ACTIVITY INITIATIVES Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Initiatives Management of Corporate Activity Initiatives Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Initiatives Reducing CO2 Emissions from Corporate Activities Nissan is taking steps to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions from corporate activities by promoting energy efficiency measures and also the use of renewable energy. Based on calculations incorporating the findings of the Fourth Assessment Report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Nissan established the goal of reducing its overall corporate CO2 emissions by 80% compared with 2005 levels by 2050. As part of the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), we set the midterm goal of a 30% reduction in overall corporate CO2 emissions by 2022. Manufacturing is our largest emissions source, but we are also aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from logistics, offices and dealerships, setting targets and taking action in each area. 71/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Long-Term Vision and Road Map Long-Term Vision of Reducing CO 2 Emissions from Corporate Activities NGP2022 Long-Term Vision As a long-term vision for climate change, we aim to realize an 80% reduction in CO2 emissions from corporate activities by 2050 (vs. 2005). 72/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 Management of Corporate Activity Initiatives NGP2022 Objectives The Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) includes the following objectives for each link in the value chain as we progress toward our long-term goals in 2050: Overall A 30% reduction in CO2 emissions from global corporate activities by 2022 (vs. 2005/per vehicle sold) Manufacturing A 36% reduction in CO2 emissions from global manufacturing sites by 2022 (vs. 2005/per vehicle manufactured) Logistics A 12% reduction in CO2 emissions from logistics in Japan, North America, Europe and China by 2022 (vs. 2005/per vehicle manufactured) Offices A 12% reduction in CO2 emissions from global offices by 2022 (vs. 2010/per floor area) Dealerships A 12% reduction in CO2 emissions from dealerships in Japan by 2022 (vs. 2010/per floor area) 73/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI302-2 GRI305-1 GRI305-2 GRI305-4 GRI305-5 Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements 30% Reduction in Emissions from Corporate Activities In fiscal 2011, Nissan broadened the scope of its CO2 reduction objectives to include logistics, offices and sales companies, as well as production sites. We expanded our emission-related initiatives, introducing high-efficiency equipment, energy-saving measures and the use of renewable energy, and also strengthened our management of these initiatives. Our objective is to reduce CO2 emissions associated with corporate activities by 30% globally by fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2005 levels, as measured by the index of CO2 emissions per vehicle (total emissions generated from Nissan global corporate activities divided by total Nissan vehicles sales volume). In fiscal 2018, we achieved a 31.4% reduction from the fiscal 2005 t-CO2/vehicle level. GRI302-1 GRI302-4 Saving Energy in Global Production Most CO2 emissions in the manufacturing process come from the consumption of energy generated by fossil fuels. We engage in a variety of energy-saving activities in the manufacturing process in pursuit of the lowest energy consumption and CO2 emissions of any automaker. In the realm of production technology, we are introducing highly efficient equipment, improving manufacturing techniques and using energy-saving lighting in our assembly plants. Another key approach is our three-wet paint process. Vehicle painting is responsible for approximately 30% of all CO2 emissions from plants; and shortening or eliminating baking stages substantially reduces emissions. The three-wet paint process adopted by Nissan removes the need to bake between the primer and the topcoat layers. Instead, layers are applied successively before baking, reducing CO2 emissions by more than 30%, according to our calculations. Starting in 2013, we introduced this process at Nissan Motor Kyushu (NMK), the Smyrna Plant in the United States, the second Aguascalientes Plant in Mexico (operational since November 2013), the Resende Plant in Brazil (operational since February 2014) and the COMPAS (Cooperation Manufacturing Plant Aguascalientes) manufacturing complex, a joint venture with Daimler México that started operations in December 2017, as well as the Sunderland Plant in the 74/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 United Kingdom (operational since September 2018). At NMK, we were able to adopt the three-wet process with no shutdown of production lines, and as a result successfully shortened total production time. We also adopted dry paint booths at our Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom. Previously, systems for recycling air expelled from booths for reuse needed dehumidifying processing to ensure that the air was at the humidity required. Dry paint booths can reuse air without dehumidifying it, reducing energy consumption to less than half its previous levels. Three-Wet Paint Process (Combined Primer and Topcoat Application) Oven process Reduces CO2 emissions by applying primer and topcoat (base coat and clear coat) layers in succession, combining two processes: (1 and 2 in the upper diagram) into one (1 in the lower diagram). To reach our defined objectives for CO2 emissions and energy use, we solicit facility proposals from each global site, preferentially allocating investment based on the potential CO2 reduction compared to project costs. Making the value of carbon a key factor in internal evaluations lets us invest more efficiently and be more competitive. In Japan, we converted outdated facilities into cutting-edge highefficiency facilities with investments to improve energy efficiency, including energy-saving roof insulation upgrades. Our plants use finely controlled lighting and air conditioning for low-energy-use and low-energy-loss operations. We promote CO2 emission reduction activities and introduced cutting-edge energyconservation technology from Japan in our plants worldwide. Around the globe, our plants learn and share best practices with each other, while Nissan Energy Saving Collaboration (NESCO) diagnoses energy loss at plants in regions where it is active and proposes new energy-saving countermeasures. These proposals amount to a potential reduction in CO2 emissions of some 53,000 tons in fiscal 2018, according to our calculations. A NESCO team was established for Japan in 2003, and activities have gradually been initiated in other countries starting in 2013. A NESCO team has also been launched to support energy-saving efforts at Alliance partner Renault. When sourcing energy, we consider the balance of CO2 emissions for the entire company alongside renewable energy usage rate and cost, choosing suppliers best suited for achieving each goal. Through 75/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 such activities, CO2 emissions per vehicle produced in fiscal 2018 were brought down to approximately 0.50 tons, a reduction of 33.7% from the fiscal 2005 level. 76/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Energy Input (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total MWh 9,474,368 9,683,528 10,189,082 9,532,840 9,252,737 Japan MWh 4,191,517 4,115,353 4,497,562 4,084,912 3,700,532 North America MWh 2,424,942 2,583,613 2,643,303 2,452,299 2,570,438 Europe MWh 1,156,519 1,107,279 1,093,103 1,126,186 1,048,201 Other MWh 1,701,391 1,877,283 1,955,115 1,869,443 1,933,566 Primary Natural gas MWh 3,060,122 3,346,141 3,537,674 3,701,640 3,579,998 LPG MWh 295,800 303,826 249,426 179,945 191,405 Coke MWh 199,801 206,307 217,431 218,618 200,527 Heating oil MWh 225,114 188,943 209,232 147,522 113,200 Gasoline MWh 322,624 302,564 303,040 299,000 259,045 Diesel MWh 99,045 55,099 57,488 48,259 53,074 Heavy oil MWh 58,274 34,289 43,853 27,652 15,995 External Electricity MWh 5,084,989 4,979,114 5,247,663 4,755,897 4,711,467 (purchased) Renewable energy* 1 MWh 154,515 141,076 157,226 133,212 135,574 Chilled water MWh 4,239 12,116 12,919 6,661 7,487 Heated water MWh 4,635 4,630 4,690 5,000 5,000 Steam MWh 110,953 100,000 136,593 128,038 102,324 Internal Electricity MWh 8,772 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 (in-house generation) Renewable energy* 2 MWh 8,772 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 Total renewable energy MWh 163,287 150,499 169,073 147,821 148,788 * 1 Volume of renewable energy in electricity purchased by Nissan. * 2 Volume of renewable energy generated by Nissan at its facilities and consumed for its own purposes. 77/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Global Energy Consumption The total energy consumption of our global corporate activities during fiscal 2018 was about 9.253 million MWh, a 3% decrease from fiscal 2017. This reduction was primarily due to the promotion of energy-saving activities at facilities and a decline in total production volume. Production sites globally accounted for 8.161 million MWh* of total energy consumption. * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. 78/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Carbon Footprint of Corporate Activities (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 t-CO2 861,457 926,790 963,661 912,476 889,444 Scope 2 t-CO2 2,422,410 2,547,951 2,614,028 2,394,109 2,339,883 Scope 1+2 t-CO2 3,283,867 3,474,741 3,577,689 3,306,584 3,229,327 Japan t-CO2 1,267,676 1,479,572 1,579,089 1,333,335 1,208,303 North America t-CO2 769,696 800,724 823,340 683,332 738,234 Europe t-CO2 290,109 208,088 176,285 228,998 221,692 Other t-CO2 956,386 986,359 998,976 1,060,920 1,061,098 Scope 3 t-CO2 143,678,000 144,145,000 150,462,000 213,715,000 203,106,900 In fiscal 2018, the total of Scope 1 and 2 emissions was 3.229 million tons. Total CO2 emissions from manufacturing processes were 2.610 million tons (Scope 1 emissions: 0.759 million tons; Scope 2 emissions: 1.850 million tons).* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. Carbon Footprint of Manufacturing Activities 79/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Manufacturing CO2 per Vehicle Produced In fiscal 2018, our manufacturing CO2 emissions per vehicle produced were 0.49 tons, 33.7% less than fiscal 2005, representing steady progress toward our fiscal 2022 goal. GRI302-1 GRI302-4 Promoting Renewable Energy Nissan takes three approaches toward promoting the adoption and integration of renewable energy in line with the characteristics of each region: (1) generating our own power in company facilities; (2) sourcing energy with a higher proportion of renewables; and (3) leasing land, facilities and other assets to power companies. As an example of the first approach, our Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom introduced 10 wind turbines supplying up to 6.6 MW of power. The plant also has a 4.75-MW solar farm, installed in 2016, and together these renewable sources account for about 8% of the power it uses. At our Iwaki Plant, the guest hall for plant visitors is powered by solar energy. By storing surplus electricity in secondhand Nissan LEAF batteries, the plant both stabilizes the energy supply and uses resources more effectively. At the Huadu Plant of Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle (DFL-PV) in China, solar panels with a total capacity of 30 MW have been in operation since 2017, providing roughly 8% of the electricity used at the plant. In India, plans are underway to build a 2 MW solar generation facility, scheduled to start operation in September 2019 at the Renault Nissan Automotive India (RNAIPL). These projects are part of our efforts to expand the use of renewable energy globally. Regarding the second approach, our first Aguascalientes Plant in Mexico actively uses energy generated from biomass gas and wind power and has achieved a renewable energy usage rate of 50% since 2013. Finally, we leased approximately 350,000 square meters of unused land in Oita Prefecture for solar power generation in May 2013, and the roof of group company Nissan Kohki’s Samukawa Plant was leased for the same purpose in January 2014. Through these efforts, we have enhanced the renewable energy usage rate at our production plants as part of reducing CO2 emissions. In fiscal 2018, our renewable energy usage rate reached 10%. 80/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 More Efficient Logistics and Modal Shifts In 2000, Nissan began sending chartered trucks for pickup and delivery of parts. This approach— adopted widely across the company, including at overseas manufacturing sites—has increased global operational efficiency. We work together with suppliers to optimize the frequency of deliveries and transport routes and improve packaging specifications for better loading ratios so fewer trucks are required. We are also pursuing a modal shift from trucks to rail for transport. Through a 2014 expansion of this approach to include cooperative transport of production parts with other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), in addition to complete vehicles and service parts, we are seeking further efficiency in this area. We work from the design stage of new vehicles to reduce transportation distances by sourcing necessary production components for plants through localization as much as possible. Our engineers devise efficient packaging for the huge number of parts of different shapes and materials that go into automobiles. Through simultaneous-engineering logistics, we work from the design stage to create parts and develop new vehicles that enhance transportation efficiency, as well as reduce parts shipments per vehicle. In container transport, we have taken a range of measures to improve container filling rates for parts transport, from 40-foot “high cube” containers to software simulations that reduce wasted container space. We constantly review transport methods and are currently undertaking a modal shift to rail and maritime transport. Some 80% of completed vehicles in Japan are now transported by sea. Parts shipments to NMK from the Kanto area in and around Tokyo are nearly all conducted by rail and ship. The Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) has recognized Nissan as an outstanding enterprise for this modal shift to sea transport. At Nissan sites outside Japan, transport methods are selected to best match the local geographical conditions. Transport of completed vehicles is increasingly shifting from truck to rail or ship, depending on the destination. In China, we are increasing the proportion of completed vehicles that are transported domestically by ship or rail. Since 2010, we have also been promoting the use of energy-efficient vessels for sea shipments of our vehicles. Today, our fleet has grown to include seven energy-efficient car carriers.* 1 As we expand our global logistics operations, we will continue to increase efficiency and effect a modal shift in transportation, targeting a 12% reduction in CO2 emissions by fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2005 levels, as measured by the index of CO2 emissions per vehicle.* 2 In fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions per global vehicle were approximately 0.37 tons—a reduction of about 14.3%. * 1 More information can be accessed on Nissan’s energy-efficient car carriers’ page. * 2 Total emissions generated from transportation to Nissan manufacturing sites and retail outlets in Japan, North America, Europe and China divided by the total number of vehicles transported. 81/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CO2 Emissions from Logistics (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total t-CO2 1,608,582 1,598,891 1,925,281 1,567,248 1,482,982 Inbound* t-CO2 822,867 797,034 809,088 739,610 762,314 Outbound* t-CO2 785,715 801,857 1,116,193 827,638 720,667 Sea ％ 18.5 18.3 17.8 20.0 19.9 Road ％ 60.5 65.7 62.1 64.6 60.3 Rail ％ 5.1 5.4 5.6 7.0 6.7 Air ％ 15.9 10.6 14.5 8.4 13.1 * “Inbound” includes parts procurement from suppliers and transportation of knockdown parts; “Outbound” includes transportation of complete vehicles and service parts. In fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions from logistics were 1,482,982 tons, down approximately 5.4% from the previous fiscal year. Emissions from transportation of parts declined due to the localization of complete vehicle assembly and parts procurement, making a substantial contribution to the reduction of our overall CO2 emissions. CO2 Emissions per Vehicle Transported In fiscal 2018, despite an expansion in global production, CO2 emissions per vehicle transported were 0.37 tons, an improvement over the previous fiscal year. 82/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Office Initiatives We promote efforts to reduce CO2 emissions at Nissan offices in Japan, North America, Europe and China. In Japan, through Nissan Trading, we operate the Nissan Power Producers and Suppliers (PPS) scheme, sourcing clean energy for which CO2 emissions and costs have been taken into account through Japan’s PPS system. In 2018, approximately 26,657 MWh of clean energy was supplied to five Japanese business locations.* NESCO teams have also expanded the scope of their activities beyond production plants to contribute to reducing emissions in the Nissan Technical Center in Atsugi. Our efforts go beyond just CO2 management. We are pursuing other environmentally-friendly policies, such as improving our video and telephone conference facilities and using software to bring participants in multiple locations together when they need to share documents. This reduces the number of business trips required worldwide, improves workplace efficiency and reduces costs. * Global Headquarters, Sagamihara Parts Center, Nissan Education Center, Customer Service Center and Honmoku Wharf (all in Kanagawa Prefecture). GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Green Building Policy Based on ISO 14001 management processes to evaluate environmental impact, we make it a key task to optimize our buildings during construction or refurbishing to make all our structures greener. Evaluation metrics in this area include environmental footprint, such as CO2 emissions; waste and emissions from construction methods; and use of hazardous materials and other quality control issues. Furthermore, one performance index for Nissan in Japan is MLIT’s Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency (CASBEE). Among our current business facilities, our Global Headquarters in the city of Yokohama has earned CASBEE’s highest “S” ranking, making it the second Nissan structure to do so following the Nissan Advanced Technology Center (NATC) in Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture. Global Headquarters gained a Built Environment Efficiency Rating of 5.6, the highest CASBEE rating for a new structure, making it one of Japan’s greenest office buildings. The building’s use of natural energy sources to reduce its energy usage and its CO2 emissions were evaluated highly, as were its methods of water recycling and its significant reduction in waste produced. 83/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Dealership Initiatives Nissan promotes CO2 management at dealerships with the aim of reducing total emissions per floor area by 1% each year. Our retail outlets also work continually to increase energy efficiency. Many have adopted highefficiency air conditioning, insulation films, ceiling fans and LED lighting. During renovation work, some outlets have installed lighting systems that make use of natural daylight, as well as insulated roofs. In addition, to source electricity with low environmental load, we have Solar panels installed on the roof of a Kanagawa Nissan dealership. Power from the panels is supplied to dealerships broadened supply from PPS systems, including through the Nissan PPS system. our own, to provide 143,183 MWh of power (equivalent to an annual reduction of some 3,278 tons in CO2 emissions) to 1,023 retail outlets in the Kanto, Chubu, Tohoku, Kansai and Kyushu regions. Since April 2000, we have run a unique environmental facility certification system based on ISO 14001 for dealerships called “Nissan Green Shop.” Our environmental policy requires all dealerships in Japan to meet certain standards and undergo annual audits performed by our teams. The dedicated evaluation sheet has a total of 84 key performance indicators (KPIs) and is regularly revised to reflect the requirements of national legislation, local communities and the Nissan Green Program (NGP). 84/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 AIR QUALITY Air Quality Policies and Philosophy Air Quality: Achievements GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Air Quality Policies and Philosophy By reducing exhaust emissions and providing a pleasant in-cabin environment to customers, Nissan aims to develop mobility that is more considerate of ecosystems and makes daily life healthier. According to the State of Global Air 2018 report issued by the U.S.-based Health Effects Institute (HEI), 95% of the world’s population currently lives in regions where particulate matter smaller than 2.5 μm (PM2.5) exceeds the 10 μg/m3 basic level specified by World Health Organization (WHO) Air Quality Guidelines. Furthermore, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) predicts that the global population will exceed 9 billion by 2050, with around 70% of people concentrated in cities, making air pollution in urban areas an even more pressing issue. For an automaker, air pollution stands alongside climate change and congestion as an issue for cities in particular that must be remedied. Nissan is advancing its efforts to improve air quality with two approaches: 1. Promoting Zero-Emission Vehicles Electric vehicles (EVs), such as the Nissan LEAF, which has cumulative global sales of 400,000 units as of March 2019, are an effective tool for reducing air pollution in urban areas. As a leader in this field, we are promoting zero-emission mobility and infrastructure construction in partnership with national and local governments, electric power companies and other industries. 85/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2. Enhancing Internal Combustion Engines We have proactively set voluntary standards and emission-reduction targets for conventional internal combustion engines. With the ultimate goal of making automotive emissions as clean as the atmosphere itself, we have developed a wide range of technologies and achieved the results listed below through cleaner combustion technologies, catalysts for purifying emissions and countermeasures against gas vapors from gasoline tanks. We will continue our efforts to ensure cleaner exhaust emissions from internal combustion engines, which remain the most commonly used in the automotive market. Sentra CA (released in the United States in January 2000): The world’s first gasoline-powered vehicle that satisfied all the exhaust gas requirements set by the California Air Resources Board to receive Partial Zero Emissions Vehicle (PZEV) certification. Bluebird Sylphy (released in Japan in August 2000): The first passenger vehicle made in Japan to achieve Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle (U-LEV)* certification. * U-LEV: Vehicle that produces 75% less nitrogen oxide (NOx) and nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC) than the 2000 emission standards level in Japan. Improving In-Cabin Air Quality With autonomous drive technologies currently in development and projected to be in practical use from 2020, drivers are expected to spend more time in their vehicles, making it even more important for that space to be pleasant and safe. The Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) calls for research and development not just to make exhaust emissions cleaner but also to improve in-cabin air quality as well. As part of our continued efforts to reduce volatile organic compounds (VOCs)* such as formaldehyde and toluene, Nissan is further reviewing materials for seats, door trim, floor carpet and other parts as well as adhesives. We voluntarily set more stringent standards than those of the Japanese government and automotive industry body regulations, and have applied them to all new vehicles introduced to the market from July 2007 onward. * VOCs: Organic chemicals that readily evaporate and become gaseous at normal temperature and pressure conditions. 86/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Reducing VOC Emissions from Production Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx) and VOCs are recognized as common forms of emissions created by vehicle manufacturing facilities. We are taking firm measures with respect to all three; ensuring that management standards and systems for atmospheric emissions are thoroughly followed; and working to reduce both VOC exhaust volumes and the use of VOC-emitting substances to levels lower than required by national regulations. We are actively working to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals in order to reduce the amounts of these substances emitted from our plants ahead of the implementation of new regulations in each country where we operate. Also, we are systematically introducing water-based paint lines that emit fewer VOCs and improving thinner-solvent recycling rates to reduce our use of VOC-emitting substances. As one example, the water-based paint line in the Nissan Motor Kyushu Plant has VOC emissions of less than 20 grams per square meter of painted surface, which is top-class in the industry. These lines have also been adopted at two Aguascalientes plants in Mexico, the Resende Plant in Brazil, the Smyrna Plant in the United States, the Huadu Plant in China and other plants. Car manufacturing consumes a large amount of heat during painting and other processes. We have lowered NOx and SOx emissions from ovens and boilers that provide heat for painting lines by introducing low-NOx burners and switching from heavy oil and kerosene to fuels with low SOx emissions. 87/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI305-7 Air Quality: Achievements GRI305-5 Compliance with Emissions Regulations (Passenger Cars Only) Nissan not only works to develop and promote zero emission electric vehicles (EVs) but continues to promote cleaner exhaust emissions from all of our engines. For example, the Qashqai released in Europe in October 2018 has a new fuel-efficient 1.3-liter turbo gasoline engine fitted with a particulate filter that meets the Euro 6d-Temp* emissions standard. In Japan, our e-POWER electrification technology has resulted in a significant lowering of fuel consumption while achieving 75% reductions in exhaust emissions from 2005 standards. As part of these efforts, our compliance with emissions regulations goes far beyond current legal requirements to meet more stringent specifications. Due to differences in regulations, there is no direct way to compare by region or country, but the table below shows the percentage of Nissan vehicles in each location produced to the strictest local standards. * Euro 6d-Temp: All Euro 6 standards and the initial Real-Driving Emissions (RDE) limit for new car models. Compliance with Emissions Regulations (By Region) (FY) Unit 2018 Japan 75% lower than 2005 standard and 50% lower than 2018 standard ％ 99.5 Europe Euro 6b/c ％ 100* U.S. U-LEV/SULEV/ZEV ％ 99.8 China National 5 ％ 100 * Passenger cars and light commercial vehicles only. 88/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Plant Emission Management We thoroughly implement systems and control standards at our production plants to reduce the amount of air pollutants emitted during operation. Our air pollution control targets are more stringent than those mandated by the countries in which we operate. In Japan, we have adopted strict measures for emissions of NOx and SOx pollutants from our factories, reducing the amount of these emissions to one quarter of the levels emitted in the 1970s. We have lowered NOx and SOx emissions by introducing low-NOx burners in the ovens and boilers that provide heat for painting lines, and by switching the fuel used by those burners from heavy oil and kerosene to alternatives with low SOx emissions. Lower VOC Emissions Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which readily evaporate to become gaseous in the atmosphere, account for approximately 90% of the chemicals released as the result of our vehicle production processes. Lowering VOC emissions is a challenge that we are working to address. We strive to increase our recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals in order to limit the amounts of these substances emitted from our plants ahead of implementation of new regulations in each country where we operate, while also advancing planned measures to increase the recycling rate for waste solvents. We are also introducing water-based paint lines that limit VOC emissions to less than 20 grams per square meter of painted surface. We have adopted these lines in Nissan Motor Kyushu as well as at two plants in Aguascalientes in Mexico, the Resende Plant in Brazil, the Smyrna Plant in the United States, the Huadu Plant in China and the Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom. We achieved a reduction of 27.2% in fiscal 2018 in VOC emissions per painted surface area compared with fiscal 2010 levels. * Click here for more information (environmental data) on Air Quality. 89/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESOURCE DEPENDENCY Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy Resource Dependency Management Resource Dependency: Achievements Resource Dependency: Achievements in Waste Reduction GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy With the world’s population forecast to exceed 9 billion by 2050, demand for natural resources like minerals and fossil fuels is set to rise. This makes it even more important to maximize the value obtained from these resources. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 also emphasize the importance of managing resources sustainably and using them efficiently. Automobiles are made of many components, incorporating a diverse range of resources. The combination of these resources creates new value. In addition to using resources as efficiently as possible, Nissan has increased its resource diversification and improved the proportion of renewable resources and recycled materials among them. Giving due consideration to ecosystems, we must become more competitive as we pursue green growth. Working toward the long-term vision of reducing dependency on new materials by 70% by 2050, we are striving to minimize our use of natural resources in order to maintain our new resource usage at 2010 levels. 90/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Long-Term Vision for Reducing Resource Dependency 91/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 Resource Dependency Management In order to use the Earth’s precious and limited resources efficiently, the environmental impact when extracting these resources must be kept to a minimum. At the same time, waste generated during vehicle production and scrap from end-of-life parts must be recycled as extensively as possible without compromising quality, producing materials that can be used in the same types of products. Based on this approach, known as closed-loop recycling, we have focused our efforts on recycling steel, aluminum and resin—three kinds of material which account for a large proportion of vehicle content yet also have a major impact on the environment. As part of the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), Nissan is developing systems for using resources efficiently and sustainably across their entire lifecycle, and has adopted the concept of the “Circular Economy” to maximize the value it provides to customers and society. In order to use resources efficiently with less energy, we will promote the use of recycled materials and recycling endof-life vehicles, and strive to incorporate reusable resources in our activities at the design, purchasing and manufacturing stages. We also aim to use fewer resources overall, both through appropriate use of chemical substances and making vehicles more lightweight. We will continue to promote the efficient use of resources with further reduced energy requirements and the expanded use of repaired and remanufactured parts as well as the secondary use of electric vehicle (EV) batteries in the vehicle use stage, and foster the development of biomaterials and dieless forming technology for practical use. We will also increase the value cars provide to society and ensure that cars can be put to best use by promoting electrification and autonomous drive in our products, pursuing connectedness and providing mobility services such as ride sharing. Circular Economy Concept 92/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI301-2 GRI301-3 Resource Dependency: Achievements Reducing Dependence on Newly Extracted Resources to 70% Demand for mineral and fossil resources is rising rapidly with the growth of emerging economies. According to forecasts, if growth in extraction volumes continues, all currently known mineral resources will have been extracted by 2050. There are some existing mining sites and others under exploration that are located in areas with vulnerable local ecosystems, generating concern about the environmental effects of topsoil excavation, deforestation and wastewater. To address these issues, Nissan has implemented a policy of minimizing the use of newly extracted natural resources and maximizing the use of recyclable materials from the early development stage while also making structural improvements to facilitate recycling. We are also reducing the use of resources in the manufacturing process and making more efficient use of resources. In the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), our goal is to cut the use of newly extracted resources by 30% per vehicle in fiscal 2022. We intend to increase the use of recycled materials in our vehicles on a global scale, including Japan, Europe and North America, in cooperation with our suppliers. 93/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Initiatives to Expand Use of Recycled Materials (Ferrous and Nonferrous Metals) In 2018, ferrous metals accounted for 61% of the materials used in our automobiles by weight. Nonferrous metals made up another 15% and resins 14%, with miscellaneous materials making up the final 10%. To further reduce our use of natural resources, we are advancing initiatives to expand the use of recycled materials in each of these categories. We are taking steps to reduce the steel and aluminum scrap left over in the manufacturing process, and working globally with business partners to collect and reuse this scrap as material for new vehicles through closed-loop recycling initiatives. For example, we use electric-furnace sheet steel made from steel scraps in the Rogue, Murano and other vehicles produced in North America. End-of-life aluminum wheel rims are also collected for recycling to be used in new wheel and chassis components. In fiscal 2018, we collected about 3,030 tons of used wheel rims. 94/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Initiatives to Expand Use of Recycled Materials (Resins) In addition to our initiatives to expand use of recycled steel and aluminum, Nissan also strives to use more recycled resins. As a closed-loop recycling initiative, we are collecting finished bumper scrap generated at our plants and sending it to our Oppama Plant, where we process it by removing the ASR (left) and the resin extracted from it (right). paint film and recycling it. These recycled resins have been given new life as bumpers in the Nissan LEAF and many other new vehicles. This initiative was expanded to Dongfeng Motor Co. (DFL), our joint venture in China, where they have been used to produce replacement bumpers since 2014. Additionally, exchanged bumpers collected from dealerships are being recycled as materials used in under covers and for other components. An enhanced bumper return program allowed us to collect and recycle about 164,800 bumpers in fiscal 2018, representing 80.0% of bumpers removed at Japanese dealerships. Furthermore, 30% of the automotive shredder residue (ASR) processed at dedicated processing plants is made up of resins. In order to use these resins in automobiles, we are running a number of R&D projects on topics like optimizing the recycling process for resins recovered from ASR, liquidation of auto waste plastic and recycling polypropylene with microbes.* * These R&D projects are undertaken as part of our recycling optimization support business using surplus money from recycling fees deposited for three specified components (refrigerant, airbags, ASR) based on Japan’s Endof-Life Vehicle Recycling Law. 95/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ELV Programs Nissan considers the three Rs—reduce, reuse and recycle—from the design stage for new vehicles. Since fiscal 2005, all new models launched in the Japanese and European markets have achieved a 95% or greater recyclability rate.* We have also joined forces with other automotive companies to promote the recycling of end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) through dismantling and shredding. We have achieved at least 95% effective recycling rate of ELVs in Japan since fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2018, we achieved a final recovery ratio for ELVs of 99.6% in Japan (as calculated by Nissan in accordance with the End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law), greatly exceeding the target effective recycling rate of 95% set by the Japanese government. ELV processing consists of four phases. First, Nissan ELVs entering the dismantling process are recycled, including flat steel, cast aluminum, bumpers, interior plastic parts, wire harnesses and precious rare earth metals. Second, specific items like lithium-ion batteries are collected individually and directed to a dedicated recycling process. Third, residues from the dismantling process are crushed and the metallic portions recovered. Fourth, the resulting ASR is turned into recycled materials. Since 2004, Nissan and 12 other Japanese auto manufacturers have supported ASR recycling facilities, as called for in Japan’s End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law, as an integral part of a system to recycle ASR effectively, smoothly and efficiently. Nissan is taking an important role in this joint undertaking. We have also established a take-back system for ELVs in Europe. This network of Authorized Treatment Facilities was developed for individual countries in collaboration with contracted dismantlers, contracted service providers and governments in alignment with a European ELV directive. Additionally, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. established a common scheme for recovering used lithium-ion batteries along with a system for processing these batteries appropriately, and put both into operation in fiscal 2018. * Calculated based on 1998 Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association definition and calculation guidelines (in Japan) and ISO 22628 (in Europe). 96/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Developing Biomaterials Nissan is promoting technical research to replace plastics and other resin materials used in automobiles with biomaterials derived from plants. NGP2022 contains concrete goals for biomaterials development, and these materials are already being used in cars. For example, the coverings on the seats in the new Nissan LEAF are made using biomaterials. Seat coverings made from biomaterials in the new Nissan LEAF. GRI305-7 Proper Use of Regulated Chemical Substances Nissan revised its standard for the assessment Defined Chemical Substance of hazards and risks in the Renault-Nissan Alliance, actively applying restrictions to substances not yet covered by regulations but increasingly subject to consideration around the world. As a result, the number of substances covered by the Nissan Engineering Standard in fiscal 2018 rose to 4,043. These steps are thought to be necessary for future efforts in the repair, reuse, remanufacture and recycle loop for resources. Click here for more information on chemical substances governance. Expansion of Remanufactured Parts Parts with the potential for recycling include those reclaimed from end-of-life vehicles, as well as those replaced during repairs. In Japan, we collect and thoroughly check the quality of these secondhand parts. Those that receive a passing grade are sold through our retail outlets as Nissan Green Parts. We sell these parts in two categories: remanufactured parts, which are disassembled and have components replaced as needed, and reusable parts, which are cleaned and tested for quality before sale. 97/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In NGP2022, we are enhancing the deployment of Nissan Green Parts in Japan, and we’re also strengthening management to deploy similar kinds of activities in Europe and North America, aiming for twice the parts coverage in 2022 compared to 2016. This initiative provides customers who seek to use cars for a long period of time with the new option of using remanufactured parts. Alternator Starter motor Air conditioning compressor Joint Venture to Promote Second-Life Use for Batteries Lithium-ion batteries used in Nissan’s electric vehicles (EVs) retain capacity well beyond the useful life of the vehicles themselves. The “4R” business model—which reuses, refabricates, resells and recycles lithium-ion batteries—allows for their effective use as energy storage solutions in a range of applications, thus creating a much more efficient energy cycle of battery use. As the EV market expands, we anticipate a need to utilize reusable lithium-ion batteries more effectively. In 2010, we launched 4R Energy Corp., a joint venture with Sumitomo Corp., that is developing and testing the use of EV batteries in a stationary energy storage system. Japan is expected to see rising demand for such systems as part of energy storage and backup power systems that also feature solar panels on homes or business structures, and 4R Energy already sells systems for houses and apartment buildings. 4R Energy is actively developing a range of storage systems built with used Nissan LEAF lithium-ion batteries. In July 2015, the Nissan Advanced Technology Center (NATC) adopted an energy management system built from 24 used Nissan LEAF batteries. A factory for the reuse and refabrication of used lithium-ion batteries from EVs, the first of its kind in Japan, began operation in the town of Namie, Fukushima Prefecture, from March 2018. Reused and refabricated lithium-ion batteries are also sold as replacement batteries for EVs and used in stationary power storage systems, electric forklifts and other applications. We are extensively involved with 4R activities globally as well. 98/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4R Concept Reducing Use of Scarce Resources Rare earth elements are scarce resources that are necessary components of EV and hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) motors. Reducing their usage is important because of procurement challenges, as rare earth elements are unevenly distributed around the globe, and the shifting balance of supply and demand leads to price fluctuations. Nissan is expanding its use of an electric motor developed in 2012 that requires 40% less dysprosium (Dy) compared to conventional EV motors. The motor was first adopted in the Nissan LEAF, and reduced-dysprosium motors are now seeing increased use in hybrid vehicles as well. The 2016 Note ePOWER achieves a 70% reduction in Dy in its motor magnets, and these were also adopted for the new Nissan LEAF in 2017 and the Serena e-POWER in 2018. We are conducting technical research on further reductions for the future and have the ultimate goal of achieving zero usage of Dy in other components as well. 99/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 Resource Dependency: Achievements in Waste Reduction Thorough Measures for Waste Materials Nissan actively promotes measures based on the 3R approach in its production processes whenever possible, striving to minimize the waste generated and maximize recycling efficiency by thoroughly sorting waste. At the end of fiscal 2010, we achieved a 100% recovery rate at all of our production sites in Japan, including five manufacturing plants, two operation centers and five affiliates. Overseas, we have reached 100% rates at plants in Mexico, China, Thailand, Spain and elsewhere. We are striving to bring rates to industry-leading levels in each global region. We have been making great efforts to reduce the number of wooden pallets and cardboard boxes used in import and export parts shipping. We began replacing them with units made from steel more than 30 years ago, and we rolled out plastic substitutes over 20 years ago that are foldable and can be reused. We have also been working with our Alliance partner Renault to expand use of globally standardized, returnable containers. Through design activities carried out concurrently with logistics operations, we have recently considered ways to optimize the shape of parts from the development stage, thus helping to reduce the packaging materials required. Through such efforts, we plan to reduce waste from our production factories by 2% annually in Japan and by 1% annually worldwide—as compared to business as usual (BAU), that is, waste levels expected if no special steps had been taken. 100/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI306-2 Waste For fiscal 2018, waste generated totaled approximately 206,645 tons. From fiscal 2018, the boundary of waste data covered by third-party assurance has been expanded globally, which resulted in an increase in the number of reporting sites. Waste generated globally from production sites in fiscal 2018 was 189,282 tons.* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total ton 173,513 159,345 158,939 152,674 206,645 By region Japan ton 59,808 63,630 61,115 61,327 69,829 North America ton 58,452 49,129 45,459 35,177 64,514 Europe ton 45,358 37,204 41,110 45,268 49,662 Other ton 9,895 9,382 11,255 10,903 22,639 By treatment method Waste for disposal ton 13,153 11,355 8,707 8,041 7,231 Recycled ton 160,360 147,990 150,231 144,633 199,414 * Click here for more information (environmental data) on Resource Dependency (Facility Waste). 101/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WATER SCARCITY Policies and Philosophy for Water Resource Management Water Resource Management Water Resource Achievements GRI103-1 Policies and Philosophy for Water Resource Management Demand for water is expected to continue to increase globally, driven by rising populations and economic development. With rain patterns also changing due to extreme weather events, the stability of water supplies is likely to become a more pressing social concern with every passing year. Forecasts suggest that the world will face a 40% shortfall in water supplies by 2030, and extreme weather events, natural disasters, water crises and other water-related risks rank highly in the annual Global Risks Report issued by the World Economic Forum. “Clean Water and Sanitation” is also one of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015. The 1.5℃ Special Report* released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2018 reported that risks and effects from extreme weather events, such as heavy rain and drought, would increase if temperatures rose by 1.5℃, and that such risks and effects would be even more severe and become widespread if temperatures rose by 2℃. Water resource management to mitigate water shortages, flooding and many other challenges is a key factor in promoting sustainable development. Globally, the agricultural sector accounts for the largest share of water consumption at roughly 70%. The industrial sector comes second, consuming around 20% of water globally, and the municipal sector accounts for the remaining 10%. Automakers are not considered to face particularly high water risks within the industrial sector. However, we believe that reducing dependence on water resources is important to being a sustainable company and are taking steps to improve water quality management and reduce water usage across our production sites. 102/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 * Full title: An IPCC Special Report on the Impacts of Global Warming of 1.5℃ Above Pre-Industrial Levels and Related Global Greenhouse Gas Emission Pathways, in the Context of Strengthening the Global Response to the Threat of Climate Change, Sustainable Development, and Efforts to Eradicate Poverty. 103/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 Water Resource Management Nissan manages wastewater quality to even Global Water Risks stricter standards than required by local regulations at each of its production sites. At sites in Japan, we have further strengthened measures against water pollution by attaching water quality sensors to the discharge points of our wastewater treatment facilities to automatically suspend water discharge if water quality problems are detected. Processing Created based on the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (aqueduct.wri.org). recycled water using reverse osmosis (RO) systems has allowed some sites to achieve zero wastewater discharge. Under the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), we aim to reduce water intake at global production sites by 21% by 2022. In order to achieve this, we are taking steps to reduce water usage, such as sharing best practices among plants, investing in equipment and expanding the Nissan Energy Saving Collaboration (NESCO) team into “r NESCO” (r[esource] NESCO) to address not just energy-saving issues but also those involving water usage and waste. Additionally, since the water resource situation varies considerably from region to region, we assess water risk using our own methods for each of our production sites throughout the world. At sites where a high level of risk is found, we prioritize measures to expand dedicated water sources by building reservoirs to collect rainwater, improving wastewater recycling efficiency and reducing external water intake. 104/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI306-1 Water Resource Achievements Water Use Reduction Plants producing Nissan vehicles and parts are Water Usage per Vehicle Produced (Global) located throughout the world, and they all use water as part of the production process. Nissan strives to manage and reduce water usage at every plant, aiming to achieve a 21% reduction per vehicle produced by fiscal 2022 from 2010 levels. As of fiscal 2018, we had already reduced water usage by 18.7%, when compared to 2010. To help achieve this goal, we built reservoirs to collect rainwater at the Chennai Plant in India and the second Aguascalientes Plant in Mexico, and installed wastewater recycling equipment at the Chennai Plant, the Huadu Plant in China and the Oppama Plant in Japan. Our efforts at the Chennai Plant, in particular, were recognized as an excellent example of water resource management by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). At Nissan North America (NNA), plants are competing among themselves to find new ideas for reducing water usage, such as by filtering wastewater from prepainting processes and thus improving water quality. We are also working to reduce water usage at Nissan’s Global Headquarters in Yokohama, Japan by processing rainwater and wastewater from kitchens and other internal sources to be reused for flushing toilets and watering some plants. 105/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Innovative Car Wash Technique Introduced at Service Centers in India Since 2014, the service centers of Nissan Motor India (NMIPL) have offered customers car washes that utilize an advanced foam washing technique. A traditional car wash requires about 160 liters of water for one car, but NMIPL’s new service cuts consumption to approximately 90 liters—a 45% reduction in water use. Three years after the introduction of the foam wash technique, the total amount of water saved across Nissan service centers in India reached roughly 6,100 kiloliters—equivalent to the daily water consumption of 25,000 Indian households. Along with reducing water consumption, the foam wash service is environmentally friendly due to the non-use of hard chemicals, shortens washing time, and even enhances the gloss of cars by roughly 40%. GRI303-1 Water Input for Corporate Activities In fiscal 2018, water input for corporate activities was 26,420,000 m 3 , a 1% increase compared with the fiscal 2017 level. Water input from production sites was 25,093,377 m 3 .* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total 1,000 m³ 29,162 28,570 29,118 26,197 26,420 Japan 1,000 m³ 15,018 14,990 15,563 13,115 13,022 North America 1,000 m³ 5,419 5,427 5,483 4,905 4,930 Europe 1,000 m³ 2,310 2,330 2,299 2,155 2,093 Other 1,000 m³ 6,415 5,823 5,774 6,023 6,376 106/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Cleaner Effluent Through Wastewater Treatment Nissan thoroughly processes wastewater at its various plants. Wastewater from two Nissan plants in Aguascalientes, Mexico, is used to maintain landscaping on the sites, with no offsite discharge. We also are strengthening water pollution prevention measures in our Japanese plants. In preparation for unexpected occurrences, such as the discharge of oil, we have attached water quality sensors to the discharge points of wastewater treatment facilities. Discharge of water outside the grounds is automatically suspended if water quality problems are detected. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total 1,000 m³ 20,938 20,680 20,516 17,410 17,345 Japan 1,000 m³ 13,358 12,976 12,681 10,376 10,472 North America 1,000 m³ 3,550 3,916 4,028 3,382 3,190 Europe 1,000 m³ 1,793 1,740 1,767 1,564 1,539 Other 1,000 m³ 2,237 2,048 2,040 2,088 2,143 Quality Chemical oxygen demand (COD) kg 27,883 28,042 29,730 26,451 21,149 Japan only * Click here for more information (environmental data) on Water Resource Management. 107/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-56 THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE 108/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 [Remarks] Basis of calculation for CO2 emissions, waste generated and water input subject to thirdparty assurance ■ CO2 emissions from production sites: Calculated based on Nissan internal standards. The energy use data of each site is based on invoices from suppliers, which are multiplied by a CO2 emissions coefficient publicly available for each production site. ■ CO2 emissions resulting from employees’ commute: Calculated based on the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Standard. Specifically, the annual CO2 emissions resulting from each employee’s commute are calculated using a standard unit of measurement announced by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Ministry of the Environment, and Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. This figure is calculated on the basis that employees working at Global Headquarters commute by train and other employees use cars that are average vehicles designated by Nissan. This is multiplied by the number of employees at each facility or office. ■ CO2 emissions from the use of sold products: Calculated using the average regional CO2 emissions per vehicle multiplied by the regional estimated average lifecycle mileage and multiplied by fiscal 2016 sales volumes. The average CO2 emissions for the use phase (including direct emissions only) per unit are calculated for each of our main regions (Japan, U.S., EU and China) and extrapolated from average emissions of these markets for other markets. The Sustainable Mobility Project (SMP) model issued by the International Energy Agency was used to determine estimated average lifecycle mileages. ■ Scope 3 emissions figures are estimates subject to varying inherent uncertainties. ■ Waste generated from production sites of Nissan Motor Co. Ltd. and Nissan Motor Kyushu Co., Ltd. in Japan:Calculated based on Nissan internal standards. The discharged waste is based on data from truck scales at the sites or data reported by disposal contractors. All discharged waste within the sites concerned is targeted. However, waste generated without fixed periodicity, waste generated in canteens, waste from permanently stationed companies at the sites, waste generated by external vendors and waste from construction are excluded. In addition, materials recycled in-house, used in reproduction (reused by Nissan) or recycled (as salable, valuable materials) are not categorized as generated waste. ■ Water input from production sites: Calculated based on Nissan internal standards. Water input is the water withdrawal amount according to billing meters or company meters installed on site. The water withdrawal amount includes drinking water (tap water), industrial-use water, underground water (spring/well water) and rainwater or the like. 109/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 STRENGTHENING OUR BUSINESS FOUNDATIONS TO ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES Environmental Governance Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Environmental Impact Stakeholder Engagement Environmental Governance Click here for more information on our Global Environmental Management Framework and Governance System. Enhancing Environmental Management Based on ISO 14001 As of January 2011, the Nissan Global Headquarters and all other main Nissan facilities in Japan have acquired ISO 14001 certification for environmental management systems. We have appointed an environmental management officer to oversee our environmental activities. Through steady application of the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle, we are improving our environmental performance worldwide. The coordinated goals set by the environmental management officer for the entire company are cascaded down to the employees working in all facilities through local offices. Nissan’s ISO secretariat oversees companywide efforts, while local offices in Japan are responsible for activities at each facility and division, and for coordinating the proposals submitted by employees. The ISO secretariat and local offices engage in discussions at least once a month to confirm progress made toward established goals, to share best practices, to improve management systems, to develop plans for the next fiscal year and to communicate requests from local facilities and divisions. The items discussed are reported to the environmental management officer twice a year (once during the management review conference) so that Nissan can decide on needed improvements. To confirm that management is functioning properly with respect to environmental management, we 110/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 periodically retain third-party organizations to conduct audits. Additionally, to strengthen compliance, we conduct internal audits with respect to areas covered by third-party audits as well as all other environmental activities, prioritizing adherence to government reporting requirements and identifying risks. These third-party and internal audit initiatives are aimed at establishing a system capable of detecting human error, however small, and pursuing improved operations. Nissan’s production plants outside Japan have also acquired ISO 14001 certification. Nissan’s policy is to establish environmental management systems in all regions where we operate in accordance with the same standards. Nissan’s Voluntary Operational Standards Stricter controls on environment-impacting substances are being implemented in countries around the world. Examples include the European ELV Directive, the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation, which went into effect in June 2007, and Japan’s Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture. To help minimize the potential release of formaldehyde, toluene and other volatile organic compounds (VOCs)* in vehicle cabins, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association has launched a voluntary program that calls for the VOC guidance value established by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare for specific substances in January 2002 to be met for all new models manufactured or sold in Japan after April 2007. Nissan is strengthening its management of environment-impacting substances, adhering to a planned schedule for their reduction and advancing the use of alternative substances. In 2005, we drew up policies regarding the use of substances scientifically recognized as being hazardous or carrying high hazard risks, as well as those identified by NGOs as dangerous. In 2007, these policies, which restrict environment-impacting substances even more than the domestic laws of the countries where we operate, were rolled out globally. Based on the above-referenced policies, Nissan developed a specific Nissan Engineering Standard (NES) for the Restricted Use of Substances, which identifies the chemical substances whose use is either prohibited or controlled. The NES is applied in material selection and also in the components and parts used in our vehicles from initial development onward. For example, four heavy metal compounds (mercury, lead, cadmium and hexavalent chromium) and the polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) flame retardant have been either prohibited or restricted in models (excluding OEM vehicles) launched globally since July 2007. To control VOC use in car interiors, Nissan adopted the voluntary targets of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association as our own standards for global operations, and we are reviewing and reducing the use of prohibited and controlled chemical substances in materials and adhesives for seats, door trim, floor carpet and other parts. Every year, we revise the Restricted Use of Substances standards to reflect changes in international 111/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 laws and regulations and to add new substances covered by our voluntary internal standards. For the 2017 revision, the members of the Renault-Nissan Alliance implemented shared standards based on a reassessment of select criteria for hazards and risks that go beyond the level of compliance, strengthening Alliance activities. We build and maintain communication and management systems internally and within the supply chain. For example, we disclose information and submit REACH reports to the relevant authorities about the vehicles and parts produced in or exported to Europe from Japan and other countries (including some from the United States). We also comply with Classification, Labeling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures regulations. * VOCs: Organic chemicals that readily evaporate and become gaseous in the atmosphere. GRI306-3 GRI307-1 Sanctions and Government Guidance at Nissan Production Facilities During fiscal 2018, in relation to the environmental management system, none of Nissan’s production facilities received notifications or sanctions from the government regarding significant violations of environmental laws or regulations. Raising Employee Awareness Nissan’s environmental activities are enabled by the knowledge, awareness and competency of its employees. Based on ISO 14001 standards, we will conduct employee education rooted in the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) regarding CO2 emission reductions, energy, water consumption and waste. In addition, education regarding environmental accident prevention and the management of hazardous materials is provided every year to all employees, including those from affiliated companies working in our production facilities. Training programs with quantitative evaluation are deployed to improve the skills and knowledge of each employee on how to reduce environmental impact in their activities. The content of these training programs is updated every year. In Japan, we implement a curriculum to educate new employees during orientation and organize seminars for middle managers to deepen their understanding of NGP2022 and environmental issues surrounding the auto industry. We also hold “town hall” meetings to promote dialogue between executives and employees. Employees can stay up to date on our latest environmental initiatives through features in the intranet, internal newsletters and in-house video broadcasts. In addition, all employees receive an Environmental Policy Card with a pledge to pursue personal environmental 112/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 activities, which they carry at all times. Overseas, we share information and provide education to employees through the intranet, videos, events and various other communication approaches suited to each region. Employee-Initiated Activities and Evaluation System In fiscal 2008, we added “environment” to the range of kaizen issues addressed by quality control (QC) circles. This has created opportunities for employees to think proactively and propose ideas to improve environmental aspects of our business. Managers encourage the active participation of employees by communicating how these activities of QC circles are linked to the achievement of our midterm business plan. The ideas proposed by employees go to managers and QC circle secretariats for assessment of their potential contribution to environmental improvement, among other factors, after which we may implement those with the highest potential. The knowledge and skills of the frontline employees on CO2 emission reduction, energy management, water conservation and waste and landfill reduction have been compiled in a best practices manual and shared among global facilities. We hold contests in some facilities during officially designated months in Japan to keep employees motivated about participating in environmental activities. These include the Energy Use Reduction Idea Contest in February (energy-efficiency month), the Water Usage Reduction Idea Contest in June (environment month) and the Waste Reduction Idea Contest in October (3R promotion month). We also use various methods to reward employees for their contributions to environmental improvement activities. These activities are included in the “commitment and target” annual performance goals used at some Japanese and overseas locations. This system assesses employees’ achievement of goals, reflecting this in performance-related elements of employee bonuses. Employees are also recognized for environmental improvement through Nissan prizes presented by the CEO or other executives, awards given by plant heads and “THANKS CARD” recognition from managers for excellent work or achievements. 113/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Environmental Impact Nissan ensures solid environmental management policy by routinely assigning personnel to conduct risk management and having supervisors confirm their suitability and periodically conducting inspections. We also identify potential risks by conducting lifecycle assessments (LCAs). The LCA method is used to quantitatively evaluate and comprehensively assess environmental impact, not just while vehicles are in use, but at all stages of their lifecycle, from resource extraction, manufacturing and transport to disposal. During the period of NGP2022, we are applying the LCA method to ensure steadfast implementation of our environmental activities, such as by identifying their progress and examining ways to further reduce our environmental impact. We are also carrying out LCAs for new technologies to develop environmentally friendlier vehicles. Our LCA methods were certified by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry in 2010 and by TÜV Rheinland in Germany in December 2013. The latter certification is based on ISO 14040/14044 standards and validates the environmental impact calculations in our product LCAs. We will use the above-certified calculations during the NGP2022 period to conduct LCAs of new vehicles and technologies and enhance efficiency during both the manufacture and operation of vehicles with the aim of further reducing environmental impact during the lifecycle of Nissan vehicles. 114/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Global Top Selling Model’s Lifecycle Improvements We have been expanding the application of the LCA method and enhancing the understanding of the environmental impact of our products in quantitative terms, especially our best-selling models worldwide. LCAs have been conducted for over 90% of these models. LCA Conducted Product Ratio in Sales Volume (EU Market) With the Altima and Rogue, for example, improvements in internal combustion engine efficiency and vehicle weight reduction have led to both enhanced safety features and lower CO2 emissions. Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N20, etc.) 115/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LCA Comparison for e-POWER Models Nissan introduced its new e-POWER powertrain in 2016, marking another significant milestone in the electrification strategy with lifecycle emission improvements. Compared to their gasoline-powered counterpart models, the Note e-POWER and Serena e-POWER have achieved an 18%—27% reduction in CO2 emissions. Electrified e-POWER vehicles use a system in which a gasoline engine operates only under certain circumstances and is used to generate electricity. As a result, e-POWER vehicles achieve lower exhaust emissions and better fuel efficiency for driving than conventional gasoline engines. Also, since an e-POWER vehicle only requires a small battery (unlike one that is 100% electric), emissions from the manufacture of dedicated EV parts such as batteries can be kept at a level only slightly above that for parts for conventional vehicles. There is future potential for further reductions in CO2 emissions through additional weight reductions and the optimization of e-POWER energy management. Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N20, etc.) 116/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LCA Comparison for the New Nissan LEAF Compared to conventional vehicles of the same class in Japan, the Nissan LEAF results in approximately 32% lower CO2 emissions during its lifecycle. We are making efforts to reduce CO2 emissions during EV production by improving the yield ratio of materials, using more efficient manufacturing processes and increasing the use of recycled materials. We are also continuing to pursue technology development for electric powertrains, power savings on ancillary devices and the use of renewable energy to reduce CO2 emissions over the entire lifecycle of EVs. Also, at the end-of-life stage, used batteries can be utilized for energy storage in various ways, contributing to reduced CO2 emissions in society. Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N20, etc.) 117/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Lifecycle Improvements Beyond Climate Change Nissan is expanding the scope of LCAs to Emissions Improvement in the New Serena include not just greenhouse gases but also a e-POWER over Its Lifecycle variety of chemicals amid growing societal concerns over air quality and ocean acidification and eutrophication. Our calculations show that, compared to conventional gasoline engines, the Serena ePOWER is significantly more environmentally friendly, achieving 11%—27% emission reductions for all targeted chemical substances and achieving environmental benefits throughout its lifecycle. 118/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Stakeholder Engagement GRI308-1 GRI308-2 Working with Suppliers As part of NGP2022, we are working to improve suppliers’ environmental performance via the following three initiatives: We encourage all our global suppliers to manage parts and materials with a shared environmental philosophy in alignment with the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. These guidelines are based on The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way and the Renault-Nissan Supplier CSR Guidelines and provide detailed information regarding environmental matters. In August 2018, based on NGP2022, we revised the content of the guidelines, adding requests that suppliers undertake their own environmental activities. Additionally, in May 2019, in order to strengthen management of environment-impacting substances, we added requirements dealing with supplier self-diagnosis of environment-impacting substance management and related topics, and asked all suppliers to follow them. We also participate in the supply-chain program of CDP (previously known as the Carbon Disclosure Project), an international nonprofit, through which we request information on climate change and water from suppliers and conduct comprehensive performance reviews. During fiscal 2018, we asked our large contract suppliers to take part in the supply-chain program to provide responses on their environmental activities. 78% of them participated in the CDP program on climate change data and 74% in the CDP program on water security. Based on the results from these surveys, we engaged with a number of suppliers in order to incentivize work on the improvement of their environmental initiatives, and these led to improvements in the ranking of our suppliers in 2018. We are promoting THANKS (Trusty and Harmonious Alliance Network Kaizen activity with Suppliers) activities, a joint improvement program that emphasizes trust and cooperation with suppliers. Regarding energy use (electricity and gas) and CO2 emission reduction in particular, we are taking the lead in cooperating with our main suppliers as part of the energy-efficient THANKS activities, based on the initiatives of our internal production facilities. 119/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 China’s environmental regulations have become more stringent in recent years, forcing many companies to discontinue their business, temporarily suspend operations or to relocate their factories. Under the circumstances, we conducted an independent survey in fiscal 2018 of suppliers’ compliance with environmental regulations. The results will be utilized to build a more resilient supply chain. Working with Consolidated Production Companies We encourage our consolidated production companies in a variety of markets to acquire ISO 14001 certification and to undertake other environmental initiatives based on their respective policies. Meetings with major consolidated production companies in Japan are held to exchange views on cooperation toward the goals outlined in NGP2022. The meetings lead to a deeper shared understanding of the details of NGP2022 and the initiatives undertaken by each company. Working with Dealerships Our dealerships in Japan have introduced an original approach to environmental management based on ISO 14001 certification called the “Nissan Green Shop” certification system. This program is managed through internal audits conducted by the dealerships every six months, in addition to annual reviews and certification renewal audits carried out every three years by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (NML). As of the end of March 2019, the system has certified approximately 2,700 dealerships of 156 dealers, including parts dealers. 120/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Working with Future Generations Today’s youths are the future leaders of our society. We are working to share information on environmental issues with the younger generation, and to raise awareness among tomorrow’s leaders. We have been conducting environmental programs for students in school visits in Japan since 2008 in which more than 50,000 students had participated as of March 2018. In NGP2022, we will further expand the program in Japan and in other countries. Key Activities in NGP2022 Youth education programs, such as Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School, an interactive program delivered by Nissan employees to schoolchildren, will be expanded globally to: Share knowledge of global environmental issues Introduce our environmental initiatives, such as the Nissan LEAF electric vehicle and our other green technologies Through environmental education, the program encourages participants to adopt eco-friendly activities in their daily lives. 121/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Working with NGOs The Global Risks Report 2019 published by the World Economic Forum cited climate change and water crises among the top-ranked global risks for the tenth consecutive year, and all companies must contribute in these areas. We believe that working alone via our operations is not sufficient, so we collaborate with NGOs to undertake climate-change and water-related community projects that are aligned with our environmental targets. Our Corporate Philanthropy Goal is to create a cleaner, safer and more inclusive society. NGP2022 seeks to support local communities through various projects by collaborating globally with NGOs primarily in such areas as climate change and water scarcity. Key Activities in NGP2022 Collaboration with the World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan) on climate change mitigation Support and financially contribute to WWF Japan’s climate change mitigation project Continue participation in WWF’s worldwide Earth Hour environmental enlightenment campaign for greenhouse gas emission reduction Collaboration with Conservation International on water supply catchment protection Support and financially contribute to watershed reforestation projects, beginning in Indonesia Create jobs and build capacity for local communities through their involvement in our conservation projects 122/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI304-1 GRI304-2 GRI304-3 GRI304-4 Priority Issues for Automobile Manufacturers Regarding the Protection of Air, Water, Soil and Biodiversity The United Nations Millennium Ecosystem Assessment report issued in 2005 concluded that ecosystem services had degraded over the past 50 years more rapidly and extensively than in any comparable period in history. Humankind depends on a number of ecosystem services, including the provision of food and fresh water, climate regulation and protection from natural disasters. The automotive industry must recognize both its impact on ecosystems and its dependence on these services. Companies today face the pressing need to balance environmental preservation and economic progress as they pursue their business activities. Using methods identified in the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review,* 1 we have evaluated the value chain from the extraction of material resources to vehicle production and operation. Based on the results, we have identified three priority areas as an automobile manufacturer: energy sourcing, mineral material sourcing and water usage. We published a report titled “Ecosystem Services and the Automotive Sector”* 2 in 2010 collating the outcome of this work. Our calculations in June 2013 showed that more than 20 times as much water was used upstream in the supply chain than by Nissan itself. We are following up by re-evaluating and further developing our existing environmental initiatives from the viewpoint of business risks and opportunities. * 1 Developed by the World Resources Institute in cooperation with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and Meridian Institute, based on the U.N. Millennium Ecosystem Assessment. * 2 Click here for more information on “Ecosystem Services and the Automotive Sector.” Click here for more information (environmental data) on how we are strengthening our business foundation to address environmental issues. 123/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL SOCIAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY HUMAN RIGHTS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION TRAFFIC SAFETY PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT LABOR PRACTICES RESPECTING THE RIGHTS OF WORKERS DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES 124/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 125/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-15 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 SOCIAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY Nissan’s business activities are supported by various stakeholders. As well as respecting the rights of all stakeholders, as a global company we conduct our business activities with a constant awareness of society’s needs and social responsibility in order to contribute to the sustainable development of society. Regarding the Social aspect (important sustainability topics) of Nissan Sustainability 2022, we are promoting initiatives in six areas: traffic safety, diversity and inclusion, quality, supply chain, employees and community engagement. Traffic Safety We are promoting development and implementation of driver assistance technology and other traffic safety technologies to achieve our ultimate goal of virtually zero fatalities involving our vehicles. Diversity and Inclusion We will proactively hire more diverse talent with different backgrounds to make gender and national diversity a corporate strength. We also aim to be a truly inclusive company so that employees can demonstrate their potential to the fullest. Quality Quality is fundamental to Nissan’s activities. At all levels of the organization, we will listen closely to the voice of the customer and establish awareness of the importance of quality improvement. Supply Chain We are strengthening our sustainability initiatives throughout its supply chain. Employees We will expand opportunities for our employees to learn so that they can achieve their maximum potential. We aim to make continuous learning and talent development part of our corporate culture, and to create a dynamic work environment where the health and safety of staff is a top priority. Community Engagement Local communities are important stakeholders in Nissan’s business activities. We are working to contribute to local communities around the world in three strategic areas: “zero emission”, “zero fatality” and “zero inequality”. 126/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 For this Sustainability Report, activities in six areas were selected and examined from the perspectives of the potential business impacts and level of interest from stakeholders. Report Themes and the Six Areas REPORT THEMES SIX AREAS TRAFFIC SAFETY TRAFFIC SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY QUALITY SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RESOURCE LABOR PRACTICES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 127/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights Policies and Philosophy Human Rights Management Human Rights Achievements GRI103-1 Human Rights Policies and Philosophy As the value chains of global corporations expand, the international community is ever more concerned about respect for human rights and how business affects them. As a leading automobile company, Nissan considers the strict adherence to corporate rules and applicable laws and practices fundamental to its business activity in every country and area where it operates. We are committed to delivering engaging, valuable and sustainable mobility to all and acknowledges that, for this to be achieved, the human rights of all stakeholders must be respected and all employees must uphold the highest ethical standards. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, nationality, gender, religion, disability, age, place of origin, gender identity, sexual orientation or any other characteristic. We also work to rectify and eradicate working practices that infringe human rights, such as forced labor and child labor. 128/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-16 Human Rights Policy Statement As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, Nissan’s respect for human rights is informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Based on the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), we have formulated the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement* to actively prevent adverse human rights impacts. This policy statement makes our commitment to protecting human rights clear to all stakeholders and underpins our initiatives in this area. * Click here to download the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement. 129/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-17 GRI103-2 GRI408-1 GRI409-1 GRI412-1 Human Rights Management The Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement is applicable to employees at every level, including management. Nissan’s fundamental ethical expectations are also clarified in the Nissan Global Code of Conduct, and all management and employees recognize the importance of applying the statement beyond Nissan’s own operations. At every level of our global supply chain, we aim to conduct ethical, social and environmentally conscious business activities, and we work together with suppliers, contractors and other business partners to achieve this goal. Since 2006, we have shared a set of common values and processes around procurement known as The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way with its worldwide network of suppliers. Common values regarding human rights and labor are also shared via the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers, in which we detail our expectations and request implementation regarding respect for human rights and prohibition of child labor and forced labor. In addition, we require businesses we deal with to take the initiative on responsible procurement of minerals and carry out due diligence on conflict minerals. We are also strengthening communication with our sales companies and promoting consistent sustainability management, including on human rights issues. * Click here for more information on supply chain-related human rights initiatives. See below for more details about our guidelines. Nissan Global Code of Conduct Renault-Nissan Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines for Suppliers Action Against Conflict Minerals 130/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI406-1 GRI407-1 GRI411-1 GRI412-2 Human Rights Achievements Nissan recognizes the need to take a comprehensive approach to managing human rights. After identifying actual or potential adverse impacts that we might have inadvertently caused or contributed to, we consider it vital to monitor and assess such situations, as well as to develop appropriate response strategies. In the 2001 Nissan Global Code of Conduct, we detailed our policies regarding equal opportunity and respect for diversity. In 2004, we signed the United Nations Global Compact, accepting reporting obligations that we continue to fulfill today. Regarding suppliers, in 2010 we published the RenaultNissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers, clarifying our respect for human rights and commitment to eliminating forced and child labor and sharing our sustainability policies. In 2017, in accordance with the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), we issued the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement. This policy makes it clear that, as a world-leading automobile company, we respect all our stakeholders’ human rights, and require our employees to act according to the highest ethical standards. In 2018, we cooperated with an NGO to implement human rights due diligence, allowing us to identify key areas of particularly high risk. In June 2018, we launched our new sustainability strategy, Nissan Sustainability 2022, specifying the main goals through fiscal 2022 for the aspects of Environmental, Social and Governance. For the Social aspect, the strategy also reiterates the importance of respecting all stakeholders’ rights. We also work to build awareness of human rights among employees. For example, a total of 222 people have taken part in our LGBT seminars, held annually since fiscal 2014. Since fiscal 2016, all senior managers have been required to take an e-learning program about LGBT issues. We also have proactive initiatives to support LGBT staff.* 1 As described in the Nissan Global Code of Conduct, employees can submit inquiries related to human rights issues via a global reporting system.*2 We are committed to investigating, addressing and responding to any concerns raised, and employees who make inquiries are protected from any form of retaliation. * 1 Click here for more information on initiatives to support LGBT staff. * 2 Click here for more information on our global reporting system. 131/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity and Inclusion Policies and Philosophy Diversity and Inclusion Management Diversity and Inclusion Achievements GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI406-1 Diversity and Inclusion Policies and Philosophy The needs of customers are becoming increasingly diverse. To meet these needs Nissan employees from different backgrounds must work together. Employees are the driving force for the sustainable growth of Nissan, and this diverse body of employees is a valuable resource for the company. We place great importance on establishing a workplace where employees can demonstrate their potentials to the fullest, and which is truly inclusive. That is why one of Nissan’s corporate strategies is to respect and promote diversity and inclusion. 132/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Respect for Human Rights and Equal Opportunity We have established the Nissan Global Code of Conduct, which describes how employees should act and applies to all Nissan Group companies worldwide. At Nissan, all employees respect one another’s human rights, and discrimination or bullying on the grounds of race, nationality, gender, religion, disability, age, place of origin, gender identity, sexual orientation or other reasons is forbidden. There are rules in place to prevent any passive acceptance of an environment in which such discrimination occurs. At the same time, we respect the diversity of our employees, work to maximize the performance of each individual and actively strive to create an environment in which teams can come together and work toward ambitious goals. Diversity and Inclusion as Strategy The global expansion of Nissan’s corporate activities has meant growing diversification of not only Nissan’s customers but also its employees. Work and lifestyle choices are changing, driven by demographic changes such as an aging population and urbanization. We believe that for employees to work in a worry-free, self-initiated manner, they need to be able to pursue their careers regardless of gender, nationality or other factors and at the same time choose from among various workstyles to suit their particular stage of life. Skill development programs are another essential part of making the workplace attractive to employees. We believe that diversity and inclusion are a source of competitiveness for the company. By having employees from a range of backgrounds work together while respecting one another’s different values, new concepts and ways of thinking are born and even greater value and creative solutions are produced, leading to even better business results. In order to meet the diverse needs of customers around the world and to provide the revolutionary products and services that come about when each employee is highly motivated, we have made diversity and inclusion part of our corporate strategy and is promoting them in all workplaces. 133/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 134/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Diversity and Inclusion Management In order to promote diversity and inclusion across Nissan’s global operations, policies are set by a committee of executives representing company divisions. We then put in place local initiatives based on the specialist knowledge needed for their implementation. We aim to be a truly inclusive company with a diverse workforce, in which individual employees can demonstrate their potential to the fullest. We promote diversity and inclusion based on four approaches: “Developing leaders with skills to manage diverse organizations,” “Enabling diverse human resources,” “Embedding culture of respect for diversity and inclusion” and “Promoting inclusive workstyles.” 135/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Diversity and Inclusion: Decision-Making and Action-Driving Bodies We have set up the Global Diversity Steering Committee (Global DSC), which consists of executives from its different divisions and makes decisions on global diversity and inclusion policies and initiatives. The implementation of these in various geographical areas is spearheaded by Regional Diversity Steering Committees (Regional DSCs). In Japan, we have set up the Diversity Development Office, which helps put diversity and inclusion policies into practice. In North America, the Americas Diversity Office has been established. In other regions, the implementation of diversity policies is handled by local human resource departments and other bodies. 136/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Diversity and Inclusion Promotion: Issues and Approaches Issues Approaches Developing leaders with skills to manage Management skills development diverse organizations Human resources development, career support Enhanced recruitment actions* Enabling diverse human resources Targets: 16% female managers globally, and 13% in Japan by 2023 Embedding culture of respect for diversity Promotional activities for all employees to understand and inclusion values of diversity and inclusion Work-life balance support Promoting inclusive workstyles Development of infrastructures that realize flexible workstyles * Guidelines at Nissan Japan for female new staff recruitment are 50% for office positions, 20% for engineering positions and 20% for technical roles. 137/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI405-1 Diversity and Inclusion Achievements Enabling Diverse Human Resources Female Talent Development: Initiatives and Achievements Enablement of women, particularly in management positions, is essential to providing diverse value to customers. In order to increase female representation through all management levels, Nissan provides trainings to ensure that top candidates will be ready to take on greater responsibility. Support is provided for women’s career development in every region where we operate. As a result of these initiatives, the percentage of women among Nissan managers globally has increased from 7% in 2008 to 13.6% in April 2019. Additionally, increasing numbers of female employees have ambitions to work overseas, and women are active at every one of Nissan’s global sites. In Japan, we provide personalized support for female employees through individual counseling sessions with career advisors. Female employees receive tailored support via career development seminars and meetings with career advisors. They are also actively encouraged to network with other professional women outside of the company and with women who have risen into management roles in Nissan. We have also put in place a mentoring program as part of our personal support initiatives. Younger employees receive support for their personal growth through two-way dialogue with highly knowledgeable and experienced senior employees, as well as help in dealing with the issues they encounter during their career development and in solving worries and issues in the workplace. 138/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Thanks to these various initiatives, women now comprise 10.4% of managers in Japan (as of April 2019). This compares favorably to the average of 4.0% for Japanese manufacturers with 1,000 or more employees (according to the 2018 Basic Survey on Wage Structure from Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare). Female managers also work in all Nissan divisions, including development and manufacturing, and are involved in all operational processes. Furthermore, as of April 2019, a total of 7.6% of general manager or higher positions are filled by women—3.8 times larger than the 2008 level of 2.0%. Also, in June 2018 the international race driver Keiko Ihara became Nissan’s first female outside director. Ratio of Women in Management Positions Rather than simply increasing the number of female managers, we create an environment in which women can participate in all business processes, from new model development to sales, including those working at affiliate and sales companies. In the car development stage, models like the Nissan Serena minivan released in Japan in August 2016 reflect women’s requirements. For example, designers and engineers adopted recommendations for a capless fuel tank, allowing drivers to refuel the vehicle without dirtying their hands, and dual back doors that require minimal force to open and allow cargo to be loaded even in confined spaces. We are also promoting human resource and career development initiatives for women at our manufacturing sites. In October 2017 the Nissan Group’s first female plant manager took up her role at the Oppama Plant in Yokosuka, Kanagawa Prefecture, and other female plant managers have been appointed since then. Nissan sales staff must respond to the needs and questions of men and women customers alike. There are many staff employed at our sales companies, but particularly noteworthy is the participation and advancement of our female car-life advisors (CAs). As of February 2019, 1,196 female CAs were active across Japan, accounting for 10.7% of the national total, a 0.6% increase compared to 10.1% in February 2018. Additionally, to enhance the satisfaction of female customers with after-sales service 139/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 experiences, female technical advisors (TAs) have been appointed to bridge the gap between customers and dealer technicians. Inter-cultural Cooperation A vital part of Nissan’s success rests on ensuring that people are welcome no matter where they come from, what language they speak, how old they are or what their background or training is. Nissan’s top decision makers include individuals of many different nationalities. To more efficiently promote Nissan’s partnership with Daimler AG and AVTOVAZ, efforts are being made to expand the share of managerial staff in Europe who speak German or Russian. Establishing a Culture of Respect for Diversity and Inclusion In order to leverage diversity as a true strength, create greater value, and meet the diverse needs of customers, we believe it is important to establish a culture of diversity and inclusion, where employees with all sorts of differences, not just of gender and nationality but also sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, age and career history, acknowledge and accept each other without discrimination or prejudice. To further foster a culture of diversity and inclusion, in fiscal 2018 in Japan, we introduced an “Unconscious Bias e-learning” for all indirect employees, in which employees can learn the influence of the unconscious biases that everyone has as well as techniques to mitigate their effects. We plan to gradually expand this initiative across our global sites. To enable members of the LGBT community and other employees with diverse sexual orientations and gender identities to perform their jobs without experiencing discrimination in the workplace, we have been working to support and promote understanding through such initiatives as annual LGBT seminars held since 2014. We have participated in Tokyo Rainbow Pride, the largest LGBT event in Japan, for three consecutive years since 2017. In fiscal 2016, a self-initiated employee network was launched by members of the LGBT community and allies (those supportive of LGBT) within the company. In recognition of these initiatives, the private organization, work with Pride, awarded Nissan its most prestigious Gold “PRIDE Index” to recognize corporate initiatives to support LGBT employees, a first for a Japanese automobile company. In 2018, we won Gold for the second year in a row. We also provide a space where older employees and those with disabilities can fully participate. Necessary training programs are provided for those who have built up their career at other companies so that they can quickly perform to the best of their ability at Nissan. In addition, we hold local diversity-themed events and run diversity training programs for employees all over the world. Employees can also learn about Nissan’s vision and initiatives relating to diversity and inclusion via diversity articles on the company intranet and e-learning programs. 140/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Promoting Inclusive Workstyles We strive to create a work environment where every member of a diverse workforce can demonstrate his or her potential to the fullest. For example, a system in which employees can freely choose to spend up to 40 hours a month working from home was introduced so that staff can work flexibly according to their individual needs. Also, in order to make it easier for staff in different regions to work together, in 2017 we established basic rules for the timing of meetings between sites in different regions. Although in the past global meetings have taken place during the middle of the night in some regions, guidelines have now been set in which all participants can join meetings between the local hours of 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. By combining this with home-working, we can provide an attractive work environment in all regions. Initiatives for Employees Balancing Work with Childcare or Nursing Care Japan’s low birthrate and aging population mean that it is important to provide a work environment that supports employees raising children or giving nursing care to the elderly. We are building an environment to help employees who balance work with childcare through both facilities, such as inhouse childcare centers, and initiatives, such as seminars and organizational support. In fiscal 2017 Nissan’s first plant childcare center—March Land Oppama—was opened at the Oppama Plant. The childcare’s opening times are set to fit the plant’s shift schedule, thereby helping female employees to continue their work at the plant. A group called “Escargot” has also been set up by working mothers themselves as a forum to exchange information. The number of employees balancing work with the nursing care to the elderly is expected to increase, and in Japan we have held seminars since fiscal 2015 where employees can learn the basics of nursing care and explore how company policies and local services can help them maintain the work-care balance. In fiscal 2017 we launched an external support service to support employees who face difficulties in nursing care. 141/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Creating an Environment Conducive to Work-Life Balance 142/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In-house Childcare Centers for Nissan Employees * Capacity determined based on facility area. Support Systems for Childbirth and Childcare (Japan) Workstyle Reform “Happy 8” We are implementing a series of workstyle reforms that provide a crucial foundation for supporting diversity and inclusion, allowing employees with a range of values and life needs to perform at their best. We have been striving to make workstyles more flexible. In the 1990s we began encouraging employees to take their allotted paid leaves and implemented a “super-flextime” system with no core time when employees must be at their workplace. In 2015 we introduced the Happy 8 program, a work reform emphasizing the ideal of an eight-hour work day. By communicating this ideal to employees, Happy 8 aims to increase individual and organizational productivity while also improving work life, private life, and health. As part of welcoming 143/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 more flexible workstyle in February 2017 we also began promoting our Happy Friday program, encouraging employees to leave the office at 3 p.m. on the last Friday of each month. Additionally, to give each employee the opportunity to reflect on their own workstyle from a new perspective, each fiscal year since 2014 we have held a Workstyle Symposium featuring invited guest speakers from outside the company. A symposium for Nissan employees on the theme of diverse workstyles. Under the slogan “Eight productive hours! Richer lives, better health, Happy 8,” we will continue striving for more flexible and attractive workstyles. Achievements at Overseas Sites Initiatives to Promote Diversity and Inclusion in the Americas At Nissan Americas, diversity and inclusion is embedded in our culture. It is the key to a strong and vibrant organization. By actively using our diversity in thought and experience, we better develop ideas and people, and ensure our company’s continued growth. We do this by creating opportunities that empower people to grow and achieve more. Ultimately, we focus on helping people succeed and making a positive impact on the communities in which we work and live. We strive to reflect the consumers we serve in our workforce, and that world is increasingly diverse and evolving. Diversity means growth and development opportunities for all employees, respect for all individuals and the inclusion of new ideas, viewpoints and experiences. By encouraging respect for all individuals and sharing our unique perspectives, Nissan Americas will be stronger and sustained long into the future. Mentoring Our commitment to recruiting and cultivating diverse talent is critical to maintaining our success. Nissan Americas offers a wide range of employee benefits to support the physical and financial well-being of employees and their families. One of the programs supporting employee development is mentoring. Mentoring, whether informal or formal, is an essential tool to attract and retain key talent, especially underrepresented employee populations such as women and ethnic minorities. At Nissan Americas, 144/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 mentoring opportunities are available in a variety of formats, including informal, formal, small group, individualized and topical. Business Synergy Teams Nissan Americas is also proud to offer employees the opportunity to join and/or lead Business Synergy Teams (BSTs). In tandem with executive sponsorship, employees develop BSTs to connect diverse groups of employees with shared characteristics or interests into high-functioning groups. These BSTs focus on supporting the members’ achievement of professional goals, networking, enhancing business activities and decisions, and serving the communities that we live in. Since the first BST launched in 2007, Nissan employees have embraced these groups and formed BSTs at every major U.S. location. These BST groups are: Gay Straight Alliance at Nissan (GSAN) Generations Business Synergy Team Green Team Interfaith Nissan (IN) Multicultural Business Synergy Team Nissan Alliance of Parents (NAP) Veterans Business Synergy Team Wellness@Work Business Synergy Team (W@W) Women's Business Synergy Team The BST members, leaders and Executive Sponsors are critical to Nissan Americas’ success in driving diversity and inclusion throughout the organization and into the communities where we live and work. Nissan North America (NNA) partners with many charitable and social causes that enhance the wellbeing of the communities where we live and work. We invite our employees to serve as volunteers, mentors or advisors, offering their time, talents and expertise to help nonprofit organizations carry out their missions. We have a shared commitment to build a better, more sustainable world for all of us. Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Acknowledgment of Nissan Americas’ commitment and accomplishments in supporting diversity has come from a broad spectrum of organizations and publications. We appreciate that the marketplace has recognized our efforts consistently throughout the years. 145/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enhancing Workplace Diversity and Inclusion in Europe In Europe, as part of our efforts to promote gender diversity, we hold career fairs and provide support for female employees as they continue their careers. To encourage increased hiring of women with engineering or other technical degrees, in 2014 the Nissan Skills Foundation was established at our plant in Sunderland, England, and in 2015 career development events were held for around 7,200 female students between 14 and 19. Additionally, in September 2015 Nissan Europe (NAE) worked with an external group to start a daycare service within 10 kilometers of the company’s French headquarters and employees’ homes. We also implemented a program named “Training to Achieve Multicultural Benefits,” which raised awareness of cultural differences and provided support to all employees working in multicultural environments. External Recognition for Diversity and Inclusion at Nissan* Both Nissan’s diversity and inclusion initiatives and its attitude of placing emphasis on employee diversity, have received considerable external recognition. In 2015, we became the first company in Kanagawa Prefecture to earn Platinum Kurumin certification, which is granted to Kuruminaccredited companies (certified as supporting childcare) that provide an even higher standard of childcare support. Then in 2017 we received the highest third-level Eruboshi accreditation as a company that successfully promotes female participation in the workplace. Additionally, we were the first Japanese carmaker to receive a PRIDE Index top Gold award, a scheme which recognizes efforts to support LGBT employees; in 2018, we received the same award for the second year in a row. These awards are a clear sign that Nissan’s commitment to diversity and inclusion is producing results and that our efforts to make diversity a key element of its competitive strategy are steadily bearing fruit. * Click here for data on the main examples of external recognition of our diversity and inclusion initiatives to date. 146/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 147/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TRAFFIC SAFETY Traffic Safety Policies and Philosophy Traffic Safety Management Traffic Safety Achievements (Vehicles, People, Society) GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Traffic Safety Policies and Philosophy The automobile has transformed people’s lives, bringing mobility, convenience and the pleasure of driving. In recent years, the automotive industry has made significant advances, particularly in autonomous driving technologies and driver-support solutions. The world is also undergoing major structural shifts due to aging populations and the rapid progression of urbanization. Technological innovation in the automotive sector is expected to help realize societies with less urban traffic congestion and more ways for senior citizens to move about safely. Nissan designs and engineers cars that embody the pleasure and richness of driving while prioritizing a high level of safety. More than 90% of traffic accidents are caused by human error. Our goal is “zero fatalities”: reducing the number of deaths from accidents involving Nissan vehicles to virtually zero.* To this end, we continue working to improve the safety of our vehicles, partly through the development and adoption of autonomous driving technologies. We also conduct a wide range of other activities to build a safer and more pleasant mobility society, including educational initiatives to raise safety awareness among drivers, pedestrians and others in the community. * Click here for more information on our goal of zero fatalities. 148/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 Traffic Safety Management Nissan’s goal of “zero fatalities” means aiming for virtually no fatalities due to traffic accidents involving Nissan vehicles. Since 2004, our R&D department has been striving to develop technologies based on our unique Safety Shield concept of vehicles that protect people. Many different types of Nissan vehicles are already equipped with the results of this work, including technologies to help prevent collision or reduce the damage when a collision is unavoidable. Today, we are working toward the implementation of autonomous driving as the next advancement among our preventative safety and driver-assist technologies. To help people gain a better understanding of traffic safety, we are committed to educational activities to boost safety awareness and support activities to improve drivers’ skills. We are working alongside government and municipal authorities, universities and other companies to realize a safer and more pleasant mobility society. Goal of Nissan’s Activities to Improve Traffic Safety Nissan’s approach to safety is focused on the real world and aims to help create a society with virtually zero avoidable traffic accidents. In 2018, there were 3,532 fatalities in Japan caused by traffic accidents. While this is 162 less than the previous year, it is still more than 3,000 deaths due to traffic accidents. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), approximately 1.35 million people die each year in traffic accidents globally. Unless urgent steps are taken, traffic accidents could become the seventh leading cause of death worldwide by 2030. We set the target of reducing the number of fatalities involving Nissan vehicles to half their 1995 level by 2015, and reached this target in Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom. Today, we are striving to halve this number once again in these markets by 2020. Our ultimate goal is a world with virtually no fatalities resulting from traffic accidents. To reduce traffic accidents and achieve this zero-fatality goal, it will be necessary to develop and deploy effective safety technologies in as many vehicles as possible. Comprehensive efforts are needed, encompassing individuals and the driving environment as well. We take a triple-layered approach, targeting vehicles, individuals and society to contribute to the creation of a truly safe automobile society. 149/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nissan’s ultimate goal: Virtually zero fatalities involving Nissan vehicles. Nissan’s approach: A triple-layered approach, targeting vehicles, individuals and society. 150/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Traffic Safety Achievements GRI103-3 GRI416-1 GRI417-1 Vehicles: Developing Safety Technologies To promote safe and enjoyable driving, as well as ensuring that all our brands comply with laws and regulations addressing automobile safety, Nissan is working to develop automotive technologies that help minimize risk to vehicle occupants to the extent possible based on its unique Safety Shield concept. We also provide technologies that can help reduce injuries when a collision is unavoidable. The Safety Shield Concept Our Safety Shield concept divides the conditions surrounding a vehicle into six phases, from “risk has not yet appeared” through “post-crash,” and guides the development of technologies to help address each phase. This concept is the basis of our efforts to create safer automobiles. Key Achievements for Nissan Safety Technology In January 2015, we expanded Intelligent Emergency Braking to more models. By the end of fiscal 2015, the technology was available on nearly all vehicle categories sold in Japan, including electric vehicles and commercial vehicles, and standard on all major models. In North America, it is now standard on several models including the Pathfinder, Altima and Rogue. In Europe, it is available on the Juke, X-Trail, Qashqai, Micra and other key models. The technology has been adopted for several new models launched in fiscal 2018, including the new Altima in North America, the Nissan LEAF e+, and the new Nissan Dayz in Japan. Our vehicles have earned high safety ratings on many public and governmental tests held in various regions. In Japan, our 11 major models featuring the Intelligent Emergency Braking, including the Note and Serena, were approved under the Advanced Emergency Braking System certification launched by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in fiscal 2018. 151/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Major External Safety Ratings (Based on 2018 Assessments) Regions External Assessments Models Rating Collision Safety (No assessments Performance performed in fiscal 2018) Assessment Preventive Safety Japan JNCAP* 1 Performance Dayz Roox, Note ASV+++ Assessment Automatic Accident SOS+ (on-board EmergencyCall Nissan Dayz type) System Assessment INFINITI QX60, QX50, 5★ Overall Rating Pathfinder, Murano (2019 model year) NCAP* 2 INFINITI QX80, Titan (Crew Cab), Armada, Frontier (Crew Cab), 4★ Overall Rating U.S. Rogue,* 4 Rogue Sport, Sentra,* 5 (2019 model year) Versa (Sedan), Kicks Altima, Pathfinder,*6 Kicks (vehicles 2019 Top Safety IIHS* 3 equipped with LED headlights) Pick Europe Euro NCAP Nissan LEAF 5★ China C-NCAP Terra 5★ Southeast ASEAN NCAP Terra 5★ Asia * 1 JNCAP: The Japan New Car Assessment Program. An automobile assessment program run by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and the National Agency for Automotive Safety and Victims’ Aid (NASVA). * 2 NCAP: The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s New Car Assessment Program. * 3 IIHS: The U.S. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. * 4 Except Rogue Hybrid. * 5 Except NISMO and SR Turbo. * 6 Vehicles manufactured after August 2018. 152/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Aiming for Virtually Collision-Free Cars Our Safety Shield concept supports the safety of vehicle occupants in a variety of scenarios with the overall goal of preventing collisions where possible and, in case of unavoidable collisions, mitigating damage and injuries. For example, during normal driving or parking, sensors and cameras can monitor vehicles and pedestrians that may be difficult for drivers to see; this supports drivers and allows them to drive with peace of mind. In times of potential danger, the vehicle can judge in an instant how to help avoid or lessen the danger. We have set ourselves the goal of providing optimal mobility worldwide. We are committed as an automobile manufacturer to swift and widespread popularization of our safety technologies. 153/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Latest Safety Technologies* * All terminology and functionality as seen in Japan market. Intelligent Emergency Braking When the front-mounted camera detects a vehicle or pedestrian ahead and the risk of collision increases, visual warnings appear in the meter display and an audible signal warns the driver to take appropriate action. If the driver does not reduce speed appropriately, braking is applied to help avoid or reduce the severity of a frontal collision. Emergency Assist for Pedal Misapplication This technology uses sonar to detect walls and other obstacles in the direction of travel. When the accelerator pedal is depressed too strongly or the system determines that there is a risk of collision, audio and visual warnings alert the driver as the system reduces engine or motor output and brakes to prevent or reduce the severity of a collision. According to our accident analysis, pedal misapplication is not restricted to parking lots and similar spaces but also often occurs on the road. Our latest system supports the driver in a wide range of situations in that it can detect vehicles and pedestrians with a front-mounted camera installed in the upper portion of the windshield when traveling at speeds of up to 25 km/h. Lane Departure Warning/Intelligent Lane Intervention The Lane Departure Warning system alerts the driver when the car appears to drift out of its travel lane with a visual warning in the meter display and an audible signal. The Intelligent Lane Intervention system can also automatically help the driver return to the travel lane by redirecting the vehicle toward it. Intelligent Driver Alertness When the Intelligent Driver Alertness system detects via the driver’s steering activity that driver alertness may be reduced, a visual warning in the meter display and an audible signal urge the driver to take a break. 154/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Intelligent Rear View Mirror When the switch is flipped on, the Intelligent Rear View Mirror shows the view through a rear-mounted camera, helping provide clear rearward visibility. The mirror’s rearward view is not impeded by any cargo or vehicle occupants inside the vehicle. Additionally, the sensitivity of the camera can be increased at night or in other low-light conditions, providing the driver with a clear rearward view in a variety of circumstances. Intelligent Around View Monitor Images showing the vehicle from a virtual bird’s eye view clearly convey the relationship between car and parking space, assisting the driver in parking. If the system detects moving objects around the car, the monitor alerts the driver. The system also supports the driver with safety checks when entering a garage or exiting a parking space. Rear Cross Traffic Alert The Rear Cross Traffic Alert warns drivers backing out of a space when a risk is detected of vehicles approaching behind them from either side. Blind Spot Warning When the Blind Spot Warning system detects a vehicle diagonally behind the vehicle, it indicates the presence of this vehicle to the driver. When the driver has the indicator on, visual and audible warnings are provided. 155/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 From Preventive Safety to Autonomous Driving We are enhancing our preventive safety technologies to support the four basic steps in avoiding accidents: sensing, cognition, judgment and action. Today we are developing autonomous driving technologies as the next step in our approach to driving safety. We believe that autonomous driving could help reduce traffic accidents—more than 90% of which have human error as a contributing A Nissan autonomous driving test vehicle. factor—and help realize a society with virtually no traffic accidents. Autonomous driving vehicles equipped with millimeter-wave radar, laser scanners and cameras continually monitor their surroundings in every direction. If they approach other vehicles or objects, artificial intelligence selects the appropriate action based on the information stored in its knowledge database. The goal is an autonomous driving vehicle that can correctly assess the situation, make decisions and drive safely even in complex traffic environments, such as crossroads with no traffic lights or when passing parked vehicles. In a society facing issues including aging populations and urban congestion, autonomous driving technologies may one day be able to help reduce traffic accidents, providing peace of mind to drivers and increased mobility to the rapidly growing number of senior citizens. We believe that autonomous driving technologies are a major breakthrough offering new mobility value. We are proactively developing these technologies and working to bring them to market. In August 2016, the new Serena was equipped with ProPILOT, a driving support system that can provide speed control, lane centering and brake assist functionalities. We are progressively deploying ProPILOT globally in a wider range of vehicle types. So far, in Japan, it is available in the Serena, X-Trail and Nissan LEAF. It is also available in the new Nissan Dayz, the first “kei” vehicle to offer this feature. In the United States, ProPILOT Assist is available in the INFINITI QX50, Rogue, all-new Altima and Nissan LEAF. In Europe, it is available in the Nissan LEAF and Qashqai. In total, more than 350,000 vehicles equipped with ProPILOT or ProPILOT Assist have been sold as of the end of March 2019. We have announced our intention to deploy ProPILOT or ProPILOT Assist in 20 models for sale in 20 markets by 2022, when the number of ProPILOT or ProPILOT Assistequipped vehicles sold annually is expected to reach 1 million. 156/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI416-1 GRI417-1 Nissan’s Traffic Safety Activities: Involving People To create a better mobility society, it is important for as many people as possible to share an understanding of traffic safety, from drivers and vehicle occupants to pedestrians. We take part in educational activities to boost this safety awareness, including measures to improve driving skills and a range of other safety promotions. Japan Traffic accidents are statistically more likely to occur during the dusk hours from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. As part of the Hello Safety Campaign, Nissan’s Omoiyari Light Promotion urges drivers to turn on their headlights earlier in the evening. We have been involved in this campaign since 2010 and promote civic activities with two-way communication to raise public awareness of traffic safety. 157/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 In fiscal 2018, we developed these activities further with a two-pronged approach: using the Nissan Global Headquarters Gallery and advancing the Twilight-Time Omoiyari Town Project (Omoiyari Light Promotion). We also designated the 10th of each month as “Day of Lighting” (based on a Japanese play on words) and started a campaign to promote it. 1. Using the Global Headquarters Gallery: Nissan’s Omoiyari Light Promotion started as a civic activity in Yokohama, where our Global Headquarters is located. Holding events at the Global Headquarters Gallery has offered more opportunities to inform gallery visitors about the campaign. During the Autumn National Traffic Safety Campaign period of fiscal 2018, we held a family workshop to learn about traffic safety by creating keyholders using reflective material. We also held an event with students from Nagasaki University, Niigata University and Tohoku University of Art and Design, who connected with each other through the TwilightTime Omoiyari Town Project. Each group of students took the stage to make a presentation on their on-street activities in support of the Omoiyari Light Promotion. In addition, throughout the year, the gallery hosted daily presentations by Nissan’s “Miss Fairlady” PR staff members about the Omoiyari Light Promotion. We also showed a concept movie produced by the musician SIESTA, a supporter of the campaign. Through these activities, we have promoted the Omoiyari Light activities to the public. 2. Twilight-Time Omoiyari Town Project: To further advance the goals of our Omoiyari Light Promotion, we support related initiatives run inside and outside Yokohama by other entities. On November 10, designated “Day of Good Lighting” in fiscal 2018, we held various interesting and fun activities around Japan to remind drivers of the importance of turning on their headlights early in the evening. A total of about 250 people participated in an onstreet campaign to turn on their headlights before dark at seven locations across Japan: Yamagata in 158/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Yamagata Prefecture, Niigata in Niigata Prefecture, Nyuzenmachi in Toyama Prefecture, Sabae in Fukui Prefecture, Muroto in Kochi Prefecture, Nagasaki in Nagasaki Prefecture and Yokohama in Kanagawa Prefecture. The campaign was joined by local mascots and police cars, and was promoted at film festivals. At several cities in one prefecture, participants called on drivers to turn on their headlights early for six consecutive days. We expect the Twilight-Time Omoiyari Town Project to continue expanding. 3. Day of Lighting: We have designated the 10th of the month “Day of Lighting” to remind drivers to turn on their headlights before dark. Various on-street activities are held across Japan to promote the lighting campaign as well as on websites and social media to promote communication. By urging greater awareness of, and action on, safety among corporations, nonprofit organizations, car-lovers and other stakeholders, these activities have helped our Omoiyari Light Promotion steadily gain broad acceptance among the public. Nissan Safety Driving Forum in International Markets As part of our efforts to promote safe driving and enhance traffic safety awareness among the general driving population, we conduct our Nissan Safety Driving Forum in international markets. The forum has traveled to multiple cities in countries like China, India and Russia, teaching participants the importance of traffic safety through simulations and safety technology A participant using a driving simulator. exhibitions. 159/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Partnership with the FIA for Traffic Safety In 2014, Nissan and the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA) formed a partnership to make the world’s roads safer through the FIA Action for Traffic Safety* campaign. We are an official supporter of the FIA’s innovative awareness-raising campaign, launched to bolster the United Nations Decade of Action for Traffic Safety. As part of this partnership, we work worldwide At the NISMO Festival. to promote the FIA Golden Rules for Safer Motoring, which aim to reduce the number of deaths from traffic accidents. By signing the FIA Online Pledge, campaign supporters publicly commit to driving safely. We leverage events like the Nissan Safety Driving Forum and other outreach efforts to educate drivers about the FIA Golden Rules and FIA Online Pledge. At the NISMO Festival—a fan appreciation event hosted by Nissan Motorsports International—we place campaign logo decals on the many vehicles that are displayed or driven in the festival. We also stress the importance of traffic safety to festival visitors through other on-site events, including panels where drivers discuss safety topics. Since 2016, we have placed a dedicated booth at the festival to actively promote and collect signatures for the FIA Online Pledge. At the 2018 festival, nearly 300 participants pledged compliance with the FIA Golden Rules. * Click here for more information on our partnership with the FIA. 160/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI416-1 GRI417-1 Society: Working Together with Society We believe we can help create an even safer mobility society by using information from the traffic environment surrounding vehicles on the road. In collaboration with a wide range of governmental agencies, universities and companies, we are participating in various projects aimed at realizing a safer, more pleasant mobility society. Helping Reduce Wrong-Direction Accidents Recently, Japan has seen an increased number of incidents involving vehicles traveling in the wrong direction on expressways. Working together with West Nippon Expressway Co., we have developed a navigation program that uses GPS to notify expressway drivers of vehicles driving the wrong way. The system detects these vehicles based on GPS coordinates, maps, vehicle speeds and other data, and their drivers receive audible and visual warnings. It first appeared in the Nissan Fuga Hybrid released in October 2010 and is now available as an option on every type of vehicle we sell in Japan, including commercial vehicles. Now that the technology has been licensed to Pioneer Corp., this function is available to customers who use Pioneer car navigation systems as well. Our Initiatives for the Future Applying NASA Technology to Develop AI for Autonomous Vehicles To realize fully autonomous city driving, we are developing the Seamless Autonomous Mobility system, or SAM. SAM will be able help cars safely navigate unforeseen situations like accidents, road construction and other obstacles. When autonomous decision-making is difficult, a remote operator draws up an ideal route to manage the situation and sends it to the vehicle for execution. Field Testing Commercial Mobility Services Using Driverless Vehicles Nissan and the Japanese Internet firm DeNA Co. are jointly developing a new mobility service called Easy Ride using driverless vehicles. In March 2018, field tests of the Easy Ride service were conducted in the Minatomirai district of Yokohama in Kanagawa Prefecture. The field tests used monitors in test cars equipped with autonomous driving technology to assess and check the service. In February 2019, we conducted tests under more realistic circumstances by expanding the test field and randomly choosing starting points and destinations. 161/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nissan and DeNA will work together to develop service designs for driverless environments, expand service routes, optimize distribution logic for when the vehicles share congested roads with driveroperated vehicles, establish pick-up/drop-off processes, and explore the possibility of multilingual support. We aim to launch the full service in the early 2020s. 162/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY Product Safety and Quality Policies and Philosophy Product Safety and Quality Management Product Safety and Quality Achievements GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Product Safety and Quality Policies and Philosophy Product evaluations and automaker brand value are entirely dependent on customer perception of quality. In the automotive industry, rapid technical innovations are seeing customers demand everhigher levels of quality in the products they purchase. A company can strengthen its brand by consistently providing the value customers expect, but failing to meet expectations even once makes it harder to maintain a platform for providing new value to those customers. As mobility needs rise worldwide, driven by increased urbanization and structural changes in the global economy, Nissan is expanding production to fulfill its mission of offering people everywhere the rich benefits of mobility. At the same time, we believe that automakers have an important responsibility to always offer customers the kind of quality they expect. We aim to earn our customers’ trust by addressing quality as a companywide issue. This means providing top-level quality to customers at every stage, from the planning of new vehicles through development, manufacturing, distribution and sales to aftersales service. Fair and Swift Action on Major Quality Issues Our primary responsibility as a manufacturer is to make every effort to ensure that product issues do not occur in the first place. Another duty is to ensure that vehicles, which are extraordinarily complex industrial products, are manufactured to handle a range of eventualities. Our approach to recalls is to conduct them transparently, fairly and promptly. The decision to conduct a recall is based on 163/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 compliance with relevant laws and consideration of how the issue may affect customers’ safety. When a recall is judged necessary, we implement it swiftly, placing top priority on customer safety and minimizing the disruption to their lives. Quality Policies and Philosophy Quality has many aspects, and we seek to provide high quality at all stages of the customer experience: how it feels to use the product itself, the way customers are treated by sales staff in showrooms, the response if problems arise with the product. To achieve this, we pursue effective companywide cooperation at the cross-functional and cross-regional levels. We aim to be recognized by customers as a brand offering top-level quality in both products and sales and services. Vehicle product quality is essential for safe and comfortable long-term use. We aim to provide a high level of quality that meets customer expectations over the entire lifecycle of the product. This includes the perceived quality when a customer opens the vehicle’s door in the showroom, sits in the seat and takes a test drive; the initial quality in the first year after purchase; and the durability that allows the vehicle to provide many years of use. We also conduct initiatives to increase customer satisfaction (CS) regarding sales and service quality. Our aim is to exceed expectations at every customer contact point, including dealership visit, purchase, maintenance, inspection and repurchase. We listen to customers and incorporate their feedback in every process throughout the company in our pursuit of CS. 164/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Product Safety and Quality Management Ensuring the safety of customers who purchase Nissan cars and consistently providing the quality they expect are both important parts of gaining their trust. In order to earn that trust and achieve sustainable growth, Nissan has set the companywide goal of being recognized by customers as a brand offering top-level quality. We have created systems to promote quality improvement globally, with top executives taking responsibility for ensuring these promotions are successful. All Nissan employees work together as one to improve quality around the world. Management Systems for Product Safety and Quality To achieve top-level quality, we have assigned a number of Senior Vice Presidents, headed by the Chief Quality Officer (CQO), to focus exclusively on quality issues. A CQO meeting, chaired by the CQO, is held every month and attended by executives representing each division and region. These meetings work to promote the swift solution and improvement of issues related not just to product quality but also to sales and service quality experiences before and after purchase. Additionally, in order to fully implement compliance, we have established a three-layer monitoring and audit system and are working to strengthen our audit activities. The first layer consists of each division implementing monitoring activities to ensure strict observance of laws and standards. In the second layer, the Conformity Audit Office conducts audits of those efforts to observe laws and standards. And in the third layer, the Internal Audit Office conducts risk-based audits in accordance with annual plans. 165/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 Product Safety and Quality Achievements Listening to Customer Feedback Quality is a reflection of how successfully Nissan interacts with its customers. In order to provide the value that customers expect and respond rapidly if they are not satisfied, we listen to all feedback and put what we learn to use in measures to improve quality at every stage, from product design and development to aftersales service. Responding Rapidly to Customer Feedback We receive and respond to customer comments and questions worldwide through a range of contact points, including dealers, call centers and surveys. Our customer call center in Japan receives around 200,000 comments and questions from customers annually. All catalogs, instruction manuals and similar materials published over the last 50 years have been digitized for easy searching, letting operators address customer concerns as quickly as possible. Operators also have access to a database of frequently asked questions and their answers, organized by vehicle models, keywords and categories. Employees who buy Nissan vehicles are also customers and important stakeholders. The “Quality Listening Box” on our intranet lets employees actively contribute information to raise the quality of products and services. Sharing Customer Feedback Opinions and comments received by our customer call center in Japan are anonymized and shared companywide on the intranet, where employees can access and view them at any time. Information is also promptly sent by email to executives and senior managers. There is a space within the company where all employees can freely view customer feedback whenever they like, so that they can incorporate customer perspectives in the pursuit of their duties. In addition to details on comments and inquiries dealt with by the customer call center, this space features 166/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 opinions, wishes and encouraging words of praise received directly from customers by car-life advisors (CAs) at sales companies. Incorporating Customer Feedback into Products and Services We have implemented a system for reflecting customer feedback in our products and services. Reliable information sharing ensures that this feedback is incorporated in the work of all functions, including product planning, R&D, manufacturing and sales. Product quality is about more than just mechanical faults—it includes any factors that could affect customer satisfaction (CS). We see these factors as issues requiring action and strive to improve quality across all areas. The value that customers expect from products varies according to their personal tastes and unique expectations. It can also be affected by market factors such as vehicle ownership levels or even climate. Although we have basic specifications for global design, we fine-tune these to meet regional needs. The Chief Quality Engineer (CQE) performs this role, participating in the vehicle manufacturing process from the product planning stage in order to enhance CS and reduce defects. We glean customer perspectives from market information and employee monitors, and prioritize our response to these from the planning and development stages for both products and services. Adopting a Customer Perspective and Fostering a CS Mindset To improve quality across the company, all employees must consider the customer’s perspective and keep CS in mind as they work. For this reason, we implement numerous activities for incorporating customer views. One of these is regular CS mindset training. This training covers quality improvement measures and CS policy in the Nissan Group, incorporating actual feedback from customers in group discussions. Employees discuss what we can do for our customers and what actions are necessary in the current situation, which fosters a CS-based qualityimprovement mindset among individual employees. This training is currently offered in Japan, the United States, Europe, China and Asia and Oceania, with further expansion ongoing. Since 2003, we have also held Nissan Quality Forums for executives, employees and suppliers. These annual forums use information displays, video presentations and actual vehicles and parts to showcase our latest quality results, customer feedback and activities aimed at meeting targets. The forums are organized cross-functionally by the Total Customer Satisfaction Function (TCSX)* alongside the R&D, manufacturing, sales and service and other divisions in order to raise all employees’ awareness of CS and quality-improvement issues. They are held in Japan, the United States, Mexico, Brazil, the United Kingdom, China, India, Thailand, Indonesia and other locations around the world. 167/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 * The TCSX targets an overall increase in CS at all touchpoints involving customers, from new product planning and design to R&D, manufacturing, distribution, sales and aftersales service, in order to provide our customers with products that satisfy them. Improving Product Quality Product quality is a basic feature in allowing customers to use a product safely and comfortably over the long term. For Nissan, a leading automaker with a strong history of monozukuri, Japan’s tradition of careful craftsmanship, product quality is the foundation for our sustainability as a company. We consider quality from the customer’s perspective at all times and respond quickly if a defect occurs, striving to prevent recurrence so as not to inconvenience the customer. We ascertain customer dissatisfaction and address it through all possible means, improving quality to increase satisfaction. We categorize product quality into areas like perceived quality, initial quality and durability. Quality improvement efforts target the entire lifecycle of a product, from planning and design to R&D, manufacturing, distribution, sales and aftersales service. We monitor the results of third-party quality surveys, using them as internal indices and making improvements through the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle. Improving Perceived Quality Perceived quality is the quality that customers feel when seeing, touching and operating a vehicle. For example, when customers come to the showroom, they open vehicle doors, sit in seats and check things like the texture of interior fittings. The feeling of quality is a subjective matter, and fixing quantified criteria requires very careful investigation. To define criteria for quality evaluation from the customer’s point of view, we evaluate cars using the opinions of numerous employee product monitors and specialists with in-house training. We also survey customers who have purchased or are considering purchasing a Nissan car. We are still working to gain a better understanding of customer perceptions in different markets around the world and incorporate those perceptions in new vehicles from the development stage. We scientifically measure and analyze customer perceptions to gain a quantitative grasp of what makes people feel good. This information shapes our specific design targets. Improving Initial Quality Initial quality issues involve defects that occur within a year of a new car purchase. To ensure that customers are satisfied, we maintain a firm commitment to enhancing quality at the manufacturing 168/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 stage for every single product that comes off the line. To this end, we have adopted the Alliance Production Way (APW) as our fundamental approach in this area. The Chief Vehicle Engineer (CVE), who is responsible for development, meets with the CQE to share information from the market in order to promptly respond to customers’ wishes and potential satisfaction concerns. We confirm quality improvements for each process and explore necessary risk-reduction measures by visualizing potential risks at the planning stage. Applying all of these processes with transparent criteria lets us ensure that new models offer high quality from the outset. Enhancing Durability Product life is affected by durability issues that can arise from long vehicle use: molded resin parts changing color or deforming, surface materials becoming abraded, chrome stripping away and material fatigue producing odd noises in the vehicle. We consistently obtain data for the two to four years of warranty after the initial sale and conduct quality checks on recovered vehicles and parts actually used by customers to identify defects earlier. Analyzing this data helps us develop technologies that are more resistant to durability issues. Promoting Risk Evaluation and Reduction Management Among Suppliers As our production network expands worldwide, the risk of problems related to the quality and supply of parts increases. Our efforts to ensure product quality include working with suppliers to improve quality at all production sites from the design stage onward. We promote stronger global management at the head offices of our suppliers with global operations even as we work to enhance our own global quality management. Nissan representatives visit each supplier’s plants and check the quality control conditions on their production lines. We also offer support for suppliers’ efforts to meet the quality control standards we require. In addition to these activities, we have prepared checklists based on successful resolution of past issues, and work not only with direct suppliers but also with tier-2 suppliers to implement quality improvement measures. 169/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swiftly Improving Quality in Local Markets We are strengthening direct communication with sales companies and customers to promptly identify and respond to customer dissatisfaction and defects. Our TCSX addresses customer dissatisfaction and quality issues based on information from sales companies and the customer call center. It shares information with the R&D and manufacturing divisions to investigate the causes and come up with countermeasures. These countermeasures are incorporated in production models on the market. In this way, we seek permanent solutions to prevent outflow of quality issues. The global expansion of our corporate activities has increased our potential exposure to customer dissatisfaction and quality issues in more regions around the world. In response, we have established Field Quality Centers (FQCs) with the goal of promptly gaining an understanding of regional quality issues and analyzing their causes locally. There are now 19 FQCs in Japan, the United States, Europe, China, Mexico, Brazil, South Africa, India, Australia, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and other locations. Our FQCs conduct market quality research and analysis in five phases. First, they recall problem products from the market to clarify the facts and conduct detailed interviews to replicate the defects. Next, they bring suppliers together with our R&D and manufacturing divisions to share information, decide on areas for further investigation and assign responsibilities. Based on the findings of these detailed studies, staff members gather again to scientifically pinpoint the cause of the problem and decide on specific countermeasures. These measures are incorporated in future R&D and manufacturing activities and new management structures are put in place to prevent recurrence of reliability issues or incidents. 170/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Producing Products of Consistent Quality Worldwide We have adopted the 4G Strategies to produce high-quality products globally. These strategies let us quickly create optimum production structures for providing consistently high-quality products to customers around the world. Nissan’s 4G Strategies Quality Evaluation System Each of our production cars and development models is evaluated using a system called AVES* to monitor quality on a daily basis. Feedback from customers is incorporated in standardized evaluation criteria which are used to train quality assessment specialists. Only these company-certified experts, known as “AVES Masters,” can perform our strict daily assessments. The assessment process evaluates the vehicle’s interior and exterior and tests it while it is in operation, focusing on whether it meets quality standards defined in terms of customer requirements. During the running tests, carried out on actual roads, assessors check the vehicle in areas including unexpected noise, vibration, stability of handling and the functionality of its various advanced systems. 171/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Final responsibility for overall quality is the responsibility of the CQE, who envisages different use scenarios for Nissan vehicles and carries out stringent quality checks accordingly. * AVES stands for “Alliance Vehicle Evaluation Standard.” AVES is a quality evaluation system used across the RenaultNissan-Mitsubishi alliance, in which specially trained experts assess vehicles using more than 300 quality assessment criteria established from the customer’s perspective. Supplier Inspections and Training for Improving Product Safety and Quality To ensure product safety, we work together with suppliers and conduct inspections for products as well as components. Each component from our suppliers represents the end-product of a complex manufacturing process that includes planning and development validation, turning design blueprints into prototypes, performance testing and, finally, mass production. We have created a system called ANPQP* 1 for regulating the necessary quality assurance across this entire series of activities. The ANPQP requires tests to be carried out on every component delivered by suppliers to confirm their high quality. To determine whether new suppliers are able to carry out these tests, we developed the ASES system.*2 The ASES contains 240 evaluation criteria to determine if a component is defective and analyze the systems in place to prevent problems occurring. The ASES is applied on-site, at the supplier’s factory. New suppliers undergo ANPQP training and are certified as trainers themselves after they reach a specified level. They then conduct training on the supplier’s premises and build a system for supplying precision-built components. Suppliers already dealing with Nissan are given a “Supplier Score Card” containing an assessment of diagnostic measurements like delivered quality and market quality. In addition, the SHC*3 system also involves periodic inspections of supplier factories to check their management system. This ensures that suppliers maintain their systems for consistently delivering high-quality components and conduct new initiatives to further improve quality. * 1 ANPQP stands for “Alliance New Product Quality Procedure.” We created the ANPQP based on IATF16949, a standard for automotive sector quality management systems published by the International Automotive Task Force (IATF), in order to establish supplier quality assurance standards. Click here for more information on ANPQP. * 2 ASES stands for “Alliance Supplier Evaluation Standard.” The ASES is used to evaluate if a vendor qualifies to become a suitable supplier. Based on 240 criteria at five stages, potential vendors are ranked A, B, C or D. We then form business relationships with the top-ranked industry suppliers. * 3 SHC stands for “Supplier Health Check.” The SHC is our unique system for checking our suppliers’ quality management systems and how they are actually being implemented. 172/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Improving Sales and Service Quality As well as aiming to produce high-quality vehicles, we work to increase the quality of our sales and service during the purchasing process, seeking to exceed customer expectations at all contact points. Through effective management of sales and service quality at dealerships in major markets around the world, we strive to improve CS by adhering to the Nissan Sales and Service Way (NSSW). Our goal is to achieve top-level CS in 20 key national markets, including Japan, the United States and major European markets, boosting our brand image worldwide. The Nissan Sales and Service Way The Nissan Sales and Service Way (NSSW) is a set of global guidelines designed to improve customer perceptions of our brands and products and increase satisfaction with our sales and marketing activities and aftersales service. We conduct a range of activities to increase CS and improve sales and service quality based on the NSSW. In particular, as well as improving our dealership facilities, we set global standards and carry out initiatives to provide customers with a consistent sales and service experience. We aim to respond rapidly to customer dissatisfaction and other issues and review business processes to incorporate feedback collected through contact centers, dealerships, email, social media and other channels. Reforming Global Dealership Standards In response to the diversification of our customers’ expectations and lifestyles, we are introducing a new initiative called the Nissan Retail Concept (NRC) to dealerships around the world to promote standardization. We aim to improve CS by improving sales and service quality through a globally consistent brand experience. With the rapid spread of digitalization, consumers’ purchasing behavior and ownership experiences are changing dramatically. To respond to these changes, we have introduced global standards for improving our dealership operations, from new standard shop designs to digital environments for dealerships. Adoption of the new standards has already begun in key countries, and more than 1,000 stores had completed the adoption process by the end of fiscal 2018. We will continue to deploy the new concept in our stores around the world. The new dealership layout and design is intended to appeal to all customers, from those who have come to purchase a new car to those returning for vehicle inspection or servicing, creating comfortable, welcoming spaces that offer needed services as efficiently as possible. We aim to standardize our entire sales and service process for customers in response to diverse customer needs, in order to improve satisfaction among customers who visit dealerships. 173/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 With the adoption of digital tools, we are aiming to make dealership operations more efficient and assist customers considering the purchase of a new car. To ensure that the new standards are adopted in each country, the Nissan Academy, a special team for educating dealers, will develop and conduct training for dealership staff and management, teaching them to provide an experience that goes beyond customer expectations. NRC also incorporates key Nissan brand elements such as Nissan Intelligent Mobility, electric vehicles, the NISMO performance sub-brand, light commercial vehicles and Nissan Intelligent Choice (our certified pre-owned car program). We hope to improve customer satisfaction and convenience even as we promote the Nissan brand and expand our business. To boost the quality of sales and service activities at dealerships, we train specialist staff and continually improve these activities. These specialists analyze dealer operations, develop improvement plans based on their individual situations and support implementation. For example, they visit dealerships after analyzing CS surveys and the voice of the customer, clarify issues by observing workplace operations and interviewing staff, and then discuss potential solutions with the staff and provide guidance allowing the dealership to continue making autonomous improvements. 174/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Supply Chain Strategy Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy Supply Chain Management Action Against Conflict Minerals GRI102-9 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Supply Chain Strategy The challenges facing modern societies, such as climate change and energy issues, are increasingly global in their scope. To meet these challenges, it is essential for Nissan to identify relevant issues at each stage along the supply chain and make ongoing efforts to address them. As a business with worldwide operations, Nissan has a supply chain that extends across the globe. We promote consistency in procurement practices throughout the global supply chain, sharing our vision and principles with business partners and engaging with them to ensure their adoption. We aim to achieve sustainable growth built on a foundation of mutual trust with its business partners. We listen closely to and work with our suppliers as equal partners, developing and maintaining cooperative and competitive relations that enable us to implement best practices. GRI308-1 GRI414-1 Nissan’s Approach to the Supply Chain To optimize purchasing activities, the Alliance partners established a common purchasing company, the Renault-Nissan Purchasing Organization, in 2001 and have steadily increased the scope of its activities in the years since then. The organization now covers all purchasing domains, incorporates all purchasing functions and builds mutually profitable business partnerships with all suppliers. Its name 175/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 was changed to the Alliance Purchasing Organization (APO) in April 2018, after Mitsubishi Motors joined the Alliance. The new organization aims to help each brand achieve sustainable performance through the steady development of the Alliance as well as through the advantage of economies of scale. We use common, transparent processes and criteria worldwide to select suppliers and is open to doing business with new partners, regardless of nationality, size or transaction ties in the past. Suppliers are selected after the relevant Nissan divisions meet to examine submitted proposals from a range of perspectives. We explain our decisions to every supplier that takes part in the supplier selection process as part of a thoroughly fair, impartial and transparent system. Transactions with suppliers are based on the three values that the Alliance regards as important: trust (work fairly, impartially and professionally), respect (honor commitments, liabilities and responsibilities) and transparency (be open, frank and clear). Nissan and Renault have produced a booklet, The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way,* outlining the values and processes the Alliance sees as important when doing business. This booklet has been shared with tier-1 Renault and Nissan suppliers since 2006. In Japan, we also adhere to the “proper trading guidelines” issued by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the automotive industry. * Click here to download The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way. 176/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Supply Chain Company Organization The Alliance Purchasing Organization (APO) Processes from Supplier Selection to Mass Production Working with Suppliers We aim to make our global supply chain sustainable by conducting ethically, socially and environmentally responsible business at every stage. We collate and manage a database of plant locations, total purchase values and other basic information for all suppliers. We are working together with all suppliers to promote the sustainability principles set out in the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers and the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines.* * Click here to download the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. 177/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI406-1 GRI407-1 GRI408-1 GRI409-1 GRI411-1 Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers To effectively implement sustainability practices worldwide, Renault and Nissan revised the RenaultNissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers* in December 2015. Renault and Nissan distributed the revised guidelines to all their suppliers and have also asked suppliers to share the revised guidelines with their own business partners to ensure they permeate throughout the supply chain. The first edition of the guidelines was drawn up for distribution by Renault and Nissan in 2010 with reference to the CSR guidelines of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. Key revisions and clarifications in the 2015 edition included, as a response to new laws and ordinances: (1) updating the procurement policy to include responsible mineral procurement and the elimination of antisocial forces based on new Japanese governmental guidelines and regulations; (2) requiring a shared commitment to sustainability activities with suppliers at the time the guidelines are distributed and (3) beginning third-party assessment of supplier sustainability activities as an Alliance initiative from fiscal 2016. As part of efforts to promote sustainability practices among business partners in emerging countries, the revised guidelines were published in Chinese as well as English and Japanese. To help suppliers review their corporate activities from a sustainability perspective and take sustainability actions, the guidelines explain expected practices in 26 categories across the following five areas: 1. Compliance: Complying with laws, preventing corruption, etc. 2. Safety and Quality: Providing products and services that meet customer needs, etc. 3. Human Rights and Labor: Prohibition of child labor and forced labor, complying with working hours and remuneration laws, etc. 4. Environment: Environmental management, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, etc. 5. Information Disclosure: Open and impartial communication with stakeholders, etc. The guidelines mandate that suppliers comply with laws and regulations. If suppliers are found to be in a state of non-compliance, the guidelines prescribe required responses, such as filing a report immediately, conducting an investigation and formulating corrective measures. In the case of a noncompliance incident, we will take firm action based on our regulations and do everything necessary to 178/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 prevent a recurrence. In fiscal 2018 no human rights violations, such as discrimination, occurred, and no supplier was found to be at serious risk of forced labor or child labor. * Click here to download the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers. Suppliers and Environmental Activities We share our environmental philosophy and environmental action plan with suppliers. To improve environmental performance throughout the supply chain, we first published the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines in 2001 and have promoted actions in line with these guidelines since then. After Nissan and Renault integrated their technical standards for management of chemical substances in fiscal 2016, a revised version of the guidelines were published in January 2017. Furthermore, in August 2018, based on the midterm environmental action plan, Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022),* 1 we revised the content of the guidelines, adding requests that suppliers undertake their own environmental activities. Additionally, in May 2019, in order to strengthen management of environment-impacting substances, we added requirements dealing with supplier self-diagnosis of environment-impacting substance management and related topics, which all suppliers are asked to follow.* 2 The Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines are part of the detailed explanation in the environment-related section of the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers. Environmental activities undertaken with suppliers involve the core components of compliance with environmental regulations and Nissan’s basic environmental principles, along with activities to reduce the burden on the environment. As for the former, in response to global trends in such regulations as the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation and the European Reusability/Recyclability/Recoverability (RRR) Directive, we have added new items to the list of banned substances and globally expanded component data management. When selecting suppliers for new models, we check their management of and activities regarding environmentally hazardous substances, informing them of specific actions needed to comply with the REACH Regulation and requesting their compliance. Based on the Nissan Green Program, we hold annual environmental briefing sessions and have since fiscal 2012 conducted surveys to ascertain CO2 emissions, water usage, waste production and other data related to our burden on the environment. To further enhance our activities in this area, in fiscal 2014 we adopted the supply chain program run by CDP, an international environmental NPO that manages a global system for disclosing corporations’ environmental impact and strategies. In fiscal 2018, based on these surveys, we began encouraging some suppliers to improve their environmental activities. 179/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 * 1 Click here for more information on NGP2022. * 2 Click here to download the revised version of the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. The Role of the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines 180/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI308-1 GRI414-1 Supply Chain Management Nissan has been working to improve its supply chain through activities including third-party assessment of suppliers’ sustainability activities and sustainability training for workers in its purchasing department. We have also instituted an awards system to recognize suppliers whose performance is superior. This awards system aims to encourage suppliers in the global supply chain to embrace Nissan’s management approach, which balances the economic activities of quality, cost reduction and technological development with social responsibility and environmental concern. Evaluation of Supplier’s Sustainability Practices, Monitoring and Auditing We confirm suppliers’ acceptance of the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers and check their environmental management systems and their willingness to advance environmental activities with us at the time of selection. Among newly selected suppliers in fiscal 2018, 100% of them met Nissan’s social standards and basic environmental principles. In 2016 the Renault-Nissan alliance began third-party assessment of suppliers’ sustainability activities to raise standards through mutual confirmation. When results do not meet Alliance standards, suppliers are asked to draw up plans for improvement. We then monitor their implementation. We also conduct sustainability training in our purchasing department to ensure that employees conduct checks of suppliers’ sustainability activities in their daily work. If there are issues with the supply of parts and materials, they may lead to problems for Nissan’s production and supply chain as a whole. We therefore address sustainability with the following measures: (1) confirming supply risks under normal circumstances; (2) following up annually on quality, cost, delivery, development and management (QCDDM) performance and (3) working with suppliers to craft response plans for natural disasters to ensure production continuity or early restoration of capacity. We monitor compliance from the perspective of supplier management, constantly assessing the situation at each supplier based on a range of factors. When high risk is identified, we work with the supplier to rapidly draft and implement countermeasures. In fiscal 2018 there were no suppliers whose compliance was problematic, and no supplier contract was terminated for such a reason. 181/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Promotion of Monozukuri Activities with Suppliers We work to continually improve the competitiveness of our products through the Monozukuri Activities program, a collaboration between suppliers and Nissan that was launched in 2008. Since 2009 these activities have expanded through the joint THANKS Activities initiative, which emphasizes trust and cooperation between Nissan and its suppliers. With the goal of working with suppliers to become cost leaders under today’s challenging market conditions, we strive to improve product quality, reduce costs and rationalize manufacturing through measures that include increasing production volume per part, promoting localization and improving logistics. Based on activities at our own plants, we are working with major suppliers to reduce their electricity, gas and other energy costs and CO2 emissions as an energy-efficient THANKS Activities initiative. In fiscal 2013 we introduced the Total Delivered Cost (TdC) Challenge, aiming to optimize all fluctuating costs, including for specifications, materials, exchange rates and logistics. To achieve the goals of our midterm business plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022,* our various functional departments, together with suppliers, are continuously working to forcefully advance the TdC Challenge and improve both quality and supply. * Click here for more information on the midterm business plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022. Engagement with Suppliers Providing suppliers with timely and accurate information is a key task for Nissan. Suppliers’ meetings are held in Japan and overseas to spread understanding of Nissan’s purchasing policy for the fiscal year, midterm business plan and other matters. In Japan, we hold monthly meetings and directly informs suppliers of our production plans, activities and requirements. The meetings are also an opportunity for Nissan to respond to supplier questions and requests. Recognizing Supplier Contributions Worldwide Each year we recognize the contributions of our suppliers to the development of our business and improvement of our performance with awards presented at the global level as well as in each of the regions where we operate. At the Nissan Global Supplier Awards, we present Global Quality Awards to 182/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 suppliers showing exceptional performance in quality for the year, and Global Innovation Awards to suppliers whose innovative initiatives improved Nissan’s brand and product power. Global Quality Award recipients are selected by Nissan’s purchasing, quality and other divisions using standard criteria applied worldwide. Global Innovation Award recipients are selected from suppliers nominated by Nissan’s production, development and other divisions in two categories: product technology and process management. In fiscal 2018 six companies received Global Quality Awards, while Global Innovation Awards went to twelve companies. 183/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI412-1 GRI414-1 Action Against Conflict Minerals Conflict Minerals Policy In August 2012 the U.S. government enacted regulations requiring companies to report the use of four minerals mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries and believed to be sources of funds for armed insurgents. Agreeing with the spirit of this legislation and aiming to heighten sustainability awareness, Nissan established a policy against use of conflict minerals and published related information on its website.* Investigations of our supply chain for any use of conflict minerals have been conducted since fiscal 2013. Checking for conflict minerals throughout the global supply chain is a major undertaking. We regularly discuss the issue in working groups with organizations including the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc., the Japan Auto Parts Industries Association and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association, seeking to establish best practices for investigation and result analysis. * Click here for more information on our measures against conflict minerals. Conflict Minerals Management We began conducting conflict-mineral surveys in our major areas of operation (Japan, North America and Europe) in fiscal 2013. Starting in fiscal 2014, we gradually expanded the scope of these surveys to suppliers in other areas. The surveys track minerals back through the chain of suppliers using documents called CMRTs (Conflict Mineral Reporting Templates) provided by the RMI.* This enables Nissan to identify smelting and refining companies that are not procuring minerals that are a source of funds for armed groups in their regions. We provide the suppliers we survey with manuals describing how to fill in required forms and what tools to use to collate results. In this way, we work to increase understanding of conflict-mineral issues throughout the supply chain. In fiscal 2018 we conducted surveys in Japan, the United States, Mexico, Europe, China, Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan, India and South Africa. No suppliers were found to be using minerals from smelters/refineries believed to be connected to armed groups. 184/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Going forward, we plan to make our surveys more effective by improving its methodology in conjunction with the member companies of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc., and the Japan Auto Parts Industries Association. We will also continue to seek responses from suppliers that did not reply to the survey. * RMI stands for Responsible Minerals Initiative, an organization with member companies and associations from the information and communications technology and other industries that works to improve global social and environmental awareness. 185/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Human Resource Development Policies and Philosophy Human Resource Development Management Human Resource Development Achievements GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Human Resource Development Policies and Philosophy Nissan believes that for employees to work in a worry-free, self-initiated manner, they need to be able to pursue their careers regardless of gender, nationality or other factors. Skill development programs are another essential part of making the workplace attractive to employees. We believe that employees should “design their own careers” and that we should actively assist their efforts to do so. Learning is an essential preliminary step for value creation, and a corporate culture of learning cannot exist without the desire to create value. As an organization that grows through constant learning, we support our employees’ personal growth through proactive human resource development. 186/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI404-2 GRI404-3 Human Resource Development Management Continually Improving Human Resource Systems Nissan values the skills and capabilities of all employees, working constantly to improve its human resource systems to achieve an organization enabling employees to reach their full potential. The evaluation-based remuneration system used to accurately gauge employee contributions is structured in a way that motivates them to set and achieve high goals. An employee’s salary is determined through a combination of performance evaluations measuring how well the employee achieved certain goals and competency evaluations measuring their skills, knowledge and attitude. Support for Self-Designed Careers Under a human resource management policy of offering employees opportunities for personal growth and satisfaction as long as they create value, we invite all employees to meet with their supervisors twice a year to discuss their performance and competency evaluations, as well as their career aspirations and goals. Training programs to raise the evaluation skills of supervisors also contribute to enhancing the career designing capabilities of employees. Specialized tools keep track of evaluation records so that even a newly instated supervisor can ascertain employee progress at a glance, maintaining consistency in human resource development. We conduct surveys to gain employee input regarding the evaluation meetings and to learn their level of understanding and comfort with the system. Based on the results, we implement measures and make improvements if necessary. We also monitor employee satisfaction regarding the meetings with their supervisors, and there has been an improvement in employee understanding and acceptance of the evaluation system. Employees in Japan also have the chance to take on the challenge of a new position through the Shift Career System (SCS) and the Open Entry System (OES). The SCS enables employees to apply for positions in other departments and work in areas that interest them regardless of whether there is a position immediately available. The OES allows them to apply for all openly advertised positions. During fiscal 2018, a total of 280 employees applied for approximately 500 open posts, and 132 of them succeeded in getting the positions they applied for. 187/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Offering Learning Opportunities Developing human resources is the foundation of our midterm business plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022.* Believing that employees are our most important resource and that cultivating their skills is a vital task for us, we support many learning opportunities for employees. We have developed various programs to help employees improve their management and business skills and engage in leadership development. In these ways, employees are encouraged to enhance their skills to build their careers and demonstrate their abilities to the fullest. Specifically, we implement training programs allowing employees to gain the taskand position-specific skills they need and giving them opportunities to extend their knowledge in fields of their choosing. These measures create a culture of constant learning at the global level. * Click here for more information on Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022. Monozukuri University There is a rapid pace of innovation and increasing technological sophistication in the auto industry today. To maintain and develop our monozukuri tradition of careful craftsmanship that underpins our internationally competitive product manufacturing, we need individuals who have an understanding of the latest technologies that go into building an automobile and well-rounded personalities with outstanding management skills. We founded Monozukuri University with the aim of developing capable leaders to play a central role in monozukuri and pass down our technologies and skills to future generations. This is another example of how we offer learning opportunities and promote activities to develop human resources. Monozukuri University consists of three organizations: Nissan Technical College, Genba Kanri (shopfloor management) School and Engineering School. It offers a variety of programs aimed at developing engineers and technicians who carry forward the “Nissan DNA” and achieve continued success through the implementation of the Nissan Way. Engineering and Technical Skill Education Around the World To support our efforts to expand our business globally, we must improve the engineering skills of individual employees working across the globe. We offer opportunities for personal growth equally to all employees in both R&D and manufacturing, whether they work in Japan or elsewhere, to help them enhance their capabilities. 188/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Education for Engineers We developed a Global Training Program (GTP) to be administered to all its 19,000 engineers at development centers worldwide and completed basic training of all engineers from 2012 through 2015. Furthermore, since 2016, we have moved forward with plans for advanced training covering more specialized content. Education for Technicians To clearly spell out the production methods shared by Nissan, Renault and Mitsubishi as the Alliance Production Way (APW) and improve the day-to-day management skills of shop-floor supervisors in all the plants operated by the three companies around the world, a shared Alliance Group framework for stratified APW training is being developed, with the goal of making the training available and operational worldwide. Improving Management Quality We have worked to improve the quality of our management at the global level in order to fulfill the goals of Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022, our midterm business plan, and achieve sustainable growth. In Japan, we have established a training framework for midlevel managers. This gives them opportunities to promote activities that put the Nissan Way into practice and to extend their skills in managing people and business operations. Specifically, we engage in (1) cultural diversity training to promote understanding of the actions and mindsets described in the Nissan Way; (2) business skills and leadership training to nurture professionals and (3) training in on-site management to teach the importance of operational excellence and people motivation and to achieve maximum results through collaboration. These three core components of the training framework are supplemented with additional programs. In North America and Europe, meanwhile, the Nissan Way Leadership Academy program for managers examines how the Nissan Way has been put to use most effectively and shares those actions as part of training tools to elevate management quality overall. Training Future Leaders Leadership training is becoming more important for Nissan. In our midterm business plan, Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022, it is one of the pillars supporting the success of our business strategy. To continually foster future managers and specialists who will lead the company, we take a strategic and systematic approach to training, job rotations and recruitment. 189/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Specifically, we engage in leadership training aimed at fostering human resources who can demonstrate their skills either at Nissan or elsewhere within the operations of the Alliance. These programs are offered at various development stages, including those for young employees, regional middle managers and Group senior managers. Training consists of group sessions for intensive training in business skills, team exercises where participants tackle issues actually facing Nissan and cultural diversity classes to promote understanding of the issues. Staff rotations beyond divisions and regions are strategically and systematically implemented to give promising employees the experience needed to serve in management posts and direct global functions as capable managers and leaders. We are reinforcing our human resources not only through the recruitment of new graduates but also by actively hiring outstanding mid-level management candidates. These talent management schemes are effectively operated through regular human resource meetings among senior managers. In these meetings, outstanding human resources are identified, then development plans and succession plans are made. Nissan’s strategic talent management system is globally coordinated and active at the global, regional and functional levels. We aim to foster a culture of learning by establishing an environment that enables employees to take the initiative in building their careers, with the support of managers and the company as a whole. To create an environment where employees can learn anytime and anywhere, we will also expand the use of e-learning and other digital tools. The Nissan Expert Leader System: Passing Down Nissan’s Technologies and Expertise Helping employees develop specialized skills over the medium to long term is vital for a company to achieve sustainable growth. The Nissan Expert Leader System is a means of strengthening and fostering further development of specialized skills in a wide range of technical and nontechnical areas like purchasing and accounting. In fiscal 2018, the system’s 13th year, there were 45 employees active as Expert Leaders and 2 management-level employees as Nissan Fellows in a total of 94 fields of specialization. The Expert Leaders and Fellows make use of their specialized knowledge to contribute to Nissan’s business endeavors overall. In addition to sharing their knowledge with others via the corporate intranet and other communication tools, they contribute to the fostering of the next generation of experts by passing on their specialized skills in seminars and training courses. 190/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI404-1 Human Resource Development Achievements Training Program Achievements at Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of trainees 120,219 171,949 241,674 Total hours in training 653,848 689,536 482,103 Hours per trainee 28.8 30.6 21.5 Trainee satisfaction (out of 5) over 4.2 over 4.2 over 4.2 Investment per employee (¥) 71,000 73,000 86,000 191/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LABOR PRACTICES RESPECTING THE RIGHTS OF WORKERS Policies and Philosophy on Respecting the Rights of Workers Management That Respects the Rights of Workers Achievements in Respecting the Rights of Workers GRI102-12 GRI102-13 GRI103-1 Policies and Philosophy on Respecting the Rights of Workers Nissan has been a member since 2004 of the United Nations Global Compact advocating universal principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, and promotes the management of sustainability strategies pursuant to the compact’s ten principles. We have expanded and enhanced our wide-ranging activities to ensure that employees’ basic rights are respected. 192/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 GRI406-1 Management That Respects the Rights of Workers Under the “Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity” code within the Global Code of Conduct, Nissan requires its employees to respect and value the diversity found among the company’s employees, business partners, customers and communities, while rejecting discrimination and harassment in all forms, regardless of magnitude. Nissan executives and employees must respect the human rights of others and may not discriminate against or harass others based on race, nationality, gender, religion, disability, age, place of origin, gender identity, sexual orientation or any other reason; nor may they allow such a situation to go unchecked if discovered. We also work to ensure that all employees, both male and female, can work in an environment free from sexual and other forms of harassment. * Click here for more information on our human rights initiatives. Achievements in Respecting the Rights of Workers Diversifying Workstyles with “Happy 8” Nissan has striven to create workplaces that let individual employees choose from a wide range of workstyles to suit their values and life needs through its “Happy 8” workstyle reform. * Click here for more information on “Happy 8.” 193/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LABOR PRACTICES DIALOGUE WITH EMPLOYEES Policies and Philosophy on Dialogue with Employees Management to Promote Dialogue with Employees Achievements in Dialogue with Employees GRI103-1 Policies and Philosophy on Dialogue with Employees For a company to continue offering new value in the face of rapid changes in the social and business climate, it is essential for its employees to embrace the company’s corporate vision and mission and consciously work toward realizing them. Nissan is developing its internal and external communication activities with the aim of improving and maintaining its value as a company and brand and achieving its shortand long-term business goals. In terms of internal communication, we are delivering information globally so that employees will form an attachment to the company and be more engaged in tackling the challenges before them, proactively working on value-enhancing activities as “ambassadors” for Nissan. Guidelines for Dialogue with Employees We established two communication guiding principles that aim to encourage higher employee engagement: “build trust between the company and employees” and “increase employee motivation.” We utilize various communication tools to deepen employees’ understanding of our business, products and brand, as well as to explain the direction in which we are heading in order to generate employee confidence in their day-to-day activities and in the future of the company. By organizing events and offering opportunities for employees to increase their motivation and realize that they are an integral 194/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 part of the company, we nurture a sense of pride in our employees, which in turn will encourage them to contribute to our sustainable growth. 195/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 Management to Promote Dialogue with Employees For Nissan, which has more than 100,000 employees working at global production sites and offices, internal communication must be enhanced to instill the corporate mission and management strategies, to make employees feel a part of Nissan and to strengthen corporate governance. To this end, we have set two guidelines for employee engagement: “build trust between the company and employees” and “increase employee motivation.” The Global Internal Communications Department is playing a key role in deploying messages in a thoughtful manner, such as through the corporate intranet system that delivers information to all employees globally, materials shared with senior managers or information shared in each region. Employee-executive exchange is also held on a regular basis with the aim of building trust. Furthermore, we offer opportunities for employees to voice their views and shares them with company executives in an effort for constant improvement. Through communication with employees and shared awareness of sustainable growth, we are moving as one in driving the business forward. Global Tools for Dialogue with Employees We use various tools for communicating with employees, including the Workforce Integration @ Nissan (WIN) corporate intranet system for all employees in both Japan and global operational areas, Engagement Kits distributed to senior management with the aim of promoting workplace communication and visually engaging cable TV programs that introduce Nissan’s activities. In Japan, a printed in-house newsletter called Nissan News is published monthly for employees at Nissan production sites. We also hold communication events, such as opportunities for executives to exchange opinions with senior managers or employees. Other events give employees the chance to experience their own products and participate in company activities. The Global Internal Communications Department creates an annual action plan for better internal communication activities with the aim of improving communication both quantitatively and qualitatively. Surveys are conducted on these communication initiatives on an annual basis, as well as on individual communication activities. Survey results are reflected in future communication activities and action plans. 196/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 Achievements in Dialogue with Employees For both Nissan and its employees to continue to grow in the face of globally expanding corporate activities, employees need to understand the direction in which the company is heading and implement their own actions toward the achievement of the company’s objectives. Overcoming challenges to achieve those goals can lead to personal growth for the employee and contribute to the realization of the company’s vision. Nissan is strengthening its communication with employees in order to enhance their engagement. Strengthening Communication to Build Trust and Increase Motivation We are currently working to achieve the Employee Engagement objectives of Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022 midterm plan,* calling on all employees to embrace our corporate vision and understand the significance of the midterm plan. Employees’ confidence in the company’s activities and performance is essential for the plan’s success. At the same time, we also need to motivate employees, encouraging them to take selfinitiated action. Internal communication activities thus focus on building trust among employees and increasing their motivation. * Click here for more information on Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022. 197/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enhancing Communication Channels To build trust with employees, companies must disclose information in a fair and open manner, so we punctually provide our employees with information on business results including financial announcements. Renault-NissanMitsubishi alliance teams are organized in such areas as purchasing, engineering, manufacturing and supply chain to accelerate synergies. Information on these activities is shared with employees, enabling them to understand the value that the Alliance can WIN introduces readers to the activities of a range of provide. employees. A deeper understanding of Nissan Intelligent Mobility initiatives and the company’s products, services and technologies is gained through timely communications that engage employee interest and boost their motivation. We proactively update our employees on our leadership in achieving a zero-emission society, development of autonomous driving technologies, new services using connected technology and other long-term projects, as well as providing test-drive opportunities and other chances for employees to participate in company activities. In order to raise awareness of our sponsorship activities, we also selected employees from each region and invited them to the UEFA Champions League final in 2018. We are planning and holding various events so that not only selected employees but all employees can enjoy the excitement that we provide to society through sponsorship. We are enhancing coordination among our various departments and with executives and actively sharing information that contributes to relationships of mutual trust and higher employee motivation. Every new fiscal year starts with the CEO delivering the presidential address, reflecting on the past year’s performance and highlighting the direction for the new year. Topics based on employee interest are also broadcast through live web conferences called Management Information Exchanges (MIE), which encourage engagement between Executive Committee (EC) members and senior managers. Employee motivation is also raised through new model announcements and test-drive events, where employees gain a deeper understanding of Nissan’s products and learn to convey product features and attractiveness to their friends and families more effectively. These have been well received, with participants stating that their enhanced knowledge of Nissan products has boosted their pride in the company and their work motivation, and they have been highly effective in developing “ambassadors” for Nissan. Since we introduced a corporate intranet system called WIN (Workforce Integration @ Nissan), we have been actively used to promote communication, information sharing and collaboration among 198/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 employees. WIN has expanded beyond the Nissan Group, and its users now include Nissan’s major affiliates as well. In fiscal 2014 Nissan began issuing Engagement Kits summarizing its global operations, business performance and major achievements. These kits are distributed to senior managers every month and are used as communication tools for information sharing. The senior managers receiving this information are responsible for sharing it in their respective departments. This is intended to promote workplace communication, deepen employee understanding and raise motivation. A printed in-house newsletter called Nissan News is published monthly for employees at Nissan production sites in Japan, providing them with the necessary information in a timely manner. Strengthening Communication Between Executives and Employees We have proactively held communication events where executives and employees can directly communicate with each other. In fiscal 2018 we held town-hall meetings at our Global Headquarters (GHQ) for face-toface dialogue between employees, the CEO and then Chief Competitive Officer (CCO) Yasuhiro Yamauchi on the final vehicle inspection issue and matters related to the The CEO’s town-hall meeting linking GHQ and other sites. misconduct of the company’s former Chairman and other individuals. Events called MTP follow-up sessions were also held. At these sessions, executives explained important topics that are part of the Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022 midterm plan and responded to questions. In fiscal 2018, topics such as the Japanese market and Nissan Sustainability 2022 were discussed during three MTP follow-up sessions. Live web conferences called MIE, in which EC members and senior managers engage in discussions, were held eight times in conjunction with financial announcements, and information was provided in a timely fashion. Employees who participated in such communication events made comments such as “I was able to obtain necessary information,” “top management made an effort to communicate the facts” and “I could feel the sincere enthusiasm of top management.” 199/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Employee-Executive Exchange In order to build trust, it is important for Nissan to stay aware of its employees’ thoughts and opinions and ensure that they are shared with top management. We have made efforts to communicate information that will lead to greater employee trust toward the achievement of Nissan M.O.V.E. to 2022 midterm business objectives. These efforts are monitored on an ongoing basis through key performance indicators (KPIs) and reflected in internal communication activities. For these activities, we conduct regular surveys, and the results are conveyed to company executives. The survey results are also used to run a PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle, leading to future planning that clarifies the scope of the audience and content of communications. 200/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH AND SAFETY Employees’ Health and Safety Policies and Philosophy Employees’ Health and Safety Management Employees’ Health and Safety Achievements GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI403-4 Employees’ Health and Safety Policies and Philosophy Nissan places great importance on occupational health and safety in the collective agreement between the company and its labor unions, has formulated a Basic Policy on Health and Safety and promotes various health and safety practices in the workplace. In the Basic Policy, as a shared core value, we tout “The health and safety of our fellow workers has top priority.” Our Basic Policy states that “From the top down to each employee, we recognize that we share a way of thinking that respects each individual, and with the optimization of the working environment, we proactively and continuously promote both mental and physical health, while pursuing the creation of a bright and lively workplace free from accidents and illness.” In accordance with the Basic Policy, we promote practices that reduce the burden on workers and make it easier to carry out their work, as well as ensuring that employees’ health is a top priority. They have been established as key tenets in Nissan’s companywide Basic Policy on Health and Safety. 201/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI403-1 Employees’ Health and Safety Management Nissan has adopted a Basic Policy on Safety and Health so that all employees can focus on their work in a safe environment. We give top priority to worker safety as well as their well-being as a matter of company policy. The work environment relating to employee safety and health is managed uniformly according to the Basic Policy at all Nissan sites, both in Japan and globally. In Japan, we hold a Central Safety and Health Committee meeting each year chaired by the executive in charge of human resources and attended by management and labor union representatives from Nissan facilities. Activities over the past year are reviewed in such areas as workplace safety, fire prevention, mental health, health management and traffic safety, and then plans are laid out for the following year. The Safety and Health Committee at each facility meets each month, and these meetings are attended by labor union representatives. A safety and health officer and a traffic safety officer are assigned at each workplace to ensure the effectiveness of day-to-day safety activities. Globally, each facility applies the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle. A teleconference is held twice a year linking all Nissan facilities worldwide to share information and discuss key issues. Regional managers for employee safety and health also meet every other year for a Global Safety Meeting. In the event of an accident, its details and responses are swiftly shared with facilities around the globe in an effort to prevent the recurrence of similar accidents. Our global midterm goal is to reduce fatal accidents to zero, including people from other companies working at Nissan premises, and to halve the fiscal 2016 number of industrial accidents by fiscal 2022. Many facilities both in Japan and globally have introduced the OHSAS 18001* occupational safety and health standard, creating a structure for the steady implementation of employee safety and health activities. * An internationally recognized standard for occupational safety and health management systems. Certification may be issued by a third-party accrediting body. A Uniform Set of Global Safety Standards To allow all employees to maximize their performance, we design workplaces with employee safety and health in mind. We work proactively at all levels to identify potential issues or concerns in the workplace environment, 202/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 develop measures to address them and make it easier for employees to get their job done. In 2010, we standardized the safety indices that previously differed from one global site to another. Safety performance is monitored quarterly for each production site. Specialized Mental Healthcare We have established a specialized team led by a mental health professional to care for the mental wellbeing of employees. In 2005, in cooperation with external mental healthcare specialists, we introduced the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), a mental healthcare program providing employees with consistent care covering everything from prevention and early diagnosis to treatment and recovery. Since fiscal 2007 the program has expanded to include production-line workers, giving employees and their family members access to mental-health professionals for consultation, diagnosis and counseling. We also offer specialized care programs that respect employee privacy, such as the yearly “Stress Check,” through which employees receive advice from a doctor via email or letter. In fiscal 2011 our mental health training was extended to cover items bolstering the emotional health of individual employees. We promote mental healthcare through a wide range of approaches. Rehabilitation Center to Facilitate Return to Work Appropriate support mechanisms are required to facilitate an employee’s return to work in case of long-term or recurrent absence due to a mental or physical ailment. Nissan’s support in this area includes rules established in 2008 for the use of external rehabilitation centers to ease employees’ return to the workforce following long-term or recurrent absence. An in-house rehabilitation facility opened in 2012. By offering various programs suited to the needs of the respective workplaces, We are seeing improvements in the return-to-work ratio. 203/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-3 GRI403-2 Employees’ Health and Safety Achievements Creating Safe Workplaces Nissan employs its own safety management Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Rate (Japan) diagnostic methods, as well as a riskassessment approach to workplace management, to help reduce hazards in the work environment and prevent accidents. Two tools developed internally by Nissan to identify the potential for a work accident are the Safety Evaluation System (SES) and the FirePrevention Evaluation System (F-PES). Applied in Japan, they call for workplace patrols in accordance with established evaluation standards to identify potential dangers and fire risks to help reduce incidents. The use of these tools has been effective in achieving these aims. Global initiatives to avoid accidents and create a safe workplace include inviting employees from Nissan facilities around the world to undergo training on workplace safety. Responsible managers and leaders also received training in SES and F-PES in preparation for the implementation of these programs at all Nissan facilities worldwide, a process that began in fiscal 2014 and was completed in fiscal 2015. Since 2011 we have been systematically carrying out Kiken Yochi Training (KYT)—literally “riskprediction training” —at plants in Japan to raise awareness among individual workers of the risk of accidents and thereby help prevent their occurrence. This training instills an awareness of danger among workers, thus reducing the risk of their becoming involved in work accidents. Worker sensitivity is enhanced through repeated training. We have established standards for reporting on work accidents or outbreaks of fire that occur in any of the production sites, and these standards are applied globally. If any serious work accidents such as fatalities, or outbreaks of fire that may have an impact globally occur, the person in charge where the accident or fire occurred must report without delay to Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (NML). NML will dispatch information and measures as well as instructions to each company site, based on the report. It is hoped that this will help prevent similar disasters or accidents. There were no fatal accidents involving Nissan employees globally in fiscal 2018. However, in fiscal 204/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2011, 2012 and 2013 there was one fatality each year in South Africa, Spain and North America, respectively. In fiscal 2016, two fatal accidents occurred—one in North America and one in India. We investigated these fatal accidents and have implemented strict countermeasures to prevent such accidents from happening again at any of our plants. We monitor lost-time injury frequency rates,* and has confirmed lower rates than the automobile industry average. As we are currently transitioning to a more comprehensive approach to frequency rate aggregation, this report contains only Japan’s domestic rates. * Total lost-time injury cases ÷ total working hours × 1 million Improved Production-Line Environment Nissan seeks to fulfill its mission of engaging in “human-friendly production” by continuously improving the workplace environment at its manufacturing facilities worldwide. At workplaces with high summer temperatures, for example, we have installed internal cold-air ducts and ensured there are set breaks to drink water, particularly in locations with considerable workloads. Constant improvements are being made to allow employees to work in a comfortable environment. Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (White 500) In today’s society, employee health is increasingly viewed less as a question of individual effort than a key factor must be corporations must address to survive. This has put strategic management of employee health and productivity from a business perspective in the spotlight. At Nissan, we believe that investing in employee health improves both vitality and productivity, energizing the entire organization and improving results. Accordingly, we take a strategic approach to creating safe and pleasant workplace environments that promote both physical and mental health among employees. Based on these principles and their successful application, NML was recognized by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi (literally, “Japan health conference”) under the 2019 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program in the large enterprise category (White 500), announced in February 2019. The White 500 honors organizations with particularly effective health and productivity management based on regional health initiatives and programs promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. We will continue to strengthen our health maintenance activities aimed at staff of all ages. 205/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Community Engagement Policies and Philosophy Community Engagement Management Contributing to Local Communities: Achievements GRI102-11 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI203-1 Community Engagement Policies and Philosophy In addition to delivering innovative, exciting vehicles and outstanding services to customers worldwide, Nissan believes it is important to play an active role as a community member, applying its special characteristics to contribute further to society. When a company provides a range of resources to communities, supporting their development and proactively tackling issues, it is, in part, fulfilling its social responsibility as a good corporate citizen. Such actions also benefit the company’s own operations, fostering a better business environment and creating new markets that can grow sustainably. We work with a variety of stakeholders, both governmental and nongovernmental, pooling our respective strengths to address increasingly complex social issues. In line with Nissan’s corporate social contribution policies, regional offices and affiliates work on initiatives that address issues relevant to their operations and the communities in which they operate. Nissan’s Approach to Community Engagement We reviewed our policies for social contribution activities in 2017, deciding to push forward with activities focused on the three areas of zero emissions, zero fatalities and zero inequality. In addition to zero emissions and zero fatalities, areas where any automotive manufacturer should make sincere efforts, we are promoting zero inequality (in other words, diversity) as an important corporate value with the aim of realizing a cleaner, safer and more inclusive society where everyone is given equal 206/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 opportunities. We will not only provide financial assistance for activities in these areas but also ensure that those activities are “distinctly Nissan,” making full use of our automotive heritage, expertise, products and facilities. We emphasize communicating and working with specialized nonprofit and nongovernmental organizations that have great expertise in their fields to ensure that its social contributions are effective. We actively support the involvement of our employees in social contribution activities. 207/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103-2 Community Engagement Management Nissan’s production sites have expanded globally, increasing the company’s engagement with various communities through its businesses. Nissan is active in promoting social contribution activities and recognizes that contributing to the development of communities by sharing its own management resources also enhances the business environment and promotes market growth. The Sustainability Development Department at Nissan’s Global Headquarters in Japan formulates policies, and then management decides which to set in motion. We are presently developing a wide range of activities to meet the needs of regions centered on the three focus areas of zero emissions, zero fatalities and zero inequality set forth in the policy revision of 2017. Company Organization for Community Engagement The Sustainability Development Department at Nissan’s Global Headquarters in Japan is responsible for developing Nissan’s corporate social contribution policies. These are discussed and approved by the Global Sustainability Steering Committee and shared throughout Nissan’s global operations. These corporate policies provide the basis on which initiatives are implemented across the company worldwide. Three Focus Areas for Nissan’s Social Contributions Program Zero Emissions Nissan’s environmental philosophy is a “Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature.” We actively engage in efforts to reduce the environmental burden on the planet and prioritizes the environment in our social contribution activities. Central to our approach are educational programs that cultivate a deeper understanding of environmental issues toward achieving a low-carbon society. Since 2017 we have expanded our partnerships with international environmental protection organizations. We continued a forest conservation program in Indonesia in collaboration with 208/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Conservation International, an environmental NGO, and supported climate change education and awareness with the environmental conservation organization WWF Japan. Zero Fatalities In addition to making vehicles safer through autonomous driving technology, we also promote traffic safety through activities to raise the safety awareness of drivers and pedestrians and to protect the socially vulnerable, including children and senior citizens. Zero Inequality We embrace diversity as a management strategy in recognition of its crucial role in boosting corporate competitiveness. Nissan’s social contribution activities share this awareness and are aimed at mitigating poverty, providing assistance to the financially and socially disadvantaged and sending emergency relief to disaster-stricken communities. In 2018 we expanded our educational program to cover more areas within Thailand in partnership with the NGO Care International Japan, in addition to existing humanitarian efforts in North America, Asia and Oceania in collaboration with Habitat for Humanity. Nissan as a Community Member We aspire to be a good corporate citizen that people are glad to have in their community. As such, we strive to be a valuable member of and active contributor to local communities wherever we operate. We support communities in a variety of ways, such as by assisting with local events, sponsoring neighborhood cleanups and other environment-improvement activities near Nissan facilities and opening those facilities to public tours. Many employees actively participate as volunteers. 209/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Contributing to Local Communities: Achievements GRI103-3 GRI201-1 GRI203-2 Social Contribution Achievements in FY2018 Global social contributions (FY2018): ¥1.79 billion Social contributions include: Expenses for implementing philanthropic activities (excluding labor costs) Monetary donations and NPO membership fees for philanthropic purposes Cash equivalents of in-kind donations Sponsorship fees for philanthropic initiatives 210/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Breakdown of FY2018 Social Contributions (Nissan Global) In-kind Philanthropic Monetary Sponsorships, donations Total activities donations etc. (cash equivalent) Amount 412 847 270 255 1,785 (¥ million) % of total 23.1 47.5 15.1 14.3 100 Disaster Contribution in FY2018 ¥10 million donation from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. to the NGO Japan Platform. Torrential rains of July 2018 (Japan) Donation from employees of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. plus matching donation from the company to the Japanese Red Cross Society. Torrential rains in and around 7 million INR donation of disaster relief funds from the southern Indian state of Kerala (India) Nissan Motors India (NMIPL) to the state government. Donations for ¥5 million donation from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. to the disaster Japanese Red Cross Society. relief Eastern Iburi Earthquake in Two Nissan LEAF vehicles lent to the towns of Mukawa, Hokkaido (Japan) Atsuma and Abira. Four thousand 500 mL bottles of drinking water provided. Earthquake in Sulawesi 1 billion IDR donation from Nissan Motor Indonesia (Indonesia) (NMI). Donation from employees of NMI plus a matching Sunda Strait Tsunami donation from the company of 10 times the amount (Indonesia) raised. 211/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Zero Emissions School-Visit Programs (Japan, U.K. and China) Since 2007 Nissan has put its automobile manufacturing know-how and technologies to work by conducting school-visit programs. The programs target older elementary school students and are conducted by Nissan employees. One educational program is the Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School,* designed to deepen schoolchildren’s understanding of global environmental issues and the initiatives undertaken by Nissan to solve them. Through experiments with model cars, test rides in the Nissan LEAF and other demonstrations, participants experience the latest environmental technology. As well as teaching participants about environmental issues, the program encourages them to reexamine how environmentally friendly their own daily activities can be. This program has been well received, so that the number of Eco School classes in Japan has increased. In fiscal 2018, around 21,100 pupils, mainly in Kanagawa Prefecture, attended the program. As of the end of March 2019, some 83,000 children in all have participated in Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School since its launch. Employees from many divisions have been certified by Nissan as teachers in the program. A total of 373 employees, mainly from the engineering division, volunteered to support the classes. The program is conducted not only by visiting elementary schools but also by inviting schoolchildren to our Tochigi, Iwaki, Yokohama, Oppama and Kyushu Plants. Outside Japan, under the banner of the Nissan Skills Foundation, Nissan Motor Manufacturing (U.K.) in Sunderland runs a wide ranging series of educational programs from primary and secondary schools. In fiscal 2018 it worked with 12,341 young people from age 5 to 19. In China, Nissan (China) Investment (NCIC) and three joint venture companies offer educational opportunities. We have expanded the scale of lessons utilizing the Internet, and in fiscal 2018 more than 145,000 children took part the programs. * Click here for more information on the Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School. Partnership with the World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan) We have entered into a partnership with the environmental conservation body WWF Japan to support its climate change program. In March 2019, we supported WWF Japan’s Earth Hour 2019 environmental awareness event, with Nissan’s regional companies around the world taking part in a symbolic lights-off event. We encouraged employees worldwide to participate, making this a sustainability initiative on a global scale. We also contributed to the operation of 100% renewable 212/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 energy events organized by WWF Japan in Tokyo and Yokohama by providing the use of two Nissan LEAFs charged with renewable energy. Earth Hour 2019 event at Tokyo Skytree Town. Partnership with Conservation International (CI) (Indonesia) In 2017, we began working with the environmental NGO Conservation International (CI) to restore forests around Indonesia’s Mount Agung, where the environment has deteriorated noticeably despite being the source of water for the urban areas of Bali. This initiative takes a comprehensive approach, seeking to improve the environment around CI Indonesia developed a comic book to deepen understand of environmental issues in Bali. rivers and coastal areas by preserving forests in mountainous regions. Conservation activities are conducted in conjunction with government bodies and local communities. We also operate environmental awareness education programs for the children of these communities. Urban Green Lab (UGL): A Unique Environmental Education Program (U.S.) Nissan North America (NNA) supports a nonprofit organization in Nashville, Tennessee called Urban Green Lab (UGL). UGL gives children the opportunity to think and learn about environmentally friendly, sustainable lifestyles, connecting these with their own experiences. With Nissan’s support, and in partnership with Vanderbilt University’s Peabody College of Education and the Dept. of Environment & Conservation, UGL created Tennessee’s first-ever statewide curriculum on sustainable living and waste prevention and launched it in both Nashville public schools and Memphis. In fiscal 2018, 16 Memphis school “learning communities” (clusters of teachers) were established and 27 teachers trained. UGL and Nissan have a special partnership due to their shared concern for the well-being of their 213/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 communities and the valuable natural resources we share. Each year Kiddovation is a fun event where our organizations partner together as UGL brings the Mobile Lab to NNA Headquarters and educates employees’ children on sustainable practices that they can implement at home with their parents. 214/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Zero Fatalities Partnership with the Federation Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA) (Global) Nissan is an official supporter of FIA Action for Road Safety,* a campaign to raise public awareness of safer roads, as advocated by the Federation Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA). We widely publicize the campaign’s message about the importance of safe driving and promote the FIA Golden Rules, a compilation of rules for traffic safety. *Click here for more information on FIA Action for Road Safety. Hello Safety Campaign to Protect Children (Japan) Since 1987 we have collected donations from employees for the Hello Safety Campaign, which we launched in Japan in 1972 to contribute to the promotion of traffic safety awareness campaigns near our business sites. In fiscal 2018, donations reached about ¥1.1 million. In addition, gifts to help prevent traffic accidents were sent to children in the neighborhoods of Nissan business sites through local traffic safety associations, municipalities and other organizations. New Campaign Launched to Increase Rear Seat Belt Use Rates (India) Nissan Motors India (NMIPL), in cooperation with the SaveLIFE Foundation, an NGO promoting traffic safety, and another NGO called the School Health Annual Report Programme (SHARP), carried out the first ever survey on rear seat belt use in 11 Indian cities. Based on the results of the survey, NMIPL launched a campaign to deepen understanding NMIPL developed the “seat belt shirt” with a renowned fashion of the importance of seat belts and encourage designer. their use. Because the survey revealed that many people are concerned about seat belts causing wrinkled or disheveled clothing, NMIPL partnered with a renowned fashion designer to develop the “seat belt shirt,” combining fashion and functionality, as well as launching India-wide awareness activities through social media. In the future, NMIPL plans 215/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 to run educational programs for 200,000 children at schools across India to further raise awareness of traffic safety. Zero Inequality Educational Program in Cooperation with CARE International (Thailand) Since 2017, we have run the Youth Leadership Development Program for students in middle and high schools in Ayutthaya and Rayong provinces in Thailand. In these classes, held in cooperation with local schools, students learn leadership, teamwork and other qualities necessary in community development, along with science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) content. Youth Leadership Development Program. In conducting classes, the focus is placed on supporting female students in particular. In fiscal 2018, the program was expanded to schools in Samut Prakan province, near Nissan Motor Thailand (NMT), and NMT employees participated in program operations. Partnership with Habitat for Humanity (North America) NNA has been collaborating with the NGO Habitat for Humanity continuously since 2006. Habitat for Humanity, an international aid organization that fosters hope by helping people build or improve their homes, has a vision of “a world where everyone has a decent place to live.” The nonprofit works to construct homes, revitalize neighborhoods and support families’ self-reliance in more than 70 countries An NNA employee volunteer team helps build a house. across the world. In fiscal 2018, NNA sponsored eight families. Nissan employees invested a total of 10,440 volunteer hours in support of partner families. We also donated four Nissan trucks in addition to a social media 216/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 campaign. Marking the third year of our support for the Home is the Key campaign, we donated $5 for every time #HomeIsTheKey was shared on social media, up to $250,000. Sponsorship of Disability Sports (Japan) In December 2018, we sponsored the Nissan Cup Oppama Championship 2018 (19th National Wheelchair Marathon) in Yokosuka, Kanagawa Prefecture, co-hosting the event with local organizations.* 1 The contest has been held since 2000 with the aim of increasing the profile of disability sports, improving the level of competitors, engaging people in the area and building caring communities. During the road race between Grandrive, Nissan’s test-driving center at the Oppama Plant, and Oppama Station, 662 volunteers, including company employees and local community residents, were on hand to support the event with such activities as cleaning up the course. The Nissan Technical Center (NTC) and Nissan Advanced Technology Center (NATC), in the city of Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture, contribute to the local community by cooperating with local events, such undertaking neighborhood cleanups. As part of these efforts, since 2012 NTC has sponsored the Nissan Fureai Road Race.* 2 This contest, for both visually impaired and sighted competitors, is held on the NTC grounds, creating a safe environment in which participants are able to compete. The eighth race, held in March 2019, attracted 762 runners and 308 volunteers. * 1 Click here for more information on the Nissan Cup Oppama Championship (Japanese only). * 2 Click here for more information on the Nissan Fureai Road Race (Japanese only). Outreach to Pupils to Talk About Monozukuri (Japan, China, U.K. and Other Countries) Through activities that are engaging and fun, we deepen young people’s understanding of monozukuri, Japan’s tradition of craftsmanship and manufacturing. In Japan, the magic of monozukuri is shared by Nissan employees through elementary schoolvisit programs: the Nissan Monozukuri Caravan and the Nissan Design Waku-Waku Studio.* Some 22,000 children participate in the programs every year. In China, NCIC and other regional companies hold classes for pupils. The Nissan Skills Foundation promotes STEM education for female students. 217/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Nissan Monozukuri Caravan also operates in the United Kingdom at the Sunderland Plant. The program runs five days per week during school terms, welcoming more than 4,500 primary pupils per year. The Nissan Skills Foundation was established in 2014. As of June 2019, it has engaged more than 50,000 students from schools across the region through various activities to inspire the engineers and manufacturers of the future. Through the F1 in Schools global competition, it supports local teams with equipment, resources and knowledge. At the 2017 world finals, five of the U.K. finalist teams were supported by Nissan. One core program for the foundation is Industrial Cadets, a nationally recognized program aimed at helping pupils aged 13—14 to engage with manufacturing and engineering professionals. More than 1,600 students have been through the program. The foundation also fosters diversity through the Girls in Monozukuri, Manufacturing and Engineering (GIMME) and GIMME Booster programs. These introduce young girls to available career options and help improve their chances of getting through the recruiting process. These female only sessions have now engaged with over 1,800 young women, and female participation in all programs is 46%. In addition, the company donates vehicles and engines to universities and vocational schools to be used for instructional purposes in many countries. Access to real-world vehicles helps students build their skills and practical knowledge. *Click here for more information on the Nissan Monozukuri Caravan and the Nissan Design Waku-Waku Studio. Education Support for Children (China) Since 2013, NCIC has operated the Nissan Dream Classroom educational program, which helps elementary and middle school pupils. The program has gradually expanded its area of operation and the scope of its classes to include such topics as the environment, monozukuri, design, painting, intelligent driving and the basics of automotive engineering, as well as special-edition programs for Nissan dealerships. A total of four companies in China began holding these classes in 2015, expanding in Nissan Dream Classroom in Beijing. scale each year and actively engaging in educational programs. In 2018, NCIC held Nissan Dream Classroom activities toward society. Through cooperation with Nissan 218/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 dealerships, Beijing Auto Museum and local auto shows, the program was offered in various platforms and benefited 145,000 students by the end of the year. Developing the Next Generation of Scientists and Engineers (U.S.) In the United States, NNA is investing in the workforce of tomorrow through support of STEM initiatives and technical education training programs. We provide financial support to develop STEM programs for students in elementary, middle and high schools and to support university STEM programs. In Tennessee, where Nissan has two major assembly plants, Nissan and its employees Music City BEST Robotics Competition 2018. support the Music City BEST (Boosting Engineering Science and Technology) Robotics Competition in Nashville. Student teams design and build working robots from standard kits of simple building materials and then compete to perform specific tasks in three minutes. In fiscal 2018, 399 students took part, and 44 Nissan employees volunteered as team mentors or competition judges. In this project-based STEM program the students solved real-world science and engineering problems, helping them to develop technological literacy skills that may help shape their long-term education and career direction. NNA also supported the running of the Lipscomb University/Nissan BisonBot Robotic Camps 2018 at Lipscomb University in Tennessee. During June and July 2018, there were 129 participants, aged 5 to 16, who studied age-appropriate robotics technologies. The goals for the camps were to motivate students from diverse backgrounds groups to pursue careers in science and engineering, and to allow participation in hands-on experiences designing, building and learning about robots. 219/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nissan as a Community Member Addressing the 3/11 Disaster (Japan) Employee Volunteer Activities in Hirono and Namie, Fukushima Prefecture We provided various forms of support in the immediate wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, and we have continued to help affected regions rebuild through strong employee participation. In fiscal 2018 we continued our support activities from the previous year in the district of Futaba, Fukushima Prefecture, with the participation of A group photo during volunteer activities in Hirono and Namie. 30 employees from several Nissan facilities. Together with the Iwaki OtentoSUN Enterprise Cooperative, based in Iwaki, Fukushima, Nissan employees engaged in various activities, including preparing a disaster-prevention green belt, manually assembling solar panels, maintaining organic cotton fields in Hirono and operating a study tour in Namie. Some of the solar panels assembled by Nissan employees were used to install lighting for Ohirayama Cemetery, where a cenotaph to the victims of the earthquake is located. Bringing Smiles to Children in Disaster-Stricken Areas Established in 2011 with the goal of helping children in disaster-stricken areas smile again, the Nissan Smile Support Fund offers assistance that meets the changing needs of such regions, operating free schools and places to go after school and providing learning venues for deepening regional understanding as well as recreational and nature experience programs. Programs are conducted by 10 NPOs that are independently active in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima Prefectures. 220/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Addressing Other Natural Disasters Support for Western Japan After the Torrential Rains of July 2018 (Japan) We donated ¥10 million to the NGO Japan Platform for people affected by the torrential rains of July 2018. We also matched donations from individual employees to the Japanese Red Cross Society, doubling the amount raised and resulting in a total donation of approximately ¥7.52 million for disaster relief. Support for Kerala and Other Regions in Southern India Affected by Torrential Rains (India) To support the people affected by the torrential rains of August 2018, NMIPL donated 7 million INR to the Kerala Chief Minister Distress Fund. Support for Regions Hit by the Eastern Iburi Earthquake in Hokkaido (Japan) To help people affected by the earthquake of September 2018, we donated ¥5 million to the Japanese Red Cross Society. We also lent two Nissan LEAF vehicles to the towns of Mukawa, Atsuma and Abira, and provided four thousand 500 mL bottles of drinking water through the Seicomart convenience store chain. Support for Regions Hit by the Sulawesi Earthquake and Sunda Strait Tsunami (Indonesia) Nissan Motor Indonesia (NMI) donated 1 billion IDR to support people affected by the earthquake of October 2018. Additionally, when NMI employees held a donation drive to support disaster-stricken areas after the Sunda Strait Tsunami of December 2018, NMI also donated ten times the total amount they raised. Foundation Support Activities (U.S., Australia and Brazil) In the United States, we support many communities through the Nissan Foundation, which funds educational programs encouraging people to value the cultural diversity that exists within American society. Established in 1992, the Nissan Foundation has contributed over $10.75 million to more than 120 nonprofit organizations across the country as of the end of March 2019. In fiscal 2018 the 221/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 foundation donated $730,000 to 29 U.S. organizations. Nissan Australia (NMA) also supports philanthropic activities through the Nissan Australia Foundation. Since fiscal 2017 it has funded small and medium-sized Australian organizations, helping to expand their activities and promoting STEM and traffic safety education. NMA has adopted a support system for encouraging employees to take part in volunteer activities and to make donations. Additionally, Nissan Do Brasil Automoveis (NBA) reexamined the activities of the Instituto Nissan, established in 2013 for philanthropic purposes, revitalizing and strengthening its programs for encouraging employee volunteer activity. Nissan Global Foundation (Japan) The Nissan Global Foundation* pursues the vision of realizing a prosperous future society through human resource development by conducting various training programs. One main focus is enhancing science education at elementary and middle schools and science workshops by fostering logical and scientific thinking skills among schoolchildren. The foundation grants ¥700,000 per project for teaching material in two years. In addition, the foundation grants “Science Education Awards” to schools with the best performance so as to encourage competition and promote dynamism. Additionally, since fiscal 2018, the foundation has awarded the Nissan Global Foundation “Rikajo” Prize to elementary and middle schools, museums and other educational institutions that have dramatically increased interest in science among female students. * Click here for more information on the Nissan Global Foundation. * Click here for more information on the Nissan Global Foundation official website in Japanese. Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies, Oxford (U.K.) Founded at the University of Oxford in 1981, the Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies* is a well-known European center for research on modern Japan that contributes to the promotion of mutual understanding between Japan and Europe. * Click here for more information on the Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies. 222/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE 223/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE GRI102-15 GRI102-16 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Governance Policies and Philosophy Rapid technological advances are transforming every industry, including the automotive industry, and the global economy is undergoing a period of great change. The risks that companies face are becoming ever more complex and require finely tuned responses. In order to create unique and innovative automotive products and services, and deliver superior measurable value to all stakeholders, Nissan will pursue its vision of “enriching people’s lives” as a company that is trusted by society, and address improvement of corporate governance as one of its most prioritized managerial tasks. We will conduct our business while considering society’s expectations and our social responsibilities and devote ourselves to the development of a sustainable society by aiming for sustainable growth of our business. To be a sustainable company, Nissan must display a high level of ethics and transparency, as well as a strong foundation for the organization. It is also expected that we will actively disclose our initiatives to this end. We have extensive global operations with numerous stakeholders around the world. It is essential that we continue to earn their trust while ensuring the high ethical standards and compliance of all employees. In 2001, we established the Global Code of Conduct,* 1 which is rigorously followed by Group companies around the world. Corporate governance,* 2 compliance and risk management are key factors in our business management. We have selected a new corporate form consisting of a company with three statutory committees, separating management from supervision, oversight and auditing. Our global approach to governance is founded on three pillars: improving the transparency of the decision-making process and making business execution speedier and more flexible; carrying out compliance based on high ethical standards among all employees; and establishing an effective and appropriate riskmanagement system. * 1 Click here for more information on the Global Code of Conduct. * 2 Click here for more information on the Corporate Governance Guidelines. 224/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance System in Detail Avoidance of Conflict of Interest GRI102-18 GRI102-22 GRI102-23 GRI102-24 GRI102-28 GRI405-1 Corporate Governance System in Detail In order to create unique and innovative automotive products and services, and deliver superior measurable value to all stakeholders, Nissan will pursue its vision of “enriching people’s lives” as a company that is trusted by society, and address improvement of corporate governance as one of its most prioritized managerial tasks. We will conduct our business while considering society’s expectations and our social responsibilities and devote ourselves to the development of a sustainable society by aiming for sustainable growth of our business. We are developing new structures to strengthen our corporate governance system. On June 25, 2019, a new corporate form was selected for Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. consisting of a company with three statutory committees, clearly separating management functions and supervisory, oversight and auditing functions. In the past, directors supervised the execution of important business operations as well as the duties of individual directors, but the change in structure to a company with three statutory committees has separated execution from supervision. Those with the newly established executive officer role are responsible for the execution of business operations, while members of the Board of Directors focus on supervision of their assigned duties. This has improved the transparency of the decision-making process and also made business execution speedier and more flexible. Furthermore, by increasing the number of outside directors to a majority of the board, we are working to reflect a diversity of viewpoints into our management and strengthen our supervision function still further. The Board of Directors has established three committees: the Nomination Committee, which decides on candidates for director positions; the Compensation Committee, which sets compensation for directors and executive officers; and the Audit Committee, which audits the business execution of directors, executive officers, and those with similar responsibilities. Outside directors make up more than half of each committee, and play a leading role in the Nomination and Compensation Committees. This ensures healthy governance, with supervision, oversight and auditing by the Board of Directors and 225/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 other corporate bodies heightening the effectiveness of our structures in terms of internal controls, compliance and risk management. Officers and employees of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., including executive officers, will sincerely respond to this supervision, oversight and auditing. In addition, we announce clear management targets and policies to all stakeholders and disclose our performance promptly with a high degree of transparency. We have also established a corporate governance system that maintains business transparency. The system allows us to implement various monitoring systems, as well as assess and manage risks that have the potential of preventing us from achieving our business goals. In addition to carrying out cooperation among sites in the regions in which we operate, we have set up global management systems and provide relevant training programs to our employees and business partners. We aim to disclose governance information with even greater transparency in future. Click here for more information on the ratio of men to women on our Board of Directors (as of June 25, 2019). Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance System (1) Separation of management and supervisory functions (2) More independent outside directors (3) Nomination, Compensation and Audit Committees led by independent outside directors Board of Directors System Our Board of Directors, led by independent outside directors, decides the basic direction of management by taking a variety of perspectives into account and plays the role of supervising the executive directors. The number of directors on the board is sufficient to facilitate lively discussions and swift decision-making. In order to create an environment where discussions in board meetings are led by independent outside directors, these directors constitute a majority of the board, with one of them serving as board chair. The Board of Directors decides on basic management policies and important matters set forth under the law, articles of incorporation and regulations of the Board of Directors itself. In order to carry out effective and flexible management, as a general rule, the Board of Directors delegates much of its power to decide on business activities to executive officers. As of June 25, 2019, the Board of Directors consists of eleven directors, seven of whom are outside directors. Click here for more information on the Board of Directors. 226/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nomination Committee System The Nomination Committee has the authority to determine the content of the general shareholder’s meeting agenda concerning the appointment and dismissal of directors. It also has the authority to decide on the content of the Board of Directors meeting agenda concerning the appointment and dismissal of representative executive officers and to formulate an appropriate succession plan regarding the President and Chief Executive Officer and review it at least once a year. The Board of Directors appoints a majority of the members of the Nomination Committee from among the independent outside directors. The committee chair is also an independent outside director. As of June 25, 2019, the Nomination Committee consists of six directors, five of whom are independent outside directors. Compensation Committee System The Compensation Committee has the authority to set policy regarding decisions on the content of the compensation received by individual directors and executive officers as well as the actual content of the compensation received by individual directors and executive officers. The Board of Directors appoints exclusively independent outside directors to the Compensation Committee, including its chair. As of June 25, 2019, the Compensation Committee consists of four directors, all of whom are independent outside directors. Audit Committee System The Audit Committee consists of directors who are sufficiently qualified and capable to audit the business execution of executive officers. In addition, the Audit Committee appropriately audits effectiveness with regard to the monitoring function of the Board of Directors on an ongoing basis. The Audit Committee is also the final entity to receive any whistleblower’s report regarding any allegation that involves any member of management, including any executive officer. The Board of Directors appoints at least a majority of the members of the Audit Committee from among the independent outside directors. The committee chair is also an independent outside director. As of June 25, 2019, the Audit Committee consists of 5 directors, 4 of whom are independent outside directors. In order to allow the Audit Committee to perform its audits effectively and efficiently, the necessary staff are provided to the Audit Committee secretariat, and those staff members carry out their duties under the direction of Audit Committee members. Furthermore, evaluation of the Audit Committee secretariat’s staff is carried out in conference between committee members, and transfers and reprimands require approval from the Audit Committee. 227/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Executive Officer System Executive officers decide on business activities which are delegated in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors, and execute the business of the Nissan Group. Several conference bodies have been established to deliberate on and discuss important corporate matters and the execution of daily business affairs. Furthermore, in the pursuit of more efficient and flexible management, the authority for business execution is clearly delegated as much as possible to corporate officers and employees. As of June 25, 2019, nine executive officers, two of whom are representative executive officers, are appointed. Basic Principles of the Internal Control System We aim to provide superior value to all stakeholders as a world-leading, trusted company well into the future. We consider healthy governance the foundation for this, and are engaged in a range of activities to achieve it. In line with this principle, and in accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and its related regulations, the Board of Directors has decided on internal control systems to pursue these goals and its own basic policy. The board continually monitors the status of implementation regarding these systems and the policy, making adjustments and improvements if necessary. One executive officer is assigned to oversee the internal control systems as a whole. Audit System We have adopted a system under which the outside directors, Auditing Committee, department for internal audit and outside accounting auditors coordinate to improve the effectiveness of our internal control systems. Independent outside directors lead our Board of Directors, deciding the basic direction of management and supervising the execution of duties by directors, executive directors, and others with similar responsibilities. The Audit Committee takes charge of the department for internal audit and instructs it with regard to auditing, and the department for internal audit shall report to the Audit Committee the status of the performance of duties and any findings therefrom on an ongoing basis. The Audit Committee also receives similar reports from the accounting auditors, as well as detailed explanations on the status of the quality control of internal audits, to confirm whether their oversight is at a suitable level. 228/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Independent Internal Audits We have established a global internal audit unit, an independent department to handle internal auditing tasks. Under the control of the head of internal audit, audit teams set up in each region carry out efficient, effective auditing of our activities on a groupwide and global basis. Nissan’s Corporate Governance System * As of June 25, 2019. 229/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-25 Avoidance of Conflict of Interest In case of any transaction that involves any conflict of interest between the company and a director or executive officer, the Board Regulations provide that board approval, as well as a post-facto report to the board of important facts associated with the transaction, are required. Given the possibility of conflict of interest, the representative executive officer of the company must not concurrently serve as a director, executive officer, or any other officer or employee of a major shareholder; Mitsubishi Motors Corporation, which is one of the other parties of the Alliance; or any subsidiaries or affiliates of the above. If an executive officer serves in such position at the time of assuming the office of representative executive officer of Nissan, that officer and Nissan shall promptly take the necessary measures for the officer to leave the other company. Regarding the designation of Audit Committee members, the company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that, given the potential conflict of interest with minority shareholders, it is not desirable that the Audit Committee should include any person who has experience serving as a director, executive officer or other officer or employee at a major Nissan shareholder or a subsidiaries or affiliate of same (except for a person seconded from Nissan). In addition, the company has established a Director Conflict of Interest Resolution Policy which defines conflicts of interest between a director and the company, requires directors to report any actual, potential or perceived conflicts and also establishes procedures to resolve such conflicts. Click here for more information on Corporate Governance Report. 230/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management Systems ESG Risk Management GRI102-30 Risk Management Systems Risk management must be a real-world activity that produces concrete measures. Based on its Global Risk Management Policy, Nissan carries out activities on a comprehensive, groupwide basis. To respond to changes in our business environment, we have set up a department in charge of risk management that carries out annual interviews of corporate officers, carefully investigating various potential risks and revising the “corporate risk map” in line with impact, frequency and control level. The Executive-Level Committees make decisions on risk issues that must be handled at the corporate level and designate “risk owners” to manage the risks. Under the leadership of these owners, we design appropriate countermeasures. At the end of each fiscal year, the head of internal audit assesses the control level of each risk and determines the effectiveness of each risk management activity. In addition, a progress report is made as appropriate to the Board of Directors. With respect to individual business risks, each division is responsible for taking the preventive measures necessary to minimize the frequency of risk issues and their impact when they do arise as part of its ordinary business activities. The divisions also prepare emergency measures to put in place when risk factors materialize. Nissan Group companies in Japan and overseas are strengthening communication to share basic processes and tools for risk management, as well as related information, throughout the Group. In addition, we have created an area on our intranet called “Corporate Risk Management.” Information relating to risk management is also distributed to subsidiaries in Japan, North America, Europe and other overseas regions, as well as to major affiliated companies. The business environment in which we operate has been increasingly volatile in recent years, including such aspects as the widespread adoption of new technologies and growing geopolitical risks. We will continue to bolster our activities in this area so we can appropriately meet these changes. 231/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI418-1 Protecting Personal Data and Reinforcing Information Security We share our Information Security Policy with Group companies worldwide as a basis for reinforced information security, implementing via the Information Security Committee measures enhanced through the PDCA cycle. We reliably address issues by identifying internal and external information leaks as they occur worldwide and reinforce information security on a timely basis. To thoroughly educate and motivate employees to adhere to relevant policy, we institute regular in-house educational programs. Moreover, we recognize our social responsibility to properly handle customers’ personal information in full compliance with the respective personal information protection law in each region. We have set up internal systems, rules and procedures for handling personal data. All Group companies are fully enforcing these processes. There were no major instances of loss or leaking of personal information at any Group company during fiscal 2018. Click here for more information on Risk Management. 232/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-29 GRI102-33 ESG Risk Management Nissan sees risks related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors―that is, “product strategy,” “product quality,” “response to environmental issues and climate change” and “compliance and reputation”―as issues involving business strategy and the maintenance of competitiveness and therefore promotes risk management in the Group as a whole based on the Global Risk Management Policy. Regarding product strategy, as part of our product strategy developing process, we monitor the impact of various risk scenarios, such as global market changes and demand deteriorations, on our future profitability based on the product lineup plan. We periodically monitor the impact of these scenarios to secure future profitability and sustainable growth, as well as updating our future lineup plan periodically based on the results. Regarding product quality, in addition to such activities as quality assurance for new model projects and day-to-day quality improvement activities, we have introduced and operate a “Quality Risk Management” framework. The framework represents a higher-level system to ensure successful quality management for both ongoing and future projects. Appraisal involves an objective evaluation of whether risk exists and the level of such risk for our company and the assignment of responsible persons based on the level for follow-up activities. These processes are implemented by the Quality Risk Management Committee, chaired by an executive tasked with heading this activity, twice a year. Regarding response to environmental issues and climate change, in order to address diversifying environmental issues and promote comprehensive environmental management on a global basis, the Global Environmental Management Committee (G-EMC), which is co-chaired by a board member and convenes twice a year, and the Environmental Management Committees (EMCs) in six regions worldwide confirm the progress of activities and decide companywide policy and the content of reports to the Board of Directors. Regarding compliance and reputation, our compliance with laws and ethical standards is monitored by regional and local compliance committees, which report to the Global Compliance Committee. We also have a globally integrated whistleblowing system, which allows employees to report suspected compliance issues to management. In addition, we have created sets of internal rules and policies globally covering the prevention of insider trading, personal information management, information security and prevention of bribery and corruption. We make efforts to prevent noncompliance and reputation risk by raising awareness through the implementation of various activities, including education and training programs. Click here for more information on Risk Management. 233/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 COMPLIANCE Enhancing Compliance Anti-Bribery Business Ethics Security-Related Export Controls Nissan’s Commitment to Tax Transparency Nissan understands that acting with integrity and high standards is of paramount importance, not only because it is the right thing to do, but also because it allows all employees to perform at the highest levels. Nissan expects all employees to maintain the highest ethical standards as they carry out their duties. To raise compliance awareness throughout the company, Nissan has established a Global Risk & Compliance Office, as well as specialized departments, and appointed officers to promote compliance in each region where it operates. GRI419-1 Enhancing Compliance (Preventing a Reoccurrence of Nonconforming Final Inspections) Regarding Nonconforming Final Vehicle Inspections at Nissan’s Plants in Japan After the discovery in September 2017 of nonconformities in the final vehicle inspection process at its plants in Japan, Nissan began a full and comprehensive investigation of the facts, including the causes and background. We have since implemented appropriate countermeasures based on the results. Strict compliance is a top priority for our management, and we have taken it upon ourselves to examine the current situation with regard to compliance in every area of our business. When issues do arise, we 234/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 take appropriate measures, and we are committed to promoting and enforcing compliance and awareness thereof in all operational areas. *Click here for more information on nonconforming final vehicle inspections. Executing an Overhaul of Compliance Checks At Nissan, following the discovery of nonconformities in the final vehicle inspection process at vehicle assembly plants in Japan, we were determined to ensure that such a thing could never happen again. Accordingly, in fiscal 2018, we carried out an overhaul of compliance checks. Legal professionals worked with the departments responsible to identify the laws and regulations that we must obey in each area of operations. A list was created of the laws and regulations thus identified, and the situation with respect to compliance was confirmed by the responsible departments based on check sheets created by an audit company. Additionally, instead of treating these overhauled compliance checks as a one-time project with a definite ending, we are building a robust system for regular monitoring of compliance. In the future, comprehensive compliance checks will be undertaken at affiliated companies in Japan and overseas, and our compliance framework will be strengthened to give us visibility into legal compliance on a global level. Anti-Bribery GRI205-1 Anti-Bribery: Policies and Philosophy Nissan does not tolerate corruption of any kind, whether individual or systemic, committed by a company or a government. The Nissan Global Anti-Bribery Policy* establishes a global framework for preventing and responding to corruption. Different cultural contexts may result in what seem to be gray areas, and Nissan respects local customs and traditions, but corrupt practices are never acceptable. * Click here for more information on the Nissan Global Anti-Bribery Policy. 235/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI205-2 GRI419-1 Anti-Bribery: Management Nissan has established a Global Code of Conduct* and Global Risk & Compliance Office as well as departments and officers at each of its operations worldwide with responsibility for promoting compliance measures. Moreover, all Group-affiliated companies have introduced their own codes based on the Global Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is supported by training courses to ensure full understanding of its content. Nissan’s overall policy management strategy was redesigned in fiscal 2016 in order to support the promotion of compliance knowledge, including the creation of a Policy on Policies and related standardized procedures. With this enhanced process, Nissan seeks to ensure across-the-board understanding, making sure all employees are fully aware of Nissan’s policies and able to act appropriately when faced with compliance issues. Nissan has created a series of internal regulations that are applied globally, covering areas such as decision-making, insider trading, personal information management, information security, bribery and corruption and use of social media. With these policies in place, Nissan is working to heighten awareness and reduce infractions. Employee education programs to promote compliance are held regularly in all regions in which Nissan operates. For example, training sessions based on the Global Anti-Bribery Policy have been conducted in all regions. Moreover, in fiscal 2018, one instance of potential bribery was discovered by the Global Compliance Office. Following investigations and on the advice of outside legal counsel, the instance was reported to the appropriate authorities. Disciplinary action has been taken against those involved. *Click here for more information on the Global Code of Conduct. 236/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-16 GRI102-17 GRI419-1 Business Ethics Business Ethics: Policies and Philosophy Employees and Compliance Nissan’s sustainability efforts are based on each employee’s ability to do his or her job with a high level of integrity. In 2001, we established a Global Code of Conduct containing practical guidance for employees. Today this Code of Conduct is applied at all Nissan Group companies worldwide. We also provide guidance on compliance for directors and corporate officers, holding regular seminars and educational activities to ensure strict adherence to the rules. Under the oversight of our Global Compliance Committee, we have established a Regional Compliance Committee in each region of operation, forming a worldwide system for detecting and deterring illegal and unethical behavior. Global Headquarters works with all regions and bases of operation to ensure full awareness of compliance issues and prevent illegal activity, and has processes in place to take appropriate disciplinary action against those who violate or infringe the Global Code of Conduct or the law. Our Global Risk & Compliance Office further increases the rigor of our compliance management. In addition, to enhance compliance at the regional level, stand-alone, independent, regional compliance officers have been hired in the Japan, Asia and Oceania (A&O), China, North America, Latin America and the Caribbean (LATAM), Europe and Africa and Middle East and India (AMI) regions. Fiscal 2018 Global Compliance Committee Organization (As of June 25, 2019) * Each Regional Compliance Committee oversees various local compliance committees as appropriate. 237/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Global Code of Conduct Nissan’s Global Code of Conduct contains our core principles for doing business with honesty and integrity, in full compliance with established laws and regulations in all locations in which we operate. The Code of Conduct’s standards apply to all employees within Nissan Group companies, and every employee is responsible for upholding and adhering to the Code. The Code of Conduct is reviewed for revision at least once every three years to ensure that it evolves along with the company and society. The Code is also updated promptly, outside the regular review cycle, in response to significant changes to laws or other major factors affecting it. The Code of Conduct was most recently updated in 2017, when employee and customer safety were proactively added as a new key pillar of the Code. During fiscal 2018, executive messages regarding the Global Code of Conduct were delivered to employees through our intranet, covering areas of transparency and speak-up culture, and overall compliance. In fiscal 2018, new global Code of Conduct training was launched in all regions. Materials for indirect employees were distributed via a specially developed e-learning platform. The e-learning training platform was accessible in number of formats including via portable devices like smartphones and tablets. The e-learning material was available in 19 languages. Factory-focused training material was prepared for factory workers, who received the training via regular shiftstart messaging or in a seminar setting. This global Code of Conduct training is mandatory for all Nissan employees every year as well as Board members and Corporate Officers. ① Comply with All Laws and Rules Nissan employees are expected to follow all laws and regulations of the country in which they work as well as all Company policies and rules. ② Promote Safety Nissan is committed to employee safety and wellness. Nissan employees are expected to engage in safe work practices to promote a healthy work environment. Nissan is also committed to the safety of our customers and their passengers and Nissan employees are expected to continually promote safety of Nissan products. ③ Avoid Conflicts of Interest Employees are expected to act in the best interest of Nissan. It is not permitted for employees to behave, act, or use information in a way that conflicts with Company interests. Furthermore, employees must attempt to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. 238/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ④ Preserve Company Assets Nissan employees are accountable for preserving and safeguarding Company assets. The unauthorized or improper use of Company assets, including funds, confidential business information, physical property and intellectual property, is prohibited. ⑤ Be Impartial and Fair Nissan employees must maintain impartial and fair relationships with business partners, including dealers, suppliers and other third parties. ⑥ Be Transparent and Accountable Accounts and records shall be maintained with integrity. Nissan employees shall make accurate, transparent, timely and appropriate disclosures of the Company’s business activities to our stakeholders, including shareholders, management, customers, other employees and local communities. ⑦ Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity We value and respect the diversity of our employees, suppliers, customers and communities. Discrimination, retaliation or harassment, in any form or degree, will not be tolerated. ⑧ Be Environmentally Responsible Nissan employees shall strive to consider the environment and environmental protection when developing products and services, promote recycling and conserve materials and energy. ⑨ Be Active; Report Violations Nissan employees are expected to carry out their work in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who suspect that a violation of the Code of Conduct has occurred are obligated to report it as soon as possible. Employees are encouraged to use the SpeakUp system to report their suspicions. Employees who act in good faith and report suspected violations will be protected from retaliation. 239/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Business Ethics: Management Internal Reporting System for Corporate Soundness Nissan has established a globally integrated reporting system to promote thorough understanding of compliance among employees worldwide and facilitate sound business practices. The system, known as “SpeakUp,” can be used by employees to ask questions or voice concerns to the company, thereby improving workplaces and operations. Where allowed by law, SpeakUp permits anonymous reporting by and two-way confidential communication with employees and other stakeholders. It is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, in more than 20 languages. Employees are encouraged to report violations of the Code of Conduct or other company rules, and are protected from retaliation by our non-retaliation policy, a cornerstone of our compliance program. In fiscal 2018, 1,585 issues and questions were reported globally. Among those, 780 compliancerelated matters were identified. The number of reporting has been increased since SpeakUp was introduced. This trend is as expected, and indicates both that our compliance program is working effectively and that employees are taking an interest in using it to raise their concerns. GRI419-1 Security-Related Export Controls To help maintain both national and international peace and security, we rigorously comply with export control laws and regulations in Japan and other countries and regions where we operate to keep sensitive goods and technologies from reaching sponsors of terrorism, espionage or human rights violations. Our export controls are implemented under a system headed by the representative executive responsible for export control. Specifically, our Export Control Global Secretariat works with each of our businesses to set control and monitoring mechanisms ensuring compliance with securityrelated export controls, and these mechanisms are strictly applied to all operations. We recognize our responsibility for compliance with all regulations related to export controls on goods, software and technologies in our areas of operation. In 2017, we formulated a Global Export Regulatory Compliance Policy to ensure proper compliance with such regulations across the Nissan Group. Based on this global policy, we are working to develop local policies for each of the different countries and regions where we operate, such as national trade and export regulatory compliance policies issued in fiscal 2018 for Turkey, and to establish export control structures. We also respond in a timely manner to export control regulation changes and related developments around the world, 240/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 including the enforcement of the Export Control Reform Act (ECRA) in the U.S., amendments to the EU export control list and moves to strengthen export control regulations in China, Thailand, India and the Philippines. With the overall aim of improving our level of internal control, we strive to conduct regular riskassessment activities in connection with export controls in each region, create monitoring mechanisms aligned with regulatory requirements and business demands, and continually improve our operations. To make employees more familiar with compliance risks, we are reviewing our training system and materials, including information about complying with relevant customs and trade laws. From fiscal 2018, we began training in Japan based on the new system, and we intend to extend this training globally starting in fiscal 2019. We have been addressing export control of advanced technology on a global level to prepare for the future of our company. To hasten the implementation of our Global Export Regulatory Compliance Policy, we continue to promote export control for advanced technologies, such as autonomous driving and connected-car technologies, at Nissan sites in Silicon Valley and elsewhere around the world. At our development sites in Japan, we are improving our classification process for sensitive goods, software and technologies using IT systems. By making export control procedures an integral part of our development and design operations, we aim to strengthen our compliance. In addition, we are renewing and collecting information on controlled goods and technologies in each region and are implementing comprehensive and sound export controls for each business operation through the systematic global sharing of this information. Global Export Control Policy Framework 241/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI419-1 Nissan’s Commitment to Tax Transparency Based on its Global Code of Conduct, Nissan is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all countries in which it operates, as well as with international tax treaties and tax-related financial reporting rules. Nissan is consistently fulfilling a number of tax disclosure requirements such as OECD Country-by-Country Reporting and other mandatory country-specific transparency requirements like in Australia or the United Kingdom.* Nissan applies established international standards like OECD principles to its dealings between the companies within the group. Intercompany transactions are priced on an arm’s-length basis, which means that Nissan-related entities trade with each other as if they were unrelated. Nissan is transparent about its approach to tax. Nissan aims to pay the appropriate amount of taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and to avoid tax-related interests and penalties for failure to comply. * Click here for information on Nissan’s U.K. tax strategy. Nissan effectively manages tax risks within the Group by participating in and—through the delegation of authority process at a global, regional and local level—validating key business decisions from a tax perspective in a consistent manner. Nissan seeks to maintain a long-term, open and constructive relationship with national tax authorities by proactively engaging with them, as well as other governmental and relevant industry bodies directly and indirectly. 242/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ESG DATA CORPORATE OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SOCIAL DATA GOVERNANCE DATA 243/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate Overview Corporate Profile Financial Data Global Sales Volume and Production Volume GRI102-2 GRI102-3 GRI102-7 Corporate Profile Date of Establishment December 26, 1933 Location of Organization’s 1-1, Takashima 1-chome, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 220-8686, Japan Headquarters The Nissan Group consists of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., subsidiaries, affiliates and Group Structure and other associated companies. Its main business includes sales and production of Business Outline vehicles and related parts. The Nissan Group also provides various services accompanying its main business, such as logistics and sales finance. Brands Nissan, Infiniti, Datsun Consolidated Number of Employees 138,893 (as of March 31, 2019) R&D: 16 markets (Japan, U.S., Mexico, U.K., Spain, Belgium, Germany, Russia, China, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia, South Africa, Brazil, India, Vietnam; total of 45 sites) Global Network Design: 7 markets (as of March 31, 2019) (Japan, U.S., U.K., China, Brazil, Thailand, India; total of 8 sites) Automobile Production: 35 bases in 18 markets (excludes plants providing OEM vehicles to Nissan [Renault, Mitsubishi Motors, Fuso, Suzuki, etc.].) 244/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-7 Financial Data (¥ billion) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Net sales 11,720.0 11,951.2 11,574.2 Operating income 742.2 574.8 318.2 Ordinary income 864.7 750.3 546.5 Profit before tax 965.2 710.7 477.7 Net income attributable 663.5 746.9 319.1 to owners of the parent Capital expenditure 469.3 485.4 509.9 Depreciation 380.8 384.2 377.8 Research and 490.4 495.8 523.1 development costs Click here for more information on Financial Data. 245/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-6 GRI102-7 Global Sales Volume and Production Volume (Thousand units) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Global sales volume 5,626 5,770 5,516 Japan 557 584 596 China 1,355 1,520 1,564 North America 2,130 2,091 1,897 Europe 776 756 643 Others 808 819 816 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Global production 5,654 5,672 5,362 volume Japan 1,015 986 901 North America 1,855 1,694 1,587 Europe 730 777 661 Others 2,054 2,215 2,213 Click here for more information on Financial Data. 246/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental Data Climate Change (Products) Climate Change (Corporate Activities) Air Quality Resource Dependency: Achievements in Reuse Resource Dependency (Facility Waste) Water Resource Management Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues Material Balance Environmental Conservation Cost 247/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI302-5 Climate Change (Products) CO2 Emissions from New Vehicles (Global)* In fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions in Nissan’s main markets of Japan, the U.S., Europe and China were 33.0% lower than fiscal 2000 levels, as measured by Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE). This was a slight regression from fiscal 2017 due to changes in the powertrain sales mix in the EU. * Reduction in CO2 emissions calculated by Nissan. 248/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE, JC08 Mode) in Japan In fiscal 2018, mainly due to strong sales of the Serena e-POWER, average fuel economy improved to 21.2 km/L in JC08 mode. This represents an improvement of 3% compared to fiscal 2017. Provisional values determined by Nissan are used. Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) in the United States In fiscal 2018, sales resulted in a CAFE of 39.8 mpg for passenger cars, the same performance observed for fiscal 2017. In the light-duty truck segment, comparatively heavier models sold well, worsening the CAFE from 29.1 mpg to 28.5 mpg. 249/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CO2 Emission Index from Nissan Vehicles in Europe In 2018, there has been a substantial decrease in sales of diesel fuel vehicles, which resulted in average CO2 emissions at the same level as 2017. Corporate Average Fuel Economy in China In 2018, fuel economy for domestically produced and imported vehicles improved approximately 5% and 2%, respectively. The incremental introduction of EVs is the main factor for domestic production improvements, whereas a profile of lighter models contributed to the imported vehicles results. 250/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Revenue, Global Sales Volume and Production Volume Data (¥ billion) FY2017 FY2018 Revenue* 1 13,315.0 12,968.7 (k unit) FY2017 FY2018 Global Sales Volume* 2 5,770 5,516 Japan 584 596 North America 2,091 1,897 Europe 756 643 Asia 1,851 1,888 Other 488 492 (k unit) FY2017 FY2018 Global Production Volume* 2 5,672 5,362 Japan 986 901 North America* 3 1,694 1,587 Europe* 4 777 661 Asia* 5 2,070 2,046 Other* 6 145 167 * 1 Management pro-forma basis (includes Chinese joint ventures in proportionate consolidation). * 2 Global sales volume and global production volume for China and Taiwan consider values from January to December. * 3 Production in the U.S. and Mexico. * 4 Production in the U.K., Spain, Russia and France. * 5 Production in Taiwan, Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, China, India and South Korea. * 6 Production in South Africa, Brazil, Egypt and Argentina. 251/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Powertrain Type Ratios (Shipment-Based) GasolineDieselHybrid e-POWER Electric Natural-gas Unit powered powered drive vehicles vehicles drive vehicles vehicles vehicles vehicles Japan % 63.1 1.0 21.7 3.1 11.4 0.1 North % 98.7 0.1 0.0 1.0 0.2 0.0 America Europe % 58.9 33.5 0.0 7.5 0.1 0.0 Other % 94.1 5.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 Global % 89.2 5.0 2.5 1.6 1.6 0.0 EVs Hybrids EV and e-POWER Vehicle Sales Hybrid Units Shipped * Includes the sale of EVs by joint ventures in China. 252/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Xtronic Transmission ICE with CVT* Sales In fiscal 2018, we sold 3.1 million additional Xtronic vehicles, bringing the cumulative total to 27 million. * CVT: Continuously Variable Transmission 253/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI305-1 GRI305-2 GRI305-4 GRI305-5 Climate Change (Corporate Activities) Energy Input (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total MWh 9,474,368 9,683,528 10,189,082 9,532,840 9,252,737 Japan MWh 4,191,517 4,115,353 4,497,562 4,084,912 3,700,532 North America MWh 2,424,942 2,583,613 2,643,303 2,452,299 2,570,438 Europe MWh 1,156,519 1,107,279 1,093,103 1,126,186 1,048,201 Other MWh 1,701,391 1,877,283 1,955,115 1,869,443 1,933,566 Primary Natural gas MWh 3,060,122 3,346,141 3,537,674 3,701,640 3,579,998 LPG MWh 295,800 303,826 249,426 179,945 191,405 Coke MWh 199,801 206,307 217,431 218,618 200,527 Heating oil MWh 225,114 188,943 209,232 147,522 113,200 Gasoline MWh 322,624 302,564 303,040 299,000 259,045 Diesel MWh 99,045 55,099 57,488 48,259 53,074 Heavy oil MWh 58,274 34,289 43,853 27,652 15,995 External Electricity MWh 5,084,989 4,979,114 5,247,663 4,755,897 4,711,467 (purchased) Renewable energy* 1 MWh 154,515 141,076 157,226 133,212 135,574 Chilled water MWh 4,239 12,116 12,919 6,661 7,487 Heated water MWh 4,635 4,630 4,690 5,000 5,000 Steam MWh 110,953 100,000 136,593 128,038 102,324 254/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Internal Electricity MWh 8,772 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 (in-house generation) Renewable energy* 2 MWh 8,772 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 Total renewable energy MWh 163,287 150,499 169,073 147,821 148,788 * 1 Volume of renewable energy in electricity purchased by Nissan. * 2 Volume of renewable energy generated by Nissan at its facilities and consumed for its own purposes. Global Energy Consumption The total energy consumption of our global corporate activities during fiscal 2018 was about 9.253 million MWh, a 3% decrease from fiscal 2017. This reduction was primarily due to the promotion of energy-saving activities at facilities and a decline in total production volume. Production sites globally accounted for 8.161 million MWh* of total energy consumption. * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. 255/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI302-1 GRI302-3 GRI302-4 Energy per Vehicle Produced In fiscal 2018, energy per vehicle produced was 1.73 MWh increased by 2.7% compared to fiscal 2017. Data for the Japan region includes the manufacture of powertrains and other components for overseas assembly. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the region, this tends to result in higher values for Japan. (FY) By region Unit 2018 Japan MWh/vehicle 4.99 North America MWh/vehicle 1.67 Europe MWh/vehicle 1.65 Other MWh/vehicle 0.87 256/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI302-1 GRI302-3 GRI302-4 Energy per Revenue In fiscal 2018, global Nissan facilities saw energy per revenue result of 0.71 MWh, a similar result compared to the previous fiscal year. We are taking ongoing steps toward decoupling financial capital generation from energy use. Carbon Footprint (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 t-CO2 861,457 926,790 963,661 912,476 889,444 Scope 2 t-CO2 2,422,410 2,547,951 2,614,028 2,394,109 2,339,883 Scope 1+2 t-CO2 3,283,867 3,474,741 3,577,689 3,306,584 3,229,327 Japan t-CO2 1,267,676 1,479,572 1,579,089 1,333,335 1,208,303 North America t-CO2 769,696 800,724 823,340 683,332 738,234 Europe t-CO2 290,109 208,088 176,285 228,998 221,692 Other t-CO2 956,386 986,359 998,976 1,060,920 1,061,098 Scope 3 t-CO2 143,678,000 144,145,000 150,462,000 213,715,000 203,106,900 In fiscal 2018, the total of Scope 1 and 2 emissions was 3.229 million tons. Total CO2 emissions from manufacturing processes were 2.610 million tons (Scope 1 emissions: 0.759 million tons; Scope 2 emissions: 1.850 million tons).* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. 257/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate Carbon Footprint per Vehicle Sold In fiscal 2018, overall corporate emissions were reduced by 31.4% compared to fiscal 2005, representing steady progress toward our fiscal 2022 goal. Carbon Footprint of Manufacturing Activities 258/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Manufacturing CO2 per Vehicle Produced In fiscal 2018, our manufacturing CO2 emissions per vehicle produced were 0.49 tons, 33.7% less than fiscal 2005. Scope 1 and 2 Emissions per Revenue In fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions from our global operations were 0.22 ton per ¥1 million of revenue. 259/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Logistics Volume (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total mil ton-km 35,243 35,546 39,930 35,635 34,903 Inbound mil ton-km 11,578 11,221 10,634 9,699 10,164 Outbound mil ton-km 23,665 24,325 29,296 25,935 24,739 Sea % 62.0 60.1 60.9 57.6 60.9 Road % 25.0 26.5 24.8 25.9 23.3 Rail % 12.5 13.0 14.0 16.1 14.9 Air % 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.9 In fiscal 2018, global shipping decreased by around 2% compared to the previous fiscal year, to 34,900 million ton-km. We continue to strengthen our efforts to reduce shipping by upsizing trucks, improving truck loading rates, improving the fuel economy of car-transporting ships and shifting to rail and sea shipping. 260/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CO2 Emissions from Logistics (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total t-CO2 1,608,582 1,598,891 1,925,281 1,567,248 1,482,982 Inbound* t-CO2 822,867 797,034 809,088 739,610 762,314 Outbound* t-CO2 785,715 801,857 1,116,193 827,638 720,667 Sea % 18.5 18.3 17.8 20.0 19.9 Road % 60.5 65.7 62.1 64.6 60.3 Rail % 5.1 5.4 5.6 7.0 6.7 Air % 15.9 10.6 14.5 8.4 13.1 * “Inbound” includes parts procurement from suppliers and transportation of knockdown parts; “Outbound” includes transportation of complete vehicles and service parts. In fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions from logistics were 1,482,982 tons, down approximately 5.4% from the previous fiscal year. A substantial contribution to the reduction of overall CO2 emissions was made by decreasing our reliance on trucks for the transport of complete vehicles. CO2 Emissions per Vehicle Transported In fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions per vehicle transported were 0.37 tons, an improvement over the previous fiscal year. 261/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI305-3 Scope 3 Emissions by Category We conducted a study based on the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard from the GHG Protocol and found that about 90% of Scope 3 emissions were from the use of sold products. (FY) Category Unit 2018 1.Purchased goods & services kt-CO2 17,476 2.Capital goods kt-CO2 1,182 3.Fueland energy-related activities kt-CO2 401 4.Upstream transportation & distribution kt-CO2 762 5.Waste generated in operations kt-CO2 192 6.Business travel kt-CO2 230 7.Employee commuting kt-CO2 248* 8.Upstream leased assets kt-CO2 0 9.Downstream transportation & distribution kt-CO2 850 10.Processing of sold products kt-CO2 9 11.Use of sold products kt-CO2 180,882* 12.End-of-life treatment of sold products kt-CO2 413 13.Downstream leased assets kt-CO2 462 14.Franchises kt-CO2 0 15.Investments kt-CO2 0 Total 203,106 * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. 262/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Carbon Credit Nissan Motor Iberica, S.A. in Barcelona and Cantabria, Spain, entered EU-ETS, and the verified allowance earned for fiscal 2018 was 42,787 tons. Employee Commuting CO2 Emissions In fiscal 2013, Nissan introduced a companywide CO2 reduction plan for car commuting employees in Japan. This plan encourages car commuters to shift from internal combustion engine vehicles to electric vehicles. For fiscal 2018, CO2 emissions from car commuting in Japan were approximately 33 kton*, or 2.7 ton-CO2/vehicle annually. * Calculated by using the parameters below together with vehicle homologation data: Average car commuting range (Japan): 9,227 km/vehicle-year CO2 emission factor for gasoline-powered vehicles (National Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report of Japan [2009]): 0.33 kg-CO2 e/km CO2 emission factor for electricity (Tokyo Electric Power Company [FY2016]): 0.000462 t-CO2/kWh Employees of Nissan offices and manufacturing plants in Japan, fiscal 2018 263/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI305-7 Air Quality Emissions In fiscal 2018, NOx and SOx emissions from Nissan facilities in Japan were 418 tons and 34 tons respectively. In fiscal 2017, an increase in NOx emissions was due to longer operation time for plant cogeneration units, but substantial reductions in operation times were observed in fiscal 2018. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 NOx ton 453 450 430 619 418 SOx ton 40 37 31 36 34 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) In fiscal 2018, VOCs from manufacturing plants were 10,166 tons globally, a reduction from fiscal 2017. We actively continue to promote activities to reduce VOCs, such as switching to materials including water-based paints. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total ton 11,316 10,820 11,933 11,152 10,166 Japan ton 2,826 2,850 3,580 3,232 2,188 North America ton 5,511 5,309 4,851 4,284 3,847 Europe ton 2,979 2,661 3,502 3,636 4,130 264/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 VOCs per Vehicle Produced In fiscal 2018, VOCs per vehicle produced were 1.90 kg, a 3.6% decrease from fiscal 2017. (FY) By region Unit 2018 Japan kg/vehicle 2.43 North America kg/vehicle 2.42 Europe kg/vehicle 6.25 265/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Released Substances Designated by PRTR Law (Japan)* In fiscal 2017, released substances designated by the PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) Law in Japan were 4,422 tons, a slight decrease from fiscal 2016. (FY) Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Japan site total ton 4,183 3,879 4,129 4,472 4,422 Oppama ton 676 402 488 872 796 Tochigi ton 1,155 1,317 1,435 1,179 920 Kyushu ton 1,300 1,152 1,173 1,406 1,697 Yokohama ton 579 547 531 545 559 Iwaki ton 128 114 132 144 62 NTC ton 347 347 370 325 388 * The table shows chemical substance emissions calculated based on the Japanese government PRTR guidelines. PRTR emissions show total volume excluding substances adherent to the product. PRTR Emissions per Vehicle Produced (Japan) In fiscal 2017, PRTR emissions per vehicle produced in Japan were 4.91 kg, an increase from fiscal 2016. 266/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI301-2 GRI301-3 Resource Dependency: Achievements in Reuse Proper Use of Regulated Chemical Substances Nissan revised its standard for the assessment of hazards and risks in the Renault-Nissan Alliance, actively applying restrictions to substances not yet covered by regulations but increasingly subject to consideration around the world. As a result, the number of substances covered by the Nissan Engineering Standard in fiscal 2018 rose to 4,043. These steps are thought to be necessary for future efforts in the repair, reuse, remanufacture and recycle loop for resources. * Click here for more information on chemical substances governance. Recycled Plastic Usage in Vehicle We are making efforts to expand the use of recycled plastic in our vehicles, as well as developing technologies for this. Recycled plastic use in fiscal 2018 was 11%, based on the rate achieved by our best-selling model in Europe. Automotive Shredder Residue to Landfill Ratio After removing ferrous and nonferrous metals from ELVs, in accordance with the End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law in Japan, the ratio of ASR taken to landfills for final disposal was zero in fiscal 2018. This was achieved by enhancing recycling capability through the acquisition of additional facilities that comply with the law. 267/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Material Ratio In 2018, ferrous metals accounted for 61% of the materials used in our automobiles by weight. Nonferrous metals made up another 15% and resins 14%, with miscellaneous materials making up the final 10%. To further reduce our use of natural resources, we are advancing initiatives to expand the use of recycled materials in each of these categories. Recovered Bumpers 268/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI306-2 Resource Dependency (Facility Waste) Waste For fiscal 2018, waste generated totaled approximately 206,645 tons. From fiscal 2018, the boundary of waste data covered by third-party assurance has been expanded globally, which resulted in an increase in the number of reporting sites. Waste generated globally from production sites in fiscal 2018 was 189,282 tons.* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total ton 173,513 159,345 158,939 152,674 206,645 By region Japan ton 59,808 63,630 61,115 61,327 69,829 North America ton 58,452 49,129 45,459 35,177 64,514 Europe ton 45,358 37,204 41,110 45,268 49,662 Other ton 9,895 9,382 11,255 10,903 22,639 By treatment method Waste for disposal ton 13,153 11,355 8,707 8,041 7,231 Recycled ton 160,360 147,990 150,231 144,633 199,414 269/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Waste per Vehicle Produced In fiscal 2018, since the boundary of waste data covered has been expanded, waste per vehicle produced increased to 38.54kg. (FY) Unit 2018 Japan kg/vehicle 77.50 North America kg/vehicle 40.65 Europe kg/vehicle 75.13 Other kg/vehicle 10.23 GRI306-2 Waste for Disposal per Vehicle Produced In fiscal 2018, we reduced the volume of waste for disposal to a total of 1.35 kg per vehicle produced, a 4.9% reduction from fiscal 2017. This was mainly due to waste-reduction efforts at manufacturing plants in the United States. 270/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Water Resource Management GRI303-1 Water Input for Corporate Activities In fiscal 2018, water input for corporate activities was 26,420,000 m 3 , a 1% increase compared with the fiscal 2017 level. Water input from production sites was 25,093,377 m 3 .* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total 1,000 m³ 29,162 28,570 29,118 26,197 26,420 Japan 1,000 m³ 15,018 14,990 15,563 13,115 13,022 North America 1,000 m³ 5,419 5,427 5,483 4,905 4,930 Europe 1,000 m³ 2,310 2,330 2,299 2,155 2,093 Other 1,000 m³ 6,415 5,823 5,774 6,023 6,376 271/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Cleaner Effluent Through Wastewater Treatment Nissan thoroughly processes and is promoting activities to reduce wastewater at its various plants. (FY) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total 1,000 m³ 20,938 20,680 20,516 17,410 17,345 Japan 1,000 m³ 13,358 12,976 12,681 10,376 10,472 North America 1,000 m³ 3,550 3,916 4,028 3,382 3,190 Europe 1,000 m³ 1,793 1,740 1,767 1,564 1,539 Other 1,000 m³ 2,237 2,048 2,040 2,088 2,143 Quality Chemical oxygen demand (COD) kg 27,883 28,042 29,730 26,451 21,149 Japan only 272/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI306-1 Water Discharge from Corporate Activities (Per Vehicle Produced) In fiscal 2018, water discharge per vehicle produced was 3.23 m 3 , which was a 5.2% increase compared to fiscal 2017. (FY) By region Unit 2018 Japan m³/vehicle 11.62 North America m³/vehicle 2.01 Europe m³/vehicle 2.33 Other m³/vehicle 0.97 Data for the Japan region includes the manufacture of powertrains and other components for overseas assembly. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the region, this tends to result in higher values for Japan. 273/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues Global Top Selling Model’s Lifecycle Improvements We have been expanding the application of the LCA method and enhancing the understanding of the environmental impact of our products in quantitative terms, especially our best-selling models worldwide. LCAs have been conducted for over 90% of these models. LCA Conducted Product Ratio in Sales Volume (EU Market) 274/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 With the Altima and Rogue, for example, improvements in internal combustion engine efficiency and vehicle weight reduction have led to both enhanced safety features and lower CO2 emissions. Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N20, etc.) 275/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LCA Comparison for e-POWER Models Nissan introduced its new e-POWER powertrain in 2016, marking another significant milestone in the electrification strategy with lifecycle emission improvements. Compared to their gasoline-powered counterpart models, the Note e-POWER and Serena e-POWER have achieved 18%—27% reductions in CO2 emissions. Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N20, etc.) 276/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LCA Comparison for the New Nissan LEAF Compared to conventional vehicles of the same class in Japan, the Nissan LEAF results in approximately 32% lower CO2 emissions during its lifecycle. We are making efforts to reduce CO2 emissions during EV production by improving the yield ratio of materials, using more efficient manufacturing processes and increasing the use of recycled materials. Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N20, etc.) 277/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Lifecycle Improvements Beyond Climate Change Emissions Improvement in the New Serena eNissan is expanding the scope of LCAs to include POWER over Its Lifecycle not just greenhouse gases but also a variety of chemicals amid growing societal concerns over air quality and ocean acidification and eutrophication. Our calculations show that, compared to conventional gasoline engines, the Serena e-POWER is significantly more environmentally friendly, achieving 11%—27% emission reductions for all targeted chemical substances and achieving environmental benefits throughout its lifecycle. 278/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI301-1 GRI302-1 GRI303-1 GRI305-1 GRI305-2 GRI305-7 GRI306-1 GRI306-2 Material Balance Input (FY) Unit 2018 Raw materials ton 7,056,924 Energy MWh 9,252,737 Renewable energy MWh 148,788 Water withdrawal 1,000 m³ 26,420 Output (FY) Unit 2018 Vehicles produced Global production volume k unit 5,362 CO2 emissions t-CO2 3,229,327 Water discharge 1,000 m³ 17,345 Emissions NOx ton 418 SOx ton 34 VOC ton 10,166 Waste For recycling ton 199,414 For final disposal ton 7,231 279/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental Conservation Cost (FY) Unit 2017 2018 Investment Cost Investment Cost Total mil ¥ 4,665 173,686 3,790 171,245 Business area mil ¥ 32 1,638 20 1,775 Upstream/downstream mil ¥ 0 552 0 706 Management mil ¥ 0 6,776 0 8,041 R&D mil ¥ 4,633 164,240 3,770 160,263 Social activities mil ¥ 0 297 0 308 Damage repairs mil ¥ 0 183 0 153 (FY) Unit 2017 2018 Total mil ¥ 7,316 8,262 Cost reduction mil ¥ 468 372 Profit mil ¥ 6,848 7,890 * All environmental costs are based on the guidelines provided by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment, and calculated for activities in Japan only. 280/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social Data Employee Data Diversity and Inclusion Traffic Safety Human Resource Development Contributing to Local Communities 281/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-7 GRI102-8 GRI102-22 GRI102-41 GRI402-1 GRI405-1 GRI405-2 Employee Data (FY) 2016 2017 2018 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. 22,209 22,272 22,791 Number of employees Male 19,971 19,908 20,269 Female 2,238 2,364 2,522 42.8 42.5 41.8 Average age (years) Male 43.3 43.0 42 Female 38.1 38.1 38.2 20.2 19.4 18.4 Average length of service (years) Male 20.8 20.0 18.9 Female 14.5 14.2 14.3 4.3 5.4 6.2 Employee turnover rate (%)* 1 Voluntary 0.9 1.3 2.0 leave Average annual salary (yen)* 2 8,164,762 8,184,466 8,154,953 Disabled employment ratio (%) 2.07 2.08 2.3 303 255 380 Number of employees taking parental Male 15 29 40 leave Female 288 226 340 Male employee parental leave 2 4 6 acquisition rate (%)* 3 96.9 95.2 97.3 Ratio of returnees from parental leave Male 100 100 100 (%) Female 96.6 94.5 96.7 282/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 13 6 Number of employees taking nursing Male 5 8 4 care leave Female 6 5 2 Days of paid holiday taken 19.0 19.0 19.0 Taken paid holiday ratio (%) 96 97 97 Average overtime hours/month 21.4 22.1 23.9 Number of unionized employees*4 25,630 25,377 25,789 279 314 320 Number of female managers Ratio (%) 10.1 10.7 10.4 76 82 79 Female general and higher-level managers Ratio (%) 8.1 8.2 7.6 2 2 2 Number of female corporate officers Ratio (%) 4.2 3.8 4.1 0 0 1 Number of female board members Ratio (%) 12.5 0 0 0 Female board members (internal) Ratio (%) 0 0 1 Female board members (external) Ratio (%) 33.3 0 0 0 Number of female auditors Ratio (%) 576 684 815 Number of new graduates hired Male 453 558 651 Female 123 126 164 * 1 Employee turnover rate includes retirement. * 2 Average annual salary for employees includes bonuses and overtime pay. * 3 Ratio of male employees taking parental leave: (Numerator) Number of male employees who take parental leave at least 1 day in the year. (Denominator) Number of male employees whose spouses give birth in the year. * 4 Number of unionized employees includes full-time employees, Senior Partners (reemployment after retiring) and contract employees. Number of unionized employees includes those of Nissan Motor Kyushu. 283/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-7 Consolidated Basis (FY) 2016 2017 2018 Consolidated 137,250 138,910 138,893 Consolidated number of employees* (19,366) (19,924) (19,240) Japan 59,441 59,431 58,966 North America 35,951 36,080 36,594 Europe 16,065 16,807 16,119 Asia 20,837 20,807 20,872 Other countries 4,956 5,785 6,342 * Numbers in brackets represent part-time employees not included in the consolidated number of employees. Trade union Most of the company’s employees are affiliated with the Nissan Motor Workers’ Union, for which the governing body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions, and the Japanese Trade Union Confederation (RENGO) through the Confederation of Japan Automobile Workers’ Unions. The labormanagement relations of the company are stable, and the number of union members was 25,789 including those of Nissan Motor Kyushu as of March 31, 2019. At most domestic Group companies, employees are affiliated with their respective trade unions on a company basis, and the governing body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions. At foreign Group companies, employees’ rights to select their own trade unions are respected according to the relevant labor laws and labor environment in each country. 284/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI405-1 Diversity and Inclusion Ratio of Women in Management Positions 285/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Nissan’s Awards for Diversity* Year Award Sponsor 2018 PRIDE Index: Gold Award work with Pride 2017 PRIDE Index: Gold Award work with Pride Perfect Score (100) in Corporate Equality Index (5th straight 2017 Human Rights Campaign (U.S.) year)* 1 Kanagawa Labour Bureau, Ministry 2017 Level-three Eruboshi accreditation of Health, Labour and Welfare 2017 Nadeshiko Brand (5th straight year) METI and TSE 2015 Incentive prize, Empowerment Award Japan Productivity Center 2015 Platinum Kurumin Mark Kanagawa Labor Bureau, MHLW 2015 Prize for excellence, 15th Tele-work Promotion Awards Japan Telework Association Japan’s Minister of State for Special Missions Prize, Gender Equality Bureau, Cabinet 2015 Advanced Corporation Awards for the Promotion of Women Office DiversityInc Top 25 Noteworthy Companies for Diversity & 2014 DiversityInc (U.S.) Inclusion* 2 2013 Diversity Management Selection 100 METI 2013 Grand Prize, J-Win Diversity Awards J-Win 2008 Catalyst Award Catalyst Inc. (U.S.) * In the United States, Nissan has also received awards other than those listed above. * 1 ,*2 Awarded to NNA. 286/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 287/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Traffic Safety Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles Key Achievements for Nissan Safety Technology In January 2015, we expanded Intelligent Emergency Braking to more models. By the end of fiscal 2015, the technology was available on nearly all vehicle categories sold in Japan, including electric vehicles and commercial vehicles, and standard on all major models. In North America, it is now standard on several models including the Pathfinder, Altima and Rogue. In Europe, it is available on the Juke, X-Trail, Qashqai, Micra and other key models. The technology has been adopted for several new models launched in fiscal 2018, including the new Altima in North America, the Nissan LEAF e+, and the new Nissan Dayz in Japan. Our vehicles have earned high safety ratings on many public and governmental tests held in various regions. In Japan, our 11 major models featuring the Intelligent Emergency Braking, including the Note and Serena, were approved under the Advanced Emergency Braking System certification launched by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in fiscal 2018. 288/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Major External Safety Ratings (Based on 2018 Assessments) Regions External Assessments Models Rating Collision Safety (No assessments Performance performed in fiscal 2018) Assessment Preventive Safety Dayz Roox, Note ASV+++ Japan JNCAP* 1 Performance Assessment Automatic Accident SOS+ (onEmergency Nissan Dayz board type) Call System Assessment 5★ Overall INFINITI QX60, QX50, Rating Pathfinder, Murano (2019 model year) NCAP* 2 U.S. INFINITI QX80, Titan (Crew Cab), Armada, 4★ Overall Frontier (Crew Cab), Rogue,* 4 Rogue Sport, Rating (2019 Sentra,* 5 Versa (Sedan), Kicks model year) Altima, Pathfinder,*6 Kicks (vehicles equipped 2019 Top IIHS* 3 with LED headlights) Safety Pick Europe Euro NCAP Nissan LEAF 5★ China C-NCAP Terra 5★ Southeast ASEAN NCAP Terra 5★ Asia * 1 JNCAP: The Japan New Car Assessment Program. An automobile assessment program run by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and the National Agency for Automotive Safety and Victims’ Aid (NASVA). * 2 NCAP: The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s New Car Assessment Program. * 3 IIHS: The U.S. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. * 4 Except Rogue Hybrid. * 5 Except NISMO and SR Turbo. * 6 Vehicles manufactured after August 2018. 289/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI404-1 Human Resource Development Training Program Achievements at Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (FY) 2016 2017 2018 Number of trainees 120,219 171,949 241,674 Total hours in training 653,848 689,536 482,103 Hours per trainee 28.8 30.6 21.5 Trainee satisfaction (out of 5) over 4.2 over 4.2 over 4.2 Investment per employee (¥) 71,000 73,000 86,000 GRI201-1 GRI203-2 Contributing to Local Communities Social Contribution Achievements in FY2018 Global social contributions (FY2018): ¥1.79 billion Social contributions include: Expenses for implementing philanthropic activities (excluding labor costs) Monetary donations and NPO membership fees for philanthropic purposes Cash equivalents of in-kind donations Sponsorship fees for philanthropic initiatives 290/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Breakdown of FY2018 Social Contributions (Nissan Global) In-kind Philanthropic Monetary Sponsorships, donations Total activities donations etc. (cash equivalent) Amount 412 847 270 255 1,785 (¥ million) % of total 23.1 47.5 15.1 14.3 100 Disaster Contribution in FY2018 ¥10 million donation from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. to the NGO Japan Platform. Torrential rains of July 2018 (Japan) Donation from employees of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. plus matching donation from the company to the Japanese Red Cross Society. Torrential rains in and around 7 million INR donation of disaster relief funds from the southern Indian state of Kerala (India) Nissan Motors India (NMIPL) to the state government. Donations for ¥5 million donation from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. to the disaster Japanese Red Cross Society. relief Eastern Iburi Earthquake in Two Nissan LEAF vehicles lent to the towns of Mukawa, Hokkaido (Japan) Atsuma and Abira. Four thousand 500 mL bottles of drinking water provided. Earthquake in Sulawesi 1 billion IDR donation from Nissan Motor Indonesia (Indonesia) (NMI). Donation from employees of NMI plus a matching Sunda Strait Tsunami donation from the company of 10 times the amount (Indonesia) raised. 291/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Governance Data GRI102-22 GRI405-1 Overview of Corporate Governance (as of June 25, 2019) Organization form Company with three statutory committees Chairperson of the Board of Directors Independent outside director Number of directors 11 Number of independent outside directors 7 Number of female directors 2 Chairperson of the Nomination Committee Independent outside director Number of directors 6 Number of independent outside directors 5 Number of female directors 1 Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Independent outside director Number of directors 4 Number of independent outside directors 4 Number of female directors 2 292/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Chairperson of the Audit Committee Independent outside director Number of directors 5 Number of independent outside directors 4 Number of female directors 1 Click here for more information on Corporate Governance. 293/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EDITORIAL POLICY Nissan publishes an annual Sustainability Report as a way of sharing information on its sustainabilityrelated activities with stakeholders. This year’s report introduces Nissan’s sustainability strategy and management based on Nissan Sustainability 2022, the sustainability strategy adopted in June 2018, and reviews the results achieved in fiscal 2018 in terms of three aspects (important sustainability topics): Environmental, Social and Governance, or “E,” “S” and “G” for short. Report themes (important sustainability topics) are selected on the basis of potential impact on our business activities and level of interest from stakeholders. Potential impact on our business activities is evaluated with reference to previously recognized issues as well as CSR guidelines and trends and global current events inside and outside the automobile industry. Stakeholder interest is evaluated based on interviews conducted as necessary with both internal and external stakeholders and analyses provided by external consultants. GRI102-45 GRI102-50 Scope of the Report Period Covered: The report covers fiscal 2018 (April 2018 to March 2019); content that describes efforts outside this period is indicated in the respective sections. Organization: Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., foreign subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the Nissan Group. GRI102-54 Referenced Reporting Guidelines This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The complete guideline table for the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting is available. Specific indicators are listed in the GRI index in this report. 294/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI102-51 Date of Previous Report Sustainability Report 2018, issued July 31, 2018. GRI102-52 Reporting Cycle Annually since 2004 GRI102-56 Third-Party Assurance Click here to view the third-party assurance. GRI102-48 Forward-Looking Statements This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking statements on Nissan’s future plans and targets and related operating investment, product planning and production targets. There can be no assurance that these targets and plans will be achieved. Achieving them will depend on many factors, including not only Nissan’s activities and development but also the dynamics of the automobile industry worldwide, the global economy and changes in the global environment. GRI102-53 For Further Information Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Sustainability Development Department Fax: +81(0)45-523-5731 Email: NISSAN_SR@mail.nissan.co.jp 295/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Publication Date: September 30, 2019 Our Related Websites CORPORATE INFO SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENT SAFETY QUALITY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP TECHNOLOGY ZERO EMISSION IR INFO LIBRARY PRODUCTS（GLOBAL） PRODUCTS（JAPAN） 296/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX The GRI guidline table shows published/ disclosed information on the sustainability report and Nissan global website. Universal Standards GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 1. Organizational Profile 2. Strategy 3. Ethics and Integrity 4. Governance 5. Stakeholder Engagement 6. Reporting Practice GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Environmental / Social / Governance Environmental Social Governance Sep. 2019 297/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Universal Standards GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 1. Organizational Profile Core Reason for Omission Topics References Topics / Explanation 102-1 Name of the Outline of Company organization 102-2 Activities, brands, ESG Data: Corporate Overview products, and services 102-3 Location of ESG Data: Corporate Overview headquarters 102-4 Outline of Company (Facilities in Japan) Location of operations Outline of Company (Overseas) 102-5 Ownership and legal Outline of Company form 102-6 ESG Data: Corporate Overview (Global Sales Volume and Markets served Production Volume) 102-7 ESG Data: Corporate Overview (Corporate Profile, Financial Scale of the Data, Global Sales Volume and Production Volume) , Social organization Data (Employee Data) 102-8 Information on ESG Data: Social Data (Employee Data) employees and other workers 102-9 Social: Supply Chain Management (Supply Chain Strategy) Supply chain 102-10 Significant changes Not applicable to the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Internal Precautionary Efforts to Promote Sustainability Principle or approach Social: Community Engagement (Policies and Philosophy) 298/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals 102-12 Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy(Nissan’s External initiatives Understanding of Environmental Issues) Social: Labor Practices—Respecting the Rights of Workers (Policies and Philosophy) The Alliance: World Business Council for Sustainable 102-13 Development Membership Membership of associations Social: Labor Practices—Respecting the Rights of Workers (Policies and Philosophy on Respecting the Rights of Workers) 2. Strategy Core Reason for Omission Topics References Topics / Explanation 102-14 Message from Top Management Statement from Message from the Chief Sustainability Officer senior decisionmaker Reforming Corporate Governance Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy Reforming Corporate Governance 102-15 Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy Key impacts, risks, (Nissan’s Understanding of Environmental Issues) and opportunities Social: Social Policies and Philosophy Governance: Governance Policies and Philosophy 3. Ethics and integrity Core Reason for Omission Topics References Topics / Explanation Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 102-16 Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy Values, principles, (Environmental Principles) standards, and norms of behavior Social: Human Rights (Human Rights Policy Satement) Governance: Governance Policies and Philosophy, Compliance (Business Ethics) 102-17 Mechanisms for Social: Human Rights (Human Rights Management) advice and concerns Governance: Compliance (Business Ethics) about ethics 299/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4. Governance Core Reason for Omission Topics References Topics / Explanation 102-18 Governance: Corporate Governance System in Detail Governance structure (Initiatives) 102-19 Message from the Chief Sustainability Officer Delegating authority Reforming Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level Message from the Chief Sustainability Officer responsibility for Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy (Global economic, Environmental Management Framework and Governance Environmental, and System) social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Sustainability at Nissan: Stakeholder Engagement economic, Environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the Governance: Corporate Governance System in Detail highest governance (Initiatives) body and its ESG Data: Social Data (Employee Data) , Governance Data committees 102-23 Reforming Corporate Governance Chair of the highest Governance: Corporate Governance System in Detail governance body (Initiatives) 102-24 Governance: Corporate Governance System in Detail Nominating and (Initiatives) selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Report: P.1 Governance: Corporate Governance (Avoidance of Conflict of 102-25 Interest) Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Report: P.1 102-26 Role of highest Sustainability at Nissan: Internal Efforts to Promote governance body in setting purpose, Sustainability values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge Sustainability at Nissan: Internal Efforts to Promote of highest Sustainability governance body Sustainability at Nissan: Internal Efforts to Promote 102-28 Sustainability Evaluating the highest governance Reforming Corporate Governance body's performance Governance: Corporate Governance System in Detail (Initiatives) 300/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 102-29 Sustainability at Nissan: Managing the Advancement of Identifying and Sustainability managing economic, Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy Environmental, and (Nissan’s Steps to Address Environmental Issues, Key Issues social impacts and Challenges) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Governance: Risk Management (Risk Management Systems) management processes 102-31 Sustainability at Nissan: Internal Efforts to Promote Review of economic, Sustainability, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 Environmental, and social topics Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy 102-32 Highest governance Sustainability at Nissan: Internal Efforts to Promote body's role in Sustainability sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical Governance: Risk Management (ESG Risk Management) concerns 102-35 Corporate Governance Report: P.2 Remuneration policies 102-36 Process for Corporate Governance Report: P.2 determining remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders' Corporate Governance Report: P.2 involvement in remuneration 5. Stakeholder engagement Core Reason for Omission Topics References Topics / Explanation 102-40 List of stakeholder Sustainability at Nissan: Stakeholder Engagement groups 102-41 Collective bargaining ESG Data: Social Data (Employee Data) agreements 102-42 Identifying and Sustainability at Nissan: Stakeholder Engagement selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to Sustainability at Nissan: Stakeholder Engagement stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and Sustainability at Nissan: Stakeholder Engagement concerns raised 301/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6. Reporting practice Core Reason for Omission Topics References Topics / Explanation 102-45 Entities included in Editorial Policy the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy content and topic Editorial Policy Boundaries Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy (Key Themes 102-47 for Sustainability) List of material topics Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 102-48 Restatements of Editorial Policy information 102-49 Not applicable Changes in reporting 102-50 Editorial Policy Reporting period 102-51 Date of most recent Editorial Policy report 102-52 Editorial Policy Reporting cycle 102-53 Contact point for Editorial Policy questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in Editorial Policy accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content index GRI content index 102-56 Third-Party Assurance External assurance 302/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI103: Management Approach 2016 Core Reason for Omission Topics References Topics / Explanation Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy (Nissan’s Understanding of Environmental Issues) , Climate Change (Toward a Carbon-Neutral Society, Product Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy for Product Initiatives) , Corporate Activity Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Initiatives) ) , Air Quality (Air Quality Policies and Philosophy) , Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy) , Water Scarcity (Policies and Philosophy for Water Resource Management) Social: Social Policies and Philosophy, Human Rights (Human Rights Policies and Philosophy) , Diversity and Inclusion (Diversity and Inclusion Policies and Philosophy, Diversity and Inclusion Management) , Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Policies 103-1 Explanation of the and Philosophy) , Product Safety and Quality (Product Safety material topic and its and Quality Policies and Philosophy, Product Safety and Boundary Quality Management) , Supply Chain Management (Supply Chain Strategy, Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy, Supply Chain Management, Action Against Conflict Minerals) , Human Resource Development (Human Resource Development Policies and Philosophy) , Labor Practices—Respecting the Rights of Workers (Policies and Philosophy on Respecting the Rights of Workers) , Policies and Philosophy on Respecting the Rights of Workers (Policies and Philosophy on Dialogue with Employees) ) , Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety Policies and Philosophy, Employees’ Health and Safety Management) , Community Engagement (Community Engagement Policies and Philosophy) Governance: Governance Policies and Philosophy 303/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Internal Efforts to Promote Sustainability, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022, Managing the Advancement of Sustainability Reforming Corporate Governance Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy (Nissan’s Steps to Address Environmental Issues) , Climate Change (Toward a Carbon-Neutral Society, Product Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy for Product Initiatives, Management of Product Initiatives) , Corporate Activity Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Initiatives, Management of Corporate Activity Initiatives, Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) ) , Air Quality (Air Quality Policies and Philosophy) , Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy, Resource Dependency Management) , Water Scarcity (Water Resource Management, Water Resource Achievements) , Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues 103-2 Social: Social Policies and Philosophy, Human Rights (Human The management Rights Management) , Diversity and Inclusion (Diversity and approach and its Inclusion Policies and Philosophy, Diversity and Inclusion components Management) , Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Policies and Philosophy, Traffic Safety Management) , Product Safety and Quality (Product Safety and Quality Policies and Philosophy, Product Safety and Quality Management) , Supply Chain Management (Supply Chain Strategy, Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy, Supply Chain Management, Action Against Conflict Minerals) , Human Resource Development (Human Resource Development Policies and Philosophy, Human Resource Development Management) , Labor Practices—Respecting the Rights of Workers (Management That Respects the Rights of Workers) , Labor Practices—Dialogue with Employees (Management to Promote Dialogue with Employees) ) , Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety Policies and Philosophy, Employees’ Health and Safety Management) , Community Engagement (Community Engagement Policies and Philosophy, Community Engagement Management) Governance: Governance Policies and Philosophy 304/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 Reforming Corporate Governance Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy (Nissan’s Steps to Address Environmental Issues) , Climate Change (Product Initiatives (Product Initiatives: Achievements) , Corporate Activity Initiatives (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) ) , Air Quality (Air Quality: Achievements) , Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency Management, Resource Dependency: Achievements, Resource Dependency: Achievements in Waste Reduction) , Water Scarcity (Water Resource Achievements) , Strengthening our Business 103-3 Foundations to Address Environmental Issues Evaluation of the Social: Human Rights (Human Rights: Achievements) , management Diversity and Inclusion (Diversity and Inclusion Achievements) approach , Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Achievements (Vehicles, People, Society) ) , Product Safety and Quality (Product Safety and Quality Achievements) , Supply Chain Management (Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy, Supply Chain Management, Action Against Conflict Minerals) , Human Resource Development (Human Resource Development Management, Human Resource Development Achievements) , Labor Practices—Dialogue with Employees (Management to Promote Dialogue with Employees, Achievements in Dialogue with Employees) ) , Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety Management, Employees’ Health and Safety Achievements) , Community Engagement (Social Contribution Achievements in FY2018) 305/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental・Social・Governance Environmental GRI103: Management Approach 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy (Nissan’s Understanding of Environmental Issues) , Climate Change (Toward a 103-1 Carbon-Neutral Society, Product Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy for Explanation of the Product Initiatives) , Corporate Activity Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy material topic and its Boundary for Corporate Activity Initiatives) ) , Air Quality (Air Quality Policies and Philosophy) , Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy) , Water Scarcity (Policies and Philosophy for Water Resource Management) Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Internal Efforts to Promote Sustainability, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022, Managing the Advancement of Sustainability Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy (Nissan’s Steps to Address Environmental Issues) , Climate Change (Toward a Carbon103-2 Neutral Society, Product Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy for Product The management Initiatives, Management of Product Initiatives) , Corporate Activity approach and its Initiatives (Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Initiatives, components Management of Corporate Activity Initiatives, Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) ) , Air Quality (Air Quality Policies and Philosophy) , Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy, Resource Dependency Management) , Water Scarcity (Water Resource Management, Water Resource Achievements) , Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 Environmental: Environmental Policies and Philosophy (Nissan’s Steps to Address Environmental Issues) , Climate Change (Product Initiatives 103-3 (Product Initiatives: Achievements) , Corporate Activity Initiatives Evaluation of the (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) ) , Air Quality (Air Quality: management approach Achievements) , Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency Management, Resource Dependency: Achievements, Resource Dependency: Achievements in Waste Reduction) , Water Scarcity (Water Resource Achievements) , Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues 306/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 203-1 Infrastructure Climate Change (Product Initiatives (Product Initiatives: Achievements, investments and Initiatives for Partnerships with Society) ) services supported 203-2 Climate Change (Product Initiatives (Product Initiatives: Achievements, Significant Indirect Economic Impacts Initiatives for Partnerships with Society) ) GRI301: Materials 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 301-1 Materials used by ESG Data: Environmental Data (Material Balance) weight or volume 301-2 Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency: Achievements in Reuse) Recycled input ESG Data: Environmental Data (Resource Dependency: Resource materials used Dependency (Reuse) ) 301-3 Resource Dependency (Resource Dependency: Achievements in Reuse) Reclaimed products ESG Data: Environmental Data (Resource Dependency: Resource and their packaging materials Dependency (Reuse) ) 307/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI302: Energy 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 302-1 Corporate Activity Initiatives (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements Energy consumption (Saving Energy in Global Production, Promoting Renewable Energy) ) within the ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate Activities) organization ,Energy per Vehicle Produced, Energy per Revenue, Material Balance) 302-2 Energy consumption Corporate Activity Initiatives (Corporate Activity Initiatives: outside of the Achievements) organization 302-3 ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate activities) , Energy intensity Energy per vehicle produced, Energy per Revenue) Corporate Activity Initiatives (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements 302-4 (Saving Energy in Global Production, Promoting Renewable Energy) ) Reduction of energy ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate Activities) , consumption Energy per Vehicle Produced, Energy per Revenue) 302-5 Reductions in Climate Change (Product Initiatives: Achievements, Electrification and energy Internal Combustion Engine Initiatives) requirements of products and ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Products) ) services GRI303: Water 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation Water Scarcity (Water Resource Achievements (Water Input for Corporate 303-1 Activities)) Water withdrawal by source ESG Data: Environmental Data (Water Resource Management (Water Input for Corporate Activities) , Material Balance) 303-2 Information Water sources unavailable: We significantly Non-disclosure have not collected affected by the data requested. withdrawal of water Information 303-3 unavailable: We Water recycled and Non-disclosure have not collected reused the data requested. 308/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI304: Biodiversity 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues adjacent to, (Stakeholder Engagement (Priority Issues for Automobile Manufacturers protected areas and areas of high Regarding the Protection of Air, Water, Soil and Biodiversity) ) biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues of activities, (Stakeholder Engagement (Priority Issues for Automobile Manufacturers products, and services on Regarding the Protection of Air, Water, Soil and Biodiversity) ) biodiversity 304-3 Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues Habitats protected (Stakeholder Engagement (Priority issues for automobile manufacturers or restored regarding the protection of air, water, soil and biodiversity) ) 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues conservation list (Stakeholder Engagement (Priority issues for automobile manufacturers species with habitats in areas regarding the protection of air, water, soil and biodiversity) ) affected by operations 309/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI305: Emissions 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 305-1 Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) Direct /Scope 1 ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate Activities) , GHG emissions Material Balance) 305-2 Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) Energy indirect ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate Activities) , /Scope 2 GHG emissions Material Balance) 305-3 Other indirect ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate Activities) — /Scope 3 GHG Scope 3 Emissions by Category) emissions 305-4 Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) GHG emissions intensity ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate Activities) ) 305-5 Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements) , Air Reduction of GHG Quality (Air Quality: Achievements) emissions ESG Data: Environmental Data (Climate Change (Corporate Activities) ) 305-6 Information Emissions of ozoneunavailable: We Non-disclosure depleting have not collected substances /ODS the data requested. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides Air Quality (Air Quality: Achievements) , Resource Dependency (Resource /NOx, sulfur oxides Dependency: Achievements (Proper Use of Regulated Chemical /SOx, and other Substances) ) significant air ESG Data: Environmental Data (Air Quality, Material Balance) emissions 310/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 306-1 Water Scarcity (Water Resource Achievements) Water discharge by ESG Data: Environmental Data (Water Resource Management (Water quality and Discharge from Corporate Activities (Per Vehicle Produced) ) , Material destination Balance) 306-2 Resource Dependency (Waste) Waste by type and ESG Data: Environmental Data (Resource Dependency (Facility Waste) , disposal method Material Balance) Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues 306-3 (Environmental Governance (Sanctions and Government Guidance at Significant spills Nissan Production Facilities) ) Information 306-4 unavailable: We Transport of Non-disclosure have not collected hazardous waste the data requested. 306-5 Information Water bodies unavailable: We affected by water Non-disclosure have not collected discharges and/or the data requested. runoff GRI307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 307-1 Non-compliance Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues with Environmental (Environmental Governance (Sanctions and Government Guidance at laws and Nissan Production Facilities) ) regulations GRI308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 308-1 New suppliers that Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues were screened (Stakeholder Engagement (Working with Suppliers) ) using Environmental criteria 308-2 Negative Environmental Strengthening our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues impacts in the (Stakeholder Engagement (Working with Suppliers) ) supply chain and actions taken 311/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social Data GRI103: Management Approach 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy Social: Social Policies and Philosophy, Human Rights (Human Rights Policies and Philosophy) , Diversity and Inclusion (Diversity and Inclusion Policies and Philosophy, Diversity and Inclusion Management) , Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Policies and Philosophy) , Product Safety and Quality (Product Safety and Quality Policies and Philosophy, Product Safety and Quality Management) , Supply Chain Management (Supply Chain 103-1 Strategy, Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy, Supply Explanation of the Chain Management, Action Against Conflict Minerals) , Human Resource material topic and its Boundary Development (Human Resource Development Policies and Philosophy) , Labor Practices—Respecting the Rights of Workers (Policies and Philosophy on Respecting the Rights of Workers) , Labor Practices— Dialogue with Employees (Policies and Philosophy on Dialogue with Employees) , Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety Policies and Philosophy, Employees’ Health and Safety Management) , Community Engagement (Community Engagement Policies and Philosophy) Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Internal Efforts to Promote Sustainability, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022, Managing the advancement of sustainability Social: Social Policies and Philosophy, Human Rights (Human Rights Management) , Diversity and Inclusion (Diversity and Inclusion Policies and Philosophy, Diversity and Inclusion Management) , Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Policies and Philosophy, Traffic Safety Management) , Product Safety and Quality (Product Safety and Quality Policies and 103-2 Philosophy, Product Safety and Quality Management) , Supply Chain The management Management (Supply Chain Strategy, Supply Chain Management Policies approach and its and Philosophy, Supply Chain Management, Action Against Conflict components Minerals) , Human Resource Development (Human Resource Development Policies and Philosophy, Human Resource Development Management) , Labor Practices—Respecting the Rights of Workers (Management That Respects the Rights of Workers) , Labor Practices—Dialogue with Employees (Management to Promote Dialogue with Employees) ) , Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety Policies and Philosophy, Employees’ Health and Safety Management) , Community Engagement (Community Engagement Policies and Philosophy, Community Engagement Management) 312/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Internal Efforts to Promote Sustainability, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 Social: Human Rights (Human Rights: Achievements) , Diversity and Inclusion (Diversity and Inclusion Achievements) , Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Achievements (Vehicles,People,Society) ) , Product Safety and Quality (Product Safety and Quality Achievements) , Supply Chain 103-3 Management (Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy, Supply Evaluation of the Chain Management, Action Against Conflict Minerals) , Human Resource management approach Development (Human Resource Development Management, Human Resource Development Achievements) , Labor Practices-Dialogue with Employees (Management to Promote Dialogue with Employees, Achievements in Dialogue with Employees) ) , Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety Management, Employees’ Health and Safety Achievements) , Community Engagement (Social Contribution Achievements in FY2018) GRI201: Economic Performance 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 201-1 Direct economic Community Engagement (Social Contribution Achievements in FY2018) value generated and ESG Data: Social Data (Contributing to Local Communities) distributed 201-2 Financial implications and The Current State of Nissan’s Risk Management: P.1 other risks and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and Financial Information: P.89 other retirement plans GRI203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 203-1 Infrastructure Community Engagement (Community Engagement Policies and investments and Philosophy) services supported 203-2 Community Engagement (Social Contribution Achievements in FY2018) Significant Indirect Economic Impacts ESG Data: Social Data (Contributing to Local Communities) 313/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 308-1 New suppliers that Supply Chain Management (Supply Chain Strategy (Nissan’s Approach to were screened using Environmental the Supply Chain) , Supply Chain Management) criteria GRI403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 403-1 Workers representation in Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety formal joint management– Management) worker health and safety committees As we are currently 403-2 transitioning to a Types of injury and more rates of injury, comprehensive occupational Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety approach to diseases, lost days, Achievements) frequency rate and absenteeism, aggregation, this and number of report contains only work-related Japan’s domestic fatalities rates. 403-4 Health and safety Employees’ Health and Safety (Employees’ Health and Safety Policies and topics covered in formal agreements Philosophy) with trade unions 314/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI404: Training and Education 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 404-1 Human Resource Development (Human Resource Development Average hours of Achievements) training per year per employee ESG Data: Social Data (Human Resource Development) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee Human Resource Development (Human Resource Development skills and transition Management) assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Human Resource Development (Human Resource Development regular performance and career Management) development reviews GRI405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 405-1 Diversity of Diversity and Inclusion (Diversity and Inclusion Achievements) governance bodies ESG Data: Social Data (Employee Data, Diversity and Inclusion) and employees GRI406: Non-discrimination 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation Human Rights (Human Rights Achievements) , Diversity and Inclusion 406-1 Incidents of (Diversity and Inclusion Policies and Philosophy) , Supply Chain No report applicable discrimination and Management (Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy) , Labor to 2018 corrective actions Practices—Respecting the Rights of Workers (Management That Respects taken the Rights of Workers) ) 315/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which Human Rights (Human Rights Achievements) , Supply Chain Management No report applicable the right to freedom (Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy) to 2018 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI408: Child Labor 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Human Rights (Human Rights Management) , Supply Chain Management No report applicable significant risk for (Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy) to 2018 incidents of child labor GRI409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Human Rights (Human Rights Management) , Supply Chain Management No report applicable significant risk for (Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy) to 2018 incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 411-1 Incidents of Human Rights (Human Rights Achievements) , Supply Chain Management No report applicable violations involving (Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy) to 2018 rights of indigenous peoples 316/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 412-1 Operations that have been subject Human Rights (Human Rights Management) , Supply Chain Management to human rights (Action Against Conflict Minerals) reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights Human Rights (Human Rights Achievements) policies or procedures GRI413: Local Communities 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 413-1 Operations with local community Information engagement, unavailable: We impact have not collected assessments, and the data requested. development programs 413-2 Operations with Information significant actual unavailable: We and potential have not collected negative impacts on the data requested. local communities GRI414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 414-1 Supply Chain Management (Supply Chain Strategy (Nissan’s Approach to New suppliers that the Supply Chain) , Supply Chain Management, Action Against Conflict were screened using social criteria Minerals) 317/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Achievements (Vehicles, People, Society) ) impacts of product and service categories GRI417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 417-1 Requirements for product and service Traffic Safety (Traffic Safety Achievements (Vehicles, People, Society) ) information and labeling 318/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Governance GRI103: Management Approach 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 103-1 Explanation of the Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy material topic and Governance: Governance Policies and Philosophy its Boundary Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Internal Efforts to 103-2 Promote Sustainability, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022, Managing The management the Advancement of Sustainability approach and its components Reforming Corporate Governance Governance: Governance Policies and Philosophy 103-3 Sustainability at Nissan: Sustainability Strategy, Internal Efforts to Evaluation of the Promote Sustainability, Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 management approach Reforming Corporate Governance GRI205: Anti-corruption 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 205-1 Operations assessed Compliance (Anti-Bribery (Anti-Bribery: Policies and Philosophy) ) for risks related to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiCompliance (Anti-Bribery (Anti-Bribery: Management) ) corruption policies and procedures GRI405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 405-1 Corporate Governance (Corporate Governance System in Detail) Diversity of ESG Data: Social Data (Employee Data,Diversity and Inclusion) , governance bodies Governance Data and employees Financial Information: P.42 319/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI418: Customer Privacy 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Risk Management (Protecting Personal Data and Reinforcing Information breaches of Security) customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Reason for Omission Topics References / Explanation 419-1 In fiscal year 2018, Non-compliance Compliance (Enhancing Compliance, Anti-Bribery (Anti-Bribery: one instance of with laws and potential bribery Management) , Business Ethics, Security-Related Export Controls, regulations in the was discovered by social and economic Nissan’s Commitment to Tax Transparency) the Global area Compliance Office. 320/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 QUICK GUIDE FOR INVESTORS Key Areas Topics Policies and Philosophy Manegement Initiative Environmental Policy & Policies and Philosophy for Policies and Philosophy for Management Systems Environmental Issues Environmental Issues Climate Change: Strategy for Climate Change Addressing Climate Change Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Achievements Climate Change (Product Climate Change (Product Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Policies and Initiatives): Electrification and GHG / Products Initiatives): Management of Philosophy for Product Internal Combustion Engine Product Initiatives Initiatives Initiatives ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Products) Climate Change (Corporate Climate Change (Corporate Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives): Activity Initiatives): Policies Activity Initiatives): Achievements GHG / Corporate Activities and Philosophy for Corporate Management of Corporate ESG Data (Environmental Data): Activity Initiatives Activity Initiatives Climate Change (Corporate Activities) Climate Change (Corporate Climate Change (Corporate Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives): Activity Initiatives): Policies Activity Initiatives): Achievements Energy Consumption and Philosophy for Corporate Management of Corporate ESG Data (Environmental Data): Activity Initiatives Activity Initiatives Climate Change (Corporate Activities) Environmental Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Achievements Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Electrification and Internal Combustion Engine Initiatives Climate Change (Product Climate Change (Product Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Policies and Initiatives): Management of Initiatives): Initiatives for Lighter Philosophy for Product Product Initiatives Vehicles Initiatives Strengthening Our Business Environmental Responsibility Strengthening Our Business in Product Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Foundations to Address Foundations to Address Environmental Issues: Environmental Issues: Lifecycle Environmental Issues: Lifecycle Assessment to Assessment to Reduce Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Environmental Environmental Impact Reduce Environmental Impact Impact ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Products) ESG Data (Environmental Data): Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Achievements Climate Change (Product Climate Change (Product Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Policies and Initiatives): Electrification and Clean Tech Initiatives): Management of Philosophy for Product Internal Combustion Engine Product Initiatives Initiatives Initiatives ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Products) 321/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Resource Dependency: Resource Dependency: Resource Dependency: Achievements Resource Dependency Policies Resource Dependency Strengthening Our Business and Philosophy Management Effective Utilization of Foundations to Address Resources Strengthening Our Business Strengthening Our Business Environmental Issues: Foundations to Address Foundations to Address Stakeholder Engagement Environmental Issues: Environmental Issues: ESG Data (Environmental Data): Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Resource Dependency (Reuse) Air Quality: Achievements Air Quality: Air Quality Policies Pollution ESG Data (Environmental Data): and Philosophy Air Quality Resource Dependency: Resource Dependency: Resource Dependency: Achievements in Waste Reduction Waste Materials Resource Dependency Policies Resource Dependency ESG Data (Environmental Data): and Philosophy Management Resource Dependency (Facility Waste) Water Scarcity: Water Resource Water Scarcity: Policies and Achievements Water Scarcity: Water Use of Water Resources Philosophy for Water Resource ESG Data (Environmental Data): Resource Management Management Resource Dependency (Water Resource Management) Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues: Stakeholder Engagement Biodiversity (Priority Issues for Automobile Manufacturers Regarding the Protection of Air, Water, Soil and Biodiversity) Human Rights: Human Rights Human Rights: Human Human Rights: Human Rights Human Rights Policies and Philosophy Rights Management Achievements Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and Inclusion: and Inclusion Achievements Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion ESG Data (Social Data): Diversity Policies and Philosophy Management and Inclusion Product Safety and Quality: Product Safety and Quality: Product Safety and Quality: Product Safety and Quality Product Safety and Quality Product Safety and Quality Product Safety and Quality Policies and Philosophy Management Achievements Product Safety and Quality: Product Safety and Quality: Product Safety and Quality: Customer Relationship Product Safety and Quality Product Safety and Quality Product Safety and Quality Management Policies and Philosophy Management Achievements Supply Chain Management: Social Supply Chain Strategy Supply Chain Management: Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management: Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Policies and Philosophy Labor Practices (Respecting the Labor Practices (Respecting Labor Practices (Respecting Rights of Workers): Achievements the Rights of Workers): the Rights of Workers): in Respecting the Rights of Employment Policies and Philosophy on Management That Respects Workers Respecting the Rights of the Rights of Workers ESG Data (Social Data): Workers Employee Data Human Resource Development: Human Resource Human Resource Human Resource Development Development: Human Development: Human Human Resources Achievements Resource Development Resource Development ESG Data (Social Data): Human Policies and Philosophy Management Resource Development 322/323 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Human Rights: Human Rights Human Rights: Human Rights Achievements Human Rights: Human Policies and Philosophy Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity Rights Management Diversity and Inclusion: and Inclusion Achievements Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and Inclusion Labor Practices (Respecting the Diversity and Inclusion Non-discrimination and Equal Policies and Philosophy Rights of Workers): Achievements Management Opportunity in Respecting the Rights of Labor Practices (Respecting Labor Practices (Respecting Workers the Rights of Workers): the Rights of Workers): Policies and Philosophy on ESG Data (Social Data): Management That Respects Respecting the Rights of Employee Data the Rights of Workers Workers ESG Data (Social Data): Diversity and Inclusion Labor Practices (Dialogue with Labor Practices (Dialogue Labor Practices (Dialogue with Employees): Policies and with Employees): Dialogue with Employees Employees): Achievements in Philosophy on Dialogue with Management to Promote Dialogue with Employees Employees Dialogue with Employees Employees’ Health and Employees’ Health and Employees’ Health and Safety: Safety: Employees’ Health Employees’ Health and Safety Safety: Employees’ Health Employees’ Health and Safety and Safety Policies and and Safety Management Achievements Philosophy Contributing to Local Community Engagement: Community Engagement: Communities: Achievements Community Engagement Community Engagement Community Engagement ESG Data (Social Data): Policies and Philosophy Management Contributing to Local Communities Reforming Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance: Governance Policies and Corporate Governance ESG Data (Governance Data) Philosophy System in Detail Governance Risk Management Risk Management Anti-Corruption Compliance: Anti-Bribery Observance of Business Ethics Compliance: Business Ethics 323/323
