ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT AND REPORT AND FINANCIAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENTS FOR THE FOR THE YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED 30TH JUNE 2018 30TH JUNE 2018 Lodwar, Turkana County 7:24 PM POWERING KENYA The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our report to shareholders for the trading period ended 30th June 2018 to be adopted at the 97th Annual General Meeting scheduled for 21st December 2018. The report is prepared under the direction of the Board of Directors who are accountable for veracity and completeness of its content. Report Guidelines In preparation of this report, the Board seeks to provide an objective view of the business performance and disclosure of any material matters for consideration by shareholders. The content development process is guided by legal and regulatory requirements including the Companies Act 2015, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Public Audit Act 2015, the Code of Corporate Governance for State Corporations (Mwongozo Code), the Capital Markets Act 485A including the Capital Markets Authority’s Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015, Capital Markets (Securities) (Public Offers, Listing and Disclosures) Regulations and Disclosures, as well as global best practice. Scope of the Report This report reviews our financial, operational, environmental, social and governance performance for the year 1st July 2017 to 30th June 2018. In addition, the report articulates our corporate governance framework and details of corporate social investment initiatives undertaken in the period. Material Issues Material issues are those that are likely to impact on our ability to achieve our goals and objectives and sustainability of our business. This report contains potential key matters that were identified through a broad range of processes, from engagement with our stakeholders to our own internal processes such as risk assessments and considering international trends. Material events up-to the date of approval have been incorporated in the report which include change of management in the Company. Feedback We appreciate your feedback on this report for improvement in future reporting. Please forward suggestions to integratedreport@kplc.co.ke 2 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 KUHUSU HII RIPOTI Hii ni ripoti yetu kwa wenyehisa kwa kipindi cha kibiashara kilichomalizika Juni 30, 2018 ya kuidhinishwa katika Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka wa 97 utakaofanyika Desemba 21, 2018. Ripoti hii inatayarishwa chini ya mwongozo wa Bodi ya Wakurugenzi ambao wanawajibika kwa uhalali na ukamilifu wa yale yaliyomo. Mwongozo kuhusu Ripoti Katika kuandaa ripoti hii, Bodi inalenga kutoa maelezo halisi kuhusu matokeo ya kibiashara na ufichuzi wa maelezo mengine muhimu kwa ukaguzi wa wenyehisa. Uandalizi wa ripoti hii unaongozwa na mahitaji ya kisheria na kiusimamizi ikiwa ni pamoja na Sheria ya Kampuni 2015, viwango vya International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Sheria ya Uhasibu wa Umma 2015, Mwongozo wa Usimamizi wa Mashirika ya Serikali (Mwongozo Code), Sheria ya Masoko ya Mtaji 485A, ikiwemo Mwongozo wa Soko la Mtaji na Maswala ya Usimamizi kwa Watoao Hisa kwa Umma 2015, Masoko ya Mtaji (Hisa) (Toleo kwa Umma na Maelezo) Kanuni na Maelezo pamoja na viwango bora vya Kimataifa. Upana wa Ripoti hii Ripoti inachunguza utendakazi wetu wa kibiashara, kimazingira, kijamii na usimamizi kati ya Julai 1, 2017 na Juni 30, 2018. Isitoshe, ripoti inaelezea mwongozo wetu wa kampuni na miradi ya uwekezaji wetu katika jamii iliyofanywa katika kipindi hicho. Masuala muhimu Masuala muhimu ni yale ambayo yanaweza kuathiri uwezo wetu wa kuafikia malengo na shabaha yetu na uendelevu wa biashara yetu. Ripoti hii inaangazia yale tunayoamini kuwa masuala muhimu ambayo yalitambuliwa kupitia taratibu pana, kuanzia mazungumzo na washikadau wetu hadi taratibu zetu za ndani kama vile tathmini ya hatari zilizopo na kuzingatia mikondo ya kimataifa. Matukio muhimu hadi wakati wa kuidhinisha ripoti yamejumuishwa kwenye ripoti yakiwemo mabadiliko katika usimamizi wa Kampuni. Maoni Tunathamini maoni yenu kuhusu ripoti hii kuiboresha zaidi katika siku za usoni. Tafadhali wasilisha mapendekezo kwa integratedreport@kplc.co.ke. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 3 TABLE OF 03 CONTENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Directors’ report.......................................................................................... 106 Directors’ remuneration report............................................................. 109 Information not subject to audit........................................................... 109 Directors’ remuneration ........................................................................... 110 01 Report of the auditor-general..................................................................112 Statement of profit or loss and Other comprehensive income................................................................ 120 Statement of financial position................................................................121 Statement of changes in equity.............................................................122 BUSINESS REVIEW Statement of cash flows............................................................................123 Notes.................................................................................................................124 Message from the chairman...................................................................... 15 Statement by the managing director & ceo........................................ 21 04 Operational performance ......................................................................... 28 Review of our five-year strategic plan..................................................54 02 STATISTICAL INFORMATION Ten year financial and statistical records.......................................... 202 Statistical tables ........................................................................................ 205 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 05 Board of directors............................................................................................8 Executive management................................................................................ 11 Regional managers........................................................................................ 13 Corporate governance report..................................................................60 Corporate social investment report.....................................................100 SHAREHOLDERS NOTICE Notice of annual general meeting....................................................... 220 Proxy form.....................................................................................................225 4 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 4 OUR VISION Energy solutions provider of choice. By becoming the preferred energy solution for businesses and individuals, we empower our customers to achieve more and reach their full potential 0UR MISSION Powering people for better lives by innovatively securing business sustainability. By striving to provide world-class products and services that delight our customers and transform lives as we ensure viability of our business. CORE VALUES We put our customers first as they matter most We work together as one team to achieve our goals We are passionate about powering the nation We believe in integrity and delivering on our promises We strive for excellence in all that we do We are accountable to our customers and stakeholders The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 5 CORPORATE INFORMATION DIRECTORS Amb (Eng) Mahboub Maalim Mohamed Chairman Eng. Jared Othieno Acting Managing Director & CEO Mr. Adil Khawaja Mr. Henry Rotich Cabinet Secretary, National Treasury Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy Mr. Wilson Kimutai Mugung’ei Mr. Kairo Thuo Mrs. Brenda Engomo Kokoi Hon. Zipporah Jesang Kering Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa Alternate Director to Cabinet Secretary, National Treasury Eng. Isaac Kiva  Alternate to Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy SECRETARY Imelda Bore Certified Public Secretary (Kenya) P.O. Box 30099 – 00100, Nairobi REGISTERED OFFICE Stima Plaza Kolobot Road, Parklands P.O. Box 30099 – 00100, Nairobi BANKERS Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Citi NA Harambee Avenue Upper Hill Road P.O. Box 2006300200, Nairobi P.O. Box 3071100100, Nairobi Kenya Commercial Bank Limited Equity Bank Kenya Limited Moi Avenue Hospital Road P.O. Box 30081 – 00100, Nairobi P.O. Box 75104 – 00100, Nairobi The Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited Commercial Bank of Africa Stima Plaza Ragati Road P.O. Box 48231 – 00100, Nairobi P.O. Box 30437 – 00100, Nairobi Stanbic Bank Limited Barclays Bank of Kenya Plc Kenyatta Avenue Barclays West End P.O. Box 30550 – 00100, Nairobi P.O. Box 30120 – 00100, Nairobi PRINCIPAL AUDITOR The Auditor-General Anniversary Towers P.O. Box 30084 – 00100, Nairobi DELEGATED AUDITOR PricewaterhouseCoopers Certified Public Accountants (Kenya) PwC Tower Waiyaki Way/ Chiromo Road, Westlands P.O. Box 43963 – 00100, Nairobi PRINCIPAL LEGAL Hamilton Harrison & Mathews Advocates ADVISOR Delta Office Suites, Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 30333 – 00100, Nairobi 6 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS INCREASED CAPACITY 12.75 MW MORE CUSTOMERS CONNECTED of new generation capacity installed Customers numbers grew by during the year. Installed capacity 578,808 from 6,182,282 to 2,351 MW 6,761,090 G R OW I N G ELECTRICITY GROWING ELECTRICITY SALES DEMAND Electricity sales grew by 2.3% Electricity peak demand grew by from 8,272 GWh to 8,459 GWh 8.8% from 1,656 MW to 1,802 MW INCREASED REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX Basic electricity revenue grew Profit before tax reduced from from Shs 92 billion to Shs 95.5 Shs 7,657 million to Shs 3,089 billion a 3% Increase million The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 7 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Eng. Jared Othieno Amb (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed BSc (Elec. Eng.), MBA (Strat. Mgnt.), BSc (Civ. Eng.), MSc (Civ. Eng.), R. Eng. R. Eng., MIEK Chairman of the Board Ag. Managing Director and CEO Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei CBS, PhD, MBA, BSc (Eng.), R. Cons. BA (Math.), MBA Eng., C. Eng., MIET, FIEK Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy 8 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mr. Kairo Thuo Mrs. Brenda Kokoi LLB (Hons), CPA (K), CPA (T), ACII BA (Dev. Studies), Dip. Ed. Hon. Zipporah Kering B.Ed, Dip. Ed. Mr. Adil Khawaja LL.B (Hons), Dip. (Law) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 9 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Eng. Isaac Kiva, OGW Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa BSc (Eng.), R. Eng., MIEK B.Com, MBA, CPA(K) Alternate Director, Ministry of Energy Alternate Director, the National Treasury Not in picture: Mr. Henry Rotich B.A. (Econ.), MA (Econ.), MPA Cabinet Secretary, The National Treasury Imelda Bore LL.B, LL.M, Dip(Law), H.Dip (HR), CPS(K), AMCIArb Ag. General Manager, Corporate Affairs & Company Secretary 10 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Ag. Managing Director & CEO, Ag. General Manager, Ag. General Manager, Eng. Jared Othieno Business Strategy Corporate Affairs & BSc (Elec. Eng.), MBA Eng. Thagichu Kiiru Company Secretary (Strat. Mgnt.), R. Eng., MIEK BSc (Elec. Eng.), MBA, Imelda Bore R. Eng., MIEK LL.B, LL.M, Dip(Law), H.Dip (HR), CPS(K), AMCIArb Ag. General Manager, Ag. General Manager, Ag. General Manager, Infrastructure Development & Connectivity Street Lighting Network Management Eng. Joseph Gathuru Eng. Peter Njenga Eng. David Mwaniki BSc (Elec. Eng.), R. Eng., MIEK BSc (Elec. Eng.), MBA, R. Eng. BSc (Elec. Eng.), MBA, R. Eng., MIEK The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 11 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Ag. General Manager, Ag. General Manager, ICT Director, Kenya Power General Manager, Customer Service & Regional Titus Kitavi International Ltd Supply Chain Co-ordination BSc., MSc (Info. Systems), Dr. Jeremiah Kiplagat, Bernard Ngugi Eng. Aggrey Machasio MSCE, OCP, CDCP, ITIL, BSc. (Appropriate Tech.), MCIPS, MKISM, CPA (K), BSc. (Elec. Tech.), MIEK, MitSMF, MCSK MSc. (Tech.), Dip Eng., MET CPS (K), MBA (Finance), MIEEE PhD (Engineering) B.Com (Accounting) Ag. General Manager, Human Ag. General Manager, General Manager, Resource & Administration Finance Internal Audit David Monandi Ambrose Lamaon Charles Cheruiyot BA (Econ. & Sociology), B.Com(Accounting), MBA, B.Com (Accounting), MBA, Higher Dip. (HRM), MIHRM CPA(K) CIA (US), CPA (K) 12 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 REGIONAL MANAGERS Regional Manager, Ag. Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Nairobi North Nairobi South Nairobi West Eng. Charles Mwaura Teresia Wanja Phineas Marete Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Ag. Regional Manager, Coast Central Rift North Rift South Nyanza Eng. Hezekiah Mwalwala Eng. Geoffrey Muli Kimutai Bett John Guda Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Western North Eastern Mt. Kenya Dan Obiero Eng. Daniel Kamau Eng. Kenneth Chege The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 13 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Amb. (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed Chairman, Board of Directors 14 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholders, programmes to enhance high standards of ethical Kenya Power has over the years made progress behaviour across the Company. towards providing safe, secure and reliable electricity for economic and social development. We are committed to providing effective The Company strives to build on its heritage and leadership in steering the Company towards wealth of experience to deliver quality service to achieving greater heights of prosperity. Every our customers for business growth and improved challenge presents an opportunity therefore, and shareholder value. this is the time to strengthen our foundations and purpose to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Taking advantage of our market WE HAVE MADE presence, knowledgeable workforce, strong brand and heritage, I am confident that we can PROGRESS transform Kenya Power into an energy solution provider of choice. Business Environment In 2017, the country’s economy grew by 4.9 per TOWARDS PROVIDING SAFE, SECURE cent compared to a revised growth of 5.9 per cent AND RELIABLE ELECTRICITY FOR in 2016. The reduced economic performance was ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT partly due to effects of prolonged electioneering period and adverse weather conditions. The year under review was however a challenging period for the Company. Various factors affected During the year, the energy mix remained our operating environment adversely and relatively stable despite a fairly reduced overshadowed the positive developments in our hydrology in the first half of the financial year. business. Expressions of dissatisfied customers Contribution from geothermal sources increased due to challenges in service delivery and to 47% of the total 10,702 GWh energy purchased subsequent negative media coverage were key compared to a contribution of 43.6% the previous among the factors that eroded the gains made year. This eased our overreliance on hydro power in maintaining high stakeholder confidence. In generation and mitigated increase in electricity addition, we faced an unprecedented event at costs by minimising dispatch of the expensive the beginning of the current financial year, 2018thermal power. System efficiency reduced from 2019, when the entire top management team was 81.1% to 79.5% largely due to leakages and arraigned in court and consequently suspended. pilferages in the expanded electricity network. However, the Board of Directors acted promptly In view of prevailing circumstances during the to mitigate these adversities and ensure business period under review, our trading performance continuity despite the circumstances. Following presented below was short of our expectations. the suspension of the top management team, Esteemed shareholders, allow me to present the the Board appointed a competent senior Company’s trading results for the year ended management team on 17th July 2018 to run the 30th June 2018, my first as the Chairman of the Company operations on interim basis. The Board of Directors. newly appointed senior management team has the necessary skills, strengths, courage and Business Performance enthusiasm to deliver on our mandate. During the year electricity revenue grew by Shs 5,112 million from Shs 120,742 million reported The Board approved a new organisational in the previous year to Shs 125,854 million mainly structure during the year for effective due to rise in unit sales by 2.3% to 8,459 GWh management and to drive strategy in the medium from 8,272 GWh. This growth was attributed to term. We will commence implementation of the increased consumption in the domestic consumer new structure in the current financial year. Further, category as a result of increased number of in accordance with the Leadership and Integrity customers. Act, 2012, the Board has put in place policies and The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 15 The non -fuel power purchase costs excluding Changes in the Board foreign exchange recovery increased to Hon. Zipporah Kering and I, Amb. (Eng.) Shs 52,795 million from Shs 50,202 million the Mahboub Mohamed, were elected as directors previous year, mainly attributable to an increase of the Company on 1st December 2017, while Hon. in units purchased from geothermal sources from Kenneth Marende ceased to be a director on the 4,451 GWh to 5,053 GWh. same day. I was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors on 9th January 2018. Fuel cost decreased from Shs 24,076 million the previous year to Shs 23,591 million due to Eng. Jared Othieno was appointed the Acting improved energy mix following less utilisation Managing Director and CEO of the Company on of the more expensive thermal plants. The 17th July 2018 in place of Dr. Kenneth Tarus. units generated from thermal plants increased marginally by 1.9 percent, from 2,165 GWh the Alignment of Strategy previous year to 2,202 GWh. In the year under review, we revised our FiveYear Strategic Plan to align our Company to the Transmission and distribution costs increased changing business environment and meet the by 14.1 percent from Shs 34,745 million incurred needs of customers and other stakeholders. The the previous year to Shs 39,628 million. The rise new strategy provides an adjusted roadmap in the was attributed to higher debtors’ provisions, medium term from 2018/19 to 2022/23. depreciation expense due to increased capital investment and the rising cost of doing business. OUR REVISED STRATEGY PROVIDES AN ADJUSTED ROADMAP IN THE Our capital asset base grew by 4.2 percent MEDIUM TERM FROM from Shs 262,348 million the previous year, to 2018/19 TO 2022/23 Shs 273,377 million. This growth was associated with new capital investments in the period aimed at improving quality of power supply, network expansion and accelerated connection of The strategic plan was revised to strengthen the new customers. commercial aspects of our business, entrench a competitive mindset in our operations, develop a more customer centric culture and align our 4.2% risk framework to the strategy. In addition, the GROWTH IN revised strategic plan will safeguard our interests CAPITAL BASE and support the Company’s growth strategy and objectives in a competitive electricity distribution FROM KShs.262,348 MILLION TO KShs.273,377 MILLION environment with the anticipated changes in the proposed Energy Bill. Supporting the Big Four Agenda Energy is an enabler to the realisation of the Net Profit Government’s Big Four Agenda, a development The profit before tax reduced to Shs 3,089 million initiative mooted during the year which focuses from a restated amount of Shs 7,657 reported in on providing resources for projects that directly the previous period. This was mainly due to an impact on the lives of Kenyans. The Company’s increase in transmission and distribution cost, role is to provide quality and reliable power to higher finance costs and effects of increased support manufacturing, healthcare, food security system losses. and housing sectors under the Big Four Agenda. Successful implementation of programmes under Dividend this development initiative will present prospects The Directors do not recommend payment of a for business growth. dividend on ordinary shares for the year ended 30th June 2018. 16 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 In Conclusion UJUMBE KUTOKA KWA MWENYEKITI The Board and Management will continue to work together to strengthen the Company’s Wenyehisa Wapendwa, internal controls and enterprise risk management, Kwa muda sasa, Kenya Power imepiga hatua promote a culture of integrity and strive for katika kutoa umeme salama, thabiti nawa highest ethical business standards. kutegemewa kwa ustawi wa kiuchumi na kijamii. Kampuni inajitolea kutumia urithi wake na uzoefu wa muda mrefu kutoa huduma za hali ya juu kwa THE BOARD IS COMMITTED TO wateja wetu kwa ustawi wa biashara na kuimarisha PROVIDING EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP mapato ya wenyehisa. IN STEERING THE COMPANY TO GREATER HEIGHTS OF PROSPERITY Hata hivyo kipindi tunachoangazia kimekuwa kigumu kwa Kampuni. Mambo mbalimbali Our concerted efforts will certainly improve service yaliathiri vibaya mazingira yetu ya kikazi na delivery to our customers, grow shareholder value kufunika maendeleo muhimu katika biashara and be the energy solution provider of choice. As yetu. Malalamiko na kutofurahia kwa wateja wetu the Chairman of the Board, I am committed to kutokana na changamoto katika utoaji huduma providing leadership that espouses principles of na taarifa zisizofaa kwenye vyombo vya habari ni good governance. kati ya mambo yaliyofifisha imani ya washikadau wetu. Isitoshe, tulikumbana na hali ya aina yake On behalf of the Board and Management, I wish to mwanzoni mwa kipindi cha sasa cha matumizi ya express our appreciation to shareholders, business fedha cha 2018/2019, ambapo wasimamizi wote partners and the Government for their support wakuu walishtakiwa na kusimamishwa kazi. during the period. I also thank the Management and all employees who have continued to work Hata hivyo, Bodi ya Wakurugenzi ilichukua diligently and exhibited resilience in challenging hatua za haraka kupunguza madhara hayo na times. Lastly, I thank my fellow Board members kuhakikisha biashara zetu zinaendelea licha ya and urge them to work zealously in the best hali hiyo. Kufuatia kusimamishwa kazi kwa maafisa interest of the Company. wasimamizi, Bodi iliteua kundi la maafisa wakuu waliohitimu mnamo Julai 17, 2018 kuendesha Asanteni sana! shughuli za Kampuni kwa muda. Kundi jipya la wasimamizi lililoteuliwa lina ujuzi unaohitajika, tajiriba, ujasiri na msukumo wa kutimiza wajibu wetu. Amb. (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed Bodi iliidhinisha muundo mpya wa usimamizi Chairman, Board of Directors katika mwaka uliomalizika kwa usimamizi bora na kutekeleza mkakati wetu kwa kipindi kifupi. Tutaanza kutekeleza muundo huo mpya katika kipindi cha sasa cha kifedha. Vile vile, kwa mujibu wa Sheria ya Usimamizi na Maadili 2012, Bodi imeratibu sera na mipango ya kuhakikisha uzingatiaji wa viwango vya juu vya maadili kote katika Kampuni. Tunajitolea kutoa mwongozo ufaao katika kuelekeza Kampuni kuafikia viwango vya juu vya ufanisi. Kila changamoto huambatana na fursa ya mafanikio, na hivyo, huu ndio wakati wa kuimarisha msingi wetu na kujiandaa kutimiza matarajio ya washikadau wetu. Kwa kutumia ipasavyo uwepo wetu kila mahali, wafanyakazi The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 17 walio na ujuzi, sifa na urithi wetu, nina imani Gharama ya mafuta ilipungua kutoka Sh 24,076 kwamba tunaweza kubadilisha Kenya Power kuwa milioni mwaka uliotangulia hadi Sh 23,591 milioni jawabu kwa mahitaji yote ya kawi nchini. kutokana na kuimarika kwa mchanganyiko wa vyanzo vya umeme na kupunguza matumizi Mazingira ya Kibiashara ya viwanda ghali vya umemejoto. Vipimo Mnamo 2017, uchumi wa nchi ulikua kwa asilimia vilivyotokana na viwanda vya umemejoto 4.9 ikilinganishwa na asilimia 5.9 mnamo 2016. viliongezeka kwa kiasi kidogo kwa asilimia Kudidimia huko kulitokana, kwa kiwango fulani, na 1.9, kutoka GWh 2,165 mwaka uliopita hadi kampeni za muda mrefu za kisiasa na hali mbaya GWh 2,202. ya hewa. Gharama za usafirishaji na usambazaji ziliongezeka Katika mwaka uliomalizika, mchanganyiko kwa asilimia 14.1 kutoka Sh 34.745 milioni mwaka wa kawi ulikuwa sawa licha ya kupungua kwa uliotangulia hadi Sh 39,628 milioni. Nyongeza hii viwango vya maji katika nusu ya kwanza ya kipindi ilitokana na madeni ambayo uwezekano wao wa cha matumizi ya fedha. Uzalishaji kutoka vyanzo kulipwa ulitiliwa shaka, gharama ya kudidimia vya umemejoto uliongezeka hadi asilimia 47 ya kwa thamani ya vifaa kutokana na uwekezaji zaidi jumla ya GWh 10,702 ya umeme ulionunuliwa wa mtaji na kupanda kwa gharama ya kuendesha ikilinganishwa na asilimia 43.6 mwaka uliopita. biashara. Hii ilipunguza utegemeaji wa uzalishaji umeme Mtaji wa vifaa vyetu uliongezeka kwa asilimia kutokana na maji na kuzuia nyongeza ya 4.2 kutoka Sh 262,348 milioni. Ukuaji huu na gharama ya umeme na kupunguza matumizi ya uwekezaji mpya wa mtaji katika kipindi hicho umemejoto ghali. Ubora wa kimitambo ulipungua unalenga kuimarisha viwango vya usambazaji kutoka asilimia 81.1 hadi asilimia 79.5 kutokana na umeme, upanuzi wa mtandao na uunganishaji hasara na wizi wa stima katika mtandao mpana umeme wa haraka kwa wateja wapya. wa umeme. Faida baada ya Ushuru Kutokana na hali iliyokuwepo katika kipindi cha Faida kabla ya ushuru ilipungua hadi Sh 3,089 kifedha kilichomalizika, matokeo ya kibiashara milioni kutoka kiwango kilichoripotiwa upya cha yanayoangaziwa hapa chini hayakuafikia Sh 7,657 mlioni katika kipindi kilichomalizika. matarajio yetu. Hii ilitokana hasa na gharama ya usafirishaji na usambazaji, gharama za juu za kifedha na athari Wenyehisa wapendwa, niruhusu niwasilishe za nyongeza ya hasara za kimitambo. matokeo ya kibiashara ya Kampuni kwa mwaka uliomalizika Juni 30, 2018, yangu ya kwanza kama Mgao wa Faida Mwenyekiti wa Bodi ya Wakurugenzi. Wakurugenzi hawapendekezi malipo ya mgao wa faida kwa hisa za kawaida kwa mwaka uliomalizika Matokeo ya Kibiashara Juni 30, 2018. Katika mwaka uliomalizika, mapato kutokana na umeme yaliongezeka kwa Sh 5,112 milioni kutoka Mabadiliko katika Bodi Sh 120,742 milioni zilizoripotiwa mwaka uliopita Mhe. Zipporah Kering na I, Balozi. (Eng.) Mahboub hadi Sh 125,854 milioni, hasa kutokana na kupanda Mohamed, walichaguliwa kama Wakurugenzi wa kwa vipimo vya mauzo kwa asilimia 2.3 hadi Kampuni mnamo Desemba 1, 2017, ilhali Mhe GWh 8,459 kutoka GWh 8,272. Ukuaji huu ulitokana Kenneth Marende alikoma kuwa mkurugenzi siku na matumizi zaidi katika kitengo cha watumiaji hiyo. Nilichaguliwa Mwenyekiti wa Bodi mnamo wa nyumbani kutokana na kuongezeka kwa idadi Januari 9, 2018. ya wateja. Eng. Jared Othieno aliteuliwa Kaimu Mkurugenzi Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji wa Kampuni mnamo Gharama za ununuzi zisizohusiana na mafuta bila Julai 17, 2018 mahali pa Dkt Kenneth Tarus. kujumuisha mapato kutokana na ubadilishanaji fedha za kigeni iliongezeka hadi Sh 52,795 milioni Mabadiliko ya Mkakati kutoka Sh 50,202 milioni mwaka uliopita, hasa Katika mwaka uliomalizika, tulibadilisha Mkakati kutokana na kupanda kwa vipimo vilivyonunuliwa wetu wa Miaka Mitano kuufunganisha na kutoka kwa vyanzo vya umememvuke kutoka mabadiliko ya hali ya kibiashara na kutimiza GWh 4,451 hadi GWh 5,053. mahitaji ya wateja na washikadau wengine. Mkakati mpya unatoa mwelekeo tofauti katika 18 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 kipindi cha miaka michache ijayo kuanzia 2018/19 uadilifu na kujikakamua kuendesha biashara kwa hadi 2022/23. Mkakati huo ulirekebishwa ili kuzingatia viwango vya juu vya maadili kibiashara. kuimarisha maswala ya mapato ya biashara yetu, Juhudi zetu za pamoja bila shaka zitaendelea kudumisha maono ya ushindani katika utendakazi kuimarisha utoaji huduma kwa wateja wetu, wetu, kuanzisha utamaduni unaokumbatia zaidi kuimarisha thamani kwa wenyehisa na kuwa mahitaji ya wateja na kuambatanisha mfumo wetu msambazaji umeme wa kutegemewa. Kama wa kukabiliana na hatari na mkakati wetu. Isitoshe, mwenyekiti wa Bodi, ninajitolea kutoa mwongozo mkakati uliorekebishwa utalinda maslahi yetu na unaojikita katika maongozi bora. kusaidia mkakati wetu wa ukuaji na malengo yetu katika mazingira ya usambazaji umeme Kwa niaba ya Bodi na Wasimamizi, ningependa yenye ushindani mkubwa kutokana na mabadiliko kuwashukuru wenyehisa, washirika wa kibiashara yanayotarajiwa katika Sheria ya Kawi. na Serikali kwa kutuunga mkono katika kipindi hiki. Pia, nawashukuru wasimamizi na wafanyakazi Kusaidia Ajenda Nne Kuu wote ambao wameendelea kufanya kazi na Kawi hufanikisha utekelezaji wa Ajenda Nne Kuu kujikakamua katika mazingira magumu. Mwisho, za Serikali, mpango ulioanzishwa mwaka uliopita nawashukuru wanachama wenzangu wa Bodi ambao unalenga kuelekeza raslimali kwa miradi na kuwahimiza kuchapa kazi kwa nguvu kwa ambayo inaathiri moja kwa moja maisha ya manufaa ya Kampuni. Wakenya. Wajibu wa Kampuni ni kutoa umeme wa hali ya juu na wa kutegemewa kusaidia Asanteni sana! viwanda, afya, uzalishaji chakula cha kutosha na ujenzi wa makazi chini ya Ajenda Nne Kuu. Ufanisi katika utekelezaji wa mpango huu wa maendeleo utatoa nafasi za ukuaji wa biashara. Balozi. (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed Hitimisho Mwenyekiti, Bodi ya Wakurugenzi Bodi na wasimamizi wataendelea kushirikiana kuimarisha vidhibiti hatari za kibiashara na usimamizi wa ndani, kukuza utamaduni wa The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 19 STATEMENT BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR & CEO Eng. Jared Othieno Ag. Managing Director & CEO 20 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 STATEMENT BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR & CEO I am pleased to present a review of Kenya Power’s Operational Performance key operational performance for the year ended In the course of the year, we connected 578,808 30th June 2018. The review also highlights our new customers to the grid, growing the overall strategic priorities in the short and medium-term customer base by 9.4 percent to 6,761,090 million. focusing on improving service to customers and This was largely achieved through the government ensuring sustainable business growth. funded Last Mile Connectivity Project. As a result, the national electricity access from both grid and Our role as a national power utility is critical off-grid solution as at end of June 2018 had risen considering that electricity is an enabler and a to 73 percent compared to 29 percent five years key driver for economic and social development. ago. The connectivity drive is premised on our In this regard, the Company made remarkable strategic goal to secure the power distribution progress in the quest to enhance our network and retail market and support the country’s goal coverage and improve reliability of power supply of providing electricity to all Kenyans which is to customers. Projects prioritised during the year an important ingredient for socio-economic included system expansion and network upgrade transformation and development. projects as well as the Government funded national public lighting project. WE CONNECTED As a major step towards the entrenchment of a customer centric-culture, we rolled out the Feeder Based Business Units (FBBUs), a decentralised customer service model that channels resources to clustered electricity distribution feeder 578,808 NEW CUSTOMERS TO THE GRID 9.4% networks for effective service delivery. The FBBU network management approach is expected to CUSTOMER BASE EXPANDED BY TO entrench a preventive maintenance culture and 6,761,090 thereby improving efficiency in our business operations. Towards this, the Company deployed technical and support staff to manage the currently established 148 feeder-based units. MILLION In the period, the Company completed 8 new substation projects worth Shs 16.5 billion and THE FBBU NETWORK MANAGEMENT upgraded 23 others at a cost of Shs 3.3 billion to APPROACH ENTRENCHES A PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE CULTURE AND strengthen and expand the network for effective IMPROVE EFFICIENCY IN OUR service delivery. The Company completed a BUSINESS OPERATIONS 220/66/11kV, 400MVA Gas Insulated Substation (GIS) at Industrial area in Nairobi. This project was commissioned by the President in May 2018 and has provided more stability and enhanced Despite our desire to sustain connectivity drive, network flexibility for improved electricity supply improve system reliability and complete key in the City. Another 132/33kV GIS substation at projects, our operational performance during Kipevu in Mombasa was also commissioned the year was affected by an unfavourable during the period. The additional substations also operating environment. Uncertainties associated provide much-needed capacity to meet growing with prolonged electioneering period affected demand in the two cities. economic activities and hence electricity consumption during the first half of the year. In the second half, we experienced dampened customer confidence due to challenges in service delivery. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 21 throughout the year. These included participatory meetings and forums with investors, business STRENGTHENING AND EXPANDING THE NETWORK partners, customer associations and the three arms of government. Some of the entities we 8 16.5 engaged with during the period include the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the Kenya Private NEW SUBSTATIONS COMPLETED AT KShs. BILLION Sector Alliance, the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry and several residents’ associations. 23 KShs.3.3 In support of the Big Four Agenda initiative, we fast-tracked construction of several power SUBSTATIONS REFURBISHED AT lines serving major industrial and agricultural BILLION installations and connected 48 new high energy consuming customers requiring aggregate of 105MVA capacity in the year. We see more opportunities to grow our business with the We take pride in the successful implementation rollout of the projects under this initiative. In of the National Public Lighting Programme that particular, growth in manufacturing, food security has visibly transformed our streets, marketplaces and housing sectors would lead to increased and neighbourhoods. The National Public business opportunities. Lighting Programme is funded by Government and implemented by the Company in partnership Our Commitment with county governments with the aim of creating As a matter of priority, the management team an enabling environment for a 24-hour economy. is focusing on provision of quality power supply by strengthening our electricity network and The benefits of street lighting pervade the streamlining internal processes to improve functional use of lighting for security, safety and customer experience and stakeholder confidence. promotion of trade to encompass other gains We also aim to sustain our connectivity drive by such as environmental aesthetics, recreational fast tracking implementation of the ongoing Last activities and social interactions. Having installed Mile Connectivity Project to further entrench our 113,204 lanterns and floodlights spread across market presence. all counties in the last four years, we see great potential to further grow our revenue as we light In addition, we have embarked on implementation up the unreached urban and rural townships. of the Company’s new corporate strategic plan which lays emphasis on improving employees’ Similarly, customers are central to our business productivity; providing adequate, quality and sustainability. Customer satisfaction is a key reliable power supply; improving service delivery; driver in fostering brand loyalty which leads to and ensuring financial sustainability. business growth and long-term viability. Towards this end, we modernised the Stima Plaza and REVISED CORPORATE STRATEGY Electricity House banking halls in Nairobi and AIMS AT: installed a Customer Journey Management System to enhance customer experience and IMPROVING EMPLOYEE efficient service delivery. In addition, we also 1 PRODUCTIVITY renovated other service outlets in various parts of the country. PROVIDING ADEQUATE, 2 QUALITY AND RELIABLE POWER SUPPLY In today’s diverse and highly dynamic business environment, it has become vital to tailor our IMPROVING SERVICE communication and engagement programmes 3 DELIVERY TO CUSTOMERS to effectively address the varied stakeholder ENSURING BUSINESS needs. In this regard, we sustained mutually 4 SUSTAINABILITY beneficial and strategic stakeholder interactions 22 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The strategy was formulated in cognisance of TAARIFA YA MKURUGENZI MKUU NA the dynamic business environment, technological AFISA MKUU MTENDAJI advancements and the anticipated policy shift in the energy sector. Nina furaha kuwasilisha matokeo muhimu ya kibiashara ya Kenya Power kwa mwaka I am confident that we have the right initiatives uliomalizika Juni 30, 2018. Uchunguzi huo pia and strategies in place to enable us realise our unaangazia mipangilio yetu ya muda mfupi na business goals. ya siku za usoni katika kuboresha huduma kwa wateja na kuhakikisha ukuaji wa kutegemewa wa biashara. Wajibu wetu kama shirika la kitaifa la umeme Eng. Jared Othieno ni muhimu ikizingatiwa kuwa unawezesha Ag. Managing Director & CEO ustawi wa kiuchumi na kijamii. Kutokana na hili, Kampuni ilipiga hatua kubwa katika harakati zake za kupanua mtandao wetu na kusambaza umeme kwa njia ya kutegemewa kwa wateja wetu. Miradi iliyopewa kipaumbele katika mwaka uliomalizika ni pamoja na upanuzi wa mitambo na ule wa kuinua mtandao wetu pamoja na mradi uliofadhiliwa na Serikali wa kusambaza umeme kwa umma. Kama hatua kubwa ya kudumisha utamaduni wa kuweka wateja mbele kwanza, tulianzisha vitengo vidogo vya kibiashara maarufu kama Feeder Based Business Units (FBBUs), mfumo unaopeleka huduma karibu na mteja kwa kutumia raslimali katika maeneo ya watu wengi kuinua utoaji wa huduma. Mbinu hii ya usimamizi ya FBBU inatarajiwa kudumisha utamaduni wa marekebisho ya mitambo kabla haijaharibika, na hivyo kuboresha utendakazi katika operesheni zetu. Kwa hilo, Kampuni ilipeleka wataalamu na wafanyakazi wasaidizi kusimamia vitengo vya sasa 148 vilivyopo. Licha ya azimio letu kudumisha kampeni ya kusambazia raia umeme, kufanya mitambo kuwa ya kutegemewa na kumaliza miradi muhimu, utendakazi wetu katika mwaka uliomalizika uliathiriwa na mazingira yasiyofaa ya kibiashara. Taharuki ya kisiasa ya muda mrefu iliathiri shughuli za kiuchumi na hivyo matumizi ya umeme katika nusu ya kwanza ya mwaka. Katika nusu ya pili ya mwaka, wateja wetu walitamauka kutokana na changamoto katika utoaji huduma zetu. Matokeo ya kibiashara Katika mwaka uliomalizika, tulisambazia umeme wateja wapya 578,808 na hivyo kuongeza jumla ya idadi ya wateja kwa asilimia 9.4 hadi milioni The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 23 6,761,090. Hii ilitokana hasa na mradi unaofadhiliwa Vilevile, wateja ni muhimu katika uendelezaji wa na Serikali wa Last Mile Connectivity. Kutokana biashara yetu. Utoshelezaji wa wateja ni nguzo na hilo, idadi ya Wakenya kitaifa walio na umeme muhimu katika kukuza Imani kwa Kampuni kufikia Juni 2018, iliongezeka hadi asilimia 73 ambayo inachangia ukuaji wa biashara na hali ya ikilinganishwa na asilimia 29 miaka mitano baadaye ya Kampuni. Ili kuafikia hayo, tulifanya iliyopita. kumbi za malipo ya bili katika Stima Plaza na Electricity House kuwa za kisasa na kuweka Kampeni yetu ya usambazaji umeme inajikita mtambo wa kisasa maarufu kama Customer katika shabaha yetu kuu ya kuongoza katika Journey Management System kutosheleza wateja usambazaji umeme na kudhibiti soko la na kutoa huduma kwa njia ifaayo. Pia, tulikarabati uunganishaji raia na umeme na kufanikisha azima vituo vingine vya utoaji huduma katika sehemu ya nchi kutoa umeme kwa Wakenya wote ambao tofauti za nchi. ni kiungo muhimu kwa mabadiliko ya kiuchumi na kijamii na maendeleo. Katika mazingira ya sasa ya kibiashara yanayobadilika, imekuwa muhimu kuunda Katika kipindi hicho, Kampuni ilikamilisha ujenzi mipango yetu ya mawasiliano na utangamano wa vituo vidogo vipya 8 vya thamani ya Sh 16.5 kwa namna ambayo itatuwezesha kushughulikia bilioni na kukarabati vingine 23 kwa gharama ya mahitaji mbalimbali ya washikadau. Hivyo Sh 3.3 bilioni kuimarisha na kupanua mtandao basi, tulidumisha vikao vya kutangamana na kwa utoaji huduma kwa njia ifaayo. Kampuni washikadau katika mwaka uliomalizika. Hii ni ilimalizia ujenzi wa kituo cha 220/66/11kV, pamoja na vikao vya majadiliano na majukwaa ya 400MVA Gas Insulated Substation (GIS) katika wenyehisa, washirika wa kibiashara, vyama vya eneo la Industrial Area, Nairobi. wateja na nguzo tatu kuu za serikali. Mradi huu ulizinduliwa na Rais mnamo Mei Baadhi ya makundi tuliotangamana nayo ni pamoja 2018 na umeleta utulivu zaidi na kutupa fursa na Kenya Association of Manufacturers, Kenya ya marekebisho katika usambazaji umeme wa Private Sector Alliance, Kenya National Chamber kutegemewa katika Jiji. Kituo kingine kidogo of Commerce and Industry na vyama kadha cha 132/33kV GIS katika Kipevu, Mombasa pia vya mitaani. kilizinduliwa katika kipindi hicho. Vituo hivyo vipya pia vinaongeza uzalishaji, na hivyo kutosheleza Ili kuunga mkono mpango wa Ajenda Nne Kuu, mahitaji ya umeme katika miji hiyo miwili. tuliharakisha ujenzi wa laini kadha za umeme kuhudumia vifaa muhimu vya kiviwanda na kilimo Tunajivunia utekelezaji uliofaulu wa Mpango na kuunganisha wateja 48 wapya wanaotumia wa Kitaifa wa Usambazaji Umeme ambao jumla ya MVA105 katika mwaka uliomalizika. umebadilisha pakubwa sura ya mitaa yetu, masoko Tunaona nafasi zaidi za ukuaji wa biashara yetu na makazi. Mpango huu wa Usambazaji Umeme tukianzisha miradi chini ya mpango huu. Hasa, Kitaifa unafadhiliwa na Serikali na kutekelezwa ukuaji wa sekta za uzalishaji wa kiviwanda, ukuzaji na Serikali kwa ushirikiano na serikali za kaunti chakula cha kutosha na nyumba utaongeza nafasi kwa lengo la kutoa mazingira bora ya kuendesha za kibiashara. uchumi kwa saa 24. Kujitolea kwetu Manufaa ya kuweka taa barabarani yanahusisha Kama jambo la dharura, kundi la wasimamizi usalama, kuendesha shughuli za kibiashara linalenga usambazaji umeme wa kiwango cha juu na kushirikisha manufaa mengine kama vile kwa kuimarisha mtandao wetu wa usambazaji kurembesha mazingira, shughuli za burudani na umeme na kuboresha taratibu zetu za ndani utangamano wa kijamii. kuimarisha huduma kwa wateja na imani ya washikadau. Tunalenga pia kudumisha kampeni ya Baada ya kuweka taa 113,204 na zile kubwa za usambazaji umeme kwa kuharakisha utekelezaji barabarani katika kaunti zote katika miaka mine wa Mradi wa Last Mile Connectivity ili kupanua iliyopita, kuna matarajio makubwa ya kuongeza uwepo wetu sokoni. mapato yetu tunaposambaza umeme kwa wale wasio na umeme, na pia katika maeneo ya mashambani. 24 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Vile vile, tumeanza kutekeleza mkakati wetu mpya wa Kampuni ambao unatilia maanani zaidi utendakazi wa wafanyakazi, utoaji umeme wa kutosha, wa hali ya juu na kwa njia ya kutegemewa, kuimarisha utoaji huduma, na kuhakikisha tunajitegemea kifedha. Mkakati huo ulibuniwa kwa kuzingatia mazingira ya kibiashara yanayobadilika, maendeleo ya kiteknolojia na mabadiliko yanayotarajiwa katika sekta ya kawi. Nina imani kwamba tuna mipango na mikakati bora itakayotuwezesha kuafikia malengo yetu ya kibiashara. Mhandisi Jared Othieno Kaimu Mkurugenzi Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 25 Nairobi City, Nairobi County 6:26 AM POWERING KENYA 26 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 27 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Commissioning of the Nairobi GIS substation 1. Strengthening and Expanding the Network  The ultra-modern Nairobi City Centre A strong and expansive electricity grid is (220/66/11kV, 400 MVA) Gas Insulated crucial in providing quality service to our Switchgear (GIS) substation funded by China customers and the backbone in securing Exim Bank was one of the new substations the power market for business sustainability. commissioned during the year. The Shs 13 During the year, we completed projects worth billion project entailed construction of 31 Shs 20 billion in our quest to build a resilient, kilometres of 66 kV underground power lines flexible and modern network. The projects from the GIS substation to six substations included construction of 8 new substations, located in Likoni Road, Muthurwa, City Square, enhancement of capacities for 23 existing Cathedral, Nairobi West and Parklands. It was substations and building additional feed-out implemented as part of the Kenya Electricity power lines from these substations. Modernisation Programme (KEMP) whose goals are to increase electricity access, The completed substations have expanded improve reliability of electricity supply and, our installed capacity by 1,096 MVA bringing consequently, enhance our profitability. The the total to 12,608 MVA as at end of the year. GIS substation provides an alternative bulk At the same time, capacity for secondary supply point for Nairobi City, creating the substations increased by 330 MVA to 7,606 much-needed flexibility for Nairobi and extra MVA. As at end of June 2018, the grid was capacity to cater for the growing demand in being served by 337 high and medium Nairobi’s downtown and the Upper Hill area. voltage substations; and 67,352 distribution transformers. Further, we extended our high New Substations for Network Resilience and medium voltage power lines by additional The seven other new substations completed 1,393 kilometres and 5,564 kilometres, and commissioned during the period provide bringing the total length to 6,252 kilometres 333MVA additional transformation capacity. and 74,644 kilometres respectively. The substation projects were implemented under the network modernisation programme  at a cost of Shs 3.5 billion as detailed in table below. Summary of new substations completed: Strategic/ Capital Masterplan Expenditure Capacity No. Project Name Scope Objective (Shs Million) (MVA) 1. Nairobi City 220/66/11kV Capacity 13,000 400 Center GIS Substation enhancement, Substation reliability and flexibility of Nairobi Region 2. Likoni Road 66/11kV Load growth in 521 90 Substation Industrial Area and Eastleigh 3. Awendo 132/33kV Capacity 868 46 Substation enhancement & reliability in Migori and Kisii counties 28 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Strategic/ Capital Masterplan Expenditure Capacity No. Project Name Scope Objective (Shs Million) (MVA) 4. Mamlaka Road 66/11kV Capacity 674 46 Substation enhancement, reliability and flexibility of Nairobi West and CBD 5. Kiu River 66/11kV Capacity 682 46 (Kirigiti) Substation enhancement, reliability and flexibility of Kiambu county 6. Kibebetiet 33/11kV Capacity 277 7.5 Substation enhancement and reliability of supply to Nandi County 7. Nyamira 33/11kV Capacity 277 7.5 Substation enhancement and reliability of supply to Nandi County 8. Athi river 220/ 66kV Capacity 217 90 substation enhancement and reliability of supply to major industries – cement factories Total 16,516 733 Enhancing Capacity for Existing Substations The 23 upgraded substations provide additional transformation capacity of 362.5MVA and have enabled us increase capacity for growing demand and improve network flexibility. The upgrading works were carried out at a total cost of Shs 3.4 billion. These projects include modernisation of the Kipevu substation, the main power supply point for Mombasa, to a GIS substation. Summary of upgraded substations: Capital Added Projects/ Strategic Expenditure Capacity No. Task Name Scope Objectives (Shs Million) (MVA/MVAr) 1. Uprate by 7.5 MVA Capacity Keroka 33/11kV and two enhancement in substation feedouts. Kisii county 69 7.5 2. Uprate from Capacity Kieni 33/11kV 2.5 to 7.5 enhancement in substation MVA Embu county 86 5 3. Install a second 7.5 MVA and Capacity Nyaga 33/11kV new control enhancement in substation room Kiambu county 110 7.5 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 29 Capital Added Projects/ Strategic Expenditure Capacity No. Task Name Scope Objectives (Shs Million) (MVA/MVAr) 4. Refurbish Control Improve New Airport building and reliability of 66/11kV install new supply to JKIA substation 11kV board and KPC 23 0 5. Install a Thika second Capacity 66/33/11kV 23 MVA enhancement in substation transformer Thika town 189 23 6. Capacity Uprate from enhancement 5 MVA to and improve 15 MVA and quality of supply Ikonge 33/11kV new control in Nyamira substation room county 66 10 7. Oloitoktok Uprate from Capacity 33/11kV 2.5 to 5 enhancement in substation MVA Kajiado county 75 2.5 8. Capacity enhancement Narok 33/11kV Uprate 5 to in Narok and substation 7.5 MVA environs 113 2.5 9. Capacity Uprate enhancement from 7.5 to and improve 15MVA and quality of supply Njoro 33/11kV new control in Njoro and substation room environs 94 7.5 10. New control room and Improve quality Malindi 33/11kV install 11kv of supply in Kilifi substation board. county 102 0 11. Uprate from Capacity 7.5 to 15 Enhancement & MVA and improve quality Migori 33/11kV new control of supply in substation room Migori town 33 7.5 12. Establish Olkaria I 132kV 132kv line Flexibility and substation bay quality of supply 43 0 13. Establish three 66kV Ruiru 66/33/11kV incomer Flexibility and substation bays quality of supply 32 0 14. Uprate from Capacity 23 to 46 enhancement MVA, install and improve Nanyuki 21 MVAr quality of supply 132/33kV capacitors to Laikipia substation and CBs County 242 44 30 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Capital Added Projects/ Strategic Expenditure Capacity No. Task Name Scope Objectives (Shs Million) (MVA/MVAr) 15. Replace 23 MVA with correct vector group Improve quality transformer, of supply to Kiganjo install Nyeri and 132/33kV 21 MVAr Kirinyaga substation capacitors counties 230 21 16. Uprate Kisumu East from 23 to Enhancing 33/11kV 46 MVA capacity in substation transformer Kisumu city 41 23 17. Improve quality of supply to Meru 132/33kV Install new Meru and substation reactor environs 153 7.5 18. Improve quality Musaga of supply to 132/33kV Install new Kakamega and substation reactor environs 153 40 19. Improved quality Mtito Andei of supply to 132/33kV Install new Mtito Andei and substation reactor environs 153 20 20. Capacity Uprate from enhancement Kabete 66/11kV 23 to 46 to Kabete and Substation MVA environs 108 23 21. New Bamburi Improved quality 132/33kV Install new of supply to substation capacitors Bamburi Cement 153 21 22. Capacity Uprate from enhancement to Mangu 132/33kV 120 to 210 Thika and Juja substation MVA towns 314 90 23. Reliability Kipevu Install new of supply to 132/33/11kV 33kV and Mombasa island substation 11kV GIS and environs 814 0 Total 3,396 362.5 2. Connecting More Customers in 2015 to scale up connectivity in rural and  The cost of extending the power supply peri-urban areas by providing subsidy for grid network remains a major challenge to extension to enable customers get electricity electrification especially in the country’s supply at affordable cost. Besides stimulating rural areas owing to effects of our land tenure economic growth at the micro-economic system. This has led to dispersed settlement level and improving quality of lives, LMCP patterns in rural areas making it expensive supports our strategy to grow our customer to extend utility services such as electricity base and electricity sales for long term and water. In view of this, the Last Mile business viability. Implementation of LMCP is Connectivity Project (LMCP) was launched organised in four distinct phases. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 31  Phase one of the project targets to THE K-OSAP PROJECT connect 224,952 customers by maximising electricity connections around 4,856 existing WILL CONNECT: 277,000 distribution transformers identified across all the 47 counties. This phase of the project is financed by the African Development Bank HOUSEHOLDS (AfDB) with a budget of Shs 15 billion. By 1,097 end of the financial year, a total 109,880 customers had been connected under COMMUNITY phase one translating to 49% of the target. FACILITIES Approximately 83% of required distribution power line extensions have been constructed. 380 BOREHOLES The project is earmarked for completion in USING SOLAR the current financial year. MINI-GRIDS  The second phase of the AfDB funded  Under the Government funded LMCP, we LMCP has an additional budget of Shs 15 connected 51,478 customers in the year billion. Under this phase, we are aiming to while the Rural Electrification Authority connect 314,200 customers by maximising (REA) added 56,596 new customers to electricity connections around 5,320 existing the grid. Another ongoing project towards distribution transformers straddled across increasing electricity access is the Kenya Offthe counties. Design works commenced in Grid Solar Access Project (K-OSAP) aimed January 2018 and the project is expected to at connecting 277,000 households, 1,097 be completed in the next financial year. community facilities and 380 boreholes using solar mini-grids. The K-OSAP project is at the  The World Bank funded phase of the development phase and will be implemented LMCP project targets to connect 200,000 in 14 least electrified counties in the country. customers by maximising power connections on 3,200 existing distribution transformers. 3. Lighting the Country In addition, this phase of the project to We continued to implement the Government be implemented at a budget of Shs 15 funded Public Lighting Programme during billion, involves installation of 1,000 new the year. Our role in the programme includes transformers prioritising areas with high maintenance of the street lighting network on growth potential. Project contractors have behalf of county governments. commenced works in various sites while By the end of the year under review, a total procurement of materials for the project is in of 113,204 lanterns and floodlights had been progress. This project phase is also scheduled installed across the 47 counties since the for completion in the next financial year. inception of the project in 2014. Similarly, the number of street lighting accounts rose from  The fourth phase of the project is jointly 4,520 to 10,401 over the same period with funded by the French Development Agency annual energy consumption growing by 171%, (AFD), European Union and European from 20 GWh to 55 GWh. Monthly billings Investment Bank at a combined budget of from street lighting accounts rose from Shs 22 billion. We are targeting to connect Shs 46 million in June 2017 to 296,649 customers using 4,591 existing Shs 81 million in June 2018. distribution transformers and install 353 new transformers. Procurement process for NATIONAL PUBLIC LIGHTING PROGRAMME  contractors is ongoing. AFD is also financing 113,204 LANTERNS AND the Transformer Densification project which FLOODLIGHTS INSTALLED entails installation of 1,000 transformers on existing medium voltage lines to further provide access to electricity. IN 47 COUNTIES Shs 81 MILLION REVENUE FOR JUNE 2018 32 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 We are working closely and creating liaison rose significantly by 14% to 5,053 GWh up between the Company security, national from 4,451 GWh the previous year. This eased security apparatus and local citizens to our overreliance on hydro power generation monitor the street lighting network and and mitigated increase in electricity costs address arising challenges that affect the by minimising dispatch of the expensive programme. These challenges include thermal power. Hydro generation reduced damage of underground network by other minimally from 3,341 GWh the previous year utilities, vandalism and securing memoranda to 3,224 GWh in the period. Similarly, energy of understanding and Maintenance purchased from thermal plants increased Agreements with county governments. marginally by 2% to 2,202 GWh from 2,165 GWh the previous year. Other improvement initiatives for the medium 8.8% and long term include; invoicing counties for maintenance work; automation of GROWTH IN the street lights with a complete central PEAK DEMAND monitoring system; and enhancement of street lighting working structures at county and regional levels. FROM 1,656 MW 1,802 MW TO HIGHEST ANNUAL DEMAND GROWTH IN RECENT YEARS 4. Energy to Meet Demand The installed generation capacity increased  Peak power demand registered on the national to 2,351 MW up from 2,333 MW the previous grid grew by 8.8% to 1,802 MW up from 1,656 financial year. The additional capacity MW the previous year. The increase in peak by includes 10MW of geothermal generation 146MW is the highest annual increase which from OrPower 4 Inc., 2.5 MW from Chania and is twice more than the 70MW incremental Gura hydro power plants developed by Kenya demand registered the previous period. Tea Development Authority (KTDA) and 0.25 The rapid growth in power demand was MW of solar generation from Strathmore largely driven by increased number of University which is the first solar plant to customers and growing consumption in the be connected to the national grid under the commercial and industrial sectors. The total Feed-in Tariffs policy. energy purchased in the year increased by 4.9% to 10,702 GWh up from 10,205 GWh the  previous year. CONTRIBUTION FROM GEOTHERMAL SOURCES INCREASED TO 47% 5. Time of Use Tariff Implementation of the Time of Use (TOU) tariff targeting customers in the Industrial and Commercial segment commenced OF THE TOTAL 10,702 GWh ENERGY in December 2017. The overall objective of the TOU tariff is to spur growth in the manufacturing sector through increased hours of production. The tariff will help boost 43.6% off-peak demand for electrical energy by THE industrial and commercial customers through COMPARED TO A PREVIOUS CONTRIBUTION OF YEAR shifting of demand from peak to off peak periods and thereby increasing consumption due to lower off-peak tariff. During the year, the energy mix remained  Additionally, the tariff enables us to relatively stable with contribution from optimally utilise baseload capacity mainly geothermal sources increasing to 47% up from geothermal resources during off-peak from 43.6 % the previous year. Hydro and periods while minimising use of thermal thermal plants respectively contributed 30.1 energy generation during peak time. % and 20.6% of the total energy purchased Under the TOU tariff, customers are given during the year. Total geothermal generation a 50 percent discount on the applicable The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 33 energy charge rate after attaining defined distributions network for the Company and consumption thresholds. the generators. It would also make the system status visible to KETRACO and the Energy Regulatory Commission. In addition, INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL 277 generation, transmission and distribution CUSTOMER SEGMENT CONTRIBUTE SIGNIFICANTLY TO OUR REVENUE substations will be visible to the National Control and ERC after the upgrade. 7. Automation of the Distribution System  A total of 818 customers of the 3,120 Distribution automation enables a utility to eligible customers under the Industrial and monitor, coordinate and operate distribution Commercial category benefited from the components in a real-time mode from discounted TOU tariff in the seven months remote locations, thus enhancing reliability period ending June 2018. The additional and quality of supply which are important electricity units sold from implementation indicators of efficient management of a of the pilot phase of the TOU tariff totaled power system. The benefits associated with 91 GWh which generated Shs 449 million automation include reducing revenue loss in revenue for the Company. This revenue and service restoration time; minimising is equivalent to savings by the beneficiary equipment damage; enabling availability of customers. system information; reducing operational costs; improving operational planning; 6. Modernising our IT Systems and enabling remote load control and Information technology systems are widely management. applied in our business processes and are critical for efficiency of our operations and The Company embarked on the distribution processes. Automation of processes and automation project in 2010 and has since the availability and reliability of information implemented the project in two regions in systems are therefore paramount in delivery phases. A pilot project carried out in Nairobi of services to our customers. The Company was completed in 2011. In the Coast region, the therefore regularly reviews and pursues distribution automation was implemented in adoption of such technology, with keen two phases. The first phase was implemented attention directed to aging applications, in the Mombasa island and completed in 2012. cyber security and big data analytics.  The second phase was completed during During the year, we rolled out the Integrated the year and covered surrounding coastal Customer Management System (InCMS) counties of Malindi, Kilifi and Kwale. This phase project to replace the 20-year-old Integrated of the project involved upgrading of both Customer Service (ICS) system. The benefits the mini Scada and the Telecommunication to be derived upon full implementation of System as well as supply, installation testing the InCMS project include its ability to invoke and commissioning of eighty-seven 11kV load massive data uploads from various sources, break switches, fifty-one 33kV load break providing new mobility tools for commercial switches and two RMUs. and technical purposes, and social media adaptability. Other superior features of  Following gains realised so far from the InCMS include its fully integrated security distribution automation project, a total of subsystem, advanced reporting capabilities USD 20million has been committed under and business analytics solutions. the World Bank funded Kenya Electricity Management Project (KEMP) for further work  We initiated upgrade of the Company’s covering the greater Nairobi Region which Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition includes Thika, Limuru and Athi River. system (SCADA) during the year. The advantages of the system upgrade include 8. Improving Billing Efficiency automation of system dispatch using the  We continually strive to enhance our latest EMS models and modules, management operational and technical efficiency by and maintenance of the transmission and adopting technological innovations aimed at improving business operations and customer 34 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 experience. Timeliness and accuracy in billing The new Integrated Customer Management are critical factors in building customer System (InCMS) replaced the Integrated confidence, winning their trust, meeting Customer Service (ICS) that had served the their expectations and key in enhancing their Company for more than 20 years. InCMS satisfaction. enables efficient integration of various customer service applications and supports In the recent past, the Company has remote user operations using various IT undertaken several initiatives to improve platforms. Migration to the new system, business operations which include the billing however, led to operational challenges leading process. Alignment of meters to the respective to billing challenges and attendant customer electricity distribution feeder lines to reduce complaints. Other teething problems energy losses and improve operational occurred during the implementation of efficiency is one of these initiatives. Others InCMS which contributed to lapses in service include digitisation of our infrastructural delivery. We are taking a multipronged assets in the Company’s information approach to address the challenges which technology system (Facilities Database/ includes training user groups and, data FDB) and upgrading of our customer service cleanup and reconciliation. management system (ICS to InCMS). We are committed to improve meter reading The FDB project entails digital mapping coverage to over 90% every month to of our infrastructure such as power lines, minimise complaints related to estimated transformers and meter boxes. Upon bills. To complement the meter reading digitisation, certain business operations efforts, we launched a meter self-reading including designs for new electricity module in InCMS and a mobile self-reading connections and meter readings will utilise application during the year. In addition, we FDB system to ease operations and improve upgraded our prepaid systems, a move that service delivery. As at end of project in 2016, has seen faster generation of electricity about 85% of post-paid meters had been tokens thus improving customer satisfaction. captured in FBD. 9. Enhancing Customer Experience To reduce commercial losses and improve In the period under review, we undertook system efficiency, we changed our meter several renovations and improvements of reading itinerary structure from geographicalservice delivery outlets to enhance customer based structure to feeder-based structure. experience in these touch points. We Traditionally, meter reading itineraries (group opened additional network operations and of meters that can be read by one reader per maintenance centres for efficient service day) were marked by geographical features to customers. To increase reach and create such as roads, building and rivers among convenience for our customers, we relocated other features. The newly adopted feederour commercial offices in Eldoret and Ukunda. based itinerary structure enables clustering of In the year, we also commissioned a Queue meters around electricity distribution feeders Management System at Electricity House to optimise the number of meters read in a and Stima Plaza banking halls in Nairobi to day. In addition, the new structure enables manage customer traffic, speed up service the Company monitor electricity sales to the and enrich customer experience. smallest business unit (FBBU) and effectively manage commercial losses. However, Industrial and Commercial customer segment implementation of the new itinerary structure contribute significantly to our revenue. was hampered by data inconsistencies in FDB Improving our relationship with them is system as well as complexity in the spread therefore of paramount importance to foster of our distribution network. These challenges loyalty and ensure business sustainability. In are being addressed in the ongoing FDB the period, we worked tirelessly to address data clean-up and distribution network some of their concerns on issues of power realignment. supply reliability and cost of electricity The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 35 as well as our responsiveness to service distribution. Commercial losses are mainly related matters and general communication. attributed to pilferages, faulty meters and Consequently, we instituted several meter tampering. During the year, system interventions for this premium customer losses increased to 20.5 percent, up from 18.9 category which include the following: percent the previous financial year. 1. Enhanced the presence of the Company’s  To manage system losses, the Company industrial liaison officers in all regions has developed a three-year Loss Reduction devoted to handle all customer Initiative Programme. We are working closely complaints for timely and effective with the International Finance Corporation resolution; (IFC Advisory Services) as the co-sponsor to 2.  O rganised Industrial visits by our implement the programme. The programme Managing Director and CEO and senior hinges on successful implementation of an management to better understand their ongoing project to identify and segregate service needs and provide customised losses using Energy Balance Module, solutions; a software that detects areas with high energy losses within our network. The recommended 3.  C reated WhatsApp groups for all measures will be implemented to effectively Industrial and Commercial customers in bring down system losses within the every region for real-time and two-way target period. communication on service related issues; 4. Conducted regular network improvement The Company is also pursuing conclusion of an programmes mainly focusing on feeders ongoing court case relating to procurement prone to interruptions; of 50,000 smart meters. The meters will be installed for those customers consuming 5.  H eld regional forums for industrial more than 500 units as a measure to contain customers in North Rift, West Kenya, commercial losses. At the same time, the Coast, Central Rift and Nairobi West focused approach to manage the network regions; through the Feeder Based Business Units will 6. S trengthened  partnerships with go a long way in reducing energy losses and organised business associations such as thereby enhancing system efficiency. Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), 11. Safeguarding Our Assets Kenya Association of Manufacturers The Company’s anti-vandalism programmes (KAM), Kenya National Chamber of continued to bear fruit as demonstrated by Commerce and Industry (KNCCI), the sustained downward trend in vandalism Kenya Flower Council (KFC) and Export incidences on transformers, conductors and Promotion Council (EPC). other powerline accessories over the years. 10. Managing System Losses The number of transformers vandalised Over the last five years, the power distribution reduced to 100, down from 133 the previous network has expanded considerably in year and well below a high of 535 cases tandem with the rapid pace of new electricity recorded four years ago, representing a connections. In the same period, the circuit cumulative 81.3 % decline. length for high and medium voltage power lines increased by 10 percent while the Decline in vandalism is attributed to sustained customer base grew by an average of 24 anti-vandalism measures carried out across percent annually. The extended network and the country. The measures include heightened growth in customer numbers has led to a surveillance of the network in liaison with consequent increase in system losses. other security stakeholders, indepth investigations of vandalism cases, speedy Power system losses comprise both technical prosecution of vandals and fraudsters, and commercial components. Technical imposition of high penalties and enhancing losses occur when electrical energy is community awareness and involvement in dissipated in the process of transmission and the fight against vandalism. We have also 36 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 incorporated use of technology in detection  The institute, with external support from and deterrence of crime by installation RES4Africa, is establishing a facility to offer of CCTV cameras in some of our critical training and research in renewable energy installations, and consequently enabled technologies named the Micro-Grid Academy further reduction in the number of incidences (MGA). The Micro-Grid Academy is an by 29 percent compared to the previous year. Eastern-African Regional vocational capacity building platform that aims to enhance access 100 to energy and green jobs market through technical and entrepreneurial training THE NUMBER OF TRANSFORMERS programs on decentralized renewable energy VANDALISED REDUCED TO solutions. The support includes installation of 133 535 a 20-40kW micro-grid for hands-on training, THE PREVIOUS the Academy will train East-African young YEAR AND WELL DOWN FROM BELOW A HIGH OF technicians, Managers and Engineers on CASES RECORDED FOUR YEARS AGO, REPRESENTING A CUMULATIVE how to plan, design, build and operate grid 81.3% connected and hybrid mini-grids in rural and remote areas. DECLINE Since the launch of our fibre optic business  in early 2010, the Company has signed Similarly, we focused on responsiveness to 5-20 years lease agreements with several issues raised by both internal and external telecommunications operators at competitive customers by setting up a security helpdesk, market driven prices. In the year under email address and a toll-free telephone line review, we installed 1,300 km of fibre optic through which staff and customers can report cable bringing the total of ADSS Fibre cable incidents of security concern. The helpdesk is anchored on the distribution network to manned at the security command and control 2,500 km. Through KPI, we aim to grow the centre which operates on a 24 hours basis all Fibre Network and provide inter-connection year round. from Kenya to the entire Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) In addition, the Company placed emphasis region and beyond. In addition, we have on protecting revenue at the level of the an ongoing pilot project with Safaricom newly established feeder-based units. We dubbed Fibre to the Home that targets carried out specific security programmes provision of their service to 12,000 homes in aimed at reducing energy losses. Such the residential estates Ruaka, Ridgeways and losses are occasioned by the mushrooming Muthithi Gardens in Kiambu County. The pilot of illegal lines and theft of power. A total is generating about Shs 24 million annually. of 497 security operations were conducted across the country during the year, leading to We have developed a strategy to guide the 88 arrests. subsidiary in the long term for increased revenue streams growth and business 12. Revenue Diversification sustainability. Part of its initiatives include Formation of the Kenya Power International improving quality of service, developing (KPI) as a wholly owned subsidiary of the partnerships, and building its reputation as a Company begun three years ago as a business centre of excellence and innovation. diversification strategy to create alternative revenue streams. KPI is responsible for 13. FBBU for Business Transformation managing our Fibre Optic broadband business  During the year, the Company adopted and expanding its market footprint. The firm the Feeder Based Business Unit (FBBU) is also responsible for sourcing consultancy programme. The purpose of the programme opportunities in utility management as is to place emphasis and pay close attention well as transforming the Institute of Energy to the feeder, the power line from a Studies and Research (IESR), formerly Kenya substation that directly serves customers, by Power Training School, as a regional centre of strategically reallocating resources. This is a excellence for energy training and research. more efficient approach in the management The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 37 of network assets, with relevantly-skilled  Our customer to staff ratio, derived from staff being focused to a business unit within total workforce of 10,993 serving 6,761,090 a close geographical locality that is based on customers, stands at 1:615. This is an a feeder line. improvement in efficiency from the previous year of 1:547 and a low of 1:261 five years The programme was created with an aim ago with a workforce 10,590 of serving to improve productivity and to facilitate 2,767,983 at the time. Staff to customer ratio optimal utilisation of resources with clear is an important productivity indicator that accountability. The reorganisation of the measures the level of engagement of staff in working processes was aimed at enhancing serving the customers for optimal utilisation. synergy through joint work planning, execution and reviews. The programme’s During the year, we conducted an Employee objective is not only to enhance productivity Satisfaction Survey necessary for obtaining and efficiency but also to help us grow our feedback from employees on their perception revenue and reduce our costs while improving about the Company, their work environment our customer experience through provision of and overall employee engagement. The quality and reliable power supply. survey also helps the Company to gauge employee productivity levels that informs The new FBBU structure will be supported management on decisions that improve through the newly adopted Balanced Score performance. The overall satisfaction index Card performance management system, was 64.9% up from 63.3% in the previous a holistic approach that also incorporates survey. Productivity index stood at 75% while a culture change and business process engagement index was at 70.5%. reengineering. The achievements will be realised by leveraging on ICT systems for The Company effected numerous initiatives business process improvement, enhanced in the year to enhance efficiency and record keeping and data analysis. In productivity of our employees. These include addition, the Company will fast track skills performance contracting, staff training and enhancement through both formal training resource alignment to support Feeder Based and peer training at FBBU level. Through the Business Unit management approach. programme, it is envisaged we shall transform our way of doing business by embracing a The performance contracting process was on preventive maintenance culture. its 15th cycle since commencement in 2004. The process provides a more integrated  During the financial year, the Company and continuous approach to assess and reorganised the County offices to create rate employee performance. Performance one overall in-charge for each of the FBBUs contracting is based on the principle of who reports directly to the County Business management by agreement or contract Manager. Employees who were previously in rather than management by command. This charge of operations and maintenance and ensures continuous improvement in employee customer service sections at county level performance. were redeployed to the FBBUs.  The number of management employees 14. Building an Effective Workforce on performance contracting regime during Employees are the most critical contributors the year totalled 4,832. The performance to the organisational performance of the contracting process has helped us make Company and key in growing shareholder improvements in our business operations value. Their attitudes, skills and competencies and achieve corporate targets. In the medium have a direct impact on service delivery to term, the Company will adopt a Workforce our customers. The Company is committed Management System to effectively manage to developing and retaining an engaged and staff productivity and costs. talented workforce necessary to deliver on our mandate and to achieve our strategic objectives. 38 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 We carried out focused employee capacity  15. Entrenching a Safety Culture building programmes in the period to  Our ability to provide a safe and healthy enhance skills and competencies. One of working environment is fundamental to the major trainings undertaken included any responsible Company. Safety is a an intensive one-year induction training major concern as it affects our employees, programme for 120 newly recruited engineers contractors and the public leading to fatalities who were later deployed to reinforce our and injuries. FBBU teams. In addition, we carried out sign language training for some of our employees We are taking a more holistic approach to working in banking halls across the country Safety Health and Environment policy that to improve customer experience for the hearing guides our employees, contractors, customers impaired. and the public. In the year, we continued to implement safety programmes to address Successful implementation of the FBBU strategy risks and injuries both to our employees and is dependent on allocation of adequate resources the public. Some of the safety initiatives we towards supporting critical functions for effective undertook during the year included niche service delivery at the customer level. Towards training programmes for technical staff, this, the Company deployed technical and safety compliance training in accordance support staff to manage business operations to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, in the 148-devolved feeder-based units. Each 2007, public awareness campaigns and feeder-based unit is headed by an overall officer removing illegal structures encroaching in-charge who reports to a County Business our wayleave traces (Ondokea Laini multi Manager. Individual feeders within the FBBU are sectoral campaign). assigned to team supervisors. There has been a general decline in employee To improve work environment for employees, the occupational fatalities in recent years because Company enhanced the security and capacity of of sustained safety measures and awareness our facilities through renovation and construction programmes. We will continue to focus on carried out in Nairobi South, Ruiru, Eldoret, improving our safety culture to address key Kisumu, Nakuru, Mandera, Wajir, Muhoroni and risks and hazards as a mitigation strategy Chemelil depots and offices. towards elimination of injuries and fatalities. On the industrial relations front, we held several consultative meetings across business regions to enhance cordial relationship between Management and unionisable staff. Eng. Jared Othieno Ag. Managing Director & CEO The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 39 MATOKEO YA OPERESHENI Uzinduzi wa kituo kidogo cha GIS Nairobi Kituo cha kisasa katikati mwa jiji la Nairobi 1. Kuimarisha na Kupanua Mtandao cha (220/66/11kV, 400 MVA) Gas Insulated Mtandao thabiti na pana wa nyaya za umeme Switchgear (GIS) kilichofadhiliwa na China ni muhimu katika utoaji wa umeme wa Exim Bank ni moja ya vituo vidogo vipya kiwango cha juu kwa wateja wetu na nguzo ambavyo vilizinduliwa mwaka uliomalizika. kuu katika kudhibiti sekta ya umeme kwa Mradi huo wa Sh13 bilioni ulishirikisha ujenzi uendelezaji wa biashara yetu. Katika mwaka wa kilomita 31 za laini za kubeba kV 66 chini ya uliomalizika, tulikamilisha miradi ya thamani ardhi kutoka kituo kidogo cha GIS hadi vituo ya Sh 20 bilioni katika azma yetu ya kuunda vingine vidogo sita katika maeneo ya Likoni mtandao thabiti, imara na wa kisasa. Miradi Road, Muthurwa, City Square, Cathedral, hiyo ni pamoja na ujenzi wa vituo vidogo Nairobi West na Parklands. Ulitekelezwa vipya 8, kukarabati vingine 23 na ujenzi wa kama sehemu ya mpango maarufu wa Kenya laini mpya za kusafirisha umeme kutoka kwa Electricity Modernisation Programme (KEMP) vituo hivyo vidogo. ambao unalenga kuwezesha wateja kupata umeme kwa urahisi, kuboresha viwango vya  Vituo hivyo vilivyokamilika vimeongeza usambazaji na hivyo kuongeza mapato yetu. umeme wetu kwa MVA 1,096 na hivyo Kituo kidogo cha GIS ni kituo mbadala cha kufikisha jumla ya umeme kuwa MVA 12,608 kusambaza umeme wa kiwango kikubwa kufikia mwisho wa mwaka. Vile vile, umeme katika jiji la Nairobi, na hivyo kutosheleza katika vituo vingine vidogo uliongezeka kwa mahitaji zaidi ya umeme katikati mwa jiji na MVA 330 hadi MVA 7,606. Kufikia mwisho eneo la Upper Hill. wa Juni 2018, mtandao wetu ulikuwa unahudumiwa na vituo vidogo vya uwezo  Vituo vipya vidogo kwa Uthabiti wa wastani na mkubwa 337, na transfoma wa Mtandao 67,352. Isitoshe, tulipanua mtandao wetu wa Vituo vingine vipya saba vilivyojengwa na laini za umeme wa wastani na wa kiwango kuzinduliwa katika kipindi hicho hutoa MVA cha juu kwa kilomita 1,393 na kilomita 333 zaidi. Miradi ya ujenzi wa vituo vipya 5,564 mtawalia, na hivyo kufikisha jumla ulitekelezwa chini ya mpango wa kuufanya ya urefu kuwa kilomita 6,252 na kilomita mtandao wetu mpya kwa gharama ya Sh 3.5 74,644 mtawalia. bilioni kama inavyoonyeshwa kwenye jedwali ifuatayo. Mukhtasari wa vituo vidogo vipya vilivyokamilika: Matumizi ya Malengo ya mtaji No. Jina la Mradi Kiwango Mkakati (Sh Milioni) Uwezo (MVA) 1. Kituo kidogo Kituo Kuimarisha cha Nairobi City kidogo cha uwezo na Center GIS 220/66/11kV kuufanya wa kutegemewa katika eneo la Nairobi 13,000 400 2. Likoni Road Kituo kidogo Kuongeza cha 66/11kV umeme katika maeneo ya Industrial Area na Eastleigh 521 90 3. Awendo Kituo kidogo Kuimarisha cha 132/33kV uwezo na kuufanya wa kutegemewa katika kaunti za Migori na Kisii 868 46 40 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Matumizi ya Malengo ya mtaji No. Jina la Mradi Kiwango Mkakati (Sh Milioni) Uwezo (MVA) 4. Mamlaka Road Kituo kidogo Kuimarisha cha uwezo na 66/11kV kuufanya wa kutegemewa katika Nairobi West na katikati mwa jiji 674 46 5. Kiu River (Kirigiti) Kituo kidogo Kuimarisha cha uwezo na 66/11kV kuufanya wa kutegemewa katika kaunti ya Kiambu 682 46 6. Kibebetiet Kituo kidogo Kuongeza cha usambazaji wa 33/11kV umeme katika kaunti ya Nandi 277 7.5 7. Nyamira Kituo kidogo Kuongeza cha usambazaji 33/11kV wa umeme katika kaunti ya Nyamira 277 7.5 8. Athi river Kituo kidogo Kuboresha cha uzambaji umeme 220/ 66kV kwa viwanda vikubwa-vya saruji 217 90 Jumla 16,516 733 Kuongeza Uwezo wa Vituo vidogo Vilivyopo Vituo vidogo 23 vilivyoimarishwa vinatoa umeme zaidi wa MVA 362.5MVA na vimetuwezesha kuongeza umeme kutosheleza mahitaji yanayozidi na kuboresha mtandao wetu. Shughuli zote za ukarabati ziligharimu Sh 3.4 bilioni. Miradi hiyo ni pamoja na ujenzi upya wa kituo kidogo cha Kipevu, kituo kikuu cha usambazaji umeme Mombasa hadi kwa kituo kidogo cha GIS. Mukhtasari wa vituo vilivyoimarishwa: Mtaji (MVA/ Miradi/ Jina la Malengo uliotumika MVAr) ziliNo. kituo Uwezo muhimu (Sh Milioni) zoongezwa 1. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuongeza Keroka 33/11kV kwa MVA 7.5. kiwango cha umeme katika kaunti ya Kisii 69 7.5 2. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuongeza Kyeni 33/11kV kutoka MVA 2.5 kiwango cha hadi 7.5 umeme katika kaunti ya Embu 86 5 3. Kituo kidogo cha Kuweka MVA Kuongeza Nyaga 33/11kV 7.5 za pili na kiwango cha chumba kipya umeme katika cha mawasiliano kaunti ya Kiambu 110 7.5 4. Kituo kidogo cha Kukarabati jingo Kuboresha New Airport la mawasiliano usambazaji 66/11kV na kuweka bodi umeme hadi ya 11kV JKIA na KPC 23 0 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 41 Mtaji (MVA/ Miradi/ Jina la Malengo uliotumika MVAr) ziliNo. kituo Uwezo muhimu (Sh Milioni) zoongezwa 5. Kituo kidogo cha Kuweka Kuongeza Thika 66/33/11kV transfoma ya kiwango cha pili ya MVA 23 umeme Thika mjini 189 23 6. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuongeza Ikonge 33/11kV kutoka MVA 5 kiwango cha hadi MVA 15 na umeme katika chumba kipya kaunti ya Nyamira cha mawasiliano 66 10 7. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuongeza Oloitoktok kutoka MVA 2.5 kiwango cha 33/11kV hadi MVA 5 umeme katika kaunti ya Kajiado 75 2.5 8. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuongeza Narok 33/11kV kutoka MVA 5 kiwango cha hadi 7.5 umeme katika Narok na viunga vyake 113 2.5 9. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuongeza Njoro 33/11kV kutoka MVA 7.5 kiwango cha hadi 15 na ujenzi umeme katika wa chumba Njoro na kipya cha viunga vyake mawasiliano 94 7.5 10. Kituo kidogo cha Chumba kipya Kuboresha Malindi 33/11kV cha mawasiliano usambazaji na bodi ya kV 11. umeme kaunti ya Kilifi 102 0 11. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuongeza Migori 33/11kV kutoka MVA kiwango na 7.5 hadi 15 na kuboresha chumba kipya usambazaji cha mawasiliano Migori mjini 33 7.5 12. Kituo kidogo cha Ujenzi wa laini Kuboresha Olkaria I 132kV ya kV 132 usambazaji 43 0 13. Kituo kidogo cha Ujenzi wa Kuboresha Ruiru 66/33/11kV mitambo ya usambazaji kudhibiti kV 66 32 0 14. Kituo kidogo cha Kukiimarisha Kuboresha Nanyuki 132/33kV kutoka MVA usambazaji 23 hadi 46 umeme katika MVA, ujenzi wa kaunti ya Laikipia 242 44 mitambo ya kuhimili MVA 21 na CBs 15. Kituo kidogo cha Kubadilisha Imarisha viwango Kiganjo 132/33kV MVA 23 na vya usambazaji transfoma katika kaunti inayofaa, za Nyeri na 230 21 kuweka Kirinyaga mitambo ya kuhimili MVA 21. 16. Kituo kidogo cha Kuimarisha Kuimarisha Kisumu East transfoma usambazaji 41 23 33/11kV kutoka MVA 23 umeme katika jiji hadi 46 la Kisumu 42 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Mtaji (MVA/ Miradi/ Jina la Malengo uliotumika MVAr) ziliNo. kituo Uwezo muhimu (Sh Milioni) zoongezwa 17. Kituo kidogo cha Kuweka tanuri Kuimarisha Meru 132/33kV mpya usambazaji 153 7.5 umeme Meru na viunga vyake 18. Kituo kidogo cha Kuweka tanuri Kuboresha Musaga 132/33kV mpya viwango vya usambazaji 153 40 umeme Kakamega na viunga vyake 19. Kituo kidogo cha Kuweka tanuri Kuimarisha Mtito Andei mpya viwango vya 153 20 132/33kV Mtito Andei na viunga vyake 20. Kituo kidogo cha Kuimarisha Kuimarisha Kabete 66/11kV kiwango cha viwango vya 108 23 umeme kutoka umeme Kabete MVA 23 hadi 46 na viunga vyake 21. Kituo kidogo cha Kuweka vifaa Kuboresha New Bamburi vipya vya usambazaji 153 21 132/33kV kugawa umeme umeme kwa Bamburi Cement 22. Kituo kidogo cha Kuimarisha Kuimarisha Mangu 132/33kV kiwango cha usambazaji katika umeme kutoka miji ya Thika na 314 90 120 hadi MVA Juja 210 23. Kuboresha Kuweka Kituo kidogo cha usambazaji mitambo mipya Kipevu umeme kisiwani 814 0 ya kV 33 na kV 132/33/11kV Mombasa na 11 kwa GIS viunga vyake Jumla 3,396 362.5 2. Kuunganisha Wateja Zaidi mauzo ili kudumisha biashara. Utekelezaji wa Gharama ya kupanua mtandao bado imesalia LMCP unafanywa katika awamu nne. kuwa changamoto kuu katika kusambaza umeme hasa maeneo ya mashambani kwa  Awamu ya kwanza inalenga miradi ya sababu ya mfumo wa umiliki ardhi. Maboma kuunganisha wateja 224,952 kwa kutumia hadi yametapakaa na kuwa vigumu kusambaza upeo takriban transfoma 4,856 za kusambaza umeme na maji. Kutokana na hilo, Mradi umeme zilizopatikana katika kaunti zote 47. wa Kueneza Umeme Mashinani, Last Mile Awamu hii ya mradi imefadhiliwa na Benki ya Connectivity Project (LMCP), ulizinduliwa African Development (AfDB) kwa gharama 2015 kuimarisha juhudi hizo mashambani ya Sh 15 bilioni. Kufikia mwisho wa mwaka na viungani mwa miji, kwa kutoa ruzuku wa fedha, jumla ya wateja 109,880 walikuwa kwa wateja wanaoweza kujiwekea umeme wameunganishwa, na kutimiza asilimia 49 nyumbani kwa gharama nafuu. Kando na ya shabaha yetu. Takriban asilimia 83 ya kuchochea ustawi wa kiuchumi, mashinani nyaya za kusambaza umeme zinazohitajika na kuimarisha maisha ya wananchi, mradi zimeundwa. Mradi huo unatazamiwa wa LMCP unaambatana na mkakati wetu wa kukamilika katika mwaka wa sasa wa kifedha. kuongeza idadi ya wateja na kiwango cha The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 43 Awamu ya pili ya mradi wa LMCP na ambayo 3. Kuangaza Taifa inafadhiliwa na AfDB iko na bajeti ya ziada  Tuliendelea kutekeleza mradi wa serikali ya Sh 15 bilioni. Katika awamu hii, tunanuia wa kuweka taa za umma (National Public kuunganisha wateja 314,200 kwa kutumia Lighting Programme). Jukumu letu katika hadi upeo takriban transfoma 5,320 zilizo mradi huu ni pamoja na kutunza taa za katika kaunti. Uchoraji ramani ya mradi ulianza barabarani kwa niaba ya serikali za kaunti. Januari 2018 na mradi wenyewe unatarajiwa kukamilika katika mwaka ujao wa kifedha.  Kufikia mwisho wa mwaka huu, jumla ya taa 113,204 ziliwekwa katika kaunti zote 47 Awamu ya mradi wa LMCP inayofadhiliwa na tangu mradi huo kuanzishwa 2014. Vile vile, Benki ya Dunia inalenga kuunganisha wateja idadi ya taa za barabarani iliongezeka kutoka 200,000 kwa kutumia hadi upeo transfoma 4,520 hadi 10,401 katika kipindi hicho huku 3,200 zilizopo. Vile vile, awamu hii ambayo kiwango cha umeme uliotumika kikipanda itafadhiliwa kwa Sh 15 bilioni inajumuisha kwa asilimia 171, kutoka GWh 20 hadi mradi wa kuweka transfoma 1,000 mpya kwa GWh 55. Bili za kila mwezi za umeme kuzingatia kwanza maeneo yanayoonyesha unaotumiwa na taa za barabarani uwezo mkubwa wa ukuaji. Wanakandarasi zilipanda kutoka Sh 46 milioni watarajiwa wameanza kazi katika maeneo mwezi wa Juni mwaka uliopita hadi mbalimbali, nao ununuzi wa vifaa ukiendelea. Sh 81 milioni Juni mwaka wa makadirio. Awamu hii ya tatu ya mradi pia inatarajiwa kukamilika katika mwaka ujao wa fedha.  Tunafanya kazi kwa karibu na kukuza ushirikiano kati ya walinzi wa Kampuni, maafisa Awamu ya nne ya LMCP inafadhiliwa kwa wa usalama wa kitaifa na wananchi kulinda pamoja na Benki ya French Development taa hizo na kukabiliana na changamoto ibuka Agency (AFD), Muungano wa Ulaya na katika mradi huo. Changamoto hizi ni pamoja Benki ya European Investment kwa kitita na kuharibika kwa kebo za ardhini, wizi wa cha Sh 22 bilioni. Tunalenga kuunganisha vifaa, na kudumisha Mwafaka wa Makubaliano wateja 296,649 kwa kutumia transfoma na Mikataba ya Utunzi baina yetu na serikali 4,591 zilizopo na kuweka transfoma 353 za kaunti. mpya. Shughuli ya kuteua wanakandarasi inaendelea. Benki ya AFD pia inafadhili mradi  Miradi mingine tunayohusika ni pamoja na wa Kuongeza Idadi ya Transfoma ambapo kutuma bili za huduma za utunzi kwa serikali transfoma 1,000 za kusambaza umeme wa za kaunti; kuweka mfumo mmoja mkuu kiwango cha kadri zitawekwa ili kuimarisha otomati wa kuendesha taa za barabarani; upatikanaji wa umeme. na kuimarisha mifumo ya taa za barabarani katika kaunti na kanda.  Katika mradi wa LMCP unaofadhiliwa na Serikali, tuliunganisha wateja 51,478 mwaka 4. Kawi ya Kutimiza Mahitaji huu huku Mamlaka ya Kusambaza Umeme  Kawi tuliyonunua iliongezeka hadi MW Mashambani (REA) ikiunganisha wateja 2,351 kutoka MW 2,333 mwaka wa fedha wapya 56,596 katika mtandao. Mradi uliopita. Kawi hiyo ya ziada inajumuisha mwingine unaoendelea ni ule wa kusambaza MW 10 zilizozalishwa kutokana na mvuke umeme uliozalishwa kutokana na miyale ya katika kiwanda cha OrPower 4 Inc.; MW 2.5 jua katika maeneo yasiyo na umeme, Kenya kutoka viwanda vya Chania na Gura vya Off-Grid Solar Access Project (K-OSAP). kawi inayotokana na maji, vinavyomilikiwa Unalenga kuunganisha nyumba 277,000, na Mamlaka ya Ustawi wa Majani Chai Kenya taasisi 1,097 za kijamii na visima 380 kwa (KTDA); na MW 0.25 zilizozalishwa kutokana kutumia mitandao midogo inayosambaza na miyale ya jua katika kiwanda cha Chuo umeme uliozalishwa kutokana na miyale ya Kikuu cha Strathmore, cha kwanza kabisa cha jua. Mradi wa K-OSAP uko katika awamu ya miyale ya jua kuunganishwa kwenye mtandao matayarisho na utatekelezwa katika kaunti wa kitaifa wa kusambaza umeme kupitia 14 ambazo ziko na maeneo machache mno sera ya Feed-in Tariffs. Sera hii inatoa fursa yenye umeme. kwa wawekezaji wa kibinafsi kuuza umeme wanaozalisha kutokana na nishati mbadala (renewable energy). 44 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Katika mwaka huu, mseto wa kawi ulisalia kilele. Kuambatana na sera ya TOU, wateja imara huku kiwango cha nishati ya mvuke hupunguziwa ada ya umeme kwa asilimia 50 kikiongezeka hadi asilimia 47 kutoka asilimia baada ya kuhitimisha kiwango kilichowekwa 43 mwaka awali. Viwanda vya nishati ya ili kupokea ofa hiyo. maji na joto vilichangia asilimia 30.1 na 20.6 mtawalia ya kawi yote iliyonunuliwa mwaka Jumla ya wateja 818 kati ya 3,120 wa viwanda huu. Kiwango cha jumla cha nishati ya na biashara walioteuliwa kunufaika na ofa hiyo mvuke kiliongezeka pakubwa kwa asilimia 14, ya TOU walifaidika katika kipindi cha miezi hadi GWh 5,053 kutoka GWh 4,451 mwaka saba kufikia mwisho wa Juni 2018. Umeme awali. Hii ilisaidia kupunguza mzigo wa wa ziada uliouzwa tangu kuanza kutekelezwa kutegemea umeme unaozalishwa na nishati kwa awamu ya majaribio ya TOU ni jumla ya ya maji. Aidha, ilizuia ongezeko la gharama ya GWh 91, na umeletea Kampuni mapato ya umeme kwa kupunguza matumizi ya umeme Shs449 milioni. Mapato hayo ni sawa na akiba unaotokana na joto ambao ni ghali mno. ya wateja walionufaika na ofa. Umeme wa nishati ya mvuke ulipungua kiasi kutoka GWh 3,341 mwaka awali hadi GWh 6.  uimarisha Mifumo ya Teknolojia za Habari K (IT) kuwa ya Kisasa 3,224 katika kipindi kinachotathminiwa. Vile  Mifumo ya teknolojia za habari inatumika vile, umeme uliotoka kwa viwanda vya nishati pakubwa katika shughuli zetu za biashara ya joto uliongezeka kiasi kwa asilimia 2, hadi na ni muhimu kwa utendakazi bora wa GWh 2,202 kutoka GWh 2,165 mwaka awali. operesheni na taratibu zetu. Kufanya Kilele cha matumizi ya umeme kutoka kwa operesheni hizo kuwa otomati zenye mtandao wa kitaifa kilipanda kwa asilimia 8.8, kujiendesha, kuwezesha upatikanaji rahisi hadi MW 1,802 kutoka MW 1,656 mwaka awali. wa tekonolojia, na kuhakikisha mifumo yetu Kupanda kwa kilele hicho kwa MW 146 ndilo ya habari ni thabiti ni masuala muhimu sana ongezeko la juu zaidi la mwaka kutokea, mara katika utoaji huduma bora kwa wateja wetu. mbili zaidi ya ongezeko la MW 70 mwaka Hivyo, Kampuni hufanya tathmini za mara awali. Ongezeko hilo kubwa la hitaji la umeme kwa mara na kufuatilia teknolojia za kisasa lilichangia pakubwa na ongezeko la wateja ikizingatia usalama wa intaneti, programu pamoja na matumizi katika sekta za biashara kukuu, na sayansi ya uchanganuzi wa data. na viwanda. Jumla ya kawi iliyonunuliwa iliongezeka kwa asilimia 4.9, hadi GWh 10,702  Katika mwaka huu tulizindua Mfumo kutoka GWh 10,205 mwaka awali. Unganishi wa Kusimamia Wateja, Integrated Customer Management System (InCMS), 5. Ada ya Muda wa Matumizi kuchukua pahala pa mfumo wa Huduma Utekelezaji wa ada ya muda wa matumizi, Unganishi za Wateja, Integrated Customer yaani Time of Use (TOU), inayolenga wateja Service (ICS), uliotumika kwa miaka ishirini. katika sekta ya viwanda na biashara ilianza Faida zitakazotokana na utekelezaji wa InCMS Desemba 2017. Lengo kuu la ada hii ni ni pamoja na uwezo wa kupakia data ya kuchochea ukuaji wa sekta ya utengenezaji kiwango kikubwa kutoka sehemu mbalimbali, bidhaa kwa kuongeza saa za uzalishaji. Ada kutoa vifaa vipya vya kutumika kibiashara na hiyo itasaidia kupiga jeki hitaji la umeme kiufundi, na uwezo wa kutumia mitandao kwa wateja wa viwanda na biashara wakati ya kijamii kwa urahisi. Manufaa mengine ya ambao si kilele cha matumizi, kwa kuhamisha mfumo mpya wa InCMS ni kwamba unakuja mahitaji kutoka wakati wa kilele hadi wakati na mfumo mdogo unganishi wa usalama, usio kilele na hivyo kuongeza matumizi, kwa uwezo wa hali ya juu wa kunakili, na mbinu sababu wateja watalipa ada ya chini wakati za uchanganuzi wa biashara. usio kilele.  Tulianza kuimarisha mfumo uliokuwa  Vile vile, ada hiyo inatuwezesha kutumia ukitumiwa na Kampuni wa kudhibiti na kikamilifu umeme wakati mahitaji yako chini kukusanya data, Supervisory Control and kabisa, hususan umeme kutoka kwa nishati Data Acquisition (SCADA), mwaka huu. ya mvuke wakati usio kilele huku tukipunguza Manufaa ya uimarishaji huo ni kugeuza matumizi ya nishati ya joto wakati wa mfumo wa mawasiliano kuwa otomati kwa The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 45 kutumia miundo na mitindo ya kisasa ya 8. Kuimarisha Utayarishaji Bili za Umeme EMS; usimamizi na utunzi wa mitambo ya  Tunajizatiti kuimarisha utendakazi wetu wa ya Kampuni ya usambazaji na jenereta. Pia kikazi na kiufundi kwa kutumia teknolojia itawezesha KETRACO na tume ya kudhibiti bunifu zinazoimarisha operesheni za biashara kawi (ERC) kufuatilia hali ya mfumo yetu. na huduma kwa wateja. Utayarishaji bili sahihi Vile vile, vituo vidogo 277 vya kutengeneza, za umeme kwa wakati unaofaa ni muhimu sana kupitisha na kusambaza umeme vitaweza kukuza imani ya wateja, kutimiza matakwa kufuatiliwa na Kituo cha Kitaifa cha Udhibiti yao na kuwapa huduma zinazowatosheleza. na tume ya ERC uimarishaji ukishakamilika. Katika siku za hivi karibuni, Kampuni ilichukua 7. K  ugeuza Mfumo wa Usambazaji kuwa hatua kadha kuimarisha operesheni za wa kujiendesha biashara ikiwemo utaratibu wa kutoa bili. Kugeuza mfumo wa usambazaji kuwa otomati Moja ya hatua hizo ni kuunganisha mita za kunatoa fursa kwa kampuni kufuatilia, umeme moja kwa moja kwa nyaya ndogo kusimamia na kuendesha mitambo katika za usambazaji ili kupunguza uwezekano wa wakati halisi kutoka maeneo ya mbali, na hivyo kupotea kwa umeme, na vile vile kuimarisha kuimarisha utegemezi na ubora wa huduma, utendakazi wa mitambo hiyo. Hatua zingine ni vigezo ambavyo ni muhimu katika usimamizi kuhifadhi rekodi ya miundomsingi yetu katika bora wa mfumo wa utoaji umeme. Manufaa hali ya kidijitali (Facilities Database/FDB). ya kufanya mambo kiotomati ni pamoja na Pia kuimarisha mfumo wetu wa usimamizi kupunguza hasara; kupunguza muda wa wa huduma za wateja (ICS hadi InCMS). Hata kurejea kwa umeme ukipotea; kupunguza hivyo, tulikumbana na changamoto za kikazi uharibifu wa mitambo; kuwezesha upatikanaji na kiufundi wakati wa kutekeleza mipango wa habari kuhusu mfumo; kupunguza hiyo na kusababisha ongezeko la malalamishi gharama za matumizi; kuimarisha mipangilio ya wateja. ya kazi; na kuwezesha mafundi kuendesha na kudhibiti umeme kutoka mbali. Mradi wa FDB unahusu kuweka ramani ya kidijitali ya miundomsingi yetu ikiwemo nyaya  Kampuni ilianza mradi huo wa kugeuza za umeme, transfoma na mita za umeme. mfumo wa usambazaji kuwa otomati mnamo Baada ya zoezi hilo, shughuli kadha ikiwemo 2010 na imeutekeleze katika maeneo mawili michoro ya maeneo mapya ya kuweka kwa awamu. Mradi wa majaribio uliofanywa umeme, na usomaji mita zitatumia mfumo Nairobi ulikamilika 2011. Katika eneo la Pwani, wa FDB ili kurahisisha kazi na kuimarisha mradi ulitekelezwa kwa awamu mbili. Awamu utoaji huduma. Kufikia mwisho wa mradi huo ya kwanza katika kisiwa cha Mombasa na 2016 takriban asilimia 85 ya mita za wateja ilikamilika 2012. wanaolipa bili zao baadaye (post-paid) zilikuwa zimenakiliwa katika FDB. Awamu ya pili ilikamilika katika mwaka huu na ilijumuisha kaunti zingine za Pwani ikiwemo Kupunguza hasara za kibiashara na kuimarisha Malindi, Kilifi na Kwale. Awamu hii ya mradi utendakazi wa mfumo tulibadilisha mtindo ilihusu kuimarishwa kwa mfumo mdogo wa wa kusoma mita kutoka ule unaozingatia SCADA, Mfumo wa Mawasiliano ya Mbali na jiografia hadi ule wa kutumia nyaya ndogo za vile vile ununuzi, uwekaji, upimaji na uzinduzi usambazaji umeme hadi kwa mita, Feederwa swichi 78 za 11kV za kupitisha ama kukata Based Business Unit (FBBU). Zamani, mtindo umeme, swichi 51 za 33kV za kupitisha ama wa kusoma mita (ambapo afisa alikuwa kukata umeme na mitambo miwili ya RMU. akisoma mita kadha kwa siku) ulizingatia sura ya nchi kama vile barabara, majengo na mito. Mtindo mpya unatoa fursa ya kusoma  Kutokana na manufaa a m b a yo mita zilizounganishwa kwa nyaya ndogo za yameshuhudiwa kufikia sasa kutokana kusambaza umeme ili kusoma mita nyingi na mradi huo wa kugeuza mfumo wa kwa siku moja. Vile vile, mtindo huo mpya usambazaji umeme kuwa otomati, jumla ya unawezesha Kampuni kufuatilia mauzo ya dola 20 milioni zimetengwa katika mradi wa umeme hadi katika kiwango hicho cha chini KEMP unaofadhiliwa na Benki ya Dunia ili kabisa cha usambazaji na hivyo kudhibiti kuendeleza mradi huo katika kanda pana ya vilivyo hasara zozote za kibiashara. Hata hivyo, Nairobi inayojumuisha miji ya Thika, Limuru utekelelezaji wake ulikumbwa na changamoto na Athi River. 46 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 za data zisizowiana katika mfumo wa FDB, ni muhimu sana kuimarisha uhusiano wetu na mtandao wetu wa usambazaji umeme ili kukuza uaminifu na kuhakikisha biashara usioeleweka kwa urahisi. Changamoto hizi inadumu. Katika kipindi husika, tulifanya zinashughulikiwa katika zoezi linaloendelea hima kushughulikia malalamishi ya wateja la kusafisha data ya FDB na kupanga upya hawa wakubwa ikiwemo visa vya umeme mtandao wetu wa usambazaji. kupotea, bili za umeme, muda tunaochukua kushughulikia masuala ibuka, na mawasiliano  Mfumo mpya wa kusimamia huduma za kwa jumla. Hivyo, tulianzisha mikakati kadha wateja wa Integrated Customer Management kuwafaa wateja hao ambayo ni pamoja na: System (InCMS) ulichukua pahala pa ule wa zamani wa Integrated Customer Service (ICS) 1. Kuzidisha idadi ya maafisa wa uhusiano ambao ulikuwa umetumika kwa miaka zaidi mwema katika maeneo yote jukumu lao ya 20. InCMS inatoa fursa ya kuunganisha likiwa kushughulikia malamishi yote ya huduma mbalimbali za wateja kwa ubora wateja ili kupata suluhu katika muda na zaidi na pia kuendesha programu kutoka njia inayofaa; mbali kwa kutumia majukwaa mbalimbali 2. Kuandaa ziara za Meneja Mkurugenzi,  ya teknolojia za habari (IT). Uhamisho hadi Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji (CEO) na maafisa kwa mfumo mpya, hata hivyo, ulikumbwa wa ngazi za juu za usimamizi ili kupata na changamoto katika utayarishaji bili na ufahamu mwema zaidi wa mahitaji ya hivyo kushuhudia ongezeko la malalamishi wateja hao na kutoa suluhu mwafaka; ya wateja. Changamoto zingine zilitokea wakati wa kutekelezwa kwa InCMS na 3. Kuunda makundi ya WhatsApp kwa  kusababisha matatizo katika utoaji huduma. wateja wote wa viwanda na biashara Tunatumia mbinu mbalimbali kukabiliana na katika kila eneo ili kuwezesha mawasiliano changamoto hizo. ya moja kwa moja wakati halisi kuhusu masuala mbalimbali ya utoaji huduma;  Tumejitolea kuimarisha kiwango cha usomaji mita hadi asilimia 90 kila mwezi ili 4. Kufanya ukarabati wa mara kwa mara wa kupunguza malalamishi ya wateja kupokea kuimarisha mtandao wetu wa usambazaji bili zilizokadiriwa badala ya bili halisi. Kusaidia umeme hususan nyaya ndogo zilizo katika usomaji huo, tuliunda kiunzi huru katika hatari ya kukatika kiholela. katika InCMS na vile vile programu ya simu 5. Kuandaa vikao vya kanda kwa wateja wa kuwezesha wateja kujisomea mita zao. Aidha, viwanda North Rift, Magharibi, Pwani, tuliimarisha mfumo wetu wa malipo kwa Kati na Nairobi Magharibi; wateja wanaolipa bili zao awali (pre-paid). Hii imechangia kuimarisha mno ununuzi wa 6.  Kuimarisha uhusiano na vyama vya vocha za umeme (tokens) na hivyo kufanya wafanyabiashara kama vile Muungano wa wateja kuridhika hata zaidi. Sekta ya Kibinafsi Kenya (KEPSA), Chama cha Watengenezaji Bidhaa Kenya (KAM), 9. Kuimarisha Huduma za Wateja Chama cha Kitaifa cha Wafanyabiashara Katika kipindi kinachoangaziwa, tulikarabati na Viwanda (KNCCI), Baraza la Wauzaji na kuimarisha vituo mbalimbali vya utoaji Maua Kenya (KFC), na Baraza la Wauzaji huduma ili kuimarisha huduma tunazowapa Bidhaa Nje (EPC). wateja. Tulifungua vituo zaidi vya kuendesha na kukarabati mitambo. Kuimarisha 10. Kudhibiti Hasara za Kimifumo upatikanaji wa huduma, tulihamisha ofisi zetu  Katika kipindi cha miaka mitano iliyopita, za kibiashara za Eldoret na Ukunda. mtandao wa kusambaza umeme umepanuka pakubwa kuambatana na ongezeko la idadi ya Mwaka huu, pia tulizindua mfumo wa Queue wateja wapya. Katika kipindi hicho, mzunguko Management System (QMS) katika kumbi wa umeme kwa nyaya za kiwango cha juu za Electricity House na Stima Plaza mjini na kadri uliongezeka kwa asilimia 10 huku Nairobi ili kuwa na mpangilio mzuri wa foleni idadi ya wateja ikiongezeka kwa asilimia 24 za wateja, kuharakisha na kuimarisha utoaji wastani kila mwaka. Kupanuka kwa mtandao huduma. na ongezeko la wateja kumesababisha  Wateja wetu wa viwanda na biashara kuongezeka kwa hasara za kimifumo. huchangia pakubwa mapato yetu. Kwa hivyo, The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 47  Hasara za kimifumo zinajumuisha vitengo visa vya wizi; kufunguliwa mashtaka haraka vyote viwili vya kiufundi na kibiashara. Hasara dhidi ya wezi na walaghai; adhabu kali dhidi za kiufundi hutokea umeme unapotawanyika ya wakosaji; na kuimarisha hamasisho na wakati wa usambazaji. Hasara za kibiashara ushirikishi wa jamii katika vita dhidi ya wezi hutokea hususan kwa sababu ya wizi wa wa mitambo. Pia tumejumuisha matumizi umeme, mita zilizo na hitilafu, na mita ya teknolojia kubaini na kuzuia uhalifu kwa zilizoharibiwa. Katika mwaka huu wa fedha, kuweka kamera za CCTV katika vituo muhimu, hasara za kimifumo ziliongezeka hadi asilimia na hii imechangia kupunguza hata zaidi visa 20.5 kutoka asilimia 18.9 mwaka awali. vya wizi kwa asilimia 29 ikilinganishwa na mwaka awali.  Kudhibiti hasara hizo, Kampuni iliunda Mpango wa Kupunguza Hasara (LRIP) wa Vile vile, tuliangazia masuala yaliyowasilishwa miaka mitatu. Tunashirikiana kwa karibu na na wateja wa ndani na nje kwa kuunda meza Shirika la Kimataifa la Fedha (IFC) kama ya usalama, anwani ya barua pepe na laini ya mfadhili mwenza katika kutekeleza mpango simu bila malipo mbinu ambazo wafanyakazi huo. Mpango huo unaegemea mafanikio na wateja wanaweza kutumia kupiga ripoti yaliyoshuhudiwa katika utekelezaji wa mradi kuhusu visa vya ukiukaji usalama. Meza hiyo mwingine uliopo unaotumia programu ya huendeshwa na kitengo cha usalama wakati kompyuta kusawazisha kawi, Energy Balance wote saa 24 kila siku. Module, ambayo hutambua sehemu zilizo na hasara kubwa ya kawi katika mtandao  Isitoshe, Kampuni ilielekeza juhudi zaidi wetu wa usambazaji umeme. Mapendekezo kulinda mapato yanayokusanywa katika yatakayotolewa yatatekelezwa ili kudhibiti vituo vipya vya kiwango cha chini kabisa kabisa hasara za kimifumo katika kipindi cha usambazaji umeme (FBBU). Tulichukua kitakachowekwa. hatua mbalimbali za kiusalama zinazolenga kupunguza hasara ya kawi. Hasara hizi  Kampuni pia inafuatilia kesi inayoendelea huchangiwa na nyaya zisizo halali za mahakamani, kwa lengo la kuihitimisha, usambazaji na wizi wa umeme. Jumla ya inayohusu ununuzi wa mita 50,000 za kisasa. operesheni 497 zilifanywa kote nchini katika Mita hizo zitapewa wateja wanaotumia zaidi mwaka huu wa fedha na washukiwa 88 ya vocha 500 za umeme kama njia ya kudhibiti kukamatwa. hasara za kibiashara. Wakati huo huo, uamuzi wa kutumia mbinu ya kugawanya mtandao 12. Mbinu Tofauti za Kuzalisha Mapato katika vitengo kulingana na kiwango cha Shughuli ya kuunda Kenya Power International chini kabisa cha usambazaji umeme (FBBU), (KPI) kama shirika tanzu la Kampuni ilianza kutachangia pakubwa kupunguza hasara miaka mitatu iliyopita, kama njia ya kutanua za kawi na hivyo kuimarisha utendakazi wa uwanda wa kibiashara ili kuunda mbinu mtandao. zingine za kuzalisha mapato. KPI ilipewa jukumu la kuendesha kitengo chetu cha kutoa 11. Kulinda Mali Zetu huduma za kusambaza data kupitia kebo za Mipango ya Kampuni ya kuzuia wizi wa vifaa Fibre Optic, na kuimarisha soko lake. Shirika iliendelea kuzaa matunda katika miaka ya hivi hilo pia liko na jukumu la kusaka kandarasi karibuni kwani visa vya wizi wa transfoma, za kutoa umeme, kufanyia mageuzi Taasisi vipitishi umeme na vifaa vingine vimeendelea ya Utafiti wa Kawi (IESR), zamani ikijulikana kupungua. Idadi ya transfoma zilizoibwa kama Chuo cha Mafunzo cha Kenya Power, ili imepungua hadi 100 kutoka 133 mwaka awali kuwa taasisi kuu na bora ya mafunzo na utafiti na 535 miaka minne iliyopita – hii ikiwa ni kuhusu kawi katika kanda hii ya Afrika. asilimia 81.3 ya kupungua kwa visa hivyo.  Taasisi hiyo kwa ufadhili wa RES4Africa  Kupungua kwa visa hivyo kumetokana na inajenga kituo cha kutoa mafunzo na kufanya mikakati thabiti iliyotekelezwa kote nchini utafiti kuhusu teknolojia za nishati mbadala, kukabiliana na visa vya wizi. Mikakati hiyo kwa jina Micro-Grid Academy (MGA). Kituo ni pamoja na kuimarishwa kwa ulinzi wa hicho cha kanda ya Afrika Mashariki kinakuza mitambo kupitia ushirikiano na wadau wataalamu watakaovutia sekta ya kawi wengine wa usalama; uchunguzi wa kina wa na uhifadhi mazingira, kupitia mafunzo ya 48 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 kiufundi na ujasiriamali kuhusu miradi ya sehemu mahususi katika eneo la kijiografia nishati mbadala inayoweza kutekelezwa lililogawanywa kulingana na nyaya zake mashinani. Ufadhili huo unajumuisha ujenzi ndogo za usambazaji umeme. wa mitandao midogo ya mitambo ya kusambaza umeme ya kiwango cha 20-40kW,  Mpangilio huo uliundwa kwa lengo la itakayotumika kwa mafunzo ya hali halisia. kuimarisha uzalishaji na kuwezesha matumizi Kituo hicho kitatoa mafunzo kwa mafundi, kamili ya rasilimali kuambatana na majukumu mameneja na wahandisi wachanga wa Afrika mahususi. Unanuia kuimarisha utendakazi Mashariki jinsi ya kuandaa, kuchora, kujenga kupitia ushirikiano katika kupanga, kutekeleza na kuendesha mitandao na mitandao midogo na kutathmini kazi. Lengo lake sio tu mahuluti katika maeneo ya mashambani kuimarisha uzalishaji na utendakazi bora lakini na mbali. pia kutusaidia kukua kimapato na kupunguza gharama za matumizi huku tukiimarisha  Tangu kuzinduliwa kwa biashara yetu ya huduma kwa wateja wetu kupitia utoaji Fibre Optic mapema 2010, Kampuni imetia huduma bora za kutegemewa za umeme. saini kandarasi za kukodisha za miaka 5-20 na kampuni kadha zinazotoa huduma za  Utekelezaji wa mpangilio mpya wa FBBU mawasiliano ya mbali, na kupewa malipo utapigwa jeki na mfumo mpya wa kutathmini mazuri kuwiana na bei ya sokoni. Katika utendakazi, Balanced Score Card, ambao mwaka huu, tulijenga kebo ya umbali wa pia unajumuisha mageuzi katika utamaduni kilomita 1,300 na kufikisha jumla ya kilomita na utaratibu wa kazi. Mafanikio yatapatikana 2,500 za kebo za ADSS Fibre zinazotumia kupitia matumizi ya mifumo ya Teknolojia mtandao wetu wa usambazaji. Kupitia KPI za Habari na Mawasiliano (ICT) kuimarisha tunanuia kuimarisha mtandao wa kebo za operesheni za kibiashara, kuimarisha uhifadhi Fibre na kuunganisha Kenya kwa mataifa wa rekodi na uchanganuzi wa data. Vile vile, yote ya Soko la Pamoja na Afrika Mashariki Kampuni itaharakisha zoezi la kukuza ujuzi na Kusini (COMESA) na zaidi. Vile vile, kupitia utoaji mafunzo rasmi, nay a uanagenzi tunaendelea na mradi wa majaribio baina yetu ambapo wafanyakazi hujifunza kutoka kwa na kampuni ya mawasiliano ya Safaricom, kwa wengine katika vitengo vyao vya FBBU. jina Fibre to the Home, unaolenga kueneza Kupitia mpango huo, inatazamiwa kwamba huduma za kampuni hiyo kwa nyumba 12,000 tutaleta mageuzi katika operesheni zetu katika mitaa ya Ruaka, Ridgeways na Muthithi kwa kuchangamkia utamaduni wa kutunza Gardens kwenye Kaunti ya Kiambu. Mradi huo rasilimali na kuzuia uharibifu. wa majaribio utazalisha takriban Sh24 milioni kila mwaka.  Katika mwaka huu wa fedha, Kampuni iliweka mpangilio mpya wa ofisi za Kaunti  Tumeunda mwongozo kwa KPI jinsi ya ili kuunda ofisi moja kuu inayosimamia kila kuimarisha mbinu zake za kuzalisha mapato kitengo cha FBBU na ambayo inaripoti kwa na kudumisha biashara katika kipindi kirefu Meneja wa Biashara wa Kaunti. Wafanyakazi kijacho. Baadhi ya mikakati ni pamoja na ambao zamani walikuwa wakisimamia idara kuimarisha huduma, kukuza mahusiano, na za operesheni, utunzi na huduma za wateja kujenga sifa kama kituo cha ubora na ubunifu. katika kaunti walihamishwa hadi vitengo vya FBBU. 13. F  BBU yaleta Maguezi katika Usimamizi wa Biashara 14. Kukuza Wafanyakazi Bora Katika mwaka huu, Kampuni ilianza kutumia  Wafanyakazi ndio huchangia pakubwa mbinu ya Feeder-Based Business Unit kufanikisha usimamizi wa Kampuni na ni (FBBU). Lengo la mbinu hii ni kutilia maanani muhimu sana katika kukuza thamani za na kufuatilia kwa karibu nyaya ndogo za wanahisa. Mienendo, ujuzi na uwezo wao usambazaji umeme, ambazo hutoa umeme huchangia moja kwa moja katika huduma kutoka kituo kidogo na kupeleka moja kwa tunazowapa wateja wetu. Kampuni imejitolea moja hadi kwa wateja, kwa kuweka mpangilio kukuza na kudumisha wafanyakazi wenye mpya wa utoaji rasilimali. Hii ni mbinu haiba na talanta inayohitajika kufanikisha mwafaka zaidi ya usimamizi wa mtandao jukumu letu na kuafikia malengo yetu makuu. kwani maafisa wa kiufundi hushughulikia The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 49  Mgawo wa kulinganisha idadi ya wateja  Katika mwaka huu tuliendesha miradi ya wetu na wafanyakazi wanaowahudumia, mafunzo kukuza uwezo wa wafanyakazi uliopatikana kwa kugawanya jumla ya ili kuimarisha ujuzi na ustadi wao. Moja ya wafanyakazi 10,993 na wateja 6,761,090, miradi mikuu ilijumuisha mafunzo shadidi ya ni 1:615. Hili ni ongezeko ikilinganishwa na mwaka mmoja ya kusimika wahandisi wapya mgawo wa 1:547 mwaka awali na 1:261 miaka 120, ambao baadaye walitumwa kutia shime mitano iliyopita ambapo wafanyakazi 10,590 utendakazi wa wafanyakazi wanaohudumu walikuwa wakihudumia wateja 2,767,983. katika vitengo vyetu vya FBBU. Vile vile, Mgawo huu ni kigezo muhimu cha kubaini tulitoa mafunzo ya lugha ya ishara kwa baadhi utendakazi kwani unapima kiwango cha ya wafanyakazi wanaohudumu katika kumbi huduma anachotoa mfanyakazi kwa wateja za kutoa huduma za wateja kote nchini ili ili kufikia upeo wa utendakazi. kuwafaa wateja viziwi. Katika mwaka huu, tulifanya Utafiti wa Kubaini Ufanisi wa mpango wa FBBU unategemea Kiwango cha Kuridhika cha Wafanyakazi rasilimali za kutosha ili kufadhili shughuli ili kupata mtazamo wao kuhusu Kampuni, muhimu za kufanikisha utoaji huduma bora mazingira ya kazi na haiba yao kwa jumla. kwa wateja. Kutimiza hilo, Kampuni ilituma Utafiti huo pia husaidia Kampuni kutathmini wafanyakazi wa kiufundi na wale wasaidizi kiwango cha utendakazi cha mfanyakazi ili kusimamia shughuli za biashara katika na ambacho husaidia wasimamizi kufanya vitengo 148 vya FBBU mashinani. Kila kitengo maamuzi ya kuimarisha utendakazi huo. kinaendeshwa na afisa mkuu msimamizi Kiwango cha jumla cha kuridhika kwa ambaye huripoti kwa Meneja wa Biashara wafanyakazi kilikuwa asilimia 64.9% kutoka wa Kaunti. Kila kitengo kidogo cha FBBU asilimia 63.3 % katika utafiti wa awali. kinasimamiwa na mwangalizi wa kundi. Kiwango cha utendakazi kilikuwa asilimia 75 huku kiwango cha haiba kikiwa asilimia 70.5.  Kuimarisha mazingira ya kazi, Kampuni iliimarisha usalama wa vituo vyetu vya kazi  Kampuni ilianzisha mikakati mbalimbali kupitia ukarabati na ujenzi uliofanyika katika mwaka huu kuimarisha utendakazi wa stesheni na ofisi za Nairobi South, Ruiru, wafanyakazi wetu. Hii ni pamoja na kandarasi Eldoret, Kisumu, Nakuru, Mandera, Wajir, za utendakazi, mafunzo kwa wafanyakazi na Muhoroni na Chemelil. kugawa rasilimali kulingana na majukumu ili kutekeleza kikamilifu mfumo wa Feeder Kuhusu suala la haki za wafanyakazi, Based Business Unit (FBBU). tulifanya mikutano kadha katika maeneo yote ili kuimarisha uhusiano mwema baina  Zoezi la kutoa kandarasi za utendakazi ya wasimamizi na wafanyakazi ambao lilikuwa likifanywa kwa mara ya 15 tangu wamejiunga na vyama vya kutetea haki zao. kuanzishwa 2004. Zoezi hilo linatoa fursa kamilifu na endelevu ya kutathmini utendakazi 15. Kudumisha Mazingira Salama ya Kazi wa wafanyakazi. Mfumo huo unatokana na  Uwezo wa kutoa mazingira salama na kanuni ya usimamizi kupitia makubaliano mazuri ya kazi ni muhimu kwa Kampuni ama kandarasi badala ya usimamizi kupitia yoyote. Usalama ni hitaji kuu kwani huathiri maagizo. Hii inahakikisha kuwa utendakazi wafanyakazi, wanakandarasi na wananchi, na wa mfanyakazi unaimarika kwa mfululizo. kusababisha maafa na majeraha. Idadi ya jumla ya wafanyakazi walioajiriwa  Tunachukua mwelekeo wa jumla katika kwa kandarasi za utendakazi mwaka huu kutekeleza Sera ya Usalama, Afya na ilikuwa 4,832. Zoezi hilo limetusaidia Mazingira inayotoa mwongozo kwa kufanya mabadiliko katika utaratibu wa wafanyakazi wetu, wanakandarasi, wateja kazi na kutimiza shabaha ya Kampuni. Kwa na wafanyakazi. Mwaka huu, tuliendelea kipindi cha kadri, Kampuni itaanza kutumia kutekeleza miradi ya usalama kukabiliana na mfumo mpya wa wafanyakazi, Workforce hatari na majeraha kwa wafanyakazi wetu Management System, kusimamia vyema na vile vile wananchi. Baadhi ya miradi hiyo utendakazi wa wafanyakazi na gharama zao. ni mafunzo mahususi kwa wafanyakazi wa 50 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 kiufundi, mafunzo ya kuambatana na Sheria kuelekeza juhudi zaidi katika kudumisha ya Kudumisha Usalama na Afya Kazini, 2007, usalama kazini kwa kutambua hatari kampeni za kuhamasisha umma, na kuondoa kuu zinazoweza kutokea kama njia ya majengo katika maeneo kunakopitia nyaya kuzuia hatari hizo ili kukomesha majeraha za kusambaza umeme kupitia kampeni na maafa. ya pamoja ya sekta mbalimbali kwa jina Ondokea Laini. Katika miaka ya hivi karibuni kumekuwa na visa vichache vya wahudumu wetu kuhusika katika ajali za kazini, kwa sababu Eng. Jared Othieno ya mikakati kabambe ya usalama na Ag. Managing Director & CEO miradi ya kukuza hamasisho. Tutaendelea The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 51 Mombasa, Mombasa County 7:34 PM POWERING KENYA 52 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 53 REVIEW OF OUR FIVE-YEAR 1. Our people our people are our first STRATEGIC PLAN assets. We endeavour to develop productive and engaged workforce and  During the year, we reviewed our 5-Year inculcate a positive culture based on Corporate Strategic Plan covering the shared values; period 2018-2023. The review was initiated taking into consideration the changes in 2. Power supply management – provide our operating environment and the need to quality and reliability power supply that is strategically position the Company for the competitively priced and adequate, while future. Among the salient features of the maintaining our assets and advancing revised corporate strategy include adoption the grid; of a new vision statement, enhanced mission 3. Customer experience we commit to statement, introduction of a customer value provide the best service to our customers proposition and inclusion of accountability and exceed their expectations as they are principle as one of our core values. the reason for our business existence; New Business Model 4. F inancial sustainability create an optimal balance between public sector In view of the current trends in the evolving role and private role as a listed company electricity market and the changing sector by covering current and future expenses regulations, we have adopted a new business and generate sustainable profit. model dubbed “Partner of Partners” to extend our presence in the value chain. The model provides opportunities for partnership Strategy Implementation with both private and public business entities and Monitoring and setting up of separate legal entities as We have adopted the Balance Scorecard, a diversification strategy and in line with a performance management system, as a world market trends. We believe that the tool for effective operationalisation and business model will safeguard our interests monitoring of the strategy. Our focus in the and support the Company’s growth strategy strategy will be on 15 identified objectives and objectives in a competitive electricity which are organised around the scorecard distribution environment. Notably, the model perspectives for balanced growth: financial, will enable us benefit from opportunities in customers and stakeholders, internal renewable energy in response to the changing processes, and capabilities. To successfully needs of our customers. implement the strategy, we have developed an effective framework prioritising on the Strategic Pillars objectives, key performance indicators and In support of the Company’s Vision of being initiatives to help us deliver value to our the “energy solution provider of choice,” customers. we have revised our focus and identified the following four areas as strategic in our operations: Vision Energy solutions provider of choice Mission Powering people for better lives by innovatively securing business sustainability Values Customer First, Passion, Excellence, Accountability, Integrity, Teamwork 54 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Corporate Strategy in Summary Vision Energy solution provider of choice Mission Powering people for better lives by inovatively securing business sustainability Strategic Themes Financial Customer Power Supply Sustainability satisfaction Our people Management Strategic Results A business To be the energy To be employer of Achieve universal that generates supplier of choice access to power sustainable profits choice and to that is reliable, while balancing its have satisfied robust, cost social role customers effective and safe Values Customer First • One Team • Passion • Accountability • Excellence • Integrity Amb. (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed Chairman, Board of Directors The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 55 UCHAMBUZI WA MKAKATI WETU MKUU WA MIAKA MITANO  Katika mwaka huu, tulichambua Mkakati 1. Wafanyakazi – Wafanyakazi wetu ndio Mkuu wa Kampuni wa Miaka Mitano unaohusu nguzo yetu ya kwanza. Tunajizatiti miaka kati ya 2018-2023. Uchambuzi huo kukuza wafanyakazi wenye haiba na ulianzishwa kwa kuzingatia mabadiliko utendakazi bora, na kukuza utamaduni katika uendeshaji operesheni zetu na kuwepo wa maendeleo unaotokana na maadili haja ya kuweka Kampuni pahala pa sawa tunayoshiriki pamoja; kuendelea na biashara siku zijazo. Miongoni 2.  U toaji huduma za umeme – kutoa mwa masuala muhimu yaliyojumuishwa katika huduma bora za umeme za kutegemewa, mkakati huo uliosahihishwa ni pamoja na kutosha na za bei nafuu, tukitunza taarifa mpya ya maono, taarifa iliyoimarishwa rasilimali zetu na kuimarisha mtandao ya wito, kuanzisha taarifa ya kueleza thamani wa mitambo; ya bidhaa na huduma zetu kwa wateja, na kujumuishwa kwa kanuni ya uwajibikaji kama 3. Huduma kwa wateja – tunaahidi kutoa moja ya maadili yetu makuu. huduma bora kwa wateja wetu na kufanya zaidi ya matarajio yao kwani ni wao ndio Mfumo Mpya wa Kufanya Biashara sababu ya kuwepo kwetu; Kutokana na mitindo inayoshuhudiwa kwa sasa katika sekta ya umeme na vile vile 4. Uthabiti wa kifedha – kudumisha usawa mabadiliko katika kanuni za sekta, tumeanza katika utekelezaji wa majukumu ya kutumia mfumo mpya wa kufanya biashara umma na yale ya kibinafsi kama kampuni ili kuzidisha uwepo wetu katika shughuli za iliyoorodheshwa katika soko la hisa, kwa uzalishaji. Mfumo huo unatoa fursa ya kukuza kutenga fedha za kugharamia mahitaji ya ushirikiano na taasisi za kibinafsi na pia za sasa na ya siku zijazo na bado kuendelea umma, kuunda vitengo tofauti vya kisheria kuleta faida ya kudumu. kama njia ya kutanua uwanda wetu wa kibiashara, na kuzingatia mitindo ya masoko Utekelezaji na Usimamizi wa Mkakati ulimwenguni. Tunaamini kuwa mfumo huo  Tunatumia mbinu mpya ya kutathmini mpya wa biashara utalinda maslahi yetu utendakazi ya Balance Scorecard kama na kusaidia kutekeleza mkakati wa ukuaji kifaa mwafaka cha utekelezaji na usimamizi na malengo ya Kampuni katika mazingira wa mkakati wetu. Juhudi zetu zitaelekezwa shindani ya usambazaji umeme. Muhimu zaidi, kwa malengo 15 ambayo yameorodheshwa mfumo huo mpya utatuwezesha kunufaika kuambatana na vigezo vya mbinu hiyo ili na fursa zitakazojitokeza katika sekta ndogo kuleta ukuaji sawa: fedha, wateja na wadau, ya nishati mbadala kuambatana na mahitaji operesheni za ndani, na uwezo. Kutekeleza yanayobadilika ya wateja wetu. kikamilifu mkakati, tumeweka mfumo kabambe unaoweka kipaumbele malengo, Nguzo Kuu vigezo muhimu vya kutathmini utendakazi Kuambatana na maono ya Kampuni kuwa na mbinu za kutusaidia kutoa huduma bora “chaguo lako kukutimizia mahitaji yote ya kwa wateja wetu. kawi”, tumefanya marekebisho na kutambua mambo haya manne kama yaliyo muhimu kwa operesheni zetu: Vision Energy solutions provider of choice Mission Powering people for better lives by innovatively securing business sustainability Values Customer First, Passion, Excellence, Accountability, Integrity, Teamwork 56 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Muhtasari wa Mkakati wa Kampuni Vision Energy solution provider of choice Mission Powering people for better lives by inovatively securing business sustainability Strategic Themes Financial Customer Power Supply Sustainability satisfaction Our people Management Strategic Results A business To be the energy To be employer of Achieve universal that generates supplier of choice access to power sustainable profits choice and to that is reliable, while balancing its have satisfied robust, cost social role customers effective and safe Values Customer First • One Team • Passion • Accountability • Excellence • Integrity Balozi. (Mhandisi) Mahboub Mohamed Mwenyekiti, Bodi ya Wakurugenzi The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 57 Kisumu City, Kisumu County 7:20 PM POWERING KENYA 58 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairman’s Comments Kenya Power’s core business is to transmit, distribute and retail electricity which is purchased in bulk from various generating companies. We are also responsible for the country’s power system dispatch and grid operation functions. Building and maintaining a robust national grid and off-grid system for the country is key for effective service delivery to customers. The Board of Directors embraces principles of good corporate governance in steering the Company to effectively achieve its mandate for sustainable growth in shareholder value and to meet stakeholder expectations. As the Chairman of the Board, I am committed to provide leadership that espouses transparency, accountability, ethics and integrity as pillars of good corporate governance. As a public limited company listed in the Nairobi Securities Exchange, we remain steadfast in complying with statutory and regulatory requirements as outlined in the Companies Act 2015, the Capital Markets Authority’s Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of Securities to the Public 2015, Capital Markets (Securities) (Public Offers, Listing and Disclosures) Regulations, 2002 and the Code of Governance for State Corporations among others. Our operations are defined in the Board Charter and Manual which clearly outlines the roles, responsibilities and functions for the Board and its committees. Among the key achievements by the Board during the year include review of the Company’s Five Year Strategic Plan and the organisational structure to support it. The strategy will help transform our business operations to be more responsive to customer needs and ensure financial sustainability. The strategy will be launched in the current financial year. Other major board accomplishments include review of Company’s operations and projects, risk management, implementation of Time of Use tariff, approval of budget and banking facilities, issues relating to restoring stakeholder confidence, harmonisation of retail tariff, as well as preparation of the Company’s annual financial statements. The Board remains resolute in securing sustainable long-term prosperity of our Company to realise value for our shareholders. We will continue to strengthen our internal controls and enterprise risk management; strive for highest ethical business standards; and promote a culture of integrity to support the Company in achieving our strategic and financial objectives. Amb. (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed Chairman, Board of Directors 60 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Directors’ Profiles Amb (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed BSc (Civ. Eng.), MSc (Civ. Eng.), R. Eng. Chairman of the Board Amb (Eng) Mahboub Mohamed (61 years) joined the Board of Directors of the Company on 1st December 2017 and was appointed the Chairman of the Board on 9th January 2018. He is a registered Engineer with the Kenya Engineers’ Registration Board and a member of the Institute of Engineers of Kenya. Amb (Eng) Maalim Mohamed holds M.Sc. and B.Sc degrees in Civil Engineering from Texas A&I University in USA. Before going to study in USA he trained on water technology for three years in the Kenya Water Institute and served as an inspector of water responsible for water supplies, planning, construction, and operation and maintenance in Kenya, where he rose to the position of District Water Engineer serving in various areas in Kenya. Amb (Eng) Mahboub Mohamed has served in various senior positions including District Project Coordinator for World Bank financed Drought Recovery Project in the Arid Areas of Kenya, Deputy National Project Coordinator and National Coordinator of Arid Lands Resource Management Project. He also served as Permanent Secretary in Ministries of State for Special Programs in Office of the President and Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Water and Irrigation and executive director at Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and the Ambassador at IGAD. Eng. Jared Othieno BSc (Elec. Eng.), MBA (Strat. Mgnt.), R. Eng., MIEK Ag. Managing Director and CEO Eng. Jared Othieno (54 years) has over 30 years’ corporate leadership and management experience in the energy sector and joined the Company in 1987 as a graduate trainee rising through the ranks. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Degree from University of Nairobi and Master’s Degree in Business Administration (Strategic Management) from the same institution. He is currently pursuing a Doctor of Philosophy degree (PhD) in Business Administration (Strategic Management) at Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. Eng. Othieno is a registered professional engineer with the Engineers Board of Kenya and is a member of the Institute of Engineers of Kenya. He has attended various leadership and management programmes including Leadership Best Practices at Havard Business School, Strategic Management from the Swedish Institute for Public Administration (SIPU) and project management. He is a Certified Balanced Scorecard Master Professional by the Balanced Scorecard Institute George Washington University, a Certified Trainer on Corporate Governance and also a Certified ISO Lead Auditor. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 61 Eng. Jared Othieno was appointed Acting Managing Director & CEO on 17th July 2018. Prior to his appointment, he was the Company’s Ag. General Manager in charge of the Street Lighting Project and a member of the executive management team. Previously, Eng. Othieno worked as the Manager, Streetlighting prior to which he was the Regional Manager in charge of Coast Region. He has held various leadership roles in Regional Management in the Company’s administrative regions including Nairobi West, West Kenya Region and Nairobi South. Mr. Henry Rotich B.A. (Econ.), MA (Econ.), MPA Cabinet Secretary, The National Treasury Mr. Henry Rotich (49 years) is the Cabinet Secretary for the National Treasury. He holds a Master’s Degree in Economics and a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics (First Class Honours), both from University of Nairobi. He also holds a Master’s Degree in Public Administration (MPA) from Harvard University. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Rotich was the head of Macroeconomics at the Treasury, Ministry of Finance, since March 2006. Under this capacity, he was involved in formulation of macroeconomic policies that ensured an affordable and sustainable path of public spending aimed at achieving the Government’s development priorities. Prior to joining the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Rotich worked at the Research Department of the Central Bank of Kenya since 1994. Between 2001 and 2004, he was attached to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) local office in Nairobi to work as an economist. Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge CBS, PhD, MBA, BSc (Eng.), R. Cons. Eng., C. Eng., MIET, FIEK – Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge (60 years) is the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy. He was the Managing Director of the Company since June 2007 until he was appointed to his current position in May 2013. He holds a Doctor of Philosophy Degree, MBA in Strategic Management and First Class Honours Degree in Electrical Engineering all from University of Nairobi. He is a Registered Consulting Engineer, a Chartered Engineer, a Member of the Institution of Engineering & Technology (UK) and a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers of Kenya. He is also a member of the Institute of Directors of Kenya and a trainer in Corporate Governance. He has wide experience in power engineering and management of the power sector, having joined the Company in 1980 and serving in various senior positions prior to his appointment as Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy. 62 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei BA (Math.), MBA Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei (52 years) has over 20 years’ experience in investment banking and fund management. Mr. Mugung’ei has progressive experience in investment environments and in various capacities notably in operations management and dealership in stockbrokerage. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Mathematics from Kenyatta University and Global Executive Master of Business Adminstration from United States International University. He is also a director of Quadrix Capital Management Limited and Seriani Asset Managers Limited. He joined the Board on 19th December 2014. Mr. Adil Khawaja LL.B (Hons), Dip. (Law) Mr. Adil Khawaja (47 years) joined the Board on 19th December 2014. He specializes in commercial law, corporate law, real estate law, energy, oil and gas, commercial litigation and arbitration. He has over 23 years of dispute resolution experience and vast experience in real estate and finance work. He has undertaken many complex company restructurings, mergers and acquisitions, bank security work and bank regulatory work, schemes of arrangement for banks and other companies. Mr. Khawaja holds a Bachelor of Law Degree from University of Sheffield and is an advocate of High Court of Kenya. Mr. Khawaja served as the Chairman of KCB Bank Kenya Limited and serves as a director on several other private companies. Mr. Kairo Thuo LLB (Hons), CPA (K), CPA (T), ACII Kairo Thuo (43 years) is a consultant and a founder partner of Viva Africa Consulting LLP and Viva Africa Consulting Limited. Kairo is both a lawyer and accountant by profession. He attended Strathmore and the University of Nairobi where he graduated with LLB (Hons) and is a CPA-K and CPA-T holder. He was previously responsible for establishing and running the Tax Transaction Advisory Group at Deloitte and Touche and was the Director of the unit. This group was responsible for merger, acquisition, transaction arrangements, wealth structuring and funds management, corporate and legal structuring. Kairo has developed extensive experience in all areas of taxation in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania and has also been involved in tax matters involving other countries in Africa. His experience involved all areas of legal, finance and taxation and was also involved in establishment of specialized tax service lines in direct and indirect taxation including customs, international tax and transfer pricing. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 63 He has conducted numerous tax and legal training seminars in Kenya and Tanzania and specific tax and legal workshops for various clients in Kenya. He has also assisted numerous clients in resolving various disputes with the revenue authority and other regulatory authorities in Kenya, Rwanda and Tanzania as well as lobbied for specific tax legal positions in Kenya. He was recently recognised by KRA in the annual taxpayers’ awards for contribution towards tax education and by the IFC for outstanding tax advice contribution in the Kenya and Uganda Railways concession process. Kairo is also a director of NIC Bank Limited, ICEA-Lion Asset Management, Special Economic Zones Authority, ICEA Lion General Insurance Limited and ICEA Lion Life. He joined the Board on 23rd December 2016. Mrs. Brenda Kokoi BA (Dev. Studies), Dip. Ed. Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo (33 years) holds a Bachelor’s degree in Developmental Studies from Mt. Kenya University and a Diploma in Education from Kenya Science Teachers College. She has experience in Project Management and currently works as Programme Project Officer for Hunger Safety Net in Turkana North and Kibish Sub County in Turkana County. She previously worked for Oxfam GB as field supervisor and as a high school teacher. She was the chairperson of Kataboi Girls Secondary School in Turkana County and is currently the Board member of Lokitaung Girls Secondary School. She joined the Board on 23rd December 2016. Hon. Zipporah Kering B.Ed, Dip. Ed. Hon. Zipporah Kering (52 years) holds a Bachelor of Education Degree from Kenyatta University and a Certificate in Education from Highridge Teachers Training College. She is the immediate Nandi County Women Representative and served as member of committee in health, KEWOPA and National Cohesion and Integration Committee. She previously worked as a school teacher for over 20 years and served as Executive KNUT secretary in Nandi County. Hon. Kering is a trained athletic couch and has taken world junior athletic teams in world championships. She joined the Board on 1st December 2017. 64 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa B.Com, MBA, CPA(K) Alternate Director, the National Treasury Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa (62 years) is a Senior Deputy Accountant General/Director of National Assets and Liabilities Management Investment in the Diretorate of Public Investment and Portfolio Management in the National Treasury. She Holds a Masters of Business Administration, Moi University, Bachelors of Commerce (Accounting Option), University of Nairobi and a Certified Public Accountant (K). She has over 30 years’ experience in the Public Sector. Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa joined the Board on 5th May 2017 as Alternate Director to The National Treasury. Eng. Isaac Kiva, OGW BSc (Eng.), R. Eng., MIEK Alternate Director, Ministry of Energy Eng. Isaac Kiva (50 years) is currently the Secretary for Renewable Energy at the Ministry of Energy. Eng. Kiva has wide experience in public sector management, having held senior Government positions for over 20 years. He is a registered Professional Engineer with the Engineers Board of Kenya and a member of the Institution of Engineers of Kenya. He is also a gold member of the Association of Energy Professionals (East Africa). Eng. Kiva joined the Board on 16th December 2009 as an Alternate Director to the Principal Secretary Ministry of Energy. Imelda Bore LL.B, LL.M, Dip(Law), H.Dip (HR), CPS(K), AMCIArb Ag. General Manager, Corporate Affairs & Company Secretary Imelda was appointed Acting General Manager, Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary on 17th July 2018 and is the Secretary to the Board of Directors. She is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya with over 15 years post admission experience, a Commissioner for Oaths and a Notary Public. She is a law graduate from Moi University and the holder of a Masters Degree in Law (LLM) (Public Finance) from the University of Nairobi. Additionally, she holds a Diploma in Law from the Kenya School of Law and a Higher Diploma in Human Resource Management. Imelda worked for six years as a Litigation Counsel in the State Law Office. She joined the Kenya Power & Lighting Company Limited in November 2008 as a Legal Officer and has gained a lot of experience in contract negotiations including those relating to power purchase agreements, procurement and financing for company projects. She is an active member of the Law Society of Kenya, a Certified Public Secretary (ICPS (K)) and an associate member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 65 1. The Board (iii) Providing oversight in financial reporting A. Board Composition to shareholders and communication to In line with the guidelines of the Code of stakeholders. Governance for State Corporations, the (iv)  E nsuring availability of adequate Board is composed of nine members. Out resources for the achievement of the of this, six are Independent NonExecutive Company’s objectives. Directors including the Chairman; two are Non-Independent Directors representing The (v) Safeguarding our Company assets by National Treasury and the Ministry of Energy; instituting appropriate internal control and one Executive Director who is also the systems. Managing Director and Chief Executive (vi) Reviewing succession planning for  Officer. The constitution of this Board takes the management and making senior into consideration diversity in gender, age, executive appointments, organizational ethnicity and culture. changes and remuneration issues. At every Annual General Meeting (AGM), at (vii)  O verseeing business affairs of the most one third of the Board members retire Company considering emerging risks by rotation and are eligible for re-election and opportunities. based on first in first out basis. If for any (viii) Ensuring the Company complies with all reason a vacancy occurs in the Board, the relevant laws, regulations and codes of Directors may appoint a person to fill in the best business practices vacancy temporarily until the next AGM when he or she is expected to stand down but is eligible for election. Governance Framework B. Responsibilities of the Board  The Board is responsible for ensuring that the business is financially viable and properly managed so as to protect and enhance interests of the Company over time. To achieve continued prosperity for the Company, the Board exercises leadership, enterprise, integrity and good judgment and shall always act in the best interest of the Company. Roles and responsibilities of the Board (i) Establishing the Company’s strategic C. Board almanac and meetings direction and priorities and adopting The Board almanac contains a schedule of business plans proposed by meetings of the Board and its committees management for the achievement of for the year. The agenda for each Board the strategic objectives. meeting is prepared and circulated to members at least ten days in advance. During (ii)  M onitoring and evaluating the the year, the Board held a total 15 meetings implementation of strategies, policies, to consider key issues relating to strategy, management performance criteria and business performance and sustainability of business plans. the Company. 66 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Board and committee membership Board Committees Name of the Board Human Procurement ICT & Audit & Director Position Strategy Resource Oversight PPA Risk Amb.(Eng.) Chairman Mahboub Mohamed Mr. Henry CS, The Rotich National Treasury Dr. Eng. PS, Ministry of Joseph Energy Njoroge Eng. Jared Ag. Managing √ √ √ √ Othieno Director & CEO Mr. Wilson Member √ √ √ Mugung’ei (Chair) Mr. Adil Member √ √ Khawaja (Chair) Mr. Kairo Member √ √ √ Thuo (Chair) Mrs. Brenda Member √ √ _ √ Eng’omo (Chair) Hon. Member √ √ Zipporah (Chair) Kering Eng. Isaac Alternate to √ √ √ Kiva Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge Mrs. Alternate to √ √ √ Beatrice Mr. Henry Gathirwa Rotich Notes: There are no inter-se relationships between our Board Members. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 67 Board and Committee Meeting Attendance: Board Committee Meetings Board Human Procurement Audit & Meetings Strategy Resource Oversight ICT & PPA Risk Total No. of meetings 15 5 4 15 4 11 Amb.(Eng.) 7/7 Mahboub Mohamed * Eng. Jared Othieno Mr. Wilson 12/15 5/5 2/2 15/15 2/3 11/11 Mugung’ei (By invitation) Mr. Adil 9/15 5/5 3/4 Khawaja Mr. Kairo 15/15 3/4 14/15 11/11 Thuo Mrs. Brenda 12/15 5/5 4/4 1/1 9/11 Eng’omo (By Invitation) Eng. 12/15 3/5 4/4 4/4 Isaac Kiva Mrs. 10/15 2/4 8/15 2/3 5/9 Beatrice Gathirwa Hon. 6/7 7/7 1/1 Zipporah Kering *Dr.Ken Tarus 15/15 5/5 4/4 15/15 4/4 10/11 (By invitation) *Hon. 7/8 2/2 (By Kenneth invitation) Marende Notes: Amb.(Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed and Hon. Zipporah Kering were elected as Directors during the Annual General Meeting held on 1st December 2017 and Hon. Kenneth Marende ceased to be a director of the Company on the same day. Eng. Jared Othieno replaced Dr. Ken Tarus as Acting Managing Director & CEO on 17th July 2018. D. Board Evaluation We undertook an internal Board performance evaluation by where the board performed remarkably well with a score of 93.67% and an action plan was developed focusing on areas that require improvement. The process was supported by the State Corporations Advisory Committee (SCAC). The annual selfassessment is aimed at improving members’ individual and collective performance for continuous growth and sustainability of the Company. 68 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 E. Governance Audit H. Board capacity development During the year the Board commissioned a  The newly engaged Directors underwent Governance Audit with the aim of ensuring a comprehensive induction programme that the Company complied with relevant tailored to their individual needs to acquaint areas of corporate governance. The action them with their responsibilities as well points have been development and will be as keep them abreast of the Company’s implemented in the current financial year. strategy and operations. The Company operates in a dynamic business environment F. Insider trading policy and, as such, we regularly facilitate learning  The Board is in the process of reviewing and development courses for Directors. our insider trading policy and the same will In the period, various capacity building be communicated to all employees of the programmes focusing on leadership, Company. The Board wish to report that there corporate governance, finance and other were no insider dealings for the year ended relevant areas were conducted for the Board. 30 June 2018. th I. Board Committees G. Other Policies  The Board’s efficacy is enhanced by  The Company has in place the following established Board Committees to which policies for effective management of the it delegates authority without diluting its Company: own accountability. Currently there are 5 committees constituted by the Board: • Code of Conduct and Ethics Audit and Risk; Strategy; Human Resource; • Whistle Blowing policy Procurement Oversight and Information Communications & Technology and Power • Conflict of interest Policy Purchase Agreement. Membership to these • Zero Gift Policies committees is based on the relevant skills, expertise and experience required to handle • Suppliers Code of Ethics respective functions. The committees execute • Distinction of Board Roles their functions in accordance with terms of reference which defines its mandate, roles • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and responsibilities. • Dispute Resolution Mechanism  The Board may constitute an ad hoc • Dividend Policy committee to consider specific issues which • ICT Policy are not under the mandate of existing committees. The Company Secretary is the •  E nterprise Risk Management Policy secretary to the unitary Board and to all the Framework Board committees except the Audit and • The Corporate Communications Strategy Risk Committee where the General Manager, Internal Audit performs this function. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 69 The roles of the various Board committees are as below: Audit & Risk Committee 11 meetings held during the year Composition The Committee comprises 4 non-executive Directors and regularly invites the Managing Director and CEO, and General Manager Finance to its meetings. External auditors are also invited to attend the meetings when necessary. Terms of reference √ Reviewing quarterly, half-year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board; √ Assessing the qualifications and recommending engagement of external auditors and their audit fees; √ Reviewing the performance, objectivity, and independence of external auditors; √ Consideration of audit findings by the external auditors, √ Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit function; √ Reviewing the Company’s internal control and risk management systems and √ Ensuring adherence to the code of ethics and integrity in financial transactions of the Company. Achievements Considerations: √ Full Year Audited Results for 2016/17; √ Half Year Audited Results for 2017/18; √ Quarterly status of key corporate risks; √ Appointment and fees for external auditors; √ Review of pertinent issues affecting the Company including customer service perceptions, ICT challenges, reputational issues, integrity and ethical concerns. Strategy Commitee 5 meetings held during the year Composition The Committee comprise 5 members and regularly invites General Managers in charge of Finance, Business Strategy and Customer Service to their meetings. Terms of reference √ Advising the Board on strategies to enhance performance of the Company; √ Reviews the Five Year Corporate Strategic Plan, corporate budget and oversees the annual implementation of the Company’s strategy; √ Monitoring major projects under implementation, directing strategies for improving customer service; √ Overseeing the Company’s financial management. Achievements Considerations: √ T ime of Use tariff proposal; √ Retail tariff harmonisation proposal; √ Quarterly performance contract reports for the Managing Director & CEO; √ Financing requirements, and banking facilities and signatories; √ Review and update of the Five Year Corporate Strategic Plan for 2018-2023; √ Corporate budget for 2018/19. Human Resource 4 meetings held during the year Composition The Committee comprise 4 members and regularly invites the General Manager in charge of Human Resource and Administration to the Committee’s meetings. 70 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Terms of reference √ Appointment of and terms and conditions of service for the Managing Director; √ Human resource policies and corporate organisational structure; √ Appointment, promotion and disciplinary issues of senior staff; √ Remuneration structure for the staff; √ Succession plan for senior staff; √ Reviewing performance of the staff pension scheme and √ Nomination of new board members Considerations: √ Review of the organisational structure √ Transitioning of contract employees to permanent terms √ Payment of performance bonuses 2015/16 √ Aligning of Human Resource initiatives and actions to support business √ Recruitment of the senior management team √ Discplinary issues involving senior management staff Procurement Oversight 15 meetings held during the year Composition The Committee comprise 4 members and regularly invites the General Manager, Supply Chain to the Committee meetings. Terms of reference √ Overseeing the Company’s procurement processes on behalf of the Board to ensure compliance with the law and the Company’s annual procurement plan; √ Reviews and recommends the annual procurement plan to the Board; √ Oversight procurement of goods and services with a value of Shs 50 million and above. Achievements Considerations: √ Review of the annual procurement and disposal plan for 2018/19; √ Review of tenders above Shs 50 million and other strategic procurements; √ Monitoring stock holding levels for optimal utilisation; √ Monitor to ensure that the Company’s procurements for the year is aligned with the approved budget; √ Ensure that all procurements are aligned to the Procurement and Disposal Act; √ Status of quarterly procurement reports. ICT & Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) 4 meetings held during the year Composition The Committee comprise 4 members and regularly invites the Management to Committee meetings to provide information and make clarifications. Terms of reference √ Providing oversight in the negotiation of power purchase agreements between the Company and bulk power producers; √ Ensuring PPAs safeguard the interest of shareholders and customers and achieve cost-effective power purchase costs; √ Reviewing the Company’s Information Communication and Technology (ICT) policy; √ Evaluating ICT security issues and internal controls; √ Ensuring adoption of ICT systems that support Company business, minimise risks and achieve maximum benefits from the investments. Achievements Considerations: √ Review of 6 new power purchase agreements with total capacity of 75MW mainly from renewable sources; √ Status reports on power generation and demand to ensure adequacy levels; √ Status reports on ongoing ICT projects to monitor progress and mitigate emerging risks. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 71 J. Accountability and audit 2. Enterprise Risk Management and  Each trading year, Directors are required Internal Controls  to prepare annual financial statements which reflect a true and fair view of the  The Company took relevant steps in financial position of the Company as per identifying, analyzing, evaluating and the regulations of Companies Act 2015. mitigating risks that arise in day to day The Board ensure that suitable accounting operations. This is in tandem with its policies are consistently applied, supported legal and regulatory obligations as well as by reasonable and prudent judgments, and ensuring that Enterprise Risk Management estimates. Directors also ensure financial (ERM) practice is embedded in the Company. statements are audited each trading year. The goal is to foster a mature risk management culture to improve decision-making, reduce The Statement of Directors Responsibility uncertainties and give reasonable assurance is set out on page 111 and the Independent to shareholders and stakeholders on business Auditors report is on page 112. sustainability. K. Directors’ Remuneration  During the year, there was a significant In every Board meeting, Directors are entitled increase in risk rating for legal and regulatory to a sitting allowance, lunch allowance (in lieu issues. The high ranking was attributed to of lunch being provided), accommodation the persistent public scrutiny relating to allowance and mileage reimbursement where complaints on reliability of power supply applicable within government set limits for and billing. These issues also contributed state corporations. The Chairman receives a to an increase in reputational risk rating. monthly honorarium. Directors’ fees are paid Similarly, integrity risk rating increased owing annually in accordance with Government’s to perceptions and allegations touching on guidelines for all state corporations upon ethical issues. Most of the risks identified approval by shareholders during the Annual maintained a standard rating across the year, General Meeting. an indication of delayed implementation of a mitigation strategy leading to residual risk. It is proposed that in the financial year ended There was a reduction of stakeholders’ risk 30th June 2018, each non-executive Director due to the strategic engagement programmes be paid a total of Shs 600,000 or on pro rata involving key stakeholders undertaken during basis for period served. During the year, there the year. Some of the issues deliberated in were no Directors’ loans. these engagements touched on general customer service, cost of power, deterring Details of Directors’ emoluments during the vandalism and electricity pilferages and year are shown on pages 108 to 110 in the increase awareness on our products and financial statements. business operations. L. Directors’ Shareholding  The Internal Audit function is tasked in During the year, none of the Directors owned providing assurance to the Board of Directors more than 1 percent of the shareholding as through the Audit and Risk Committee and shown in the table below. Management that Governance, Risk and Internal Control processes are in place and are effective to mitigate against current and Director Shares evolving risks. The function also provides Dr. Eng. J. Njoroge 68,333 consulting services designed to assist management on areas of improvement and Eng. Jared O. Othieno 16,875 perform investigative services on areas of Mr. W. Mugung’ei 1,537 weakness and inadequate controls which may Total 86,745 result to loss of Company’s assets. 72 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 A summary of key corporate risks and their mitigations are highlighted below: Risk Category Description Mitigations 1. Compliance risk Contingent liability may rise Prepare the Company for the (Legal and Regulatory) following lost court cases effects of the Energy Bill. involving public safety, county Adherence to the various government wayleaves, acts and developing proper encroachment of Company compliance policies in place. property and the various class Constant communication with suits. regulatory bodies. Enactment of laws and Adopt alternative dispute regulations in the energy resolution mechanism. sector that are deemed Ensure procedural wayleave unfavourable to the Company acquisition and disconnections business also increases legal prior to ‘new’ operations. and regulatory risks. 2. Competition Risk Competition from other Improve service delivery for entities licensed to distribute customer retention. power may materialise at some Position the Company as the point in time which poses a energy distributor of choice. risk to the Company. Seek and pursue alternative Influx of alternative energy revenue sources. sources (mostly solar) offered Focus on a specific customer to business customers may base to maximize revenue. also reduce sales. 3. Reputational Risk The risk that the Company i) S  peedy and regular loses customers, key upgrading of the employees, or its ability to network and expansion compete due to perceptions infrastructure to avoid impacting our reputation in outages the marketplace. This has ii) Training and monitor those been established by the in frontline on efficient stakeholders due to frequent customer service. outages, poor customer iii) Improving service delivery service among others. to enhance customer satisfaction. iv) Instituting preventive and corrective measures on staff misconduct, upholding ethical standards. v) Managing both internal and external information to safeguard Company image. vi) Consider engaging Ministry of Education and similar stakeholders to include electrical safety in education curriculum. 4. Outsourcing Risk Outsourcing can help to i) Increase supervision of reduce operational costs; and outsourced parties and allows leveraging on outside contractors experience and skill-sets not ii) Ensuring contracts available internally and it also prescribe punitive allows organizations to focus measures for unlawful on core business. activities and that However, it has also been a occurrences are followed source of vandalism; safety upon, to discourage repeat concerns, energy losses, poor incidences quality of service delivery and iii) Increase customer fraud. awareness on issues relating to contractors’ conduct. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 73 Risk Category Description Mitigations 5. Cost of electricity Risk Macro-economic shocks such i) Improve generation mix as fluctuation in international for more reliable and fuel prices and changes in cost-effective power i.e. foreign exchange rates have geothermal, wind, and solar domino effect on the setting power of electricity tariffs. ii) Propose review of retail Government policy and the tariffs to ensure they are regulator control the setting cost reflective. electricity tariffs. iii) Implementation of an optimised generation, transmission and distribution expansion. 6. Financial Risk Failure to collect debts creates i) E  stablish minimum cash necessity to borrow due to balance that must be shortfalls in cash or expected maintained at all times. cash flows. ii) Endeavour to obtain Risk of failure to meet your financing at lowest possible financial obligations as and cost. when they fall due. iii) Enhance revenue collection and protection initiatives. 7. Stakeholder Risk Failure to effectively manage i) S  takeholder mapping for customer expectations could structured and effective result in reputation damage engagements involving and public backlash. customers and key stakeholders When customer expectations ii) Maintain a stakeholder’ are well-managed, it ensures obligations register to smooth operation of the monitor progress on organisation, minimises stakeholder issues conflicts and makes it easier to leverage on public support to drive and achieve organisational objectives 8. Integrity Risk Fraudulent acts within the i) M  onitoring and ensuring Company committed by adherence to code of either employees, contractors ethics. or customers create ii) Facilitating use of vulnerabilities in our controls incident reporting and and have negative impacts on whistleblowing mechanisms our business. iii) Sustained sensitisation and training on ethics and integrity 9. Business interruption/ Business interruptions due to i) Preventive maintenance continuity risk unavailability of infrastructure and continuous major breakdowns may affect improvements on the our capacity to continue network infrastructure providing power to customers. ii) Full implementation of Vandalism, terrorism, major the Business Crisis and violence, industrial actions and Continuity Management other acts of sabotage may Policy also hamper service delivery. 74 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Risk Category Description Mitigations 10. Natural Hazards Occurrence of natural i) D  iversifying the generation Risk hazards like drought, floods, mix to include other among others in the country renewable sources such as may jeopardize Company wind and solar. operations. ii) Promoting environmental conservation programmes such as tree planting to safeguard water catchment areas iii) Creation of alternative transmission lines to enhance supply security Corporate Risk Profile (Heat Map) No Risk 1. Compliance risk 5 2 1 (Legal & Regulatory) 6 4 2. Reputational Risk 3 7 3. Competition Risk 4. Outsourcing Risk 9 8 5. Cost of electricity Risk 6. Financial Risk 10 7. Integrity Risk 8. Stakeholder Risk 9. Business interruption/ continuity risk 10. Natural Hazards Risk The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 75 Top 10 Risk Movement 2017/2018 Hasara ya kimaadili Mikasa ya kiasili Kutatizika kwa operesheni za kibiashara Hasara ya washikadau Hasara ya kifedha HASARA Bei ya umeme Utoaji wa kandarasi Kudorora kwa sifa Ushindani Sheria na kanuni (kesi) UZITO WA HASARA 3. Managing Litigations Conduct and Ethics enables us to consol The growing number of customers connectidate and strengthen a culture of integrity ed to the national grid has resulted in an inand openness. crease in the litigations against the Company. Disputes raised in court mainly relate to elecDuring the year, every employee signed a tricity disconnections, issues of trespasses, declaration and committed to comply with breach of contracts, malicious prosecutions the revised Company’s Code of Conduct and dismissals from employment. We have and Ethics developed in line with our values. taken measures to reduce the contingent liThe Code guides our behaviour, actions ability by adopting some alternative dispute and decisions internally as well as our resolution (ADR) mechanisms. These ininteractions with stakeholders and the public. clude negotiation, mediation and arbitration The Company has instituted mechanisms which take generally shorter durations than to empower employees through effective the litigation process. Where necessary, the training and sensitisation programmes to Company institutes lawsuits to protect its entrench ethical culture. Whistle blowing interests. is encouraged through our hotline number 0718999000 or through online corruption 4. Ethics and Code of Conduct. reporting platform on our website The Company continues to promote an ethwww.kplc.co.ke ical culture among staff and key stakeholders to inculcate a value-based approach in business operations and decision making. In 5. Shareholder Relations accordance with the Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012, the Company has put in place To ensure transparency and fairness in line policies, programmes, systems and strucwith corporate governance best practice tures that enhance high standards of ethical and enhance investor relations, the Board behaviour across the Company. The Code of maintains active communication and 76 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 engagements with shareholders and the the Company Directors and Management on public by providing timely information rematters relating to our business. Shareholders garding Company strategy, operations and are notified at least 21 days before the AGM performance. We broadcast our half-year to enable them review the proposed agenda and full year trading results through the and prepare to attend. A shareholder may media, publish annual reports and financial appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his or statements as well as hold regular investor her behalf during the AGM if unable to attend briefings. in person. Business information is provided on our website www.kplc.co.ke  Each year, we hold an Annual General Meeting (AGM) where shareholders engage 6. Governance Structure The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 77 7. Management Committee 8. Ownership Structure  The Company’s Management Committee is  The Company complies with the rules and the executive team headed by the Managregulations of the Capital Market Authority ing Director and Chief Executive Officer, and the principles of disclosure and transresponsible for guiding the day to day parency as provided under Capital Markets operations of the Company. The Committee (Securities) (Public Offers, Listing and considers policies and strategic measures Disclosures) Regulations, Nairobi Securities for optimal business performance, monitors Exchange Listing Rules and the Companies performance and makes recommendations Act 2015. to the Board. The Committee is made up of all divisional heads who report directly to the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer. The Managing Director and CEO acts as the link between the Management Committee and the Board of Directors. 78 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The top 20 major shareholders as at 30th June 2018 were as follows: Ordinary 4% Pref. 7% Pref. (Shs 2.50 (Shs 20 (Shs 20 No. Name of Shareholder Each) Each) Each) Total % 1 Permanent Secretary to the Treasury 977,641,695 656,808 193,531 978,492,034 50.086 2 Standard Chartered Nominees RESD A/C Ke11450 32,518,589 32,518,589 1.665 3 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C Ke20510 27,985,993 27,985,993 1.433 4 Standard Chartered Nominees NonRESD A/C Ke11794 24,076,800 24,076,800 1.232 5 Standard Chartered Nominees NonRESD. A/C Ke9053 23,974,875 23,974,875 1.227 6 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C Ke002012 23,483,610 23,483,610 1.202 7 Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 915B 22,887,288 22,887,288 1.172 8 Standard Chartered Nominees RESD A/C Ke11401 21,296,581 21,296,581 1.090 9 Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 915A 20,370,288 3,550 750 20,374,588 1.043 10 The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 20,255,753 59,828 17,160 20,332,741 1.041 11 Co-Op Custody A/C 4003 12,400,226 12,400,226 0.635 12 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR 1030682 10,954,012 10,954,012 0.561 13 Old Mutual Life Assurance Company LTD 10,261,291 10,261,291 0.525 14 Equity Nominees Limited A/C 00078 8,951,061 8,951,061 0.458 15 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited KE 18492 8,750,000 8,750,000 0.448 16 Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C R57601 8,591,782 8,591,782 0.440 17 Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 816B 8,551,279 8,551,279 0.438 18 Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE 002333 8,420,415 8,420,415 0.431 19 Naran Khimji & Virji Khimji Hirani 8,294,964 8,294,964 0.425 20 NIC Custodial Services A/C 077 8,273,199 8,273,199 0.423 Sub-Totals 1,287,939,701 720,186 211,441 1,288,871,328 65.974 Other Shareholders 663,527,344 1,079,814 138,559 664,745,717 34.026 Total Issued Shares 1,951,467,045 1,800,000 350,000 1,953,617,045 100.00 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 79 Shares distribution of Ordinary Shareholders as at 30th June 2018 Range No. of Shareholders Shares <1,000 13,447 4,211,996 1001–10,000 10,910 34,857,949 10,001–50,000 2,625 56,027,760 50,001–100,000 500 35,627,419 Over 100,000 819 1,820,741,921 Totals 28,301 1,951,467,045 Shares distribution of 4 percent Preference Shareholders as at 30th June 2018 Range No. of Shareholders Shares <1,000 362 65,475 1001–10,000 57 152,792 10,001–50,000 13 325,918 50,001–100,000 2 133,564 Over 100,000 3 1,122,251 Totals 437 1,800,000 Shares distribution of 7 percent Preference Shareholders as at 30th June 2018 Range No. of Shareholders Shares <1,000 82 21,927 1001–10,000 15 44,076 10,001–50,000 3 86,432 50,001–100,000 1 57,617 Over 100,000 1 139,948 Totals 102 350,000 Amb. (Eng.) Mahboub Mohamed Chairman, Board of Directors 80 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 RIPOTI YA MAONGOZI YA KAMPUNI Maoni ya Mwenyekiti Jukumu kuu la Kenya Power ni kusafirisha, kusambaza na kuuza umeme unaonunuliwa kwa kiwango kikubwa kutoka kwa kampuni tofauti za uzalishaji. Pia tunasimamia mfumo mzima wa usambazaji umeme na operesheni zote za mtandao wa umeme. Kujenga na kusimamia mtandao wa kitaifa wa umeme ni muhimu kwa utoaji huduma kwa wateja. Bodi ya Wakurugenzi inakumbatia taratibu za maongozi bora kuendesha Kampuni ili iafikie malengo yake ya kupata ukuaji endelevu na kutosheleza matarajio ya washikadau. Kama mwenyekiti wa Bodi, ninajitolea kutoa mwongozo unaoshirikisha uwazi, uwajibikazi, maadili na uadilifu kama nguzo za usimamizi bora. Kama Kampuni ya umma iliyoorodheshwa kwenye Shirika la Hisa la Nairobi, tuko chonjo saa zote katika kutimiza mahitaji yote ya kisheria na kiusimamizi kama inavyohitajika na Sheriia ya Kampuni 2015, Mwongozo wa Mamlaka ya Soko la Mtaji kuhusu Usimamizi wa Mashirika ya kutoa Hisa kwa Umma 2015, Masoko ya Mtaji na Mwongozo wa Usimamizi kwa Mashirika ya Umma miongoni mwa mengine. Operesheni zetu zinafafanuliwa wazi kwenye mkataba na mwongozo wa Bodi ambao unafafanua wazi wajibu, majukumu na kazi ya wanachama wa Bodi na kamati zake. Miongoni mwa ufanisi wa Bodi katika kipindi kilichomalizika ni pamoja na marekebisho ya Mkakati wa Kampuni wa Miaka Mitano na mpangilio mpya wa Kampuni wa kuufanikisha. Mkakati huo utasaidia kubadili operesheni za biashara zetu na kuhakikisha tunajitegemea kifedha. Mkakati huo utazinduliwa katika kipindi cha sasa cha matumizi ya fedha. Ufanisi mwingine wa Bodi ni pamoja na kufuatilia operesheni za Kampuni na miradi, udhibiti wa hatari, utekelezaji wa Ada ya Muda wa Matumizi, kuidhinisha bajeti, pamoja na maandalizi ya taarifa za kifedha za kila mwaka za Kampuni. Bodi inajitolea kuhakikisha Kampuni inapiga hatua kwa njia endelevu ili kutoa thamani kwa wenyehisa wetu. Tunatendelea kuimarisha vidhibiti vyetu vya ndani na kushughulikia hatari zozote za kibiashara, kuzingatia viwango vya juu vya maadili kibiashara; na kukuza utamaduni wa uadilifu kuwezesha Kampuni kuafilia malengo yake muhimu na ya kifedha. Balozi. (Mhandisi.) Mahboub Mohamed, Mwenyekiti wa Halmashauri ya Bodi The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 81 1. Bodi (iv) Kuhakikisha kuwa kuna rasilimali za A. Muundo wa Bodi kutosha kuwezesha kampuni kuafikia Kwa mujibu wa kanuni na mwongozo wa malengo yake. Usimamizi wa Mashirika ya Umma, Bodi inajumuisha wajumbe tisa. Kati ya hawa, (v)  K ulinda rasilimali za Kampuni sita ni Wakurugenzi wa kujitegemea kwa kuweka mifumo mwafaka ya ambao hawahusiki na uendeshaji wa usimamizi. shughuli za kila siku za Kampuni akiwemo (vi) Kutathmini utaratibu wa upokezanaji Mwenyekiti; wawili ni Wakurugenzi wa mamlaka na kuteua maafisa wanaowakilisha Hazina Kuu ya Taifa na wakuu wasimamizi , kufanya Wizara ya Kawi, mmoja ni Msimamizi wa mageuzi ya mfumo wa usimamizi na Shughuli za kila siku za kampuni ambaye kushughulikia masuala ya mishahara. ni Mkurugenzi Mtendaji na Mkurugenzi Mkuu. Katiba ya Bodi hii inazingatia (vii) K usimamia masuala yote ya vigezo vya jinsia, usawa wa maeneo, Kampuni kwa kuzingatia nafasi mpya jamii, umri na utamaduni. zinazotokea za kibiashara na hasara ibuka zinazoweza kuathiri shughuli  Katika kila Mkutano Mkuu wa Mwaka za Kampuni. (AGM), angalau theluthi moja ya (viii) Kuhakikisha kwamba Kampuni  wajumbe wa Bodi hustaafu na wanaweza inatimiza matakwa yote ya kuchaguliwa tena. Endapo nafasi itatokea sheria, kanuni na utaratibu ufaao katika bodi, wakurugenzi huteua mtu wa kufanya biashara. kushikilia nafasi hiyo hadi mkutano Mfumo wa Utawala mwingine wa AGM utakapofanyika ambapo mtu husika anaweza kuchaguliwa au la. B. Majukumu ya Bodi  Jukumu la Bodi ni kuhakikisha kuwa fedha za kampuni zinasimamiwa vyema na kulinda masilahi ya Kampuni. Kuwezesha Kampuni kuendelea kustawi, Bodi hujihusisha na usimamizi wa biashara, maadili, na kufanya maamuzi ya busara kwa ajili ya manufaa ya Kampuni. Wajibu na Mamlaka ya Bodi (i) Kutoa mwongozo kuhusu mipango ya kibiashara inayofaa kupewa C. Utaratibu wa Bodi na Kamati kipaumbele na kuidhinisha mpango Utaratibu wa Bodi unajumuisha ratiba wa kibiashara uliopendekezwa na ya mikutano ya Bodi na Kamati zake usimamizi wa Kampuni. mwaka huo. Ajenda ya kila mkutano wa Bodi inaandaliwa na kusambazwa (ii) Kuchunguza na ku t a t h m i n i kwa wajumbe angalau siku 10 kabla ya utekelezwaji wa mikakati, sera, mkutano. Mwaka huo, Bodi iliandaa utendakazi wa wasimamizi na jumla ya vikao 15 ambapo masuala nyeti mipango ya kibiashara. kuhusiana na mikakati, maendeleo ya (iii)  Kusimamia utoaji wa ripoti kwa biashara na hali ya usoni ya Kampuni wenyehisa na mawasiliano kwa yalijadiliwa. washikadau. 82 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Wajumbe wa Bodi na Wanakamati Kamati ya Bodi Ukaguzi Wadhifa Masuala ya wa Jina la katika Mipango ya WafanyaHesabu & Mkurugenzi Bodi mikakati kazi Ununuzi ICT & PPA Hasara Balozi. Mwenyekiti (Mhandisi.) Mahboub Mohamed Bw. Henry Waziri wa Rotich Fedha Dkt. Mhandisi. Katibu wa Joseph Wizara ya Njoroge Kawi Mhandisi. Kaimu. √ √ √ √ Jared Othieno Mkurugenzi Mtendaji & CEO Bw. Wilson Mjumbe √ √ √ Mugung’ei (Mwenyekiti) Bw. Adil Mjumbe √ √ Khawaja (Mwenyekiti) Bw. Kairo Mjumbe √ √ √ Thuo (Mwenyekiti) Bi. Brenda Mjumbe √ √ _ √ Eng’omo (Mwenyekiti) Mhe. Mjumbe √ √ Zipporah (Mwenyekiti) Kering Mhandisi. Mwakilishi √ √ √ Isaac Kiva wa Dkt. Mhandisi. Joseph Njoroge Bi. Beatrice Mwakilishi √ √ √ Gathirwa wa Bw. Henry Rotich The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 83 Mahudhurio ya Bodi na Kamati Vikao ya Kamati ya Bodi Masuala Mipango ya Vikao vya ya WafanyaUkaguzi & Jina Bodi Mikakati kazi Ununuzi ICT & PPA Hasara Jumla ya Mikutano 15 5 4 15 4 11 Bal. (Mhandisi) 7/7 Mahboub Mohamed * Mhandisi. Jared Othieno 2/2 Bw Wilson 12/15 5/5 (Kwa 15/15 2/4 11/11 Mugung’ei Mwaliko) Bw. Adil 9/15 5/5 3/4 Khawaja Bw. Kairo 15/15 3/4 14/15 11/11 Thuo Bi. Brenda 12/15 5/5 4/4 1/4 9/11 Eng’omo Mhandisi 12/15 3/5 4/4 4/4 Isaac Kiva Bi. Beatrice 10/15 2/4 8/15 2/4 5/11 Gathirwa Mhe. Zipporah 6/15 7/15 1/4 Kering 10/11 *Dkt. Ken 15/15 5/5 4/4 15/15 4/4 (Kwa Tarus Mwaliko) *Mhe. 7/8 2/2 (Kwa Kenneth Mwaliko) Marende Ufafanuzi: Balozi (Mhandisi) Mahboub Mohamed na Mhe. Zipporah Kering walichaguliwa kuwa Wakurugenzi katika Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka (AGM) mnamo Desemba 1, 2017 na Mhe. Kenneth Marende aliacha kuwa mkurugenzi wa Kampuni siku hiyo. Mhandisi Jared Othieno alichukua nafasi ya Dkt Ken Tarus kama Kaimu Mkurugenzi Mkuu & CEO mnamo Julai 17, 2018. D. Tathmini ya Utendakazi wa Bodi E. Ukaguzi wa Usimamizi  Tulifanya utathmini wa utendakazi wa  Mwaka huu, Bodi iliagiza kufanywa Bodi na ikabainika kwamba ilifanya vyema kwa Ukaguzi wa Usimamizi kwa lengo kwa asilimia 93.67% na mpango wa la kubaini ikiwa Kampuni ilizingatia utendakazi ulitekelezwa kwa kuangazia na kutimiza vigezo kuhusu Usimamizi maeneo yanayohitaji kuboreshwa. wa Mashirika. Masuala yanayohitaji Shughuli hiyo iliungwa mkono na Kamati kuboreshwa yametambuliwa na ya Ushauri kwa Mashirika ya Serikali yatatekelezwa katika mwaka huu wa (SCAC). Utathmini wa ndani unalenga matumizi ya fedha. kuboresha utendakazi wa wajumbe kibinafsi na kwa pamoja ili kudumisha ustawi wa Kampuni. 84 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 F. Sera za Biashara ya Ndani na majukumu yao na mikakati ya  Bodi inaendelea kutathmini sera utendakazi ya Kampuni. Kampuni kuhusiana na biashara za ndani na inaendesha biashara zake katika wafanyakazi watafahamishwa. Bodi mazingira yanayobadilika hivyo kuna ingependa kuripoti kwamba hakukuwa haja ya kuwapa Wakurugenzi mafunzo na biashara za ndani katika kipindi cha ya mara kwa mara. Katika kipindi mwaka wa matumizi ya fedha uliokamilika hicho, Wakurugenzi walipitia mafunzo Juni 30, 2018. mbalimbali kama vile uongozi bora, usimamizi wa kampuni, fedha kati ya kozi G. Sera Nyinginezo nyinginezo.  Kampuni imebuni sera zifuatazo kwa ajili ya usimamizi murua wa Kampuni: I Kamati za Bodi  Bodi imeboresha utendakazi wake • Kanuni kuhusu Maadili na Uadilifu kwa kubuni Kamati zinazotekeleza • S  era ya Upashaji wa Habari kuhusu majukumu husika. Kwa sasa kuna kamati Ufisadi na Utovu wa Maadili 5 zilizoundwa na Bodi. Kamati hizo • S  era kuhusu Mgongano wa ni: Uchunguzi wa Hesabu na Hasara; Utendakazi na Masilahi ya Kibinafsi Mikakati; Masuala ya Wafanyakazi; • Sera ya Marufuku ya Zawadi Usimamizi wa Uagizaji wa Bidhaa na Huduma na Habari, Mawasiliano na • Sera ya Usambazaji Teknolojia na Mikataba ya Ununuzi. • Ufafanuzi kuhusu Majukumu ya Bodi Wajumbe hujiunga na kamati hizo kwa • Sera ya Uwajibikaji kwa Jamii kuzingatia taaluma, tajriba na ujuzi walio • Mbinu ya Utatuaji Mizozo nao kuendesha majukumu hayo. Kamati hizo hutekeleza shughuli kwa kuzingatia • Sera kuhusu Ugavi wa Faida majukumu ambazo zimetengewa. • S  era kuhusu Matumizi ya Teknolojia ya Mawasiliano (ICT) Bodi inaweza kuunda kamati ya muda •  era ya Mwongozo wa Kukabiliana S kushughulikia suala fulani ambalo na Hasara halishughulikiwi na moja ya kamati • M wongozo wa Mawasiliano katika zilizopo. Katibu wa Kampuni ndiye Kampuni Katibu wa Bodi pamoja na kamati za Bodi isipokuwa kamatu ya Ukaguzi na Hasara H. Uwezeshaji wa Wajumbe wa Bodi ambayo katibu wake ni Meneja Mkuu wa Wakurugenzi wapya walipewa mafunzo Idara ya Ukaguzi wa Hesabu za Kampuni. yaliyolenga kuwawezesha kujifahamisha The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 85 Majukumu mbalimbali ya Bodi Kamati ya Ukaguzi wa Hesabu na Utathmini wa Hasara Iliandaa mikutano 11 mwaka huo Wanakamati Kamati hii inajumuisha Wakurugenzi wanne na hualika mara kwa mara Mkurugenzi Mtendaji na CEO, na Meneja Mkuu wa Fedha katika mikutano yake. Wakaguzi wa Hesabu kutoka nje ya kampuni pia hualikwa inapobidi. Majukumu √ Kutathmini taarifa za kifedha robo ya mwaka, nusu mwaka na taarifa za kifedha za mwaka kabla ya kuziwasilisha kwa Bodi; √ Kutathmini malipo, kuhitimu na tajriba ya wakaguzi wa hesabu kutoka nje kabla ya kutoa mapendekezo ya kutaka wapewe kandarasi. √ Kutathmini utendakazi, ubora na kujitegemea kwa wakaguzi wa hesabu kutoka nje; √ Kuzingatia mapendekezo yaliyotokana na ukaguzi wa wakaguzi kutoka nje, √ Kuchunguza na kutathmini ufaafu wa idara ya ndani kuhusu ukaguzi wa hesabu; √ Kutathmini mfumo wa kukabiliana na hasara wa Kampuni √ Kuhakikisha uzingatiaji wa mwongozo wa maadili na uadilifu katika masuala ya kifedha ya Kampuni Mafanikio Vigezo vya Kuzingatiwa: √ Taarifa ya Kifedha Iliyokaguliwa ya Mwaka wa 2016/17; √ Taarifa ya Nusu Mwaka iliyokaguliwa ya 2017/18; √ Taarifa ya hali halisi kuhusu uwezekano wa kutokea kwa hasara; √ Uteuzi na malipo kwa wakaguzi wa hesabu wa nje; √ Kutathimini masuala muhimu yanayoathiri Kampuni kama vile huduma kwa wateja, changamoto za ICT, sifa ya kampuni, maadili na uadilifu. Kamati ya Mikakati Ilifanya vikao 5 mwaka huo Wanakamati Kamati hii ina wajumbe 5 na hualika mara kwa mara Mameneja wanaosimamia idara za Fedha, Mikakati ya Kibiashara na Huduma kwa Wateja katika mikutano yake. Majukumu √ K ushauri Bodi kuhusu Mikakati ya kuwezesha Kampuni kuboresha biashara na mapato; √ Kutathmini Mipango ya Miaka Mitano ya Kampuni, bajeti na kusimamia utekelezwaji wa mipango ya utendakazi ya mwaka; √ Kusimamia miradi mikuu inayotekelezwa na Kampuni, kuagiza kuboreshwa kwa huduma kwa wateja; √ Kusimamia usimamizi wa fedha za Kampuni Mafanikio Vigezo vya Kuzingatiwa: √ Pendekezo la tariff ya muda wa matumizi; √ Pendekezo la tariff ya mauzo; √ Ripoti ya Robo Mwaka kuhusu utendakazi wa Mkurugenzi Mtendaji na CEO; √ Mahitaji ya kifedha, kuweka katika benki na kuthibitisha walio na mamlaka ya kutoa fedha benki; √ Kutathmini na kurekebisha Mipango ya Miaka Mitano ya Utendakazi wa Kampuni ya kati ya 2018-2023; √ Maandalizi ya bajeti ya 2018/19. 86 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Msuala ya Wafanyakazi Mikutano 4 iliandaliwa mwaka huo Wanakamati Kamati hii inajumuisha wajumbe 4 na hualika mara kwa mara Meneja wa Usimamizi wa Wafanyakazi katika vikao vyake. Majukumu √ Uteuzi na kutoa kanuni na matakwa ya kazi kwa Mtendaji Mkuu; √ Kuandaa sera kuhusu wafanyakazi; √ Uteuzi, kupandisha vyeo na kushughulikia masuala ya kinidhamu kwa maafisa wakuu katika Kampuni; √ Mipango ya upokezaji wa mamlaka miongoni mwa maafisa wakuu na √ Kutathimi utendakazi wa mpango wa kiinua mgongo kwa wafanyakazi. √ Uteuzi wa wakurugenzi Mafanikio Vigezo vya Kuzingatiwa: √ Utathmini wa muundo wa usimamizi wa Kampuni √ Kuwapa ajira ya kudumu wafanyakazi wa kandarasi √ Malipo ya bonasi 2015/16 √ Kuoanisha miradi kuhusu Wafanyakazi ili kuboresha biashara; √ Kuajiri maafisa wasimamizi; √ Kukabiliana na masuala ya kinidhamu miongoni mwa maafisa wa ngazi ya juu Ununuzi Kulikuwa na vikao 15 mwaka huo Wanakamati Kamati ina wajumbe 4 na hualika mara kwa mara Meneja wa Uagiza wa Bidhaa na Huduma na Usambazaji katika vikao vyake. Majukumu √ K usimamia shughuli ya uagizaji na usambazaji wa huduma na bidhaa kwa niaba ya Bodi kuhakikisha kwamba inafuata sheria na kanuni za Kampuni kuhusu utoaji wa kandarasi; √ Kutathimini na kupendekeza mpango wa mwaka kuhusu uagizaji na usambazaji wa bidhaa kwa Bodi; √ Kusimamia uagizaji wa bidhaa na huduma za thamani ya zaidi ya Sh50 milioni. Mafanikio Vigezo vya Kuzingatiwa: √ Kutathmini Mpango wa Uagizaji wa Bidhaa na Huduma wa 2018/19; √ Kutathmini tenda za zaidi ya Shs 50 milioni; √ Kuhakikisha kuwa bidhaa na huduma zilizoko zinatumiwa vyema; √ Kuhakikisha kuwa huduma na bidhaa zinazoagizwa zinaambatana na bajeti iliyoidhinishwa; √ Kuhakikisha kuwa tenda zinatolewa kwa kuzingatia Sheria ya Uagizaji na Usambazaji wa Bidhaa na Huduma; √ Ripoti ya robo mwaka kuhusiana na uagizaji na usambazaji wa bidhaa na huduma. ICT & Mikataba ya Ununuzi wa Kawi (PPA) Kulikuwa na vikao 4 mwaka huo Wanakamati Kamati hii ina wajumbe 4 na hualika katika vikao vyake Usimamizi kutoa maelezo na ufafanuzi wa kina. Majukumu √ K usimamia mazungumzo kuhusu mikataba ya ununuzi wa umeme (PPA) kati ya Kampuni na wazalishaji wa kawi; √ Kuhakikisha kuwa PPA zinazingatia masilahi ya wenyehisa na wateja; √ Kutathmini mfumo wa Habari, Mawasiliano na Teknolojia (ICT) wa Kampuni na kuhakikisha kwamba ni salama; √ Kuhakikisha kuwa mfumo wa ICT unaotumika unaimarisha biashara, unapunguza hasara na kuboresha mapato. Mafanikio Vigezo vya Kuzingatiwa: √ Kutathmini mikataba 6 mipya ya ununuzi wa kawi ambapo umeme wa 75MW uliongezwa; √ Ripoti kuhusu uzalishaji wa kawi na mahitaji yaliyopo ili kuhakikisha kwamba kuna umeme wa kutosha ; √ Ripoti kuhusu maendeleo ya miradi ya ICT na kuzuia hasara. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 87 J. Uwajibikaji na Ukaguzi wa Hesabu 2. Udhibiti na Mikakati ya Kukabiliana  Katika kila mwaka wa kibiashara, na Hasara Wakurugenzi wanatakiwa kuandaa taarifa Kampuni ilichukua hatua mwafaka kutambua, za kifedha za kila mwaka zinazoonyesha kutathmini na kuweka mikakati ya kudhibiti hali halisi ya kifedha ya Kampuni kwa hasara zinazotokana na operesheni za kila mujibu wa Sheria ya Kampuni ya 2015. siku. Mikakati hiyo inaambatana na sheria na Bodi inahakikisha kuwa sera mwafaka kanuni zilizopo na kuhakikisha kuwa Mikakati za uhasibu zinatumika. Wakurugenzi pia ya Kudhibiti Hasara (ERM) imejumuishwa wanahakikisha kuwa taarifa za kifedha katika operesheni za Kampuni. Lengo kuu zinakaguliwa kila mwaka. ni kudumisha utamaduni wa kukabiliana na hasara kwa kuimarisha kufanywa kwa maamuzi, kupunguza mambo yanayotishia  Maelezo kuhusu Majukumu ya biashara na kuwahakikishia wenyehisa na Wakurugenzi yanapatikana katika washikadau kuwa biashara iko imara. ukurasa wa 111 na ripoti ya wakaguzi wa kujitegemea iko ukurasa wa 112. Mwaka huo, kulikuwa na ongezeko la hatari K. Mishahara ya Wakurugenzi kwa Kampuni zilizotokana na masuala ya Katika kila kikao, Wakurugenzi hulipwa kisheria na usimamizi. Ongezeko hilo marupurupu ya chakula, malazi na usafiri lilisababishwa na hatua ya umma kufuatilia kwa mujibu wa viwango na utaratibu kwa karibu shughuli za Kampuni kufuatia uliowekwa na serikali kwa mashirika ya kuwepo kwa malalamishi kuhusu bei ya umma. Mwenyekiti hupokea malipo ya stima. Malalamishi hayo pia yalitia doa sifa ya kila mwezi. Wakurugenzi hulipwa ada Kampuni. Uadilifu katika kampuni pia ulitiliwa ya baada ya mwaka mmoja malipo yao shaka kutokana na kuchipuka kwa madai ya yanapoidhinishwa na wenyehisa katika kimaadili. Masuala yaliathiri Kampuni kwa Mkutano Mkuu wa Mwaka (AGM). muda; kumaanisha kwamba kulikuwa na ucheleweshaji wa kutekeleza mikakati ya Imependekezwa kwamba kila mkurugenzi kukabiliana nayo. aliyehudumu katika mwaka uliokamilika Juni 30, 2018, alipwe Sh600,000 kwa  Hasara katika upande wa washikadau muda aliohudumu. Katika mwaka huo, ilipungua kwa kiasi kikubwa kutokana na hakukuwa na mkopo kwa Wakurugenzi. hatua ya kampuni kuweka mikakati ifaayo ya mashauriano na washikadau. Baadhi ya  Maelezo ya kina kuhusu malipo kwa masuala yaliyoangaziwa katika vikao vya Wakurugenzi mwaka huo yametolewa mashauriano hayo ni huduma kwa wateja, katika ukurasa wa 108 hadi 110 katika kuzuia uporaji wa nyaya na vifaa vinginevyo taarifa ya kifedha. vya Kampuni, kurekebisha bei ya stima na kutoa hamasisho kuhusu bidhaa na L. Hisa za Wakurugenzi operesheni za kibiashara.  Katika mwaka huo, hakuna mkurugenzi ailiyekuwa na zaidi ya asilimia 1 ya hisa Idara ya Ukaguzi wa Ndani imetwika jukumu kama ifuatavyo: la kutoa hakikisho kwa Bodi ya Wakurugenzi, kupitia Kamati ya Ukaguzi na Kukabiliana na Hasara, kwamba mikakati mwafaka Mkurugenzi Hisa na miundomsingi imewekwa kwa ajili ya Dkt. Mhandisi. J. Njoroge 68,333 kukabiliana na hasara. Mhandisi. Jared O. Othieno 16,875 Bw. W. Mugung’ei 1,537 Idara hiyo pia hutoa ushauri kwa usimamizi Jumla 86,745 kuhusu maeneo yanayostahili kuboreshwa na kutoa huduma za ukaguzi ili kubaini sehemu ambazo huenda zikasababisha Kampuni kupoteza rasilimali zake. 88 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018  Muhtasari kuhusu mikakati iliyowekwa kudhibiti hasara: Aina ya Hasara Maelezo Hatua zilizochukuliwa kudhibiti 1. Kufuata Sheria Hasara inaweza kutokea K  uandaa Kampuni kwa ajili ya Mswada wa Kawi. na Kanuni baada ya kupoteza kesi Kufuata sheria kikamilifu na kubuni sera za mahakamani haswa kuhakikisha kuwa sheria inazingatiwa. kuhusiana na usalama Mawasiliano ya mara kwa mara na idara wa wananchi, mizozo zinazodhibiti kawi nchini. ya ardhi na serikali za Kuwa na njia mbadala za kutataua mizozo kaunti, kunyakuliwa mbali na mahakama. kwa mali ya Kampuni Kuhakikisha kuwa utaratibu unafuatwa kujipatia miongoni mwa kesi maeneo ya kuweka vifaa vya stima kabla ya nyinginezo. kuanzisha opereheni mpya ili kuepuka mizozo Kubuniwa kwa sheria za ya ardhi. kudhibiti sekta ya kawi ambazo hugandamiza biashara ya Kampuni pia hutishia biashara. 2. Ushindani Ushindani kutoka kwa  uboresha huduma ili kuwavutia wateja K kampuni nyingine Kuweka Kampuni kuonekana kwamba ndiyo zilizopewa kibali cha bora zaidi katika usambazaji wa kawi. kusambaza umeme Kutafuta njia mbadala ya kujipatia mapato. unaweza kusababishia Kuangazia tabaka fulani la wateja ili kuongeza Kampuni hasara. kipato. Ongezeko la teknolojia mpya za kusambaza kawi (kama vile mitambo ya sola) pia huchangia pakubwa katika kupungua kwa mauzo. 3. Kudorora kwa Kampuni inaweza K  uboresha miundomsingi mara kwa mara ili Sifa kupoteza wateja wake kuepuka kukatika kwa stima kiholela. na hata wafanyakazi Kutoa mafunzo kwa wafanyakazi wanaotoa muhimu au uwezo huduma kwa wateja. wake wa kushindana Kuboresha huduma ili kuwaridhisha wateja. kutokana na madai Kuweka mikakati ya kurekebisha na kuadhibu yanayotia doa sifa ya wafanyakazi wanaokiuka maadili na kanuni za Kampuni. Sifa hudorora Kampuni. kutokana na kukatika Kudhibiti taarifa zinazotolewa ndani na nje ya kwa umeme mara kwa Kampuni kwa lengo la kulinda sifa ya Kampuni. mara na huduma duni Kuna pendekezo la kutaka kufanya kwa wateja, kati ya mashauriano na Wizara ya Elimu na washikadau masuala mengineyo. wengineo ili elimu kuhusu usalama wa vifaa na nyaya za umeme ijumuishwe katika mtaala. 4. Hasara Kutoa kandarasi kwa  uimarisha usimamiaji wa wanakandarasi K Inayotokana watu kampuni za nje kutoka nje. na Utoaji wa kutekeleza baadhi ya Kuhakikisha kuwa mikataba ya kandarasi ina Kandarasi miradi kunapunguza vigezo vinavyotoa adhabu kali kwa wanaokiuka gharama ya kuendesha sheria na kanuni za Kampuni. shughuli. Hatua hiyo pia Kuhamasisha umma kuhusu nidhamu inayofaa inasaidia kupata watu kuzingatiwa na wakandarasi. wenye tajriba na uzoefu zaidi ikilinganishwa na wafanyakazi wa Kampuni. Hata hivyo, hatua hiyo imebainishwa kuwa kiini cha uporaji, kudorora kwa usalama, kukatika kwa kawi, huduma mbovu na wizi. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 89 Aina ya Hasara Maelezo Hatua zilizochukuliwa kudhibiti 5. Bei ya Stima Mabadiliko ya bei ya (i) K  uboresha uzalishaji wa kawi kwa kutumia mafuta katika soko la njia mbadala na kupunguza matumizi ya kimataifa huathiri bei mafuta kama vile mvuke, upepo na miale ya stima. ya jua. Sera ya serikali na (ii) Kutoa mapendekezo kuhusu gharama ya mamlaka ya kudhibiti stima kuhakikisha kwamba ni nafuu. kawi huweka bei ya (iii) Kuhakikisha kuwa kawi ya kutosha stima. inazalishwa na kusambazwa ifaavyo. 6. Hasara za Kukosa kukusanya (i)  uhakikisha kuwa Kampuni ina kiasi fulani K Kifedha fedha za madeni cha fedha wakati wowote. husababisha Kampuni (ii) Kubana matumizi kwa kuepuka kuanza kukopa wakandarasi wanaotoza ada ya juu. kutokana na uhaba wa (iii) Kuimarisha mfumo wa ukusanyaji mapato hela. Ukosefu wa hela husababisha kukwama kwa shughuli hivyo kuleta hasara. 7. Hasara ya Wateja wanapokosa (i) K  uweka mikakati mwafaka ya kuwasiliana Washikadau huduma kulingana na na wateja na washikadau muhimu. matarajio yao kunaweza (ii) Kuweka daftari la kuorodhesha kusababisha kudorora malalamishi yao na kufuatilia namna kwa sifa ya Kampuni. yanavyoshughulikiwa. Kuna haja ya kuhakikisha kwamba matarajio ya wateja hayapiti mpaka ili kuepuka malalamishi yasiyo ya lazima. Hali hiyo itawezesha kampuni kuendesha shughuli zake kwa urahisi na kutimiza malengo yake. 8. Hasara za Shughuli za (i)  uboresha usimamizi na kuhakikisha kuwa K Kimaadili udanganyifu kanuni za Kampuni zinafuatwa kikamilifu. zinazotekelezwa (ii) Kuhamaisha utoaji wa taarifa kuhusiana na na wafanyakazi, shughuli zinazokiuka maadili. wakandarasi au wateja (iii) Utoaji wa mafunzo ya mara kwa mara huathiri pakubwa kuhusu umuhimu wa kuzingatia maadili. biashara. 9. Hasara Kutatizwa kwa biashara (i) U  karabati na uboreshaji wa miundomsingi inayotokana na kutokana na kuharibika mara kwa mara. kutatizwa kwa kwa miundomsingi (ii) Kutekeleza kikamilifu Sera ya Usimamizi operesheni za kunaathiri utoaji wa na Uendelezaji wa Biashara hata wakati kibiashara huduma kwa wateja. wa Mzozo. Uporaji, ugaidi, ghasia, maandamano huathiri huduma. 10. Majanga ya Kutokea kwa mikasa ya (i)  uongeza mbinu za uzalishaji kawi kama K Kiasili kiasili kama vile ukame, vile upepo na miale ya jua. mafuriko, nakadhalika, (ii) Kuendeleza miradi ya utunzaji wa nchini hutatiza mazingira kama vile upanzi wa miti ili operesheni za Kampuni. kulinda vyanzo vya maji. (iii) Kuweka nyaya za ziada za kusambaza kawi kupunguza visa wateja kukosa umeme kwa muda mrefu. 90 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Jedwali Uwezekano wa Kutokea kwa Hasara Na Hasara 5 1. Sheria na Kanuni 5 2 1 (kesi) 6 4 2. Kudorora kwa Sifa 3 4 3. Ushindani 7 4. Utoaji wa Kandarasi 9 5. Bei ya Umeme 8 ATHARI 3 6. Hasara ya Kifedha 7. Hasara ya Kimaadili 10 8. Hasara ya washika2 dau 9. Kutatizika kwa operesheni za kibiashara 1 10. Mikasa ya Kiasili 1 2 3 4 5 UWEZEKANO Visababishi vya hasara 2017/2018 Hasara ya kimaadili Mikasa ya kiasili Kutatizika kwa operesheni za kibiashara Hasara ya washikadau Hasara ya kifedha HASARA Bei ya umeme Utoaji wa kandarasi Kudorora kwa sifa Ushindani Sheria na kanuni (kesi) UZITO WA HASARA The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 91 3. Kukabiliana na kesi wafanyakazi kustawi kimaadili kupitia  Ongezeko la wateja ambao wananufaika mafunzo na mipango ya kuwahamasisha na huduma za umeme limesababisha kuzingatia maadili. Tunahimiza utoaji wa kuongezeka kwa kesi mahakamani dhidi ya taarifa za kufichua maovu kupitia nambari kampuni. Nyingi ya kesi zilizo mahakamani 0718999000 au kupitia ukurasa wa kuripoti zinatokana na mizozo ya kukatishwa kwa ufisadi katika tovuti: www.kplc.co.ke. huduma za umeme, ukiukaji wa mikataba, uhasama wa kibinafsi na kutimuliwa kazi. 5. Uhusiano na Wenyehisa Tumechukua hatua madhubuti za kupunguza  Kuhakikisha kwamba kuna uwazi na haki, kesi hizo kwa kutumia mbinu mbadala za bodi imeboresha mfumo wa mawasiliano na kutatua mizozo (ADR). Hii inajumuisha mashauriano na wenyehisa na umma kwa mazungumzo, mapatanisho na kusuluhisha kutoa taarifa za haraka kuhusiana na mikakati, mizozo nje ya mahakama. Hili huchukua muda operesheni na maendeleo ya biashara. mfupi ikilinganishwa na kesi za mahakamani. Tunatangaza mapato ya nusu ya mwaka na Inapobidi, kampuni huelekea mahakamani mwaka mzima kupitia vyombo vya habari. kulinda masilahi yake. Tunachapisha taarifa kuhusu mapato ya kampuni kila mwaka na kuandaa vikao na 4. Maadili na Kanuni za Uadilifu wawekezaji.  Kampuni imeweka mikakati ya kudumisha uadilifu miongoni wafanyakazi na washikadau  Kila mwaka, tunaandaa Mkutano Mkuu mbalimbali. Kulingana na Sheria ya Uongozi wa Kila Mwaka (AGM) ambapo wenyehisa na Maadili ya 2012, kampuni imebuni sera, wanatangamana na kupata majibu kutoka mipango na miundomsingi ya kuhakikisha kwa Wakurugenzi wa Kampuni na Usimamizi kuwa maadili yanazingatiwa katika idara zote kuhusiana na masuala yanayohusiana na za kampuni. Kanuni za uadilifu zinatuwezesha biashara. kuendeleza utamaduni wa kuzingatia maadili na uwazi. Wenyehisa hupewa taarifa kuhusu mkutano wa AGM siku 21 kabla ili kuwawezesha Mwaka huu, kila mfanyakazi alitia saini mkataba kuchunguza na kutathmini kwa kina ajenda wa kuzingatia kanuni za maadili zilizowekwa na kufanya maandalizi ya kuhudhuria. na kampuni. Kanuni hizo zinatoa mwongozo Mwenyehisa anaweza kutuma mwakilishi kuhusu tabia zetu, mienendo na maamuzi atakayehudhuria mkutano huo ambaye tunayofanya ndani ya kampuni na mahusiano pia atapiga kura kwa niaba yake. Taarifa baina yetu na washikadau pamoja na umma. ya biashara huchapishwa katika tovuti: Kampuni imeweka mikakati ya kuwezesha www.kplc.co.ke. 92 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 6. Muundo wa usimamizi 7. Kamati ya Usimamizi Kamati ya Usimamizi wa Kampuni inaoongozwa na Mkurugenzi Mkuu na Mkurugenzi Mtendaji (CEO) ambao wanasimamia shughuli za kila siku za kampuni. Kamati hutathmini sera na mikakati ya kampuni kwa lengo la kuboresha mapato ya biashara, huchunguza maendeleo ya biashara na kutoa mapendekzo kwa bodi. Kamati inajumuisha wakuu wa idara mbalimbali ambao huripoti moja kwa moja kwa CEO na Mkurugenzi Mkuu. Mkurugenzi MKuu na CEO ni kiunganishi baina ya Kamati ya Usimamizi na Bodi ya Wakurugenzi. 8. Muundo wa Umiliki Kampuni huzingatia sheria na kanuni za Mamlaka ya Kusimamia Soko la Hisa na sera ya uwazi kwa mujibu wa Sheria ya Soko la Hisa, kanuni za Kushiriki katika Soko la Ubadilishanaji Hisa la Nairobi na Sheria ya Kudhibiti Kampuni ya 2015. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 93 Wenyehisa 20 wanaoongoza kwa wingi wa hisa kufikia Juni 30, 2018: Asilimia Hisa za 4 ya hisa Asilimia 7 Kawaida za ziada. kwa hisa za (Sh 2.50 (Sh 20 upendeleo Jina la kwa kila kwa kila (Sh 20 kwa Asilimia Na. Mwenyehisa hisa) hisa) kila hisa) Jumla (%) 1. Katibu wa Hazina Kuu 977,641,695 656,808 193,531 978,492,034 50.086 2. Standard Chartered Nominees RESD A/C Ke11450 32,518,589 32,518,589 1.665 3. Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C Ke20510 27,985,993 27,985,993 1.433 4. Standard Chartered Nominees NonRESD A/C Ke11794 24,076,800 24,076,800 1.232 5. Standard Chartered Nominees NonRESD. A/C Ke9053 23,974,875 23,974,875 1.227 6. Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C Ke002012 23,483,610 23,483,610 1.202 7. Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 915B 22,887,288 22,887,288 1.172 8. Standard Chartered Nominees RESD A/C Ke11401 21,296,581 21,296,581 1.090 9. Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 915A 20,370,288 3,550 750 20,374,588 1.043 10. The Jubilee Insurance Company of Kenya Limited 20,255,753 59,828 17,160 20,332,741 1.041 11. Co-Op Custody A/C 4003 12,400,226 12,400,226 0.635 12. Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C NR 1030682 10,954,012 10,954,012 0.561 13. Old Mutual Life Assurance Company LTD 10,261,291 10,261,291 0.525 94 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Asilimia Asilimia 7 Hisa za 4 ya hisa kwa hisa za Kawaida za ziada. upendeleo (Shs. 2.50 (Shs. 20 (Shs. 20 Jina la kwa kila kwa kila kwa kila Asilimia Na. Mwenyehisa hisa) hisa) hisa) Jumla (%) 14. Equity Nominees Limited A/C 00078 8,951,061 8,951,061 0.458 15. Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Limited KE 18492 8,750,000 8,750,000 0.448 16. Stanbic Nominees Ltd A/C R57601 8,591,782 8,591,782 0.440 17. Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 816B 8,551,279 8,551,279 0.438 18. Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE 002333 8,420,415 8,420,415 0.431 19. Naran Khimji & Virji Khimji Hirani 8,294,964 8,294,964 0.425 20. NIC Custodial Services A/C 077 8,273,199 8,273,199 0.423 Jumla 1,287,939,701 720,186 211,441 1,288,871,328 65.974 Wenyehisa Wengineo 663,527,344 1,079,814 138,559 664,745,717 34.026 Jumla ya Hisa Zilizotolewa 1,951,467,045 1,800,000 350,000 1,953,617,045 100.00 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 95 Mgawo wa Hisa kwa Wenyehisa wa Kawaida Kufikia Juni 30, 2018 Kiwango Idadi ya Wenyehisa Hisa <1,000 13,447 4,211,996 1001–10,000 10,910 34,857,949 10,001–50,000 2,625 56,027,760 50,001–100,000 500 35,627,419 Over 100,000 819 1,820,741,921 Jumla 28,301 1,951,467,045 Mgawo wa asilimia 4 ya Wenyehisa kufikia Juni 30, 2018 Kiwango Idadi ya Wenyehisa Hisa <1,000 362 65,475 1001–10,000 57 152,792 10,001–50,000 13 325,918 50,001–100,000 2 133,564 Over 100,000 3 1,122,251 Jumla 437 1,800,000 Mgawo wa asilimia 7 ya Wenyehisa kufikia Juni 30, 2018 Kiwango Idadi ya Wenyehisa Hisa <1,000 82 21,927 1001–10,000 15 44,076 10,001–50,000 3 86,432 50,001–100,000 1 57,617 Over 100,000 1 139,948 Jumla 102 350,000 Balozi. (Mhandisi.) Mahboub Mohamed Mwenyekiti, Bodi ya Wakurugenzi 96 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Malindi, Kilifi County 8:08 PM POWERING KENYA The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 97 Nakuru, Nakuru County 6:44 AM POWERING KENYA 98 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 99 CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT REPORT Socially Responsible Company Wezesha Jamii Programme Corporate Social Investment (CSI) is increasingly In the period under review, the Company becoming an integral part of business today launched an employee-driven CSI programme as it influences the long-term success of any dubbed ‘Wezesha Jamii’ (empower communities) organisation. In the process of carrying out as part of initiatives to build good relationship our business, we are keen to work closely with with diverse communities across all our business communities and other stakeholders around regions. Through the Wezesha Jamii programme, us, to empower, create value and better their employees identify and propose potential lives. Through our CSI programmes, we carried initiatives to be supported by the Company in line out various CSI activities in the year focusing with our CSI strategy. The programme has helped on supporting education, providing water to endear the Company to various beneficiary communities, participating in environmental communities while enhancing employee conservation efforts, developing sports talents motivation, their sense of pride and belonging. and providing mentorship programmes to the young. sss Jubilant parents of Mwakinyugu Primary School in Voi, Taita Taveta County, receive a cheque from Kenya Power towards construction of classrooms under the Wezesha Jamii programme. Under the programme, the Company invested Shs Liban Secondary School in Wajir; Obambo 13 million in the period on various projects spread Primary School in Siaya; Olgurmaek Primary across the country, with education and social School in Kajiado and St. Maurice Ring Ring welfare taking the lion’s share of the kitty. Most Secondary School in West Pokot among others. of the funds were directed to building facilities such as classrooms, laboratories, dormitories Enlightening People Through Education and ablution blocks for needy schools. The We acknowledge the important role of education beneficiaries include Mwakinyungu Primary as a catalyst for change and transformation of a School in Taita Taveta; Obalwanda Special School society because of its positive effects on peoples’ in Kisii; Nairobi’s City Primary School Autism Unit values, attitudes and behaviours. It enhances and Mwihoko Primary School in Nairobi; Ahmed 100 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 people’s productivity, promotes creativity and initiative that the Company supported in the entrepreneurship and technological advances year include organising a clean-up exercise on for economic and social progress. Education is the shores of Lake Victoria near Kisumu. We also therefore, one of the focus areas in our CSI policy. participated in the Rhino Charge, an annual event organised by Rhino Ark Kenya Charitable Trust to We have maintained endowment funds for raise funds for the conservation and protection of Starehe Boys Centre and Starehe Girls in the Kenya’s mountain range ecosystems. last twenty and ten years respectively which has helped educate eighteen students from Sports Sporting activities benefit a society in many underprivileged family backgrounds. In addition, ways. They not only provide physical strength twelve academically gifted students are currently but also increase mental power as well. Boosting enjoying full sponsorship in the two schools participation in sports can generate a variety under the programme. The endowment fund of socio-economic benefits. Sports can, and is a sustainable approach to CSI in that the does, make profound and positive impact on investment earnings from the fund are used to individuals, communities and the wider society. meet requisite fees for the students. During the last financial year, we donated Shs 2 million to Kenya Power has three football clubs which each of these funds. are currently performing well in the Nationwide Other notable education projects supported by League. The clubs are sponsored by the Company the Company to the tune of Shs 1 million each as a strategy to provide recreation activities in the period include provision of computers to for our employees and develop talents from the Queen of Peace Primary School in Turkana communities as well as promote our corporate County; advocacy training for programme to brand. assist people with special needs through the Kenya Institute of Special Education and a Additionally, the Company supported the Annual donation to assist Moi Nairobi Girls High School Sports Personality of the Year Awards Gala, which after a fire tragedy. was held to inspire upcoming sports talents, recognise personalities as well as promote Water for life excellence in sports. We contributed Shs 6 In the period, we funded a project to connect million towards this initiative. We also contributed electricity to two boreholes that will provide sponsorship for the 4th Chemususu Dam Half water to approximately three thousand people Marathon was also another sporting activity living in Emasatsi in Khwisero, Kakamega County that the Company funded to the tune of Shs 0.5 and Nyarongi in Kanyadoto, Homabay County. million and participated in, with the main area of The project is being implemented jointly with support going towards the conservation of the ActionAid, a non-governmental organisation at a dam located in Eldama Ravine, Baringo County. cost of Shs 8 million. It will assist the communities access clean water for domestic use as well as encourage sustainable small-scale farming. The Environment Eng. Jared Othieno Ag. Managing Director and CEO Environmental conservation remains a priority support area for the Company. Some of the The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 101 RIPOTI YA UWEKEZAJI WA KAMPUNI Mpango wa Wezesha Jamii KATIKA JAMII Katika kipindi kilichomalizika, Kampuni ilianzisha mpango wa CSI unaosimamiwa na wafanyakazi Kampuni Inayowajibika kwa Jamii maarufu kama ‘Wezesha Jamii’ kama njia ya Uwekezaji wa Kampuni katika Jamii (CSI) kupalilia uhusiano mwema na jamii mbalimbali unaendelea kuwa sehemu muhimu ya biashara katika maeneo tunakoendesha biashara zetu. siku hizi kwa kuwa inashawishi ufanisi wa siku Kupitia kwa mpango wa Wezesha Jamii, zijazo wa shirika lolote lile. Katika jitihada za wafanyakazi hutambua na kupendekeza miradi kuendesha shughuli zetu, tunaazimia kufanya kazi ambayo inaweza kufadhiliwa na Kampuni kwa ushirikiano na jamii pamoja na washikadau kwa mujibu wa mkakati wetu wa CSI. Mpango wengine karibu nasi, kuwawezesha, kuongeza huo umewezesha jamii nyingi kukumbatia thamani na kuboresha maisha yao. Kupitia kwa Kampuni huku ukiwatia shime wafanyakazi na mipango ya CSI, tulianzisha shughuli tofauti za kuwatosheleza. CSI katika mwaka uliopita kupitia kwa mchango katika sekta ya elimu, kusambaza maji kwa jamii, kushiriki katika jitihada za kuhifadhi mazingira, kukuza vipawa vya michezo na kuwatia motisha vijana. Wazazi wa shule ya msingi ya Mwakinyungu iliyomo eneo la Voi, Taita Taveta, washerekea msaada kutoka kampuni ya Kenya Power kufadhiria ujenzi wa madarasa chini ya mpango wa Wezesha Jamii. Chini ya mpango huo, Kampuni imewekeza Sh Obambo Primary School, Siaya; Olgurmaek 13milioni katika kipindi hicho kwenye miradi Primary School, Kajiado na St. Maurice Ring Ring tofauti kote nchini, huku elimu na maslahi ya Secondary School, West Pokot miongoni mwa kijamii zikipokea mgao mkubwa zaidi. Nyingi ya nyingine. fedha hizo zilitumika katika ujenzi wa madarasa, maabara, vyumba vya malazi na vyoo katika Kuangaza Watu Kupitia Elimu shule maskini. Miongoni mwa zile zilizonufaika Tunatambua wajibu muhimu unaotekelezwa ni Mwakinyungu Primary School, Taita Taveta; na elimu kama kichocheo cha mabadiliko na Obalwanda Special School, Kisii; City Primary mageuzi ya jamii kutokana na athari yake nzuri School Autism Unit na Mwihoko Primary School kwa hisia, maadili, matendo na mtazamo wa watu. Nairobi; Ahmed Liban Secondary School, Wajir; Inainua utendakazi wa watu, kukuza ubunifu na 102 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 ujasiriamali pamoja na kupiga hatua kiteknolojia, ambayo Kampuni ilisaidia katika mwaka uliopita kiuchumi na kijamii. Hivyo basi, elimu ni mojawapo ni pamoja na maandalizi ya shughuli ya kusafisha ya nyanja muhimu katika sera yetu ya CSI. fuo za Ziwa Victoria karibu na Kisumu. Pia tulishiriki katika shindano la Rhino Charge, tukio Tumechangia katika mfuko wa akiba kusaidia la kila mwaka linaloandaliwa na RhinoArk Kenya Starehe Boys Centre na Starehe Girls kwa muda Charitable Trust kuchangisha pesa za kuhifadhi na wa miaka ishirini na kumi iliyopita mtawalia kutunza maeneo ya milimani Kenya. ambayo imesaidia kuelimisha wanafunzi kumi na wanane kutoka familia maskini. Isitoshe, Michezo wanafunzi kumi na wawili werevu kwa sasa Shughuli za michezo husaidia jamii kwa njia wanafadhiliwa kikamilifu katika shule hizo chini tofauti. Mbali na kumpatia mhusika nguvu, ya mpango huu. Mfuko huu wa akiba ni mbinu huongeza uwezo wa kiakili pia. Kusaidia katika nzuri ya kudumisha mpango wa CSI kwa kuwa michezo kunaweza kuwa na manufaa kadha ya mapato kutoka uwekezaji yanatumika kulipia karo kiuchumi na kijamii. Michezo inaweza kuwa na ya wanafunzi. Katika mwaka uliomalizika, tulitoa athari kubwa na nzuri kwa watu binafsi, vijijini na mchango wa Sh 2milioni kwa kila moja ya hazina jamii kwa jumla. hizo. Kenya Power kwa sasa ina vilabu vitatu vya Miradi mingine ya elimu muhimu iliyodhaminiwa soka ambavyo vinafanya vyema katika ligi na Kampuni kwa kima cha Sh 1milioni kila moja ya Nationwide. Vilabu hivyo vinadhaminiwa katika kipindi hicho ni ununuzi wa Kompyuta na Kampuni kama mkakati wa kuwawezesha kusaidia shule ya Queen of Peace Primary School, wafanyakazi wetu kunyoosha viungo na kukuza kaunti ya Turkana; mpango wa kutoa mafunzo talanta kutoka kwa jamii pamoja na kuongeza sifa ya uhamasisho kusaidia watu wenye mahitaji ya Kampuni yetu. maalumu kupitia kwa Kenya Institute of Special Education na mchango wa kusaidia Moi Nairobi Isitoshe, Kampuni ilifadhili tuzo za kila mwaka, Girls High School baada ya mkasa wa moto. Annual Sports Personality of the Year Awards Gala, zilizoandaliwa ili kuwatia moyo vijana, Maji kwa Uhai kutambua waliofanya vyema na kukuza ufanisi Katika kipindi hicho, tulifadhili mradi wa katika michezo. Tulichangia Sh 6 milioni kwa kuunganisha umeme kwa visima viwili ambavyo shughuli hii. Pia, tulichangia kwa udhamini wa vitatoa maji kwa takribani wakazi elfu tatu awamu ya Nne ya Mbio za Nusu Marathoni za wanaoishi maeneo ya Emasatsi, Khwisero, kaunti Chemususu Dam kwa kima cha Sh 0.5 millioni ya Kakamega na Nyarongi, Kanyadoto, kaunti ya ambazo pia tulishiriki, huku mchango mkubwa Homabay. Mradi huo unatekelezwa kwa pamoja ukitumika katika uhifadhi wa bwawa lililopo na ActionAid, shirika lisilo la kiserikali kwa Eldama Ravine, kaunti ya Baringo. gharama ya Sh8milioni. Utasaidia jamii kupokea maji safi kwa matumizi ya nyumbani pamoja na kuwashawishi kushiriki katika kilimo kwenye mashamba madogo. Mazingira Uhifadhi wa Mazingira unasalia sehemu muhimu Mhandisi. Jared Othieno inayosaidiwa na Kampuni. Baadhi ya miradi Mkurugenzi Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 103 Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County 6:52 PM POWERING KENYA 104 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 105 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The directors submit their report together with the Transmission Company Limited (UETCL), Ethiopia audited financial statements of the Kenya Power Electricity Power Company and Tanzania Electric and Lighting Company Limited (the “Company”) Supply Company Limited (TANESCO). for the year ended 30 June 2018, which disclose the state of affairs of the Company. RESTATEMENT OF PRIOR YEAR RESULTS The Company’s financial statements include a BUSINESS REVIEW restatement of the opening balances at 1 July The core business of the Company continues 2016 and the statement of profit or loss and other to be the transmission, distribution and retail of comprehensive income figures for the year ended electricity purchased in bulk from Kenya Electricity 30 June 2017 to correct prior period errors. These Generating Company Plc (KenGen), Independent are covered in note 39 of the financial statements. Power Producers (IPPs), Uganda Electricity RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 2018 2017 Shs’000 Restated Shs’000 Profit before income tax 3,089,209 7,656,639 Income tax expense (1,171,217) (2,376,214) Profit for the year 1,917,992 5,280,425 DIVIDEND of the Company have been re-trained on the A dividend of Shs 1.93 million (2017: Shs 1.93 requirements of the Public Procurement and million) is payable on the cumulative preference Assets Disposal Act (PPAD Act 2015) and shares and has been recognised in the statement measures put in place to streamline the Company’s of profit or loss and other comprehensive income business process including procurement, quality under finance costs (Note 10(b)). assurance and customer service. No interim dividend was paid in 2018 (2017: nil). Investigations and court cases were ongoing at Subject to the approval of the shareholders, the the date when these financial statements were directors do not recommend payment of final approved. dividend (2017: Shs 976 million) for the year (2017: Shs 0.50). DIRECTORS The current Board of Directors is as shown on COURT CASES AGAINST SENIOR MANAGEMENT page 6. OF THE COMPANY A number of senior management and retired staff Amb (Eng) Mahboub Maalim Mohamed and Hon. of the Company are currently facing charges at Zipporah Jesang Kering were elected as directors the High Court of Kenya relating to alleged of the Company on 1st December 2017 while Hon. procurement malpractices. The Board of Directors Kenneth Marende ceased to be a director on the has suspended current officials who have been same day. charged in line with the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act and appointed an interim Eng. Jared Othieno was appointed as the Acting management team comprised of managers Managing Director & CEO and Executive Director who are well experienced in their respective of the Company on 17 th July 2018 replacing fields. Alongside various initiatives aimed at Dr. Kenneth Tarus who is suspended. enhancing accountability, senior management 106 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Continued) AUDITORS The Auditor General is responsible for the statutory audit of the Company’s financial statements in accordance with Section 35 of the Public Audit Act, 2015 (the “Act”). Section 23(1) of the Act empowers the Auditor General to appoint other auditors to carry out the audit on his behalf. Accordingly, PricewaterhouseCoopers were appointed to carry out the audit for the year ended 30 June 2018 and report to the AuditorGeneral. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Imelda Bore Company Secretary 22 November 2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 107 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT 1. During every Board or Committee meeting, Directors are entitled to a sitting allowance, Remuneration of the Company’s Board is set within lunch allowance (in lieu of lunch being the Government limits for state corporations. provided), accommodation allowance and mileage reimbursement at Automobile Statement of Company’s policy on directors’ Association of Kenya rates. remuneration 2. The Chairman receives a monthly honorarium. 3. D irectors’ fees are paid annually upon  During the year, there was no change to Board approval by shareholders during the AGM in remuneration. The current policy as guided by accordance with Government’s guidelines for the Government through the State Corporations all state corporations. Advisory Committee (SCAC) will apply in subsequent years until the same is revised. The 4. Non-executive directors are paid a total of Company does not have any share options or long Shs 600,000 or on pro rata basis for period term incentives plans. There was no compensation served. for past directors or any sum paid to third parties 5. The remuneration for executive directors is in respect of a director’s services. as per the negotiated employment contracts. The only executive director is the Managing 6. The Company will not propose to make any Director and Chief Executive Officer. He has changes in the remuneration level during the performance targets for the year which apply to current financial year. the Board. Non-executive directors’ remuneration 7. There are no directors’ loans in the Company’s is fixed by SCAC. loans. 8. There are no directors’ shares schemes. Contract of service The non-executive directors are not under contract 9. A sitting allowance is paid to each nonbut are subject to retirement by rotation at the executive Director for attending a duly Annual General Meeting (AGM). The Managing convened and constituted meeting of the Director and Chief Executive Officer is on a three Board or of any of the committees. years renewable contract from 1st August 2017 to 10.  A n allowance is paid to non-executive 1st August 2020. Dr Kenneth Tarus was suspended directors for any day of travel away from his in July 2018. regular station in order to attend to duties of the Company. Statement of voting at general meeting During the last AGM held on 1 December 2017, 11. Medical insurance cover is provided to all nonthe shareholders unanimously approved the executive directors for their individual medical directors’ remuneration of Shs 600,000 per year requirements covering both out-patient and per director on a pro-rata basis. in-patient services. Summary of the remuneration policy DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION The following are highlights of the Board remuneration policy for the Company: Below is a summary of entitlement per Board Member: 108 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Continued) Type of payment Chairman Member Honoraria (per month) Shs 80,000 N/A Sitting allowance (per sitting) Shs 20,000 Shs 20,000 Telephone – airtime for mobile phone (per month) Shs 20,000 N/A Transport allowance/mileage N/A* AA rates Lunch allowance Shs 2,000 Shs 2,000 Director’s fees per annum on prorata basis Shs 600,000 Shs 600,000 Director’s bonus N/A N/A Accommodation allowance outside Nairobi Shs 18,200 Shs 18,200 * Chairman was provided with a Company car during the year. INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT For the financial years ended 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017, the directors’ fees and remuneration are as below: Salary/ Expense honoraria Fees allowances Total Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Year ended 30 June 2018 Executive Director Kenneth Tarus 7,469 3,651 11,120 Non-executive directors Kenneth Marende – Former Chairman 400 543 475 1,418 Mahboub Maalim Mohamed – Chairman 560 560 1,120 Adil Khawaja 543 712 1,255 CS, National Treasury – Henry Rotich 600 600 PS, Energy Eng. Dr.Joseph Njoroge 600 186 786 Wilson Kimutai Mungung’ei 543 1,784 2,327 Kairo Thuo 312 1,496 1,808 Brenda Engomo Kokoi 312 2,535 2,847 Zipporah Jesang Kering 3,475 3,475 Beatrice Gathirwa 1,074 1,074 Isaac Kiva 928 928 8,429 3,453 16,876 28,758 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 109 Directors’ remuneration Report (continued) Salary/ Expense honoraria Fees allowances Total Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Year ended 30 June 2017 Executive Director Ben Chumo 4,857 2,020 6,877 Kenneth Tarus 4,536 1,485 6,021 Non-executive directors Kenneth Marende – Chairman 960 600 1,514 3,074 Adil Khawaja 600 355 955 Beatrice Gathirwa 98 98 Brenda Kokoi 934 934 CS, National Treasury – Henry Rotich 600 600 Isaac Kiva 1,448 1,448 Joseph Kariuki 1,716 1,716 Jane Nashida 889 1,767 2,656 Kairo Thuo 931 931 Macharia Kariuki 889 1,437 2,326 PS, Energy Eng. Dr.Joseph Njoroge 600 130 730 Susan Chesiyna 316 4,542 4,858 Wilson Kimutai 600 1,390 1,990 10,353 5,094 19,767 35,214 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Imelda Bore Company Secretary 22 November 2018 110 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of its profit or loss for that year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Company; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the Company that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They also accept responsibility for: VII. Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error; VIII. Selecting suitable accounting policies and then applying them consistently; and IX. Making judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, the directors have assessed the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern and disclosed, as applicable, matters relating to the use of going concern basis of preparation in note 2 (a (i)) of the financial statements. The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility. Approved by the board of directors on 22 November 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Amb (Eng) Mahboub Maalim Mr. Kairo Thuo Eng. Jared Othieno Chairman, Board Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Ag. Managing Director and CEO The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 111 REPORT OF THE AUDITOR GENERAL 112 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 113 114 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 115 116 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 117 118 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 119 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2018 2017 Restated Note Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue Electricity sales 6(a) 95,463,404 91,951,629 Foreign exchange adjustment 9,322,195 6,682,693 Fuel cost charge 7(b) 21,068,631 22,107,948 125,854,230 120,742,270 Power purchase costs Non-fuel costs 7(a) (52,795,031) (50,202,488) Foreign exchange costs (7,714,264) (6,199,227) Fuel costs 7(b) (23,591,184) (24,075,529) (84,100,479) (80,477,244) Gross profit 41,753,751 40,265,026 Net operating expenses Network management 8(a) (11,312,806) (11,146,208) Commercial services 8(b) (12,405,555) (4,920,081) Administration 8(c) (15,909,862) (18,678,529) (39,628,223) (34,744,818) Operating income 2,125,528 5,520,208 Other operating income 6(b) 8,670,357 8,130,398 Operating profit 10,795,885 13,650,606 Interest income 10(a) 100,000 46,004 Finance costs 10(b) (7,806,676) (6,039,971) Profit before income tax 3,089,209 7,656,639 Income tax expense 12(a) (1,171,217) (2,376,214) Profit for the year 1,917,992 5,280,425 Basic and diluted earnings per share (Shs) 13 0.98 2.71 Profit for the year 1,917,992 5,280,425 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of the retirement benefit asset 30 (97,837) (1,058,356) Deferred income tax relating to remeasurement of the retirement benefit asset 26 29,351 317,507 Other comprehensive loss (68,486) (740,849) Total comprehensive income for the year 1,849,506 4,539,576 120 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2018 2017 2016 Restated Restated ASSETS Note Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Non-current assets Property and equipment 15 273,376,882 262,347,609 233,714,593 Operating lease prepayments 16 813,423 868,463 868,519 Intangible assets 17 3,842,816 2,593,483 2,602,033 Retirement benefit asset 30 2,615,129 2,531,782 3,263,150 Trade and other receivables 20(a) 1,386,758 1,601,509 1,816,261 282,035,008 269,942,846 242,264,556 Current assets Inventories 19 9,745,385 9,626,293 11,895,271 Trade and other receivables 20(b) 39,605,767 48,084,812 29,893,927 Current income tax 12(c) 44,358 25,990 Short term deposits 21(a) 491,991 596,169 3,842,355 Bank and cash balances 21(b) 4,777,038 2,941,754 1,660,698 54,620,181 61,293,386 47,318,241 TOTAL ASSETS 336,655,189 331,236,232 289,582,797 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to owners Ordinary share capital 22 4,878,667 4,878,667 4,878,667 Share premium 23 22,021,219 22,021,219 22,021,219 Retained earnings 24 37,307,503 36,433,731 32,479,595 TOTAL EQUITY 64,207,389 63,333,617 59,379,481 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax 26 29,694,493 28,683,216 26,702,741 Deferred income 25 16,999,103 19,562,051 18,154,796 Trade and other payables 27(a) 22,524,358 29,710,547 30,172,855 Borrowings 28 96,929,050 111,075,216 105,017,783 Preference shares 29 43,000 43,000 43,000 166,190,004 189,074,030 180,091,175 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 27(b) 71,249,076 57,545,032 34,495,409 Current income tax 12(c) 23,777 Deferred income 25 4,702,427 4,944,572 5,953,273 Leave pay provision 31 448,000 346,903 544,369 Borrowings 28 16,100,334 10,940,906 8,850,929 Dividends payable 32 862,007 362,839 268,161 Overdraft 21(b) 12,872,175 4,688,333 106,257,796 78,828,585 50,112,141 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 336,655,189 331,236,232 289,582,797 The financial statements on pages 120 to 198 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 22 November 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: Amb (Eng) Mahboub Maalim Mr. Kairo Thuo Eng. Jared Othieno Chairman, Board Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Ag. Managing Director and CEO The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 121 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Ordinary share Share Retained capital prem ium earnings Total Note Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 At 30 June 2016 as previously reported 4,878,667 22,021,219 37,121,927 64,021,813 Restatement 39 (f) (4,642,332) (4,642,332) 30 June 2016 restated 4,878,667 22,021,219 32,479,595 59,379,481 Year ended 30 June 2017 1 July 2016 restated 4,878,667 22,021,219 32,479,595 59,379,481 Total comprehensive income for the year (restated) 39 (g) 5,280,425 5,280,425 Other comprehensive loss (740,849) (740,849) Total comprehensive income for the year 4,539,576 4,539,576 Final dividend 2016 (585,440) (585,440) 30 June 2017 restated 4,878,667 22,021,219 36,433,731 63,333,617 Year ended 30 June 2018 At 30 June 2017 as previously reported 4,878,667 22,021,219 43,061,769 69,961,655 Restatement 39 (6,628,038) (6,628,038) At 1 July 2017 restated 4,878,667 22,021,219 36,433,731 63,333,617 Profit for the year 1,917,992 1,917,992 Other comprehensive loss (68,486) (68,486) Total comprehensive income for the year 1,849,506 1,849,506 Final dividend – 2017 (975,734) (975,734) At 30 June 2018 4,878,667 22,021,219 37,307,503 64,207,389 122 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 2018 2017 Restated Note Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 33(a) 37,168,444 35,131,974 Income tax paid 12(c) (62,454) (96,600) Interest received 33(g) 108,563 33,811 Interest paid 33(d) (9,128,427) (6,910,645) Net cash generated from operating activities 28,086,126 28,158,540 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property and equipment 33(h) (25,434,423) (38,838,985) Purchase of intangible assets 17 (2,457,161) (729,705) Prepayment of operating lease 16 (8,574) Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 33(e) 166,934 48,727 Net cash used in investing activities (27,733,224) (39,519,963) Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of borrowings 33(b) (12,736,581) (5,478,735) Proceeds from borrowings 33(b) 6,409,439 10,672,294 Dividends paid to owners of the company 33(f) (478,496) (492,692) Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (6,805,638) 4,700,867 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (6,452,736) (6,660,556) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (1,150,410) 5,503,054 Effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on deposits 7,092 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 33(c) (7,603,146) (1,150,410) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 123 NOTES 1. General information The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited, a public company domiciled in the Republic of Kenya, was incorporated on 6 January 1922, as East Africa Power & Lighting Limited. The Company changed its name on 11 October 1983. The core business of the Company continues to be the transmission, distribution and retail of electricity purchased in bulk from Kenya Electricity Generating Company Plc (KenGen), Independent Power Producers (IPPs), Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UETCL) and Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO). The shares of the Company are listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The Government of Kenya is the principal shareholder in the Company holding a 50.1% equity interest. The address of the Company’s registered office is as follows: Stima Plaza Kolobot Road, Parklands P.O. Box 30099 – 00100, Nairobi 2. Significant accounting policies (a) Basis of preparation  The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires the directors to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 3. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Director’s assessment is included below; (i) Going concern assessment   The Company recorded a profit before tax of Shs 3,089,209,000 for the year ended 30 June 2018 (2017 Restated: Shs 7,656,639,000) and had net current liabilities of Shs 51,637,615,000 at 30 June 2018 (2017 Restated: Shs 17,535,199,000). In addition, the Company had a net cash outflow of Shs 6,452,736,000 for the year ended 30 June 2018 (2017 Restated: Shs 6,660,556,000). The Company’s performance was affected by the following factors: i. Revenue growth in the year was constrained by the depressed economic environment in the first half of the financial year, and the delay in review and implementation of the retail electricity tariffs. The ‘2013 Schedule of tariffs’ was for a 3-year period with a new tariff expected from June 2016. The average revenue requirement, which drives the tariff computation, takes into account the total transmission and distribution assets. Revenue for the last two financial years was based on the electricity grid in 2013 and did not take into account the significant expansion in the intervening period; ii. The recent aggressive connectivity and grid reinforcement programs aimed at achieving the Government’s target of universal access by 2020 and increasing installed capacity, were funded using a mix of internal funds and medium term commercial debt resulting in net cash outflows and significant net current liability position as the assets acquired are long term in nature. The expected return on the Company’s investment was dependent on review of the tariff; iii. Delayed fuel cost recoveries because of poor hydrological conditions in 2017 and the slow business environment, also affected the Company’s cash flows. Financing costs and doubtful electricity receivables increased significantly in the year because of the deteriorated cash flows; and 124 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) i Going concern assessment (continued) iv. Increased system losses due to rapid expansion at low voltage under the Last Mile and other connectivity programs.  The business fundamentals remain strong despite the above factors. The Company has consistently recorded profit and generated positive cash-flows from operating activities, which is the strongest indicator that it is able to meet obligations as and when they fall due.  The Board and management are undertaking a number of key strategic initiatives to improve the financial results of the Company going forward. These include: i. The new tariff (effective 1 July 2018), which includes incentives such as the time of use tariff and removal of the fixed charge, is expected to drive an increase in electricity demand and therefore, revenue; ii. Improvement in the Company’s working capital position and profitability by reducing capital expenditure and undertaking cost containment measures without impacting service delivery; iii. Ring-fencing and channelling additional revenue to prioritized areas including defraying of overdraft facilities and payment of critical trade payable accounts including energy purchase; iv. Measures to enhance timely recovery and collection of electricity receivables; v. Measures to reduce transmission and distribution losses; and vi. The waiver letters obtained after year-end mean that the lenders will not call their loans on the basis of the current financial covenant breaches and management expect that the measures undertaken in the year will cure the breaches. Based on the above, the directors consider it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis. (ii) Changes in accounting policy and disclosures New and amended standards adopted by the Company Standard Effective date Executive summary Amendment Annual periods The amendment was issued to clarify the to IAS 12 – beginning on or requirements for recognising deferred tax assets Income taxes after on unrealised losses. The amendment clarifies 1 January 2017 the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is Recognition measured at fair value and that fair value is below of deferred the asset’s tax base. It also clarifies certain other tax assets for aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. unrealised losses. The amendment clarifies the existing guidance under IAS 12. It does not change the underlying principles for the recognition of deferred tax assets. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 125 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) ii. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) New and amended standards adopted by the Company (continued) Standard Effective date Executive summary Amendment to Annual periods The amendments introduce an additional IAS 7 – Cash flow beginning on or disclosure that will enable users of statements after 1 January 2017 financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing Statement of cash activities. The amendment responds to flows on disclosure requests from investors for information initiative that helps them better understand changes in an entity’s debt. The Company has adopted this amendment in the presentation of cash flows relating to borrowings. New and amended standards not yet adopted by the Company Standard Effective date Executive summary IFRS 9 – Financial Annual periods ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the Instruments (2009 beginning on or after classification, measurement and recognition &2010) 1 January 2018 of financial assets and financial liabilities and • Financial liabilities introduces new rules for hedge accounting. • Derecognition The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued of financial in July 2015. It replaces the guidance in instruments IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. • Financial assets IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurements model and establishes • General hedge three primary measurement categories for accounting financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) and fair value through profit or loss. The basis of classification depends on the entity’s model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to changes in fair value in OCI without recycling. There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For financial liabilities there are no changes to the classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. 126 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) ii. Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) New and amended standards not yet adopted by the Company (continued) Standard Effective date Executive summary IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the ‘hedged ratio’ to be the same as the one management actually use for risk management purposes. Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently prepared under IAS 39. This standard will be applicable to the Company’s financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2019. The standard requires that an assessment is performed to determine the impact of the standard on the financial statements. Management has not performed this assessment. IFRS 15 – Revenue Annual periods ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ from contracts beginning on or deals with revenue recognition and establishes with customers. after principles for reporting useful information to 1 January 2018 users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. This standard will be applicable to the Company’s financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2019. The standard requires that an assessment is performed to determine the impact of the standard on the financial statements. Management has not performed this assessment. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 127 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) ii Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) New and amended standards not yet adopted by the Company (continued) Standard Effective date Executive summary IFRS 16 – Leases Annual periods This standard replaces the current guidance beginning on or in IAS 17 and is a far reaching change in after 1 January 2019 accounting by lessees in particular. Under IAS – earlier application 17, lessees were required to make a distinction permitted if IFRS 15 between a finance lease (on balance sheet) is also applied. and an operating lease (off balance sheet). IFRS 16 now requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a ‘right-of-use asset’ for virtually all lease contracts. The IASB has included an optional exemption for certain short-term leases and leases of low-value assets; however, this exemption can only be applied by lessees. For lessors, the accounting stays almost the same. However, as the IASB has updated the guidance on the definition of a lease (as well as the guidance on the combination and separation of contracts), lessors will also be affected by the new standard. At the very least, the new accounting model for lessees is expected to impact negotiations between lessors and lessees. Under IFRS 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17, ‘Leases’, IFRIC 4, ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease’, SIC 15, ‘Operating Leases – Incentives’ and SIC 27, ‘Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease’. This standard will be applicable to the Company’s financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2020 Management has not performed this assessment. 128 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) ii Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) New and amended standards not yet adopted by the Company (continued) Standard Effective date Executive summary IFRIC 23, Annual periods IFRIC 23 provides a framework to consider, ‘Uncertainty beginning on or recognise and measure the accounting impact over income tax after 1 January of tax uncertainties. The Interpretation provides treatments’ 2019 specific guidance in several areas where previously IAS 12 was silent. The Interpretation Published 7 June also explains when to reconsider the accounting 2017) for a tax uncertainty. Most entities will have developed a model to account for tax uncertainties in the absence of specific guidance in IAS 12. These models might, in some circumstances, be inconsistent with IFRIC 23 and the impact on tax accounting could be material. Management should assess the existing models against the specific guidance in the Interpretation and consider the impact on income tax accounting Annual Annual periods These amendments include minor changes to: improvements beginning on or cycle 2015-2017 after • IFRS 3, ‘Business combination’ a company 1 January 2019 remeasures its previously held interest in a joint operation when it obtains control of the (published business. December 2017) • IFRS 11,’Joint arrangements’, a company does not remeasure its previously held interest in a joint operation when it obtains joint control of the business. • IAS 12,’ Income taxes’ The amendment clarified that the income tax consequences of dividends on financial instruments classified as equity should be recognised according to where the past transactions or events that generated distributable profits were recognised. • IAS 23,’ Borrowing costs’ a company treats as part of general borrowings any borrowing originally made to develop an asset when the asset is ready for its intended use or sale. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 129 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (b) Power purchase costs   Power purchase costs are recognised post-paid metering are billed for at the actual amounts charged to the the power consumed. The billing is Company by the suppliers of power. done for each monthly billing cycle These comprise: based on the units consumed as read on the customers’ electricity (i) Non-fuel costs meters and the approved consumer  These include capacity charges, tariffs. Electricity sales revenue for energy cost and steam charges. customers on prepaid metering is recognised when customers (ii) Foreign exchange costs purchase electricity units and then   These relate to the net foreign adjusted for the estimated amount currency losses incurred by Kenya of unconsumed power based on the Electricity Generating Company consumption rate over a period of Plc (KenGen) which are charged to time. the Company in accordance with the Power Purchase Agreements (ii) Fuel cost charge (PPAs) and the net foreign currency   The Company recognises revenue losses incurred by the Company in relating to fuel costs charge in the the settlement of foreign currency month of approval by the Energy denominated invoices from Regulation Commission (ERC). independent power producers (IPPs). The billing to customers is based on their individual consumption in (iii) Fuel costs the month and applied as a charge   These comprise the cost of fuel per KWh. Fuel costs recoveries incurred in the generation of comprise the actual amounts billed electricity and invoiced by suppliers. to the customers (consistent with description under note 2 (c) (i)   The recharge of power purchase above). costs relating to customers under the Rural Electrification Scheme is (iii) Foreign exchange adjustment covered in note 2 (t).  Foreign exchange payments, arising from exchange rate differences (c) Revenue not factored in the retail tariffs,   Revenue is recognised to the extent are recognised and charged to the that it is probable that the economic consumers of power to recover the benefits will flow to the Company and losses in the foreign exchange rates. the revenue can be reliably measured. The net foreign currency costs are Revenue is recognised at the fair value passed on to the customers as a of consideration received or receivable charge per KWh, which is approved taking into account contractually each month by the ERC. defined terms of payment and net of Value Added Tax and other Government levies. The following specific recognition   The recovery of fuel costs and the criteria must be met before revenue is foreign exchange costs is based recognised: on supplier invoices and factors in the ERC’s target loss factor in (i) Electricity sales transmission and distribution. For the year ended 30 June 2018, the target   E lectricity sales revenue is loss factor was 15.9%. recognised when customers on 130 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (c) Revenue (continued) Other income (d) Inventories (i) Finance revenue  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost Finance revenue comprises interest and net realisable value after due regard receivable from bank deposits and for obsolete and slow moving stocks. The other deposits. Finance revenue is cost of inventories comprises purchase recognised as it accrues in profit price, import duties, transport and or loss, using the effective interest handling charges and is determined on method. a weighted average price. Net realisable value is the price at which the inventory (ii) Rental income can be realised in the normal course of Rental income is recognised on the business after allowing for the costs of straight line basis over the lease realisation. term. (e) Property and equipment (iii) Capital contribution  All property and equipment is stated at  Contributions paid by electricity cost less accumulated depreciation and customers relating to the accumulated impairment losses. Such construction of regular distribution cost includes the cost of replacing part assets and funding for electrification of the property and equipment when are credited to profit or loss as part that cost is incurred, if the recognition of other income on a straight-line criteria are met. Likewise, when a major basis over the expected useful lives inspection is performed, its cost is of the related assets. recognised in the carrying amount of the property and equipment as a replacement (iv) Fibre optic income if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All   This represents income from other repair and maintenance costs are the lease of Company fibre recognised in profit or loss as incurred. optic cable lines to third parties. The revenue from leasing the  No depreciation is charged on freehold transmission lines is recognised on land. Depreciation on other assets is a straight line basis over the lease calculated to write down their cost to term. their residual values, on a straight-line basis, over their expected useful lives. The depreciation rates used are as follows: Buildings The greater of 2% and 1/the unexpired period of the lease Transmission and distribution lines 2.5 – 20% Machinery 2.85 – 6.66% Motor vehicles 25% Furniture, equipment and fittings 6.66 – 20% Computers and photocopiers 30% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 131 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (f) Property and equipment (continued) (g) Intangible assets   The asset’s residual values, estimated  Intangible assets acquired separately useful lives and methods of depreciation are measured on initial recognition are reviewed at the end of each reporting at cost. Following initial recognition, period with the effect of any changes in intangible assets are carried at cost estimate accounted for prospectively. less any accumulated amortisation and An item of property and equipment is any accumulated impairment losses. derecognised upon disposal or when no Intangible assets with finite lives are future economic benefits are expected amortised over the useful economic life from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss and assessed for impairment whenever arising from the recognition of an item of there is an indication that the intangible property and equipment (calculated as asset may be impaired. The amortisation the difference between the net disposal period and the amortisation method proceeds and the carrying amount of the for the Company’s intangible assets asset at the disposal date) is included in are reviewed at least at each financial profit or loss for the year. This does not year end. Changes in the expected apply to assets acquired by the Company useful life or the expected pattern of on sale and leaseback transactions. consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the amortisation period  Properties in the course of construction or method, as appropriate, and are for production, supply or administrative treated as changes in accounting purposes are carried at cost less any estimates. The amortisation expense recognised impairment loss. Cost includes on intangible assets with finite lives professional fees and for qualifying is recognised in the profit or loss in the assets, borrowing costs capitalised expense category consistent with the in accordance with the Company’s function of the intangible asset. accounting policy. Such properties are classified to the appropriate categories of property and equipment when  An intangible asset is derecognised on completed and ready for intended use. disposal, or when no future economic Depreciation of these assets, on the benefits are expected from use or same basis as other property assets, disposal. Gains or losses arising from commences when the assets are ready unforeseeable changes of such intangible for their intended use. assets are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are  At the end of each accounting period, recognised in profit or loss when the asset is the Company conducts impairment tests derecognised. where there are indications of impairment of an asset.  Currently, intangible assets comprise software and have an estimated useful Capital work in progress life of five years.  Capital work-in-progress is included (h) Income tax expense under property and equipment and Income tax expense represents the sum comprises costs incurred on ongoing of the tax currently payable and deferred capital works relating to both customer income tax. and internal works. These costs include material, transport and labour cost incurred. The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit 132 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (h) Income tax expense (continued)   differs from profit as reported in the income tax liabilities and assets reflects profit or loss because of items of income the tax consequences that would follow or expense that are taxable or deductible from the manner in which the Company in other years and items that are never expects, at the end of the reporting period, taxable or deductible. The Company’s to recover or settle the carrying amount of its liability for current tax is calculated assets and liabilities. using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of   Current and deferred income tax are the reporting period. recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in Deferred income tax other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current   Deferred income tax is recognised and deferred tax are also recognised in on temporary differences between other comprehensive income or directly the carrying amounts of assets and in equity respectively. Where current liabilities in the financial statements income tax or deferred income tax arises and the corresponding tax bases used from the initial accounting for a business in the computation of taxable profit. combination, the tax effect is included Deferred income tax liabilities are in the accounting for the business generally recognised for all taxable combination. temporary differences. Deferred income tax assets are generally recognised for (i) Leases all deductible temporary differences to  The determination of whether an the extent that it is probable that taxable arrangement is, or contains a lease is based profits will be available against which on the substance of the arrangement at those deductible temporary differences inception date on whether the fulfilment can be utilised. Such deferred income tax of the arrangement is dependent on assets and liabilities are not recognised the use of a specific asset or assets or if the temporary difference arises from the arrangement conveys a right to use goodwill or from the initial recognition the asset. (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction  For arrangements entered into prior to that affects neither the taxable profit nor 1 January 2005, the date of inception is the accounting profit. deemed to be 1 January 2005 in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4.  The carrying amounts of deferred income Company as a lessee tax assets are reviewed at the end of each  Finance leases, which transfer to the reporting period and reduced to the Company substantially all the risks extent that it is no longer probable that and benefits incidental to ownership sufficient taxable profits will be available of the leased item, are capitalised at to allow all or part of the asset to be the inception of the lease at the fair recovered. value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities lease payments. Lease payments are are measured at the tax rates that are apportioned between the finance charges expected to apply in the period in which and reduction of the lease liability so as the liability is settled or the asset realised, to achieve a constant rate of interest on based on tax rates (and tax laws) that the remaining balance of the liability. have been enacted or substantively Finance charges are reflected in profit enacted by the end of the reporting or loss. period. The measurement of deferred The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 133 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) Leases (continued) (k) Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are  Capitalised leased assets are depreciated recognised when the Company becomes over the shorter of the estimated useful life of a party to the contractual provisions of the asset and the lease term, if there is no the instrument. reasonable certainty that the Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly  Operating lease payments are recognised attributable to the acquisition or issue as an expense in profit or loss on a straight of financial assets and financial liabilities line basis over the lease term. (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or Company as a lessor loss) are added to or deducted from  Leases where the Company does not the fair value of the financial assets or transfer substantially all the risks and financial liabilities, as appropriate, on benefits of ownership of the asset are initial recognition. Transaction costs classified as operating leases. Initial direct directly attributable to the acquisition costs incurred in negotiating an operating of financial assets or financial liabilities lease are added to the carrying amount at fair value through profit or loss are of the leased asset and recognised over recognised immediately in profit or loss. the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised Financial assets as revenue in the period in which they  Financial assets are classified into the are earned. following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, (j) Functional currency ‘held-to-maturity’ investments, ‘availableThe financial statements are presented in for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and Kenya shillings, which is the Company’s ‘loans and receivables’. The classification Functional and Presentation currency. depends on the nature and purpose of Transactions in foreign currencies are the financial assets and is determined initially recorded at the Functional at the time of initial recognition. The Currency rate ruling at the date of the Company’s financial assets all fall under transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities the ‘loans and receivables’ category. denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the Functional Currency Loans and receivables rate of exchange ruling at the reporting  Loans and receivables are non-derivative date. Transactions during the year are financial assets with fixed or determinable translated at the rates ruling at the dates payments that are not quoted in an of the transactions. Gains and losses on active market. Loans and receivables exchange are dealt with in the profit or loss. (including trade and other receivables, bank balances and cash) are measured  Non-monetary items that are measured in at amortised cost using the effective terms of historical cost in a foreign currency interest method, less any impairment. are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. NonImpairment of financial assets monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the  Financial assets are assessed for indicators of exchange rates at the date when the fair impairment at the end of each reporting period. value is determined. Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after 134 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (k) Financial instruments (continued) the initial recognition of the financial asset, of the impairment loss decreases and the the estimated future cash flows of the decrease can be related objectively to an event investment have been affected. occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is  Objective evidence of impairment of reversed through profit or loss to the extent that electricity receivables includes: the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed • s ignificant financial difficulty of the what the amortised cost would have been had customer; or the impairment not been recognised. • non-payment of electricity bills; or • it becoming probable that the Derecognition of financial assets customer will enter bankruptcy or  The Company derecognises a financial asset financial re-organisation. only when the contractual rights to the cash  Electricity receivables that are outstanding flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers for greater than the Company’s average the financial asset and substantially all the credit period of 30 days are considered risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to past due. In addition to considering specific another entity. If the Company neither transfers indicators for impairment, the Company nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards makes a full provision for impairment loss of ownership and continues to control the on electricity receivables aged greater than transferred asset, the Company recognises its 90 days excluding those relating to the retained interest in the asset and an associated Government of Kenya and entities related liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the to the Government of Kenya including Company retains substantially all the risks and ministries and parastatals. rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Company continues to recognise  For financial assets carried at amortised the financial asset and also recognises a cost, the amount of the impairment loss collateralised borrowing for the proceeds recognised is the difference between the received. asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows,  On derecognition of a financial asset discounted at the financial asset’s original other than in its entirety (e.g. when the effective interest rate. Company retains an option to repurchase part of a transferred asset or retains a  The carrying amount of the financial asset residual interest that does not result in the is reduced by the impairment loss directly retention of substantially all the risks and for all financial assets with the exception rewards of ownership and the company of trade receivables, where the carrying retains control), the Company allocates the amount is reduced through the use of an previous carrying amount of the financial allowance account. When a trade receivable asset between the part it continues to is considered uncollectible, it is written off recognise under continuing involvement, against the allowance account. Subsequent and the part it no longer recognises on recoveries of amounts previously written the basis of the relative fair values of those off are credited against the allowance parts on the date of the transfer. income is account. Changes in the carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. A cumulative of the allowance account are recognised in gain or loss that had been recognised in profit or loss. other comprehensive income is allocated between the part that continues to be  For financial assets measured at amortised recognised. cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 135 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (k) Financial instruments (continued) Financial liabilities All other borrowing costs are recognised in Other financial liabilities profit or loss in the period in which they are  Other financial liabilities (including incurred. borrowings) are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest (m) Leave provision method. Employees’ entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they accrue to Derecognition of financial liabilities employees. A provision is made for the estimated liability for annual leave at the The Company derecognises financial liabilities reporting date. when, and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they (n) Impairment of non-financial assets expire. The difference between the carrying  The Company reviews the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised amounts of its tangible and intangible and the consideration paid and payable is assets, to determine whether there is recognised in profit or loss. any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss at reporting Offsetting of financial instruments date, or when there are indications of impairment. If any such indication Financial assets and financial liabilities are exists, the recoverable amount of the offset and the net amount reported in the asset is estimated and an impairment statement of financial position if, and only loss is recognised in profit or loss if, there is a currently enforceable legal right whenever the carrying amount of the to offset the recognised amounts and there asset exceeds its recoverable amount. is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to An asset’s recoverable amount is the realise the assets and settle the liabilities higher of the asset’s or cash-generating simultaneously. unit’s (CGU’s) fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. In assessing value in (l) Borrowing costs use, the estimated future cash flows are  Borrowing costs directly attributable to the discounted to their present value using a acquisition, construction or production of pre-tax discount rate that reflects current qualifying assets, which are assets that market assessments of the time value of necessarily take a substantial period of money and the risks specific to the asset. time to get ready for their intended use In determining fair value less costs to sell, or sale, are added to the cost of those an appropriate valuation model is used. assets, until such time as the assets are Where it is not possible to estimate the substantially ready for their intended use recoverable amount of an individual asset, or sale. the directors estimate the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to Investment income earned on the temporary which the asset belongs. investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is  Impairment of transmission and deducted from the borrowing costs eligible distribution lines for capitalisation.  A decline in the value of the transmission Capitalised costs include interest charges and distribution lines could have a and foreign currency exchange differences significant effect on the amounts on borrowings for projects under recognised in the financial statements. construction to the extent that they are Management assesses the impairment of regarded as adjustments to interest rates. the lines whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 136 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (n) Impairment of non-financial assets (continued)  carrying value may not be recoverable. contribution scheme are charged to Factors that are considered important profit or loss as incurred. which could make an impairment review ii. Company’s defined benefit scheme necessary include the following:  Pensioners and deferred pensioners i. Significant decline in the market (those who have left the employment value beyond that which would be of the Company but have not expected from the passage of time attained retirement age to qualify as and normal use. pensioners) existing at 30 June 2006 ii. Evidence from internal reporting are eligible for retirement benefits which indicates that the performance under a defined benefit scheme. of the asset is, or will be, worse than  For defined benefit plans, the cost expected. of providing benefits is determined iii.  Significant changes with adverse using the projected unit credit effect on the Company have taken method, with actuarial valuations place during the period, or will being carried out at the end of take place in the near future, in the each annual reporting period. technology or market environment Re m e a s u re m e n t , co m p r i s i n g in which the Company operates, or actuarial gains and losses, the effect in the market to which an asset is of the changes to the asset ceiling and dedicated. the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in iv.  E vidence is available of the the statement of financial position obsolescence or physical damage of with a charge or credit recognised an asset. in other comprehensive income v. Significant changes with an adverse in the period in which they occur. effect on the Company have taken Remeasurement recognised in place during the period, or are other comprehensive income is expected to take place in the near reflected immediately in retained future, which impact the manner earnings and will not be reclassified or the extent to which an asset is to profit or loss. Past service cost used. These changes include plans is recognised in profit or loss in the to discontinue or restructure the period of a plan amendment. Net operation to which an asset belongs interest is calculated by applying or to dispose of an asset before the the discount rate at the beginning of previously expected date. the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit  In management’s judgment, the costs are categorised as service impaired carrying values of the lines costs (including current service and substations are reinforced, replaced cost, past service cost, as well as or upgraded under the Energy Sector gains and losses on curtailments and Recovery Project, after considering the settlements), net interest expense or above key indicators of impairment. income and remeasurement. (o) Employees’ benefits The Company presents the first two i. Company’s defined contribution  components of defined benefit costs scheme in profit or loss in the line item of pension cost-defined benefit scheme   The Company employees are eligible (included in staff costs). Curtailment for retirement benefits under a gains and losses are accounted for as defined contribution scheme from past service costs. 1 July 2006. Payments to the defined The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 137 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2 Significant accounting policies (continued) (o) Employees’ benefits (continued) (ii) Company’s defined benefit scheme (continued)  The retirement benefit asset  Capital expenditure represents the total recognised in the Company’s cost incurred during the year to acquire statement of financial position assets for the regions that are expected represents the actual surplus in the to be used during more than one period Company’s defined benefit plans. (property and equipment).  Any surplus resulting from this (q) Earnings per share calculation is limited to the present  Basic and diluted earnings per share value of any economic benefits (EPS) data for ordinary shares are available in the form of refunds from presented in the financial statements. the plans or reductions in future Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the contributions to the plans. profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the   A liability for a termination benefit weighted average number of ordinary is recognised at the earlier of when shares outstanding during the period. the entity can no longer withdraw Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the offer of the termination benefit the profit or loss attributable to ordinary and when the entity recognises any shareholders and the weighted average related restructuring costs. number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all potentially dilutive iii. S tatutory defined contribution ordinary shares, if any. pension scheme (r) Dividends  The employees and the Company  Dividends on ordinary shares are charged also contribute to the National Social to reserves in the period in which they are Security Fund, a national defined declared. Proposed dividends are not accrued contribution scheme. Contributions for until ratified in an Annual General Meeting. are determined by the country’s statutes and the Company’s (s) Government grants contributions are charged to profit Government grants are not recognised or loss as incurred. until there is reasonable assurance that the Company will comply with the (p) Operating segments conditions attaching to them and that the The Company’s business is organised by grants will be received. regions (reporting segments) comprising Nairobi, Mount Kenya, Coast and West   Government grants are recognised Kenya. Business administration is by in profit or loss on a systematic basis geographic region as the Company deals over the periods in which the Company in only supply of electricity. There are no recognises as expenses the related costs inter-region sales. The Chief Operating for which the grants are intended to Decision Maker (CODM) is the Executive compensate. Specifically, government Management Committee. grants whose primary condition is that the Company should purchase, construct  Regions derive their revenues from or otherwise acquire non-current assets the distribution and retail of electricity are recognised as deferred revenue purchased in bulk by the head office. in the statement of financial position Region assets and liabilities comprise and transferred to profit or loss on a those operating assets and liabilities systematic and rational basis over the that are directly attributable to the region useful lives of the related assets. or can be allocated to the region on a reasonable basis. 138 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (s) Government grants (continued) Government grants that are receivable statement of financial position comprise as compensation for expenses or losses cash at banks and on hand and shortalready incurred or for the purpose of term deposits with a maturity of three giving immediate financial support to the months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.  Company with no future related costs are For the purpose of the statement of recognised in profit or loss in the period cash flows, cash and cash equivalents in which they become receivable. consist of cash and short-term deposits, as defined above, net of outstanding bank (t) Recharge of costs to Rural Electrification overdrafts as they are considered an integral Scheme part of the Company’s cash management.   The Rural Electrification Scheme was established in 1973 by the Government of (v) Comparatives Kenya following an agreement between   Where necessary, comparative figures the Government and East African Power have been adjusted to conform to & Lighting Company (now The Kenya changes in presentation in the current Power and Lighting Company Limited year. (KPLC). The Scheme was established 3.  Critical accounting judgements and key with the specific objective of extending sources of estimation uncertainty electricity to the rural areas  In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described  Recharge of costs to the Rural in note 2 above, management is required Electrification Scheme (RES) is based on to make judgements, estimates and a formula determined by the Government assumptions about the carrying amounts of Kenya following an agreement between of assets and liabilities that are not readily it and East African Power & Lighting apparent from other sources. The estimates Company Limited, the predecessor to and associated assumptions are based on The Kenya Power & Lighting Company historical experience and other factors that Limited are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.   The power purchase costs recharge is calculated as a proportion of RES  The estimates and underlying assumptions electricity unit sales (excluding offare reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions grid sales) to gross electricity unit to accounting estimates are recognised in sales. The distribution costs recharge is the period in which the estimates are revised calculated based on 2% and 4% of the if the revision affects only that period or in total high voltage and low voltage assets the periods of the revision and future periods respectively in the books of RES at the if the revision affects both current and close of the financial year. future periods.  Customer service costs recharge is (a) Critical judgements in applying calculated as a proportion of RES accounting policies metered customers to total number of  In the process of applying the Company’s metered customers. Administration costs accounting policies, management has made recharge are calculated based on the the following judgments, apart from those proportion of RES electricity unit sales involving estimations, which have the most to gross electricity unit sales. significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: (u) Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents in the The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 139 NOTES (CONTINUED) 3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued) Deferred income tax assets (b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty  eferred income tax assets are recognised D  The following are the key assumptions for all unused tax losses to the extent that concerning the future, and other key sources it is probable that taxable profit will be of estimation uncertainty at the end of the available against which the losses can be reporting period, that have significant risk utilised. Significant management judgment of causing a material adjustment to the is required to determine the amount of carrying amounts of assets and liabilities deferred tax assets that can be recognised, within the next financial year: based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with future Pensions tax planning strategies. Details of the  Actuarial assumptions are made in valuing carrying value of recognised tax losses at future defined benefit obligation and 30 June 2018 are provided in Note 26. are updated periodically. The principal assumption relates to the discount rate, the  Pension and other post-employment expected rates of return on assets, future benefits salary increases, mortality rates and future The cost of defined benefit pension plans pension increase. Due to the long term and other post-employment medical benefits nature of these plans, such estimates are is determined using actuarial valuations. subject to significant uncertainty. See note The actuarial valuation involves making 30 for further details. assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary 4. Operating segments increases, mortality rates and future pension For management purposes, the Company is increases. Due to the long term nature of currently organised into four administrative these plans, such estimates are subject to regions (reporting segments). These regions significant uncertainty. Details of the defined are the basis on which the Company reports benefit asset at 30 June 2017 are provided in its primary information. The four regions Note 30. comprise Nairobi, Coast, West Kenya and Mount Kenya. The table below shows the Revenue recognition Company’s revenue, expenses, assets and Prepaid electricity revenue includes an  liabilities per region. The table also shows assessment of electricity supplied to capital expenditure and depreciation by customers between the date of the last region for the year. There are no intermeter reading and the year end. Electricity segment sales and all revenue is from external sales revenue attributable to units customers. Energy purchase and head office consumed but not billed to customers at expenses are apportioned to various regions the end of the reporting period is estimated based on percentage unit sales. using historical consumption patterns taking into account the total electricity usage by the customers. 140 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 4. Operating segments (Continued) Mount Nairobi West Kenya Coast Kenya Region Region Region Region Total 2018 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue 60,935,886 22,840,469 22,027,846 20,050,029 125,854,230 Other operating income 3,397,025 2,473,263 980,512 1,819,557 8,670,357 Energy purchases (46,255,264) (15,138,086) (15,138,086) (7,569,043) (84,100,479) Operating expenses (17,253,629) (10,602,832) (5,408,617) (6,363,145) (39,628,223) Operating profit 824,018 (427,186) 2,461,655 7,937,398 10,795,885 Interest income 100,000 Finance costs (7,806,676) Income tax expense (1,171,217) Profit for the year 1,917,992 Assets 133,588,746 104,214,222 40,118,568 58,733,653 336,655,189 Liabilities 156,958,920 48,502,909 38,485,281 28,597,034 272,447,800 Capital expenditure (including intangible assets) 13,748,450 7,873,805 720,049 6,326,119 28,668,423 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Depreciation/amortisation 6,950,886 4,061,245 2,053,516 2,219,305 15,284,953 141 142 NOTES (CONTINUED) 4 Operating segments (continued)  There were no revenues deriving from transactions with a single external customer that amounted to 10% or more of the Company’s revenue. Finance income, finance costs and tax expenses are not segment specific and are largely head office items and therefore have not been apportioned to the operating segments. Mount Nairobi West Kenya Coast Kenya Region Region Region Region Total 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue 60,161,334 20,956,628 20,984,964 18,639,344 120,742,270 Other income 3,315,122 2,371,413 785,512 1,658,351 8,130,398 Energy purchases (44,261,903) (14,486,136) (14,486,136) (7,243,069) (80,477,244) Operating expenses (15,768,370) (8,718,415) (4,530,223) (5,727,810) (34,744,818) Operating profit 3,446,183 123,490 2,754,117 7,326,816 13,650,606 Interest income 46,004 Finance costs (6,039,971) Income tax expense (restated) (2,376,214) Profit for the year (restated) 5,280,425 Assets 140,625,962 96,854,124 37,855,993 55,900,153 331,236,232 Liabilities 146,905,270 50,808,039 45,010,634 25,178,672 267,902,615 Capital expenditure (including intangible assets) 17,584,490 11,789,655 4,679,309 7,462,678 41,516,132 Depreciation/amortisation 5,572,530 3,216,875 1,490,938 1,671,007 11,951,350 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 4. Operating segments (continued) The Company’s core business in the four regions (reporting segments) continues to be the transmission, distribution and retail of electricity. There is no distinguishable component of the Company that is engaged in providing an individual service that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments. The information on property and equipment details at net book values is shown below: Furniture Land and Motor equipment Intangible buildings* Lines Machinery vehicles and other assets Total 2018 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Transmission 447,644 20,625,419 27,677 155,292 21,256,032 Distribution 7,687,091 196,551,508 520,311 1,524,197 19,453,635 3,842,816 229,579,558 Total 8,134,735 217,176,927 547,988 1,524,197 19,608,927 3,842,816 250,835,590 2017 Transmission 458,586 10,812,475 28,323 216,954 11,516,338 Distribution 4,663,527 168,049,821 481,098 1,484,567 16,765,301 2,593,483 194,037,797 Total 5,122,113 178,862,296 509,421 1,484,567 16,982,255 2,593,483 205,554,135 * Includes freehold land and buildings and prepaid leases on leasehold land. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 143 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management are managed in the centralised finance function of Information about the Company’s exposure to the Company. risks, its objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing such risks, as well as The Company’s exposure to risk, its objectives, quantitative disclosure, is discussed in this note. policies and processes for managing the risk The management of capital is also discussed. and the methods used to measure it have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless The Company has an integrated risk management otherwise stated. framework. The Company’s approach to risk management is based on risk governance The Company has exposure to the following risks structures, risk management policies, risk as a result of its financial instruments: identification, measurement and reporting. Three types of risks are reported as part of the risk (a) Credit risk profile, namely operational, strategic and business The Company has exposure to credit risk, which continuity risks. is the risk that a counter party will be unable to pay amounts in full when due. Credit risk mainly  For the Kenya Power and Lighting Company, arises from electricity receivables, short term a strategic risk is a significant unexpected or deposits and bank balances. unpredictable change or outcome beyond what was factored into the organisation’s strategy and Counterparty risk is the risk that a counterparty business model which could have an impact on the is unable to meet its financial and/or contractual Company’s performance. obligations during the period of a transaction. Delivery or settlement risk is the risk that  Business continuity risks are those events, counterparty does not deliver on its contractual hazards, variances and opportunities which could commitment on maturity date (including the influence the continuity of the Company. settlement of money and delivery of securities). One of the key risks for the Kenya Power and Credit risk arising from short term deposits and Lighting Company, identified both under the bank balances are low because the counter operational and strategic risk categories, is financial parties are financial institutions with high credit sustainability of the Company. The financial risks, ratings. as defined by IFRS 7, and the management thereof, form part of this key risk area.  The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements  The Board of Directors has delegated the representing the Company’s maximum management of the Companywide risk to the Audit exposure to credit risk without taking Committee. One of the committee’s responsibilities account of the value of any collateral is to review risk management strategies in order to obtained is made up as follows: ensure business continuity and survival. Most of the financial risks arising from financial instruments 144 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (a) Credit risk (continued) Neither Past due past due but not nor impaired Impaired impaired <90 days > 90 days Total At 30 June 2018 Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Electricity receivables 10,502,960 3,247,045 8,471,429 22,221,434 Stima loan 191,905 79,071 270,976 Other receivables 1,047,288 19,489,900 2,853,220 23,390,408 Less provisions (11,403,720) (11,403,720) Net trade and other receivables 11,742,153 22,736,945 34,479,098 Short term deposits 491,991 491,991 Bank balances 4,760,401 4,760,401 16,994,545 22,736,945 39,731,490 At 30 June 2017 Electricity receivables 12,013,601 665,736 4,036,472 16,715,809 Stima loan 263,102 79,071 342,173 Other receivables 13,745,697 16,108,565 1,259,623 31,113,885 Less provisions (5,375,166) (5,375,166) Net trade and other receivables 26,022,400 16,774,301 42,796,701 Short term deposits 596,169 596,169 Bank balances 2,925,817 2,925,817 29,544,386 16,774,301 46,318,687 The customers under the fully performing Management of electricity receivables category are paying their debts as they fall  The Company supplies electricity to customers due. Past due amounts are those beyond in its licensed areas of supply. A large proportion the maximum established credit period comprises small commercial and domestic and represents slow but paying customers. customers who settle their accounts within The receivable balance continues to be twenty one days after receipt of the bill. The serviced even though this is not done on Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced the contractual dates. Treasury and finance by the individual characteristics of each departments are actively following up on customer. these receivables. In addition, the Company holds deposits or a bank guarantee, In monitoring credit risk, customers are grouped depending on the electricity load supplied according to their credit characteristics, including which acts as collateral. The fair value of whether they are large, small or domestic the collateral held by the Company as electricity users, profile, security (deposits and security and other credit enhancements guarantees) held and payment history. amounted to Shs 7,433 million (2017: Shs 7,418 million) Note 27(a).   The main classes of electricity receivables are industrial, government ministries, local Management of credit risk authorities, parastatals, commercial and  Financial instruments are managed by the domestic customers. Electricity supply finance and commercial services functions. agreements are entered into with all customers. All customers are required to deposit an amount equivalent to two The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 145 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5 Financial risk and capital management (continued) (a) Credit risk (continued) times their monthly consumption being security in strategies are currently in operation and are largely the form of a cash deposit depending on the load successful in other high risk areas of non-paying supplied, subject to a minimum of two thousand five customers. These include: hundred shillings. Industrial and large commercial customers have the option of providing a bank • disconnections guarantee in lieu of a cash deposit. Payment is • increased internal debt management enforced by way of disconnection of the supply if capacity bills are not paid within twenty one days after billing. • use of debt collectors No interest is charged on balances in arrears. • f ocus on early identification and letters of demand The Company has well-established credit control procedures that monitor activity on customer • higher security deposits accounts and allow for remedial action should  Management of Stima Loan receivables the customer not comply with payment terms. Shs 270,976,000 (2017: Shs 342,173,000) These procedures include the issue of a notice  The Kenya Power Stima Loan Revolving Fund was for disconnection of supply, an internal collection established in the year 2010. The objective of the process; follow up of the customer by telephone Fund is to facilitate credit access to the low income or in person, negotiations of mutually acceptable segments of the market for the purpose of electricity payment arrangements and letters of demand. connection. It is funded by Agence Francaise de Non-payment will result in disconnection of supply Development (AFD) through credit and grant to the and the account’s closure if the disconnection is Government of Kenya (GOK) which is then on lent done and there is no payment within three months. and on grant to the Company. Electricity supply The legal collection process is pursued thereafter. agreements are entered into with all customers The decision to impair overdue amounts is and Stima Loan contracts signed. All customers assessed on the probability of recovery based on are required to deposit 20% of the loaned amount the customer’s credit risk profile. and administration fee of 5% and are advanced a loan valid for 24 months with no interest charges. Progress on the collection process is reviewed on Repayment of the loan commences one month a regular basis and if it is evident that the amount after connection. will not be recovered, it is recommended for writeoff in terms of the Company’s policy. The process  Monthly follow ups are done to monitor these of recovery continues unless it is confirmed that customers. These procedures include the issue there is no prospect of recovery or the costs of of a notice for disconnection of supply, an internal such action will exceed the benefits to be derived. collection process; follow up of the customer by Amounts written off are determined after taking into telephone or in person, negotiations of mutually account the value of the security held. acceptable payment arrangements and letters of demand. A short text message is sent reminding The Company evaluates the concentration of risk them of their monthly bill with a loan balance on with respect to electricity receivables as low, as the same. its customers are located in all regions in Kenya and electricity is supplied to different classes of  Stima Loan customers are grouped into customers including individual households, private delinquency levels, according to their credit industries, companies and Government institutions. profiles to help in monitoring customer repayment The total cumulative provision for impairment of performance. Delinquency level one have balances electricity receivables at 30 June 2018 was Shs that are one month in arrears, delinquency level 8,471 million (2017: Shs 4,036 million). Refer to two are two months in arrears, delinquency level Note 19(d). three being customers in three months arrears and subsequently delinquency level four and five are The Company continues to install prepaid and customers that are in arrears from four months on automatic meters as strategies to minimise the to twenty four months respectively. risk of non-collection. In addition, the following 146 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5 Financial risk and capital management (continued) (a) Credit risk (continued)  Non – performing loans are assessed on sources and uses of liquidity, while aiming the probability of recovery based on the to maintain a balance between liquidity, customers’ delinquency level. A provision of profitability and interest rate considerations. Shs 79 million has been recognised for loans which have been outstanding for more than  The Company’s liquidity management process 24 months as at 30 June 2018. Refer to Note includes: 19 (d). •  rojecting cash flows and p considering the cash required by (b) Liquidity risk the Company and optimising the  Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will short-term requirements as well as the long-term funding; not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations when they fall due, or will have • m  onitoring statement of financial position liquidity ratios; to do so at excessive cost. This risk can arise from mismatches in the timing of cash flows •  aintaining a diverse range of m funding sources with adequate from revenue and capital and operational back-up facilities; outflows. •  anaging the concentration and m profile of debt maturities; and   The objective of the Company’s liquidity management is to ensure that all foreseeable •  aintaining liquidity contingency m plans. operational, capital expansion and loan commitment expenditure can be met under  The table below summarises the maturity profile both normal and stressed conditions. The of the Company’s financial liabilities based on Company has adopted an overall balance the remaining period using 30 June 2018 as a sheet approach, which consolidates all base period to the contractual maturity date: The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 147 148 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (b) Liquidity risk (continued) Less than 3 3 -12 On demand 1-5 years >5 years Total months months Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 At 30 June 2018 Borrowings 28,972,509 60,828,263 36,100,787 125,901,559 Trade and other payables 871,210 70,848,689 7,144,809 2,402,540 26,302,884 107,570,132 Dividends 862,007 862,007 1,733,217 70,848,689 36,117,318 63,230,803 62,403,671 234,333,698 At 30 June 2017 Borrowings 23,481,422 73,425,238 55,241,387 152,148,047 Trade and other payables 302,499 52,042,906 9,644,391 2,702,122 30,466,730 95,158,648 Dividends 362,839 362,839 665,338 52,042,906 33,125,813 76,127,360 85,708,117 247,669,534  The Company has an established corporate governance structure and process for managing the risks regarding guarantees and contingent liabilities. All significant guarantees issued by the Company are approved by the board of directors and are administratively managed by the treasury department. Updated guarantee schedules are compiled every month. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (c) Market risk  Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flow of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. The objective of market risk management policy is to protect and enhance the statement of financial position and statement of comprehensive income by managing and controlling market risk exposures within acceptable parameters and to optimise the funding of business operations and facilitate capital expansion. The Company is exposed to the following risks: (i) Currency risk Currency risk arises primarily from purchasing imported goods and services directly from overseas or indirectly via local suppliers and foreign borrowings. The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the Functional Currency of the Company.  The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the respective foreign currency/Shs exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, on the Company’s profit before income tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities). Appreciation/ Effect on profit before tax (depreciation) and equity Currency of exchange rate Shs million Year 2018 US$ 5%(-5%) +/-4,205 Euro 5%(-5%) +/456 JPY 5%(-5%) Chinese ¥ 5%(-5%) Year 2017 US$ 5%(-5%) +/-4,480 Euro 5%(-5%) +/437 JPY 5%(-5%) +/54 Chinese ¥ 5%(-5%) +/-118 Management of currency risk  Exposure due to foreign currency risk is managed by recovering from customers the realised fluctuations in the exchange rates not factored in the retail tariffs. (ii) Commodity or price risk  Commodity or price risk arises from the fuel that is used for the generation of electricity. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 149 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5 Financial risk and capital management (continued) (c) Market risk (continued) (ii) Commodity or price risk (continued)  Exposure due to commodity risk is its fair value interest rate risk by using managed by passing the cost of fuel floating –tofixed interest rate swaps, used in generation to customers. where applicable. In addition the Company has wellestablished credit control procedures Sensitivity analysis that monitor activity on customer  The Company analyses its interest accounts and allow for remedial rate exposure on a dynamic basis action should the customer not by conducting a sensitivity analysis. comply with payment terms. These This involves determining the impact procedures include the issue of a on profit or loss of defined rate notice of disconnection of supply, shifts. The sensitivity analysis for an internal collection process; follow interest rate risk assumes that all up of the customer by telephone or other variables, in particular foreign in person, negotiations of mutually exchange rates, remain constant. The acceptable payment arrangements calculation excludes borrowing costs and letters of demand. Non-payment capitalised in terms of the Company’s will result in disconnection of supply accounting policy. The analysis has been and the customer’s account being performed on the same basis as the prior closed. The legal collection process is year. pursued thereafter. At 30 June 2018, an increase/decrease of 5 basis  The decision to impair overdue points (2017: 5 basis points) would have resulted amounts is assessed on the in a decrease/increase in a profit before tax of probability of recovery based on the Shs 4,661 million (2017: Shs 5,090 million). customer’s credit risk profile. (iii) Interest rate risk Effect on Change in  Interest rate risk is the risk that the profit currency Company’s financial condition may be before tax rate and equity adversely affected as a result of changes in interest rate levels. The Company’s 2018 Shs’ 000 interest rate risk arises from short-term 1% 932,000 borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable 5% 4,661,000 rates expose the Company to cash flow 2017 interest rate risk. Long-term borrowings 1% 1,018,000 issued at fixed rates expose the Company 5% 5,090,000 to fair value interest rate risk. (d) Capital management  The interest rate risk exposure arises mainly from interest rate movements on Capital managed by the Company is the the Company’s borrowings. equity attributable to the equity holders. The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it Management of interest rate risk maintains healthy capital ratios in order  To manage the interest rate risk, to support its business and maximise management has endeavoured to shareholder value. only sign and obtain borrowings from institutions that offer contracts with fixed  The Company manages its capital interest rates. Based on the various structure and makes adjustments to it, in scenarios, the Company also manages 150 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5 Financial risk and capital management (continued) (d ) Capital Management (continued) light of changes in economic conditions. The Company monitors capital using a To maintain or adjust the capital structure, gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as the Company may adjust the dividend net debt divided by capital. Net debt is payment to shareholders or issue new calculated as total of interest bearing shares. No changes were made in the loans and borrowings, less cash and cash objectives, policies or processes during equivalents. the years ended 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017. 2018 2017 Shs million Shs million Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Note 27) 113,029 122,016 cash and cash equivalents (Note 33(c)) 7,603 1,151 Net debt 120,632 123,167 Equity 64,207 63 ,334 Gearing ratio 188% 194% The major factors that impact on the equity of which will give an indication of the size the Company include the following: of the price increases that the Company requires in order to be sustainable over • revenue received from electricity the medium and long term. Adjustment sales (which is a function of price of the tariffs for the electricity business and sales volume) is regulated and is subject to the process • power purchase cost laid down by the Energy Regulatory • cost of funding the business Commission (ERC). • c ost of operating the electricity business  The electricity business is currently in • c ost of expanding the business a major expansion phase driven by a to ensure that capacity growth rise in demand and Government policy. is in line with electricity sales The funding of additional transmission demand (funding and additional depreciation) and other distribution capacity is to be obtained from cash generated by the • taxation business, Government support and funds • dividends borrowed from local and international  The Company uses Power System lending institutions. The adequacy of Development Planning process, which electricity tariffs allowed by ERC and the forecasts long-term growth in electricity level of Government support are key factors demand; evaluates the alternative means in the sustainability of the Company. The to meet and manage that demand and debt to equity ratio plays an important role comes up with a Least Cost Power in the credit ratings given to the Company Development Plan. The planning process which in turn influence the cost of funding. determines a forward electricity cost The Company’s policy is to fund capital curve (the Long Run Marginal Cost), expansion programme jointly through its own resources and long-term borrowings. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 151 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (e) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the financial instruments is as set out below; Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 43,295,835 45,332,533 43,295,835 45,332,533 Short term deposits 491,991 596,169 491,991 596,169 Bank and cash balances 4,777,038 2,941,754 4,777,038 2,941,754 Financial liabilities Borrowings 113,029,384 122,016,122 113,029,384 122,016,122 Trade and other payables 93,773,434 87,255,579 93,773,434 87,255,579 Bank overdraft 12,872,175 4,688,333 12,872,175 4,688,333 the fair value of financial instruments by  Trade and other receivables are evaluated valuation technique: regularly to assess the likelihood of Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in impairment. Based on this evaluation, active markets for identical assets or allowances are taken to account for the liabilities; expected losses on these receivables. As at 30 June 2018, the carrying amounts of such Level 2: other techniques for which all receivables, net of allowances, approximates inputs which have a significant effect on their fair value. the recorded fair value are observable,  The fair values of term deposits, bank either directly or indirectly; and cash balances and trade and other payables approximates their carrying  Level 3: techniques which use inputs amounts largely due to the short term which have a significant effect on the maturities of these instruments. recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. Fair value hierarchy None of the financial assets is carried at  The Company uses the following fair value. hierarchy for determining and disclosing 152 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 6. (a) Electricity Sales 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity sales 95,463,404 91,951,629 (b) Other operating income Capital contribution amortised to profit or loss 6,837,104 6,773,396 Miscellaneous sales 903,649 683,936 Fibre optic leases 450,624 336,308 Transmission line maintenance revenue 206,427 119,291 Reconnection charges 143,936 154,430 Rent 128,617 63,037 8,670,357 8,130,398 7. Power purchase costs (a) Non-fuel costs The basic power purchase costs according to source/ power producer were as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 KenGen* 37,022,822 33,990,062 OrPower 4 Inc. 11,438,108 11,343,617 Iberafrica Power (E.A.) Company Limited 3,154,052 3,342,529 Rabai Power Limited 2,960,346 2,306,222 Thika Power Limited 2,352,950 1,621,244 Tsavo Power Company Limited 2,306,675 2,035,340 Gulf Power Limited 2,133,329 2,046,992 Triumph Power Generating Company Limited 1,939,371 2,384,967 Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 1,098,878 1,268,119 Regen-Terem 178,349 24,474 Gura 137,336 Ethiopia Electricity Power Company 81,893 18,363 Power Technology Solutions Limited 14,696 9,743 Chania Power Limited 5,295 Biojoule Kenya Limited 4,136 7,353 Imenti Tea Factory 3,826 1,706 Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited 37 1,229 Aggreko 12,977 Mumias Sugar Company Limited 3,911 64,832,099 60,418,848 Less foreign exchange surcharge (separately presented in profit (7,714,264) (6,199,227) or loss) Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (4,322,804) (4,017,133) 52,795,031 (50,202,488) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 153 NOTES (CONTINUED) 7. Power purchase costs (continued) KenGen*included in Non-fuel costs for Kengen are Capacity charges totalling to Shs 21,189,809,000 (2017: Shs 21,145,825,000), Steam charges totalling Shs 6,166,125,000 (2017: Shs 5,093,354,000), Energy charges totalling Shs 8,112,081,000 (2017: Shs 6,491,665,000) and foreign exchange costs totalling Shs 1,554,807,000 (2017: Shs 1,259,218,000). (b) Fuel costs 2018 2017 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 KenGen 9,622,740 10,003,406 Rabai Power Limited 5,153,442 5,345,244 Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 2,454,654 2,639,322 Thika Power Limited 2,311,997 2,206,335 Iberafrica Power (E.A.) Company Limited 2,044,320 2,493,244 Tsavo Power Company Limited 1,928,108 1,446,738 Off grid power stations 1,673,030 1,472,798 Gulf Power Limited 1,433,953 760,015 Triumph Power Generating Company Limited 327,332 880,346 Aggreko 15,033 26,949,576 27,262,481 Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (3,358,392) (3,186,952) 23,591,184 24,075,529  Fuel cost for the year ended 30 June 2017 have been restated. The prior year adjustment is explained in note 39. A recovery of Shs 21,068,631,000 (2017: Shs 22,107,948,000) was made. 154 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 7. Power purchase costs (continued) Units purchased Analysis of interconnected power purchases by utility source in gigawatt-hours (GWh) is as follows: 2018 2017 GWh GWh KenGen 7,989 7,513 OrPower 4 Inc 1,185 1,172 Rabai Power Limited 562 607 Thika Power Limited 215 168 Tsavo Power Company Limited 196 121 Iberafrica Power (E.A.) Company Limited 186 252 Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 168 180 Gulf Power Limited 81 61 Off grid power stations 47 41 Triumph Power Generating Company Limited 28 83 Regen-Terem 18 1 Gura 17 Mumias Sugar Company Limited 4 Ethiopia Electricity Power Company 3 3 Chania Power Limited 1 Imenti Tea Factory 1 Power Technology Solutions Limited 1 1 Biojoule Biogas Power Plant* 1 Aggreko 1 10,702 10,205 Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (740) (683) 9,962 9,522 *Biojoule Biogas Power Plant supplied KWh 403,879 during the year (2017: KWh 711,165). Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited supplied KWh 4,865 during the year (2017: KWh 3,353). The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 155 NOTES (CONTINUED) 7. Power purchase costs (continued) Type of interconnected power sources Analysis of interconnected power purchases by utility source in gigawatt-hours (GWh) is as follows: 2018 2017 GW GW Geothermal 5,053 4,451 Hydro 3,224 3,341 Thermal 2,206 2,165 Net imports 171 184 Others 48 64 10,702 10,205 Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (740) (683) 9,962 9,522 The Company transmits excess units generated by Aggreko Limited to Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UETCL) and Tanzania Electricity Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), whereas UETCL and TANESCO transmit back their excess power to the Company at the same charge rate as that billed to them. The two transactions have been effected in the accounts to give net quantity. 8. Net operating expenses (a) Network management 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Salaries and wages 5,188,001 4,554,499 Depreciation 5,060,161 4,705,527 Wheeling charges – Ketraco* 2,011,000 2,011,000 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 539,035 625,570 Consumable goods 271,631 380,068 Staff welfare 191,403 105,919 Transport and travelling 104,386 545,026 Advertising and public relations 50,444 Office expenses 3,114 3,017 Other costs 661,506 535,994 Net recharge of distribution and transmission costs to Rural Electrification Scheme (2,717,431) (2,370,856) 11,312,806 11,146,208 * These are fees levied by Ketraco for the use of their transmission lines to transport electricity from the generators. The amount is determined by Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC). 156 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 8. Net operating expenses (continued) (b) Commercial services 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Depreciation 3,985,122 2,442,417 Salaries and wages 3,832,228 3,290,802 Advertising and public relations 131,340 63,472 Staff welfare 127,713 74,316 Transport and travelling 79,046 236,786 Consumable goods 16,318 29,722 Office expenses 11,010 85,175 Other costs 9,911 10,116 Net recharge of customer service costs to Rural Electrification Scheme (1,870,180) (2,060,241) 6,322,508 4,172,565 Allowance for doubtful receivables Provision for electricity debtors (Note 20(e)) 4,434,957 282,472 Provision for non-vending customers 1,342,103 289,940 Provision for other receivables 138,505 209,258 Provision for Uchumi debt 112,927 -Provision for street lighting debtors 54,555 Imperial Bank deposits write-back** (34,154) 6,083,047 747,516 12,405,555 4,920,081 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 157 NOTES (CONTINUED) 8. Net operating expenses (continued) (c) Administration 2018 2017 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Salaries and wages 5,252,374 4,791,114 Depreciation 4,968,229 4,065,095 Staff welfare 1,293,650 1,234,597 Amortisation of intangible assets and operating lease 1,271,442 738,311 prepayment Repairs and maintenance 854,395 1,286,538 Security and surveillance 757,758 608,196 Transport and travelling 700,933 478,831 Office expenses 505,283 637,045 Bank charges 471,739 357,593 Rents 400,573 438,804 Licenses 379,095 429,836 Insurance 368,718 374,998 Public relations 233,417 329,127 Company electricity expenses 188,995 181,226 Training expenses and consumer services 135,881 446,645 Other consumable goods 128,129 189,688 Increase /(decrease) in leave pay provision (Note 31) 101,097 (197,466) Consultancy fees 73,095 136,758 Directors’ emoluments 28,758 35,214 Auditor remuneration 15,750 15,270 Other directors’ expenses 14,615 62,774 Inventories provision (Note 19) 497,733 Insurance claims provision 58,756 Other costs 598,247 724,258 Retirement benefit credits (Note 30) (181,184) (326,988) (Decrease)/increase in unrealised exchange differences – (1,650,243) 2,141,402 restated 16,910,746 19,735,355 Recharge of administration costs to Rural Electrification (1,000,884) (1,056,826) Scheme* 15,909,862 18,678,529  Unrealised exchange differences for the year ended 30 June 2017 have been restated to include exchange differences on borrowings. The prior year adjustment is explained in note 39. * Recharges to Rural Electrification Scheme (RES) relate to operating costs apportioned to RES based on the predetermined formula developed by the Government of Kenya. **A full provision of Shs 322,438,000 was made in the year ended 30 June 2016 for amount deposited with Imperial Bank Limited. No recovery was made in the year (2017: Shs 34,154,000). Imperial Bank was placed under receivership in 2015. 158 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 9. Employee benefits 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Salaries and wages 15,708,491 14,941,112 Recharge of recurrent expenditure to capital jobs* (2,330,802) (3,157,191) NSSF employer contributions 27,105 27,137 Pension costs – defined contribution 867,808 825,364 Salaries and wages 14,272,602 12,636,422 Pension credit defined benefit scheme (Note 30) (181,184) (326,988) 14,091,418 12,309,434 Increase/ (decrease) in leave pay provision (Note 31) 101,097 (197,466) 14,192,515 12,111,968 * Recharge of recurrent expenditure to capital jobs relates to the labour and transport costs incurred by staff on capital jobs. 10. Net finance costs 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 (a) Interest income Interest income on bank and other deposits 100,000 46,004 (b) Finance costs Interest incurred on: Loans (5,424,962) (5,529,522) Bank overdrafts (1,418,489) (508,519) Late payment of invoices (961,295) Dividends on cumulative preference shares (1,930) (1,930) (7,806,676) (6,039,971) 11. Expenses by nature The profit before income tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting): 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Employee benefits (Note 9) 14,192,515 12,111,968 Depreciation (Note 15) 14,013,511 11,213,039 Interest expense (Note 10(b)) 7,806,676 6,039,971 Provision for trade and other receivables (Note 8 (b)) 6,083,047 781,670 Amortisation of intangible assets (Note17) 1,207,828 738,255 Loss on disposal of property and equipment (Note 32 (e)) 539,035 625,370 Rent expense 400,573 438,804 Increase/(decrease) in leave provision 101,097 (197,466) Amortisation of operating lease prepayments (Note 16) 63,614 56 Directors’ emoluments: Fees 3,453 5,094 Other 25,305 30,120 Other directors’ expenses 14,174 62,774 Auditor remuneration 15,750 15,270 Provision for inventories (Note 19) 497,733 Write back for cash deposits held in Imperial Bank (Note 8 (b)) (34,154) Retirement benefit credit (Note 30) (181,184) (326,988) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 159 NOTES (CONTINUED) 12. (a) Income tax expense 2018 2017 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Current income tax 130,589 78,232 Deferred income tax (Note 26) 1,040,628 2,297,982 1,171,217 2,376,214 The net income tax charge for the year ended 30 June 2017 has been restated as a result of the prior year adjustments explained in Note 39. (b) Income tax expense reconciliation The tax on the Company’s profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory income tax rate as follows: 2018 2017 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Profit before income tax 3,089,209 7,656,639 Tax calculated at the statutory income tax rate of 30% (2017: 926,762 2,296,993 30%) Tax effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 113,866 187,905 Under/(over) provision of deferred tax in prior years (186,916) Tax effect on excess allowance over depreciation Current income tax on separate sources of income 130,589 78,232 Income tax expense 1,171,217 2,376,214 (c) Current income tax (payable)/ recoverable reconciliation 2018 2017 2016 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 44,358 25,990 (180,432) Paid during the year 62,454 96,600 498,155 Income tax paid (33,020) Corporation tax on separate sources of income (130,589) (78,232) (258,713) – current year At end of year (23,777) 44,358 25,990  The current income tax recoverable balance at 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 has been restated as a result of the adjustments explained in Note 39. 160 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 13. Earnings per share The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on continuing operations attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the Company. There were no discontinued operations during the year. There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares as at 30 June 2018 and 2017. Diluted earnings per share is therefore the same as basic earnings per share. The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: 2018 2017 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,917,992 5,280,425 The total number of shares and the weighted average number of shares for the purpose of calculating the basic and diluted earnings are as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 1,951,467,045 1,951,467,045 Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the number of ordinary shares. 2017 2018 Restated Basic earnings per share (Shs) 0.98 2.71 Diluted earnings per share (Shs) 0.98 2.71 14. Dividends per share Proposed dividends are accrued after they have been ratified at an Annual General Meeting. At the Annual General Meeting to be held before 31 December 2018, the directors will not recommend payment of dividend in respect of the year ended 30 June 2018 (2017: Shs 0.50). There was no interim dividend paid in the year (2017: Shs Nil). The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 161 162 NOTES (CONTINUED) 15. Property and equipment Freehold land and Transmission Distribution Motor Furniture Work in buildings lines lines Machinery vehicles equipment progress Total 2018 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cost At 1 July 2017 (restated) 5,332,604 19,851,516 197,303,653 662,492 6,562,556 36,844,492 60,255,420 326,812,733 Work in progress additions 25,748,752 25,748,752 Transfers from work in progress 3,293,701 10,523,722 36,739,066 68,922 446,417 7,734,813 (58,806,641) Disposals (75,027) (957,243) (1,032,270) At 30 June 2018 8,551,278 30,375,238 233,085,476 731,414 7,008,973 44,579,305 27,197,531 351,529,215 Depreciation At 1 July 2017 (restated) 1,078,954 9,039,041 29,253,832 153,071 5,077,989 19,862,237 64,465,124 Charge for the year 151,152 710,778 7,606,298 30,355 406,787 5,108,141 14,013,511 Disposals (140) (326,162) (326,302) At 30 June 2018 1,229,966 9,749,819 36,533,968 183,426 5,484,776 24,970,378 78,152,333 Net book value At 30 June 2018 7,321,312 20,625,419 196,551,508 547,988 1,524,197 19,608,927 27,197,531 273,376,882 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 15. Property and equipment (continued) Freehold land and Transmission Distribution Motor Furniture Work in buildings lines lines Machinery vehicles equipment progress Total 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cost At 1 July 2016 (restated) 3,971,915 18,187,534 164,940,451 620,045 6,112,960 28,314,850 65,067,459 287,215,214 Work in progress additions 40,520,152 40,520,152 Transfers from work in progress 1,360,689 1,663,982 33,269,916 42,447 465,515 8,529,642 (45,332,191) Disposals (906,714) (15,919) (922,633) At 30 June 2017 (restated) 5,332,604 19,851,516 197,303,653 662,492 6,562,556 36,844,492 60,255,420 326,812,733 Depreciation At 1 July 2016 971,112 8,419,588 23,157,782 125,292 4,565,401 16,261,446 53,500,621 Charge for the year 107,842 619,453 6,330,259 27,779 526,915 3,600,791 11,213,039 Disposals (234,209) (14,327) (248,536) At 30 June 2017 1,078,954 9,039,041 29,253,832 153,071 5,077,989 19,862,237 64,465,124 Net book value 4,253,650 10,812,475 168,049,821 509,421 1,484,567 16,982,255 60,255,420 262,347,609 The values relating to freehold land, transmission and distribution lines at 1 July 2016 and for the year ended 30 June 2017 have been restated to exclude leasehold land The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 with a cost of Shs 737,025,000 and correct prior period errors in capitalised borrowing costs respectively. The adjustments are explained in note 39. 163 NOTES (CONTINUED) 16. Operating lease prepayments 2017 2016 2018 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cost At start of year 870,718 870,718 870,718 Additions 8,574 879,292 870,718 870,718 Amortisation At start of year (2,255) (2,199) (2,150) Charge for the year (63,614) (56) (49) At end of year (65,869) (2,255) (2,199) Net book value 813,423 868,463 868,519 The cost at 1 July 2016 and 1 July 2017 has been restated to include leasehold land totaling to Shs 737,025,000 which was previously disclosed as part of ‘ freehold land and buildings’ under property and equipment. The cumulative amortization charge of Shs 57,135,000 relating to the reclassified leases has been recognized in the year ended 30 June 2018. 17. Intangible assets 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cost At start of year 4,330,577 3,600,872 Additions 2,457,161 729,705 At end of year 6,787,738 4,330,577 Amortisation At start of year (1,737,094) (998,839) Charge for the year (1,207,828) (738,255) At end of year (2,944,922) (1,737,094) Net book value 3,842,816 2,593,483 18. Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment The electricity tariff allows the Company to bill and recover realised foreign exchange losses based on the base rates approved by the Energy Regulatory Commission The Company has previously recognised a recoverable foreign currency exchange adjustment asset relating to unrealised currency exchange differences on foreign currency denominated borrowings at the reporting date which are recoverable from electricity customers. 2017 2016 2018 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment asset The adjustments made for the years ended 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 are explained in note 39. 164 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 19. Inventories 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 General stores 4,177,464 5,321,960 Transformers 2,920,775 2,049,688 Conductors and cables 1,526,142 1,696,835 Meters and accessories 636,698 302,240 Poles 375,945 867,961 Fuel and oil 185,054 229,750 Motor vehicle spares 108,989 100,651 Engineering spares 13,560 17,437 9,944,627 10,586,522 Provision for impairment (199,242) (960,229) 9,745,385 9,626,293 Movements in the provisions for inventories were as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year (960,229) (602,893) Write off 760,987 140,397 Additional provision (Note 8(c)) (497,733) At end of year (199,242) (960,229) General stores, engineering spares, fuel and oil, transformers and motor vehicle spares are carried at weighted average cost. 20. Trade and other receivables (a) Non-current Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 2016 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Prepayments 1,386,758 1,601,509 1,816,261 1,386,758 1,601,509 1,816,261 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 165 NOTES (CONTINUED) 20. Trade and other receivables (Continued) (b) Current Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 2016 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity receivables (Note 20(c)) 22,221,434 16,715,809 16,159,084 Rural Electrification Scheme intercompany 9,101,806 4,855,584 238,115 Prepayments 2,685,067 488,171 337,448 Receivable from Government of Kenya***** 2,598,787 3,362,487 3,362,587 VAT recoverable 2,429,798 4,276,787 1,901,651 Unbilled fuel costs revenue* 1,737,420 7,290,699 Due from Ketraco*** 1,425,441 8,593,104 5,204,858 Staff receivables (Note 20 (d) (i)) 726,828 705,197 672,496 Stima loan deferred payment customers (Note 270,976 342,173 552,707 20(d)(ii)) ** Rural Electrification Authority current account 248,564 167,110 60,294 GPOBA prepaid debtors**** 208,479 610,495 1,114,756 Energy Regulatory Levy 56,351 759,429 Capital contribution receivable 1,939,813 Other receivables (Note 20(d) (iii))****** 7,298,536 4,112,549 3,830,958 Gross trade and other receivables 51,009,487 53,459,978 34,194,383 Provision for credit losses (Note 20(e)) (11,403,720) (5,375,166) (5,049,870) Net trade and other receivables 39,605,767 48,084,812 29,144,513 Trade and other receivables are non – interest  ****GPOBA prepaid debtors relate to the Global bearing. Partnership on Output Based Assistance (GPOBA) project for customers with prepaid meters. This  *Unbilled fuel costs revenue of Shs project aims to provide safe, legal and affordable 1,737,420,000 (2017: Shs 7,290,699,000) electricity to informal settlements. In 2015, the relate to unrecovered fuel cost arrears to be Company entered into an arrangement with recovered from customers in the subsequent the World Bank’s International Development month. Association (IDA), which acts as an administrator  **Deferred payment customers balances of GPOBA. Under the agreement, the Company represent debts outstanding under the Stima pre-invests its own resources to provide electricity Loan Revolving Fund Programme which was to informal settlements after which IDA reimburses established in 2010 to facilitate credit access the Company for every connection done under to the low-income segments of the market this project. for the purpose of electricity connection. It is  The facility comprised a USD 10 million IDA funded by Agence Francaise de Development loan and USD 5.15 million grant to be used as (AFD). a subsidy for eligible electricity connections, ***  T his represents amounts due from allowing low income households to pay Shs 1,160 Ketraco for local costs incurred in the per connection. The receivable amount of Shs construction of Sondu Miriu transmission 208,479,000 (2017: Shs 610,495,000) is due from and distribution line and repayments customers who received electricity connection in relation to 0.75% Japan Bank for under this project. The Company automatically International Corporation loan before recovers Shs 100 from these customers every the same was transferred to Ketraco in month towards the Shs 1,160 awarded to each the year upon signing of the Novation customer. agreement. 166 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 20. Trade and other receivables (Continued)  *****Receivable from Government of Kenya  ******Included in other receivables is an (GoK) relates to subsidies due to the Company amount of Shs 288,284,000 (2017: Shs to enhance universal access to electricity 288,284,000) deposited in Imperial Bank through connectivity to the national grid. The Limited which was placed under receivership Shs 2,598,789,000 (2017: Shs 3,362,487,000) in 2015. No recovery was made during the receivable from the GoK is part of a larger year (2017: Shs 34,154,000) (Note 8(c)). The commitment by the GoK, to be financed partly rest of the balance is fully provided for. through support from the World Bank and Prior year adjustments relating to unbilled the African Development Bank to enhance fuel costs revenue and Rural Electrification universal access to electricity. During the year, Scheme – intercompany are explained in the Company received Shs 1,196,750,000 as noted 39. disbursements of which Shs 763,702,000 was used to offset the debt and Shs 433,048,000 was fully utilized to grant accounting versus capital connect new customers. (c) Electricity receivables At 30 June, the aged analysis of electricity receivables was as follows: Total <30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days >90 days Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 2018 Gross 22,221,434 8,945,986 1,351,668 1,095,377 10,828,403 Impairment (8,471,429) (8,471,429) Net 13,750,005 8,945,986 1,351,668 1,095,377 2,356,974 2017 Gross 16,715,809 7,912,550 1,432,842 698,471 6,671,946 Impairment (4,036,472) (4,036,472) Net 12,679,337 7,912,550 1,432,842 698,471 2,635,474 (d) Other receivables analysis Other receivables comprise debtors’ balances that have been impaired as follows; 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Staff receivables (Note 20(a)) 726,828 705,197 Allowance for doubtful staff receivables* (188,161) (127,165) Net staff receivables 538,667 578,032 Stima loans deferred payment customers (Note 20(a)) 270,976 342,173 Allowance for doubtful Stima loans (79,071) (79,071) Net Stima loans 191,905 263,102 Other receivables (Note 20(a)) 7,332,689 4,166,549 Allowance for doubtful receivables (2,665,059) (1,132,458) Net other receivables 4,667,630 3,034,091 * Allowance for doubtful staff receivables relates to provision held for ex–staff The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 167 NOTES (CONTINUED) Trade and other receivables (Continued) (e) Provisions for credit losses Movements on the provision for impairment of trade and other receivables are as follows: Electricity Staff Other receivables Stima loans receivables receivables Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 2018 At start of year (4,036,472) (79,071) (127,165) (1,132,458) (5,375,166) Additional provision (4,434,957) (60,996) (1,587,093) (6,083,046) Write back 54,492 54,492 At end of year (8,471,429) (79,071) (188,161) (2,665,059) (11,403,720) (Note 20(a)) 2017 At start of year (3,754,000) (79,071) (127,165) (608,657) (4,568,893) Additional provision (282,472) (523,801) (806,273) At end of year (Note 20(a)) (4,036,472) (79,071) (127,165) (1,132,458) (5,375,166)  The Imperial Bank provision of Sh 322,438,000 was made in the year ended 30 June 2016. Shs 34,154,000 was recovered in the year ended 30 June 2017. 21. Short term deposits, bank and cash balances 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 (a) Short term deposits Housing Finance Company of Kenya Limited 393,183 371,089 The Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 98,808 225,080 491,991 596,169 The average effective interest rate on the short-term deposits for the year ended 30 June 2018 was 6.90% (2017: 6.68%). (b) Bank and cash balances 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cash at bank 4,760,401 2,925,817 Cash on hand 16,637 15,937 4,777,038 2,941,754 Overdraft (12,872,175) (4,688,333) (8,095,137) (1,746,579) 168 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 22. Share capital Ordinary Share capital Authorised: 2018 2017 2,592,812,000 ordinary shares of Shs 2.50 each 6,482,030 6,482,030 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Issued and fully paid: 1,951,467,045 ordinary shares of Shs 2.50 each 4,878,667 4,878,667 23. Share premium The share premium arose from the redemption of the 7.85% redeemable non-cumulative preference shares and a rights issue in the year 2011 at a price of Shs 207.50 giving rise to a share premium of Shs 14,367 million. A further premium was received from the rights issue of 488,630,245 ordinary shares of Shs 2.50 each at a price of Shs 19.50, hence resulting to a share premium of Shs 17.00 per share or a total share premium of Shs 8,307 million. The transaction costs amounting to Shs 653 million were netted off against the share premium. 24. Retained earnings The retained earnings balance represents the amount available for distribution to the shareholders of the Company. 25. Deferred income  Deferred income relates to capital contributions received from electricity customers for the construction of electricity assets. The amounts are amortised through profit or loss on a straight line basis over the useful life of the related asset used to provide the ongoing service. 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 24,506,623 24,108,069 Additions: Contributions from customers 4,032,011 5,267,029 Grant from Government of Kenya 1,904,921 Recognised as income (Note 6(b)) (6,837,104) (6,773,396) At end of the year 21,701,530 24,506,623 Maturity analysis: Non-current 16,999,103 19,562,051 Current 4,702,427 4,944,572 At end of the year 21,701,530 24,506,623 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 169 NOTES (CONTINUED) 26. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is calculated using the enacted income tax rate of 30% (2017: 30%). The movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 28,683,216 26,702,741 24,699,789 Credit to other comprehensive income (29,351) (317,507) (72,289) Charge to profit or loss (Note 12 (a)) 1,040,628 2,297,982 2,075,241 At end of year 29,694,493 28,683,216 26,702,741 (Credited)/ charged 01.07.2017 to profit Credited Restated or loss to OCI 30.06.2018 Year ended 30 June 2018 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Deferred income tax liabilities Property and equipment 51,351,629 (954,341) 50,397,288 Unrealised foreign exchange (2,791,229) 831,959 (1,959,270) loss Retirement benefit asset 759,534 54,355 (29,351) 784,538 49,319,934 (68,027) (29,351) 49,222,556 Deferred income tax assets Provisions (2,004,689) (1,694,381) (3,699,070) Tax losses (18,632,029) 2,746,884 (15,885,145) (20,636,718) 1,052,503 (19,584,215) Tax charge on excess accelerated capital 56,152 56,152 allowances(current year) Net deferred income tax liabilities 28,683,216 1,040,628 (29,351) 29,694,493 170 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 26. Deferred income tax (Continued) Year ended 30 June 2017 Charged/ (credited) 01.07.2016 to profit Credited 30.06.2017 Restated or loss to OCI Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Deferred income tax liabilities Property and equipment 43,183,443 8,168,186 51,351,629 Unrealised foreign exchange (2,315,206) (476,023) (2,791,229) loss Retirement benefit asset 978,945 98,096 (317,507) 759,534 41,847,182 7,790,259 (317,507) 49,319,934 Deferred income tax assets Provisions (1,714,847) (289,842) (2,004,689) Tax losses (13,429,594) (5,202,435) (18,632,029) (15,144,441) (5,492,277) (20,636,718) Net deferred income tax 26,702,741 2,297,982 (317,507) 28,683,216 liabilities As at 30 June 2018, the Company had accumulated tax losses amounting to Shs 52,950,483,000 (2017: Shs 62,106,763,000). The deferred income tax has been restated to account for errors in prior periods which are explained in Note 39. 27. Trade and other payables 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 (a) Non-current liabilities Capital contribution on-going projects** 8,242,300 13,426,192 Customer deposits* 7,432,623 7,417,883 Capital contributions 4,610,528 1,542,274 Deferred creditor (Fibre optic) 480,251 524,460 Rural Electrification Scheme current account capital 182,697 172,498 Donor funded revolving fund 177,910 4,509,763 Nuclear electricity project 12,545 Ministry of Finance 328,141 Other payables 1,385,504 1,789,336 22,524,358 29,710,547 *Customer deposits are held as a non-current liability because the Company will continue to offer services to the customers for the foreseeable future and the customers are not expected to discontinue their use of electricity in the short run. In addition, the customer deposits are a security for the electric meters supplied to the customer for long term electricity supply. **Capital contributions for on-going projects relate to customer contributions for capital works not completed. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 171 NOTES (CONTINUED) 27. Trade and other payables (Continued) 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 (b) Current liabilities KenGen 21,888,545 15,429,222 Other suppliers’ accounts 14,531,425 13,773,775 Other electricity suppliers 11,010,113 12,695,623 Other payables 10,356,112 5,259,237 Rural Electrification Scheme current account Last Mile Project 5,839,520 3,570,618 Rural Electrification Authority Levy** 3,292,916 1,634,371 Ketraco wheeling charge 2,047,868 1,119,457 Ministry of Finance 875,041 546,900 Prepaid revenue*** 871,210 302,499 Street lighting project 285,741 2,875,319 Aggreko 190,400 193,934 Deferred creditor (Fibre optic) 60,185 60,185 Energy Regulatory Commission Levy 83,892 71,249,076 57,545,032 **The Rural Electrification Authority Levy relates to levy charge for May and June 2018 to be remitted to the Rural Electrification Authority on collection. *** Prepaid revenue represents unearned income on prepaid meters. Based on historical trends, management derives an estimate of the value of prepaid power units not consumed as at the end of the financial year. Non-current trade and other payables payables are non-interest bearing. 172 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 28. Borrowings 2018 2017 Currency Interest rate Start date End date Shs’000 Shs’000 Commercial borrowings Standard Chartered Bank Loan USD 4.15% + Libor 6/19/2016 6/23/2026 35,367,500 36,299,095 Standard Chartered Bank Loan Shs CBR + 4% 6/17/2016 6/23/2023 15,180,000 15,180,000 Rand Merchant Bank Long Term Loan USD 5.75% + Libor 6/30/2014 12/31/2021 7,073,500 10,889,728 Equity Bank USD Medium Term Loan USD 4.75% + Libor 9/30/2014 9/30/2025 6,345,104 7,380,535 Stanbic Loan Shs 11% 6/28/2017 6/28/2019 2,000,000 2,000,000 Stanbic Medium Term Loan USD 5.25% + Libor 1/19/2014 12/31/2019 1,173,556 2,051,972 GOK/Agence Francaise De development EUR 2.5% + Libor 1/18/2017 12/31/2030 1,168,572 68,308,232 73,801,330 On-lent borrowings GOK/IDA Kenya Electricity Expansion Project USD 3.00% 5/11/2011 3/1/2035 12,339,046 12,282,733 GOK/CHINA EXIM BANK (USD 109,414,646) USD 3.00% 8/28/2014 8/28/2034 11,056,350 9,074,569 GOK/IDA 3958 & 4572 KE ESRP USD 4.50% 6/28/2005 6/1/2024 10,222,824 10,886,288 GOK/NORDEA EUR 3.00% 12/15/2014 9/15/2026 2,801,926 2,405,717 GOK/EIB 23324 KE ESRP EUR 3.97% 10/10/2007 7/20/2025 2,747,767 3,375,607 GOK/Agence Francaise de Development EUR 4.50% 5/23/2007 3/30/2025 1,459,250 1,704,923 GOK/ Nordic Development Fund 435 ESRP EUR 4.50% 5/22/2007 9/15/2026 620,804 702,470 KPLC/AFD Revolving Fund Loan EUR 2.70% 12/31/2014 7/31/2034 467,429 448,800 GOK/EIB – Olkaria Loan EUR 4.00% 5/25/2005 11/25/2019 329,909 556,859 GOK/IDA 5587 KE LOAN USD 2.00% 2/27/2016 11/15/2052 268,400 126,528 GOK/IDA 2966 KE loan Shs 7.70% 6/30/2016 6/30/2019 188,349 188,349 GOK/ IDA 5587 Grant USD 4.50% 29/6/2015 30/6/2035 64,218 430,173 GOK/EXIMBANK Loan JPY 2.50% 06/27/2008 01/31/2026 2,367,077 Japan Bank for International Cooperation JPY 0.75% 06/27/2008 08/15/2043 1,072,494 Accrued interest 2,154,880 2,592,205 44,721,152 48,214,792 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Total borrowings 113,029,384 122,016,122 173 NOTES (CONTINUED) (28) Borrowings (continued) 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Total borrowings 113,029,384 122,016,122 Less: amounts repayable within 12 months (16,100,334) (10,940,906) Non-current 96,929,050 111,075,216 (b) Analysis of borrowings by currency Chinese Shs USD Yuan JPY Euros Total Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 2018 Loans 19,802,309 84,098,848 9,128,227 113,029,384 2017 Loans 20,221,005 89,609,971 2,367,077 1,072,494 8,745,575 122,016,122 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 (c) Maturity of borrowings Due within 1 year 16,100,334 10,940,906 Due between 1 and 2 years 11,986,652 6,348,701 Due between 2 and 5 years 57,831,168 53,671,120 Due after 5 years 27,111,230 51,055,395 113,029,384 122,016,122 (d) Compliance with debt covenants  During the year, the Company met all its loan repayment obligations. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants during the year except for the Current Ratio covenant relating to the below borrowings from Standard Chartered Bank, Rand Merchant Bank, Stanbic Bank and Agence Francaise de Developpement. This covenant compares the current assets with the current liabilities. Current Non-current Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Standard Chartered Bank USD 350m loan 3,757,797 31,609,703 35,367,500 Standard Chartered Bank USD 150m loan 3,036,000 12,144,000 15,180,000 Rand Merchant Bank 2,357,833 4,715,667 7,073,500 Agence Francaise de Developpement 1,168,572 1,168,572 Stanbic Bank 825,753 347,803 1,173,556 9,977,383 49,985,745 59,963,128 174 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 28. Borrowings (continued) (d) Compliance with debt covenants (continued)  Paragraph 74 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ requires the reclassification of the noncurrent portion of borrowings with covenant breaches to current because at the end of the reporting period, 30 June 2018, the Company did not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the relevant borrowings for at least twelve months after that date. This has not been performed in the financial statements. The impact of the reclassification on the current ratio is presented in the table below: With the As per the non-current Covenant financial portion requirement statements reclassified For Standard Chartered Bank, Rand Merchant Bank and AFD Current assets (Shs’000) 54,620,181 54,620,181 Current liabilities (Shs’000) 106,257,796 156,243,541 Current ratio 1 0.51 0.35 For Stanbic Bank Current assets (Shs’000) 54,620,181 54,620,181 Current liabilities less deferred income 101,555,369 151,541,114 (Shs’000) Current ratio 1 0.54 0.36 The Directors are of the view that reclassification of the non-current balances to current classification as required by IAS 1 is unwarranted because the Company obtained the following letters subsequent to year end: Through a letter from Standard Chartered Bank dated 11 September 2018, the lender communicated consent of extension of the breach from 30 June 2018 to 30 June 2019.  Through a letter from Rand Merchant Bank dated 10 July 2018, the lender communicated that the breach would be condoned from 30 June 2018 to 30 June 2019 while reserving the rights under the facility agreement. Through a letter from Stanbic Bank dated 9 August 2018, the lender amended the facility agreement such that the requirement for a current ratio of 1:1 was removed for the dates 30 June 2018, 31 December 2018 and 30 June 2019. Through a letter from Agence Francaise de Developpement Bank dated 10 September 2018, the lender communicated that it did not envisage any prepayment or acceleration of repayments for a 12 month period starting 30 June 2018 on condition that there is no cross default event and the current ratio does not deteriorate to a level below 0.6 during the period. The directors do not envisage accelerated repayment despite being the current ratio being below 0.6. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 175 NOTES (CONTINUED) 29. Preference shares 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Authorised, issued and fully paid: 350,000 7% cumulative preference shares of Shs 20 each 7,000 7,000 1,800,000 4% cumulative preference shares of Shs 20 each 36,000 36,000 43,000 43,000 an independent qualified actuary, Actuarial  The preference shares are treated as Services (E.A.) Limited. The actuary carried financial liabilities because the Company has out a high level actuarial estimate of the DB a contractual obligation to pay preference Scheme financial position at 30 June 2017 and dividends on the shares. 30 June 2018 taking into account changes in the years then ended. The Company is 30. Retirement benefit asset exposed to the following actuarial risks:  The Company operates a funded defined benefit plan (the “DB Scheme”) for its (i) Investment risk employees that is established under The present value of the defined benefit irrevocable trust. The DB Scheme was plan liability is calculated using a closed to new members and future accrual discount rate determined by reference to of service as from 1 July 2006. Currently, high quality corporate bond yields; if the no contributions are payable by employees return on plan assets is below this rate, to the DB Scheme and the Company is on it will create a plan deficit. Currently, the a contribution holiday. DB Scheme assets plan has a relatively balanced investment are invested in a variety of asset classes in investment properties, government comprising of government securities, fixed securities, equity investments, corporate and time deposits, corporate bonds, equities bonds and short term deposits. Due to and offshore investments. A separate defined the long-term nature of the DB Scheme contribution scheme (the “DC Scheme”) liabilities, management considers it was setup in respect of service from 1 July appropriate that a reasonable portion 2006. The contributions to the DC Scheme of the plan assets should be invested are accounted separately in the Company’s in equity securities and in real estate statement of profit or loss. to leverage the return generated by the DB Scheme. The benefits provided by the DB Scheme (ii) Interest risk are based on a formula taking into account  A decrease in bond interest rate will increase years and complete months of service with the plan liability; however, this will be partially the employer since joining the scheme to offset by an increase in the return on the plan’s the closing date. Under the DB Scheme, the debt investments. employees are entitled to retirement benefits varying between 3 and 5 percent of final (iii) Longevity risk pensionable emoluments on attainment of  Benefits in the DB Scheme are payable the retirement age. on retirement, resignation, death or illhealth retirement. The actual cost to the  The DB Scheme is governed by the Company of the benefits is therefore Retirement Benefits Act, 1997. This requires subject to the demographic movements that an actuarial valuation be carried out at of employees. least every three years for the DB Scheme. The most recent actuarial valuation of the (iv) The benefits are linked to salary and DB Scheme was carried out at 31 December consequently have an associated risk to 2016, using the Projected Credit Method, by increases in salary. 176 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 30. Retirement benefit asset (continued) The principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows: 2018 2017 Discount rate 12.28% 12.52% Expected rate of return on assets 12.28% 12.52% Future salary increases 5.00% 5.00% Retirement age 60 years 60 years The updated position arising from the Company’s obligation in respect of its DB Scheme is as follows: The current service costs and the net interest expense for the year are included in administration expenses in profit or loss (Note 8(c)).  The measurement of the defined benefit liability is included in other comprehensive income. The amounts recognised in profit or loss and other comprehensive income in respect of the defined benefit plan are as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Current service cost 126,202 128,832 Interest cost on defined benefit obligation 1,674,063 1,561,142 Interest income on plan assets (2,299,933) (2,481,960) Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling 316,979 464,998 Prior year adjustment for asset values 1,505 Net income recognised in profit or loss (Note 9) (181,184) (326,988) Net actuarial (gains)/losses (309,643) 1,867,090 Return on plan assets (excluding amount in interest cost) 641,111 387,634 Changes in effect of asset ceiling (excluding amounts in interest (233,631) (1,196,368) cost) Recognised in other comprehensive income 97,837 1,058,356 Total Net actuarial (gains)/losses 195,674 2,116,712  The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Company’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit retirement plan is as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Fair value of plan assets 19,397,401 19,003,066 Present value of funded defined benefit obligation (14,167,143) (13,939,502) 5,230,258 5,063,564 Limit on defined benefit asset (2,615,129) (2,531,782) Present value of funded defined benefit asset 2,615,129 2,531,782 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 177 NOTES (CONTINUED) 30. Retirement benefit asset (continued) The reconciliation of the amount included in the statement of financial position is as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Net asset at the start of the year 2,531,782 3,263,150 Net income recognised in profit or loss (Note 8(c)) 181,184 326,988 Amount recognised in other comprehensive income (97,837) (1,058,356) Present value of funded defined benefit asset 2,615,129 2,531,782 Movement in the present value of defined benefit funded obligations in the current year was as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 11,399,492 13,939,502 Current service cost 126,202 128,832 Interest cost on obligation 1,674,063 1,561,142 Actuarial (gain)/loss (309,643) 1,867,090 Benefits paid (1,262,981) (1,017,054) At end of year 14,167,143 13,939,502 Movement in the fair value of defined benefit scheme assets: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year (19,003,066) (17,925,793) Interest income on plan assets (2,481,960) (2,299,933) Actuarial loss 641,111 387,634 Benefits paid 1,262,981 1,017,054 Prior year understatement for asset values 1,505 At end of year (19,397,402) (19,003,065) The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category, are as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Property 7,134,603 7,676,282 Debt instruments 6,638,890 6,280,783 Equity instruments 3,407,146 3,030,885 Others 2,216,762 2,015,116 Total scheme (assets) 19,397,401 19,003,066 178 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 30. Retirement benefit asset (continued) The fair values of the above equity and debt instruments are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets whereas the fair values of properties are not based on quoted market prices in active markets. This treatment has been implemented during the current and prior years. The Company also contributes to the statutory National Social Security Fund (NSSF). This is a defined contribution scheme registered under the National Social Security Act. The Company’s obligations under the scheme are limited to specific contributions legislated from time to time and are currently at Shs 200 per employee per month. Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis was performed on the model and if all other key assumptions remained unchanged while the discount rate increased by 1% this would have resulted in an increase in the retirement benefit asset by Shs 427 million. If the discount rate had decreased by 1% the result would have been Shs 532 million decrease in the retirement benefit asset. 31. Provision for leave pay 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 346,903 544,369 Increase/(decrease) in provisions (Note 9) 101,097 (197,466) At end of year 448,000 346,903 Provision for annual leave is based on services rendered by employees up to the end of the year. 32. Dividends payable 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Dividends payable on ordinary shares 862,007 362,839 These relate to unclaimed dividends payable to different ordinary shareholders. The movement in the dividend payable account is as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 362,839 268,161 Declared during the year 977,664 587,370 Paid during the year (478,496) (492,692) At end of year 862,007 362,839 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 179 NOTES (CONTINUED) 33. Notes to the statement of cash flows (a) Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 2017 2018 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Operating profit 10,795,885 13,650,606 Depreciation of property and equipment (Note 15) 14,013,511 11,213,039 Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 17) 1,207,828 738,255 Amortisation of prepaid leases on land (Note 16) 63,614 56 Loss on disposal of property and 539,035 625,370 equipment (Note 33 (e)) (Decrease)/increase in deferred income (2,805,093) 2,460,842 Increase/(decrease) in provision for leave 101,097 (197,466) pay obligation (Note 31) Increase in provision for electricity receivables 4,434,957 282,472 (Note 20(e)) Increase in provision for staff and other receivables 1,648,089 523,801 (Note 20 (e)) Write back of other electricity debtors (Note 20 (e)) (54,492) Write back of Imperial bank provision 34,154 Increased provision for inventories 497,733 Unrealised foreign exchange losses (1,650,245) 836,381 Retirement benefit plan credit (Note 8(c)) (181,184) (326,988) Working capital adjustments: (Increase)/decrease in inventories (Note 19) (119,092) 2,268,978 Decrease(/increase) in trade and other receivables 2,656,679 (20,062,574) Increase in trade and other payables 6,517,855 22,587,315 Cash generated from operations 37,168,444 35,131,974 180 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 33. Notes to the statement of cash flows (continued) (b) Analysis of changes in borrowings 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 122,016,122 113,868,712 Proceeds 6,409,439 10,672,294 Repayments (12,736,581) (5,478,735) Repayment of previous year’s accrued interest (2,592,205) (2,219,492) Foreign exchange (gain)/ losses (2,222,271) 2,581,138 Accrued interest (Note 28 (a)) 2,154,880 2,592,205 At end of year 113,029,384 122,016,122 Net debt reconciliation Cash and bank balances (Note 21 (b)) 4,777,038 2,941,754 Short term deposits (Note 21 (a)) 491,991 596,169 Borrowings – repayable within one year (including overdraft) (28,972,509) (15,629,239) Borrowings – repayable after one year (96,929,050) (111,075,216) Net debt (120,632,530) (123,166,532) Cash, bank balances and short term deposits 5,269,029 3,537,923 Gross debt – fixed interest rates (111,309,399) (112,634,793) Gross debt – variable interest rates (14,592,160) (14,069,662) Net debt (120,632,530) (123,166,532) (c) Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Short term deposits (Note 20(a)) 491,991 596,169 Cash and bank balances (Note 20(b)) 4,777,038 2,941,754 Bank overdraft (Note 20(b)) (12,872,175) (4,688,333) (7,603,146) (1,150,410) For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include short term liquid investments which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which were within three months to maturity when acquired; less advances from banks repayable within three months from date of disbursement or date of confirmation of the advance. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 181 NOTES (CONTINUED) 33. Notes to the statement of cash flows (continued) (d) Analysis of interest paid 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Interest on loans (Note 10(b)) 5,424,962 5,529,522 Overdraft interest (Note 10(b)) 1,418,489 508,519 Late payment interest (Note 10 (a)) 961,295 7,804,746 6,038,041 Interest on loans capitalised 886,356 1,245,317 Accrued interest brought forward (Note 28(a)) 2,592,205 2,219,492 Accrued interest carried forward (Note 28(a)) (2,154,880) (2,592,205) Interest paid 9,128,427 6,910,645 (e) Proceeds of disposal of property and equipment 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 166,934 48,727 Less: disposed assets at net book value (705,969) (674,097) Loss on disposal of property and equipment (539,035) (625,370) (f) Analysis of dividends paid At start of year 362,839 268,161 Preference dividends 4% and 7% cumulative preference 1,930 1,930 shares 2017 Dividends declared 975,734 585,440 At end of year (862,007) (362,839) Dividends paid 478,496 492,692 (g) Analysis of interest received Interest received on bank and other deposits (Note 10 (a)) 100,000 46,004 Accrued interest brought forward 11,087 112,142 Reversal of previous years’ accrued interest (113,248) Accrued interest carried forward (2,524) (11,087) Interest received 108,563 33,811 182 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 33 Notes to the statement of cash flows (continued) (h) Purchase of property and equipment 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Work in progress additions (Note 15) 25,748,752 40,520,152 Exchange gain/( losses) on loans for on-going projects capitalised 572,027 (435,850) Interest expense on loans capitalised (Note 33(d))* (886,356) (1,245,317) Property and equipment purchased 25,434,423 38,838,985  *The Company capitalises interest on qualifying projects quarterly at the average cost of debt of 9.21% (2017: 7.91%). 34. Related party transactions The Government of Kenya is the principal shareholder in The Kenya Power & Lighting Company Limited (KPLC) holding a 50.1% equity interest. The Government also holds 70% and 100% of the equity interest in Kenya Electricity Generating Company Plc (KenGen) and Kenya Electricity Transmission Company (KETRACO), respectively. The Company is related to KenGen and KETRACO through common control. During the year, the following transactions were carried out with related parties: (a) The Company had no individually significant transactions carried out on non-market terms. (b) Other transactions that are collectively significant are detailed as follow 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 (i) Ministries Electricity sales to Government Ministries 4,013,298 3,272,231 Electricity sales to strategic parastatals 1,815,908 1,693,812 (ii) Outstanding balances at the year-end included in trade and other receivables: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Rural Electrification Scheme intercompany (Note 20 (b)) 4,855,584 9,101,806 Receivable from Government of Kenya (Note 20 (b)) 2,598,787 3,362,487 VAT recoverable (Note 20 (b)) 2,429,798 4,276,787 Ministries 665,023 171,797 Strategic parastatals 404,574 207,952 Rural Electrification Authority current account (Note 20 (b)) 248,564 167,110 Ministry of Energy and other sector entities 154,766 154,766 Electricity Regulatory Commission levy (Note 20 (b)) 56,351 15,659,669 13,196,483 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 183 NOTES (CONTINUED) 34. Related party transactions (Continued) (iii) Outstanding balances at the year-end included in trade and other payables: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Rural Electrification Scheme current account Last Mile (Note 5,839,520 3,570,618 27 (b)) Rural Electrification Scheme levy Mile (Note 27 (b)) 3,292,916 1,634,371 Ministry of Finance (Note 27 (b)) 875,041 875,041 Government of Kenya Street lighting project 285,741 2,875,319 Rural Electrification Scheme – capital (Note 27 (a)) 182,697 172,498 Electricity Regulatory Commission levy (Note 27 (b)) 83,892 10,475,915 9,211,739 Net amount owed by Government of Kenya 5,183,754 3,984,744 The tariffs applicable to Government institutions are the same as those charged to other ordinary customers. (c) Staff 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity sales to staff 86,328 87,145 Outstanding balances included in electricity receivables 1,993 2,435 The tariff applicable to staff is the same as that charged to other ordinary customers. 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 (ii) Advances to staff included in trade and other receivables 538,667 578,032 (iii) Key management compensation Short-term employee benefits 9,460 6,470 Termination benefits 26,056 27,176 35,516 33,646 Short-term employee benefits include those relating to the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer who is also a director which are disclosed in note 11 and also below: 184 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 34 Related party transactions (continued) (c) Staff (continued) (iii) Key management compensation (continued) 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Fees for services as director Non-executive directors 3,453 5,094 Other emoluments Salaries and other short term employment benefits: Non-executive directors 42,932 97,988 Executive directors and key management staff 35,516 33,646 78,448 131,634 81,901 136,728 (d) Rural Electrification Scheme  The Company continued to manage the Rural Electrification Scheme (RES) under the Rural Electrification Programme (REP), on behalf of the Government of Kenya. The Rural Electrification Programme (REP) was established in 1973 by the Government of Kenya following an agreement between the Government and East African Power & Lighting Company Limited, the predecessor to The Kenya Power & Lighting Company Limited. The programme was established with the specific objective to extend electricity to the sub-economic rural areas. In order to intensify the expansion of these sub-economic regions, the Government has established the Rural Electrification Authority (REA). However, KPLC continues to operate and maintain the whole network, in addition to implementing projects for the Authority on contract basis. The Company has entered into a Mutual Co-operation and Provision of Services Agreement with REA to operate and maintain lines owned by REA. In return, the Company will retain revenues generated from RES customers to cover maintenance costs incurred by the Company. However, the Company continues to invoice the Government for the expenditure incurred to complete on-going projects. The REP is funded by the Government of Kenya. Any property acquired by REP remains the property of the Government of Kenya. KPLC only acts as a management agent on behalf of the Government. The balances due to RES are disclosed in note 34(b) (ii) and (iii). (e) KenGen 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity purchases (before allocation to RES) 46,645,562 43,993,468 Amounts due to KenGen on electricity purchases (Note 27 (b)) 21,888,545 15,429,222 Electricity sales 173,518 208,939 Loan due to KenGen 0.75% JICA Loan 1,072,494 Amounts due from KenGen on account of electricity sales 128,566 74,006 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 185 NOTES (CONTINUED) 34 Related party disclosures (continued) (f) KETRACO 2018 2018 Shs’000 Shs’000 KETRACO 2,047,868 1,119,457 Funding for assets KEEP/KETRACO 132KV Transmission lines 47,208 2,173,192 KEEP/KETRACO 132/33KV substations 44,996 2,539,768 2.5% Exim Bank Loan for the construction of Kamburu-Meru line 2,226,953 Interest paid on repayment of 2.5% Exim Bank Loan 27,695 27,695 Amount due from Ketraco on account of local costs* 567,642 567,642 Amount due from Ketraco on 0.75% JICA loan (inclusive of interest) 221,272 1,249,249 Operations and Maintenance costs for Transmission lines 562,464 323,009 *These are local costs incurred by KPLC in the construction of Kisii Chemosit and KamburuMeru lines. (g) KPLC Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme The Company rents property owned by the staff retirement benefits scheme for office space. Rent paid to the scheme in the year amounted to Shs 92 million (2017: Shs 124 million). The outstanding balance to the retirement benefit scheme as at 30 June 2018 was Shs 30 million (2017: none). The year-end outstanding balances with related parties are interest free and settlement occurs in cash. 35. Government grant  The Company received grants from the Government of Kenya to subsidize electricity connectivity and to finance street lighting projects. The grants amounted to Shs 3,521,750,000 (2017: Shs 6,465,267,000) The movement in the grant accounts in the current year was as follows: 2017 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Connectivity At start of year (862,163) (862,163) Disbursements received during the year 1,196,750 2,465,267 Utilised during the year (236,221) (2,465,267) At end of year 98,366 (862,163) Street lighting At start of year 2,875,319 4,250,939 Disbursements received during the year 2,325,000 4,000,000 Utilised during the year (4,914,578) (5,375,620) At end of year 285,741 2,875,319 The amount of Shs 98 million receivable for connectivity projects has been disclosed under trade and other receivables, while Shs 285 million for street lighting is accounted for under trade and other payables. 186 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 36. Capital commitments 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Authorised and contracted for 69,095,450 144,712,340 Less: amount incurred and included in work-in-progress (34,928,666) (59,457,304) 34,166,784 85,255,036 37. Contingent liabilities v) Ahmed Dolal, Musa Ahmed and Fatima The Company is listed as a defendant in a Kadid suing on their behalf and 27 members number of legal suits handled by various of Likolei (1) Farmers Group vs KPLC and lawyers. Based on professional advice and KenGen – The plaintiffs are claiming damages the previous High Court rulings, the directors for oils spills on their farms from the Garissa are of the opinion that no significant loss Power station; will arise from these matters. The significant vi) County Government of Nairobi vs. KPLC. claims on the Company include: This is a claim by the County Government of Nairobi for poles and wayleaves charges; Litigation and claims vii) Nasir Maalim Arte vs. KPLC. This is a claim i) Joseph Kinyanjui Mwai vs KPLC (2010) – The for wayleave & trespass to land against KPLC; plaintiff is seeking damages plus interests as and loss occasioned by KPLC incurred as a result viii) Levy E.A. Ltd & 62 Others vs. KPLC. This is of disconnection; a claim for compensation for termination of ii) High Court Petition No 6 of 2018, Apollo Labour & Transport Contracts. Mboya & Electricity Consumers Society of Other claims on the Company relate to civil Kenya vs KPLC, ERC, Attorney General & suits lodged against the Company by various Auditor General. A consent was registered parties in the normal course of business. to settle this matter on 22 October 2018 Included in these claims is the case by Muwa and a court order to dismiss the case issued Limited for the termination of contracts for accordingly; supply of transformers. iii) Christopher Lebo & 331 Others vs KPLC (2003) The plaintiffs are former employees of Other Kenya Power who have filed the suit claiming The Company was yet to submit qualifying amounts allegedly owed to them following unclaimed assets at 30 June 2014, 2015, 2016 their cessation of employment on diverse and 2017 to the Unclaimed Financial Assets dates in the period 30 June 2001 19 March Authority (UFAA) at the date of this report. 2002; Management intend to make such submission iv) Nucon Switchgears PVT Limited vs KPLC and engage UFAA in the coming months. The (2016) – Nucon Switchgear PVT Limited directors are of the opinion that no significant is seeking payment under three separate losses will arise from this matter. contracts for the supply of transformers. They are seeking payments and interest as well as demurrage charges; The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 187 NOTES (CONTINUED) 38. Future rental commitments under operating leases As lessee: The total future minimum lease payments due to third parties under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Not later than 1 year 293,480 218,814 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 450,755 554,108 More than 5 years 400,709 419,374 1,144,944 1,192,296 As lessor: The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Not later than 1 year 85,826 63,901 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 274,437 126,281 More than 5 years 177,485 71,646 537,748 261,828 Operating leases relate to premises with lease terms foreign exchange adjustment asset (note of up to 10 years and are subject to rent escalations. 18) being the unrealised exchange loss on The Company does not have an option to borrowings on the basis that the loss will purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the be billed and recovered from customers lease period. Similarly, as a lessor, the Company when realised (in line with the approved has entered into commercial property leases on tariff described above). On the same basis, its property and it retains all the significant risks the unrealised exchange loss arising from and rewards of ownership of these properties and translation of the borrowings at year-end therefore accounts for the contracts as operating has not been recognised in profit or loss. The leases. above accounting treatment was not in line with IAS 21 ‘The effects of changes in foreign 39. Prior year adjustments exchange rates’. The prior year adjustments relate to:  In the current year, management has (a) Prior year error in accounting for unrealised processed adjustments to 1) derecognise foreign exchange differences on borrowings the previously recognised asset and 2) Kenya Power bills its customers on a monthly recognise unrealised exchange differences basis the sum of foreign currency costs on borrowings in profit or loss. Correction incurred by the Company, in accordance with of the prior period error has been applied the Schedule of tariffs approved by the Energy retrospectively in line with IAS 8 ‘Accounting Regulatory Commission (ERC). In the past, policies, change in accounting estimates the Company has recognised a Recoverable and errors’. 188 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39 Prior year adjustments (continued) The pre-tax impact of the adjustments on the prior years financial results is as follows: Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment asset (Note 18) 2017 2016 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 As previously reported 7,319,665 6,091,546 Restatements: De-recognition of recoverable foreign exchange asset at 30 (6,091,546) (6,091,546)* June 2016 Net increase in unrealised foreign exchange losses during the year ended 30 June 2017 (1,228,119) (7,319,665) (6,091,546) As restated *The contra entry has been processed through retained earnings at 30 June 2016. The impact of the adjustment on the recharges to RES has been processed through the RES – intercompany balance and retained earnings as of the same date. 2017 Restated Administration expenses (Note 8 (c)) Note Shs’000 Unrealised exchange differences As previously reported 798,716 Restatements: Net increase in the unrealised exchange loss 1,228,119 To adjust for over-capitalisation of foreign currency costs for the year ended 30 June 2017 39 (c) 114,567 1,342,686 As restated 2,141,402 (b) Prior year error in accounting for fuel costs  Kenya Power incurs fuel costs from the generation of electricity using thermal power plants. In the past, the Company has incorrectly recognised fuel costs in the month subsequent to the month they relate to resulting in late recognition of power purchase costs. As a result, June 2016 fuel cost invoices totalling Shs 802,762,000 were incorrectly recognised in the year ended 30 June 2017 and June 2017 fuel cost invoices totalling Shs 2,893,546,000 were incorrectly excluded from power purchase costs for the year ended 30 June 2017. The pre-tax impact of the adjustments on the prior year’s financial results is as follows: The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 189 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39 Prior year adjustments (continued) Trade and other receivables (Note 20 (b)) 2017 2016 Restated Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Unbilled fuel costs revenue As previously reported 10,155,749 802,762 Restatement: To recognise June 2016 and June 2017 fuel cost invoices in the (2,893,546) (802,762)* correct financial year To adjust for fuel credit note received after the year end 28,496 (2,865,050) (802,762) As restated 7,290,699 *The contra entry has been processed through retained earnings at 30 June 2016. The impact of the adjustment on the recharges to RES has been processed through the RES – intercompany balance and retained earnings as of the same date. Power purchase costs (Note 7 (a)) 2017 Note Restated Fuel costs As previously reported 22,123,712 Restatements: To reverse incorrect recognition of June 2016 fuel cost invoices in the year ended 30 June 2017 (802,762) To recognise June 2017 fuel cost invoices in the correct financial year 2,893,546 Resulting adjustment of RES recharge 39 (d) (138,967) 1,951,817 As restated 24,075,529 190 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39 Prior year adjustments (continued) (c) Prior year error relating to capitalised borrowing costs The Company’s policy of capitalising borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of transmission and distribution assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, is included in note 2 (l) of the financial statements. The financial statements have been restated to correct errors in the computation of capitalised borrowing costs. The pre-tax impact of the adjustments on the prior year’s financial results is as follows: 2017 2016 Restated Restated Property and equipment (Note 15) Note Shs’000 Shs’000 Net book value as previously reported 264,589,481 235,467,263 Restatements: To adjust for over-capitalisation of borrowing costs (1,015,645) (1,015,645)* for the period ended 30 June 2016 To adjust for over-capitalisation of finance costs for (389,173) the year ended 30 June 2017 To adjust for over-capitalisation of foreign currency 39 (a) (114,567) costs for the year ended 30 June 2017 To adjust for depreciation impact of the above over14,538 capitalisations for the year ended 30 June 2017 Reclassification of leasehold land to operating lease prepayments** (737,025) (737,025) (2,241,872) (1,752,670) Net book value as restated 262,347,609 233,714,593 *The contra entry has been processed through retained earnings at 30 June 2016. **The entry has been processed at 30 June 2016 to reclassify leasehold land that was incorrectly classified as freehold land and building in ‘property and equipment’ in accordance with the Company’s policy. Finance costs (Note 10 (b)) 2017 Restated Shs’000 As previously reported 5,650,798 Restatements: To adjust for over-capitalisation of finance costs for the year ended 30 June 2017 389,173 As restated 6,039,971 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 191 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39 Prior year adjustments (continued) (c) Prior year error relating to capitalised borrowing costs (continued) Network management (Note 8 (a)) 2017 Restated Shs’000 As previously reported 11,160,746 Restatements: Depreciation impact of the above over-capitalisations for the year ended 30 (14,538) June 2017 As restated 11,146,208 (d) Prior year error in amounts recharged to the Rural Electrification Scheme (RES) The Company’s relationship with RES is described in note 34 (d). Power purchase costs and other expenses of the Company are recharged to RES based on the Mercados formula. The adjustments described under a) to c) above result in changes to the recharges to RES. In addition to the above, the financial statements have been restated to correct errors in the computation of the RES recharges in the past. The pre-tax impact of the adjustments on the prior year’s financial results is as follows: Trade and other receivables (Note 20 (b)) 2017 2016 Restated Restated Note Shs’000 Shs’000 As previously reported 49,677,295 30,750,689 Restatements: Total adjustment under note 39 (b) (2,893,546) (802,762) Total adjustment under note 39 (d) 412,029 (804,067) Total adjustment under note 39 (d) 750,067 Total adjustment under note 39 (d) 39 (b) 138,967 750,067 (1,592,483) (856762) As restated 48,084,812 29,893,927 Power purchase costs (Note 7 (b)) 2017 Restated Note Shs’000 Non-fuel costs As previously reported 50,615,823 Restatements: RES allocation Non fuel (413,335) As restated 50,202,488 192 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39 Prior year adjustments (continued) (e) Total impact on trade and other receivables at 30 June 2017 Shs’000 As previously stated 49,677,295 Restatements: Total adjustment under note 39 (b) (2,893,546) Total adjustment under note 39 (d) 412,029 Total adjustment under note 39 (d) 138,967 Total adjustment under note 39 (d) 750,067 (1,592,483) As restated 48,084,812 (f) Total impact on retained earnings at 30 June 2016 Shs’000 As previously stated 37,121,927 Restatements: Adjustment under note 39 (a) (6,091,546) Adjustment under note 39 (b) (802,762) To adjust for over-capitalisation of borrowing costs for the period ended 30 June 2016 (1,015,645) Res under provision 750,067 Net impact on income tax 2,517,554 (4,642,332) As restated 32,479,595 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 193 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39. Prior year adjustments (continued) (g) Statement of profit and loss extract 2017 Profit As previously increase/ 2017 reported (decrease) Restated Note Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue Electricity sales 91,951,629 91,951,629 Foreign exchange adjustment 6,682,693 6,682,693 Fuel cost charge 22,107,948 22,107,948 Power purchase cost Non-fuel costs 39 (d) (50,615,823) 413,335 (50,202,488) Foreign exchange cost (6,199,227) (6,199,227) Fuel costs 39 (b) (22,123,712) (1,951,817) (24,075,529) Net operating expenses Network management 39 (c) (11,160,746) 14,538 (11,146,208) Commercial services 39 (c) (4,745,831) (174,250) (4,920,081) Administration 39 (c) (17,510,093) (1,168,436) (18,678,529) Other operating income 8,130,398 8,130,398 Interest income 46,004 46,004 Finance costs 39 (c) (5,650,798) (389,173) (6,039,971) Profit before income tax 10,912,442 7,656,639 Income tax expense (3,646,311) 1,270,097 (2,376,214) Profit for the year 7,266,131 5,280,425 194 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39. Prior year adjustments (continued) (h) Statement of financial position extract 2017 2016 As previously Increase/ 2017 As previously Increase/ 2016 reported (decrease) Restated reported (decrease) Restated Note Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 ASSETS Property and equipment 39 (c) 264,589,481 (2,241,872) 262,347,609 235,467,263 (1,752,670) 233,714,593 Operating lease prepayment 39 (c) 131,438 737,025 868,463 131,494 737,025 868,519 Intangible assets 2,593,483 2,593,483 2,602,033 2,602,033 39 (a) Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment 6,520,949 (6,520,949) 6,068,423 (6,068,423) (c)39((a) Retirement benefit asset 2,531,782 2,531,782 3,263,150 3,263,150 Trade and other receivables 1,601,509 1,601,509 1,816,262 1,816,262 Inventories 9,626,293 9,626,293 11,895,271 11,895,271 Trade and other receivables 39 (e) 49,677,295 (1,592,483) 48,084,812 30,750,689 (856,763) 29,893,926 Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment 39 (a) 798,716 (798,716) 23,123 (23,123) Current income tax 44,358 44,358 21,419 4,571 25,990 Short term deposits 596,169 596,169 3,842,355 3,842,355 Bank and cash balances 2,941,754 2,941,754 1,660,698 1,660,698 TOTAL ASSETS 341,653,227 331,236,232 297,542,180 289,582,797 Ordinary share capital 4,878,667 4,878,667 4,878,667 4,878,667 Share premium 22,021,219 22,021,219 22,021,219 22,021,219 Reserves 43,061,769 (6,628,038) 36,433,731 37,121,927 (4,642,332) 32,479,595 LIABILITIES 29,217,030 Deferred income tax 32,472,173 (3,788,957) 28,683,216 (2,514,289) 26,702,741 Deferred income 19,562,051 19,562,051 18,154,796 18,154,796 Trade and other payables 33,281,165 (3,570,618) 29,710,547 30,172,855 30,172,855 Borrowings 111,075,216 111,075,216 105,017,783 105,017,783 Preference shares 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Trade and other payables 53,974,414 3,570,618 57,545,032 35,298,171 (802,762) 34,495,409 Current income tax 195 196 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39 Prior year adjustments (continued) (h) Statement of financial position extract (continued) 2017 2016 As previously Increase/ 2017 As previously Increase/ 2016 Note reported (decrease) Restated reported (decrease) Restated ASSETS Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Deferred income 4,944,572 4,944,572 5,953,273 5,953,273 Leave pay provision 346,903 346,903 544,369 544,369 Borrowings 10,940,906 10,940,906 8,850,929 8,850,929 Dividends payable 362,839 362,839 268,161 268,161 Overdraft 4,688,333 4,688,333 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 341,653,227 331,236,232 297,542,180 289,582,797 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTES (CONTINUED) 40. World Bank Financing (a) World Bank Credits No. 3958 and 4752-KE The Company received financial support from the World Bank through Credit No. 3958 and 4572 – KE dated 4 August 2004 to support implementation of the Energy Sector Recovery Project. Summary information on transactions during the year are as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 456 Expenditure during the year (456) Balance at the end of the year The closing balances shown above are included in cash and cash equivalents and represent balances on the World Bank funded Special Account No. 024/00/800521/01 held at Stanbic Bank of Kenya Limited. Included in the long term borrowings is also an amount of Shs 10,222,823,931 (US$ 101,165,996) in respect of the amounts disbursed under the loan to date. The proceeds of the World Bank loan have been expended in accordance with the intended purpose as specified in the loan agreement. (b) KEEP Loan (IDA Credit No. 4743-KE) The Company received funding from the World Bank through Credit No.4743-KE to support electricity expansion projects. Summary information on transactions under KEEP Loan during the two years ended 30 June 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 34,189 17,312 Amounts received during the year 339,344 170,285 Net interest income 1,068 786 Expenditure during the year (370,494) (154,194) Balance at the end of the year 4,107 34,189 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 197 NOTES (CONTINUED) 40. World Bank Financing (continued) (c) KEMP (IDA Credit No. 5587-KE) The Company received funding from the World Bank through Credit No.5587-KE to support electricity modernization projects. Summary information on transactions under KEMP Loan during the two years ended 30 June 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 123,461 Amounts received during the year 123,461 Net interest income 6,074 At end of year (71,603) Balance at the end of the year 57,932 123,461 The closing balances shown above are included in cash and cash equivalents and represent balances in the World Bank funded Special Account No. 1400266765947 held at Equity Bank Limited. Included in the long term borrowings is an amount of Shs 268,400,346 (US$ 2,655,214) in respect of the amounts disbursed under the loan to date. The proceeds of the World Bank through Credit No.5587-KE have been expended in accordance with the intended purpose as specified in the loan agreement. 41. European Investment Bank (EIB) Financing The Company received financial support from EIB for Grid development. Summary information on special account transactions during the year are as follows: 2018 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 235,568 227,567 Net interest income 1,995 8,001 Expenditure during the year (237,563) Balance at the end of the year 235,568 The closing balances shown above are included in cash and cash equivalents and represent balances on the European Investment Bank funded Special Account No.0100000443683 held at Stanbic Bank of Kenya Limited. Included in the long term borrowings is an amount of Shs 2,747,766,546 (Euro 23,513,882) in respect of the amounts disbursed under the loan to date. The proceeds of the European Investment Bank loan have been expended in accordance with the intended purpose as specified in the loan agreement. 42. Subsequent event Except for the matter disclosed under note 37 (ii), there are no other material subsequent events. 198 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 A section of the 220/66/11kV Nairobi City Centre Gas Insulated Substation (GIS) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 199 Nyeri Town, Nyeri County 5:32 AM POWERING KENYA 200 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 201 202 TEN YEAR FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL RECORDS. 30th 30th 30th 30th June June June 30th 30th 30th June 30th June 30th June 2017 30th June For year ended 2009 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Restated) 2018 UNITS SOLD (GWh) 5,182 5,345 5,816 6,001 6,175 6,790 7,130 7,385 7,717 7,905 Average yield of units sold (cents) 1,258.37 1,368.88 1,257.81 1,596.77 1,437.74 1,552.45 1,497.38 1,467.50 1,564.63 1,592.08 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘001 Revenue from sale of electricity 65,208,529 73,166,794 73,154,021 95,662,427 88,909,626 105,395,714 106,763,525 108,374,612 120,742,270 125,854,230 Operating Profit 5,676,542 5,951,392 7,084,377 7,810,450 8,941,540 14,922,404 15,839,478 16,930,645 13,652,536 10,797,815 TAXATION (CHARGE)/ CREDIT (1,557,339) (1,916,587) (2,035,185) (3,889,577) (3,124,780) (4,021,363) (4,821,617) (4,885,834) (2,376,214) (1,171,217) NET PROFIT AFTER TAXATION BEFORE FINANCE INCOME/COSTS 4,119,203 4,034,805 5,049,192 3,920,873 5,816,760 10,901,041 11,017,861 12,044,811 11,276,322 9,626,598 Finance Income 153,343 177,380 171,477 489,182 111,546 104,208 1,380,968 964,957 46,004 100,000 Finance Costs (1,045,522) (493,885) (999,173) 208,991 (2,480,659) (4,008,832) (4,964,942) (5,811,275) (6,039,971) (7,806,676) Preference dividends (gross) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) NET PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS 3,225,094 3,716,370 4,219,566 4,617,116 3,445,717 6,994,487 7,431,957 7,196,563 5,280,425 1,917,992 ORDINARY DIVIDENDS (gross) (633,024) (633,024) (1,002,763) (563,757) (390,293) (975,733) (975,733) (585,440) (975,734) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (127,397) 1,266,758 989,821 (1,995,966) (168,673) (740,849) (68,486) RETAINED PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 2,592,070 3,083,346 3,216,803 3,925,962 4,712,475 7,594,015 4,460,258 6,052,157 3,954,136 873,772 30th 30th 30th 30th June June June 30th 30th 30th June 30th June 30th June 2017 30th June For year ended 2009 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Restated) 2018 FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Profit/(Loss) for the year after dividends 2,592,070 3,083,346 3,216,803 3,925,962 4,712,475 7,594,015 4,460,258 6,052,157 3,954,136 873,772 Depreciation 2,154,357 2,807,111 3,847,007 4,563,658 5,632,642 6,797,745 7,943,421 9,434,511 11,951,350 15,284,953 4,746,427 5,890,457 7,063,810 8,489,620 10,345,117 14,391,760 12,403,679 15,486,668 15,905,486 16,158,725 CAPITAL EMPLOYED Fixed Assets less depreciation 49,974,859 64,310,486 84,590,569 106,377,165 146,094,184 168,155,851 196,301,330 233,714,593 262,347,609 273,376,882 Intangible assets 169,520 258,716 1,410,044 1,418,599 2,602,033 2,593,483 3,842,816 Prepaid leases on land 131,874 131,819 131,764 131,709 131,653 131,598 131,543 868,519 868,463 813,423 Investment 200,000 1,298,506 1,171,109 Other non current assets 817,423 8,372,135 5,079,411 4,133,291 4,001,887 Net current assets/ (Liabilities) 2,702,009 1,736,355 7,020,165 (3,223,754) (1,147,158) 1,563,870 20,463,293 (2,793,900) (17,535,199) (51,637,615) 53,008,742 66,178,660 93,041,004 104,625,749 145,337,395 172,078,786 226,686,900 239,470,656 252,407,647 230,397,393 FINANCED BY: Ordinary shareholders’ equity 9,700,722 11,593,536 39,606,376 43,022,772 47,149,807 54,743,822 57,969,656 59,379,481 63,333,617 64,207,389 Non cumulative preference shares 17,147,341 17,147,341 Cumulative preference shares 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 Deferred Income 7,472,912 12,362,327 16,087,747 18,680,714 16,612,332 18,154,796 19,562,051 16,999,103 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 203 204 30th 30th 30th 30th June June June 30th 30th 30th June 30th June 30th June 2017 30th June For year ended 2009 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Restated) 2018 Loan capital 11,545,014 13,113,434 19,757,132 21,512,025 42,886,311 53,141,442 99,289,403 105,017,783 111,075,216 96,929,050 Deferred taxation 2,701,965 4,481,865 6,500,449 11,862,140 15,442,569 19,848,236 24,699,789 26,702,741 28,683,216 29,694,493 Non current liability 11,870,700 19,799,484 19,661,135 15,823,485 23,727,961 25,621,572 28,072,720 30,172,855 29,710,547 22,524,358 53,008,742 66,178,660 93,041,004 104,625,749 145,337,395 172,078,786 226,686,900 239,470,656 252,407,647 230,397,393 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 12,734,937 17,526,909 24,713,898 25,949,832 40,578,337 27,208,068 41,567,840 48,815,284 41,516,132 28,668,423 Average cost of units sold (cents) 1,171.13 1,287.63 1,160.33 1,496.28 1,347.16 1,450.92 1,365.10 1,339.41 1,493.09 1,565.20 Profit for the year before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed 10.71% 8.99% 7.61% 7.47% 6.40% 8.67% 6.99% 7.07% 5.41% 4.69% ORDINARY DIVIDENDS RATES 40% 40% 18% 20% 0% 20% 20% 20% 20% 0% Earnings per share 40.76 3.00 2.16 2.36 1.76 3.58 3.81 3.69 2.71 0.98 Customers/employees ratio 180.64 201.08 205.24 198.85 223.00 260.00 333.05 439.27 615.00 615.00 Sales (KWh) per employee 738,703 734,300 680,774 584,374 590,922 641,076 657,446 663,343 682,800 719,094 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 STATISTICAL TABLES TABLE 1: POWER SYSTEM OPERATION STATISTICS FOR 5 YEARS Capacity (MW) as at 30.06.2018 COMPANY Installed Effective1 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 KenGen Hydro: Tana 20.0 20.0 69 108 109 71 96 Kamburu 94.2 90.0 421 358 434 384 321 Gitaru 225.0 216.0 830 710 862 775 724 Kindaruma 72.0 70.5 201 165 208 183 179 Masinga 40.0 40.0 206 138 127 169 107 Kiambere 168.0 164.0 979 718 996 938 751 Turkwel 106.0 105.0 719 551 426 402 458 Sondu Miriu 60.0 60.0 351 376 419 282 388 Sangóro 21.0 20.0 109 125 140 90 129 Small Hydros 11.7 11.2 59 60 63 44 33 Hydro Total 818 797 3,944 3,308 3,784 3,339 3,186 Thermal: Kipevu I Diesel 73.5 60.0 219.9 156.5 128.6 211.3 238.3 Kipevu III Diesel 120.0 115.0 524.2 299.0 181.4 512.1 583.8 Embakasi Gas Turbine 30.0 27.0 41.3 4.1 0.6 0.2 0.0 Muhoroni Gas Turbine 30.0 28.0 108.0 65.5 Garissa & Lamu 27.6 11.7 12.4 Garissa Temporary Plant (Aggreko) 21.0 18.6 Thermal Total 254 230 813 492 342 832 888 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 205 206 Capacity (MW) as at 30.06.2018 COMPANY Installed Effective1 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Geothermal: Olkaria I 45.0 44.0 352 333 331 195 247 Olkaria II 105.0 101.0 712 756 814 791 832 Eburru Hill 2.4 2.2 7 11 10 0 6 2 OW37, OW 37 kwg 12, OW 37 kwg 13 and OW 39 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads 15.0 12.2 17 9 16 89 127 OW43 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads 12.8 12.8 29 78 75 74 66 OW905,OW914 ,OW915 and OW 919 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads3 52.8 52.8 7 109 266 309 325 Olkaria IV 140.0 140.0 32 1064 976 852 1132 Olkaria I 4 & 5 140.0 140.0 744 1055 968 1133 Geothermal Total 513 505 1,156 3,104 3,542 3,279 3,868 Wind Ngong 25.5 25.5 17.6 37.7 56.7 63.2 47.5 KenGen Total 1,610 1,557 5,931 6,943 7,725 7,513 7,989 Government of Kenya (Rural Electrification Programme) Thermal 30.4 21.3 29.8 35.1 39.9 40.8 46.9 Solar 0.69 0.62 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.5 0.0 Wind 0.55 0.01 0.4 0.0 0.000 0.003 0.124 Total Offgrid 31.6 22.0 31 36 41 41 47 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Capacity (MW) as at 30.06.2018 COMPANY Installed Effective1 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Independent Power Producers (IPP) Thermal & Geothermal Iberafrica I&II 108.5 102.5 550 198 128 252 186 Tsavo 74.0 74.0 152 83 39 121 196 Thika Power 87.0 87.0 454 233 70 168 215 Biojule Kenya Limited 2.0 2.0 0 0.7 0.4 Mumias Cogeneration 26.0 21.5 57 14 0 0 4 OrPower 4 -Geothermal I,II&III 121.0 121.0 851 955 937 925 942 OrPower 4 -Geothermal (the 4th plant) 29.0 29.0 129 247 244 Rabai Power 90.0 90.0 633 609 536 606 562 Imenti Tea Factory (Feed-in Plant) 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.7 0.3 0.6 Gikira small hydro 0.514 0.514 0.4 1.6 1.9 0.9 1.4 Triumph Diesel 83.0 83.0 4.8 81.8 83 28 Gulf Power 80.32 80.32 60 8 61 80 Regen-Terem 5.00 5.00 1 18 Gura 2.00 2.00 17 Chania 0.50 0.50 0.8 Strathmore 0.25 0.25 0.02 IPP Total 709 699 2,698 2,160 1,934 2,466 2,495 Emergency Power Producers(EPP) Aggreko Power 0 0.0 94 63 50 EPP Total 0 0 94 63 50 0 0 Imports UETCL 83 76 65 180 168 TANESCO 1.3 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 EEPCO 2.1 2.8 2.6 3.4 3.0 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Total Imports 87 79 67 184 171 SYSTEM TOTAL 2,351 2,278 8,840 9,280 9,817 10,204 10,702 207 208 Installed Effective1 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 SUMMARY OF KEY STATISTICS SALES KPLC System (GWh) 6,751 7,090 7,330 7,701 7,881 REP System (GWh) 454 525 537 549 554 Export to Uganda (GWh) 37 38 43 20 22 Export to Tanesco (GWh) 2 2 2 2 2 TOTAL SALES (GWh) 7,244 7,655 7,912 8,272 8,459 System Losses (GWh)4 1,596 1,624 1,905 1,932 2,244 System Peak Demand (MW)5 1,468 1,512 1,586 1,656 1,802 System Load Factor 68.7% 70.1% 70.6% 70.3% 67.8% Sales % of Energy Purchased 81.9% 82.5% 80.6% 81.1% 79.0% Losses as % of Energy Purchased 18.1% 17.5% 19.4% 18.9% 21.0% Annual Growth: Energy Purchased 9.3% 5.0% 5.8% 3.9% 4.9% KPLC Sales 9.9% 5.0% 3.4% 5.1% 2.3% REP Sales 45.0% 15.6% 2.3% 2.2% 1.0% Notes: 1) Contracted output from the station under normal operating conditions. 2) OW37, OW 37 kwg 12, OW 37 kwg 13 and OW 39 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads are centrally metered at OW 37 3) OW905,OW914 ,OW915 and OW 919 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads are metered at OW 914 and OW 915 4) System losses comprise of technical and non-technical losses. 5) The peak demand shown includes export to Uganda. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 TABLE 2: REGIONAL MAXIMUM DEMAND (MW) REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi 768 811 842 831 881 Coast 267 249 315 323 318 West 298 309 364 391 400 Mt. Kenya 159 148 177 171 414 TOTAL SYSTEM (SIMULTANEOUS) 1,468 1,512 1,586 1,656 1,802 % INCREASE P.A. 8.4% 3.0% 4.9% 4.4% 8.8% TABLE 3: KPLC SALES BY CUSTOMER CATEGORY IN GWh CUSTOMER CATEGORY 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Domestic-DC 1,803 1,866 2,007 2,138 2,335 Small Commercial-SC 1,109 1,143 1,153 1,201 1,222 Commercial and Industrial-CI 3,818 4,030 4,104 4,266 4,225 Off-peak (Interruptible)-IT 1 15 26 41 33 Street lighting-SL 20 35 40 55 66 TOTAL 6,751 7,090 7,330 7,701 7,881 % INCREASE P.A. 9.9% 5.0% 3.4% 5.1% 2.3% TABLE 4: TOTAL UNIT SALES BY REGION IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 1,032 1,187 1,301 1,204 Nairobi South 1,667 1,696 1,759 1,728 Nairobi West 1,059 808 853 898 Nairobi 3,776 Coast 1,256 1,312 1,338 1,389 1,435 Central Rift 456 569 596 650 North Rift 269 280 269 303 South Nyanza 0 48 86 88 West Kenya 525 320 313 361 West 1,121 Mt Kenya 309 413 431 437 North Eastern 461 671 704 776 Mt Kenya 598 KPLC Sales 6,751 7,090 7,330 7,701 7,881 R.E.P. Schemes 454 525 537 549 554 Export Sales*** 39 40 45 22 23 TOTAL 7,244 7,655 7,912 8,272 8,459 % INCREASE P.A. 10.1% 5.7% 3.4% 4.5% 2.3% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 209 TABLE 5: REGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “DC” DOMESTIC LOAD IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 413 395 418 306 Nairobi South 290 289 291 352 Nairobi West 404 380 405 321 Nairobi 1,177 Coast 301 306 328 338 371 Central Rift 139 168 218 280 West Kenya 169 163 136 102 North Rift 101 105 116 262 South Nyanza 31 51 106 West 359 Mt Kenya 141 178 203 220 North Eastern 212 315 328 380 Mt Kenya 220 TOTAL 2,057 2,176 2,352 2,504 2,699 % INCREASE P.A. 23.4% 5.8% 8.1% 6.5% 7.8% TABLE 6: REGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “SC” SMALL COMMERCIAL LOAD IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 159 214 216 231 Nairobi South 164 153 157 163 Nairobi West 225 146 154 170 Nairobi 567 Coast 164 167 171 182 162 Central Rift 153 163 182 169 West Kenya 163 114 99 80 North Rift 85 77 79 90 South Nyanza 0 19 34 54 West 373 Mt Kenya 123 151 161 165 North Eastern 107 131 132 119 Mt Kenya 191 TOTAL 1,295 1,346 1,339 1,395 1,403 % INCREASE P.A. 22.3% 4.0% -0.6% 4.2% 0.6% 210 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 TABLE 7: REGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “CI1” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (415V) IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 175 236 240 237 Nairobi South 328 331 335 292 Nairobi West 301 200 212 184 Nairobi 790 Coast 214 208 216 219 160 Central Rift 154 203 221 213 West Kenya 149 82 68 58 North Rift 80 88 81 105 South Nyanza 0 21 35 49 West 393 Mt Kenya 116 161 154 154 North Eastern 94 122 126 138 Mt Kenya 202 TOTAL 1,599 1,606 1,660 1,693 1,590 % INCREASE P.A. 7.1% 0.5% 3.3% 2.0% -6.1% TABLE 8: REGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI2” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD(11kV ) IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 196 238 244 206 Nairobi South 515 514 500 441 Nairobi West 113 65 72 82 Nairobi 819 Coast 212 228 230 230 166 Central Rift 40 46 53 106 West Kenya 45 45 42 29 North Rift 20 19 20 91 South Nyanza 0 2 6 14 West 107 Mt Kenya 8 17 20 33 North Eastern 85 131 140 154 Mt Kenya 78 TOTAL 1,216 1,251 1,307 1,328 1,321 % INCREASE P.A. 6.5% 2.9% 4.5% 1.6% -0.5% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 211 TABLE 9: REGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI3” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (33KV) IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 10.9 0.0 0.0 0.1 Nairobi South 2.0 0.0 5.7 12.9 Nairobi West 5.0 4.0 11.9 28.8 Nairobi 5 Coast 168 152.2 140.0 158.2 110.4 Central Rift 37 65 75 101 West Kenya 34 11 16 16 North Rift 43 40 29 19 South Nyanza 0 0 0 8 West 93 Mt Kenya 0 0 0 24 North Eastern 0 0 0 0 Mt Kenya 0 TOTAL 266 284 260 295 321 % INCREASE P.A. -0.1% 6.9% -8.6% 13.5% 8.7% TABLE 10: REGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI4” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (66KV) IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 78 83 88 81 Nairobi South 341 379 419 346 Nairobi West 34 32 34 25 Nairobi 453 Coast 0 0 0 0 7 Central Rift 3 3 7 11 West Kenya 0 0 0 0 North Rift 0 0 0 63 South Nyanza 0 0 0 0 West 2 Mt Kenya 0 0 0 4 North Eastern 2 29 32 37 Mt Kenya 5 TOTAL 460 458 526 580 575 % INCREASE P.A. 12.7% -0.4% 14.8% 10.2% -0.9% 212 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 TABLE 11: REGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI5” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (132KV) IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 0 0 0 0 Nairobi South 69 72 82 69 Nairobi West 0 0 0 8 Nairobi 60 Coast 217 274 278 287 211 Central Rift 2 2 1 102 West Kenya 84 0 6 20 North Rift 0 0 0 14 South Nyanza 0 0 0 0 West 9 Mt Kenya 0 0 0 0 North Eastern 12 3 0 1 Mt Kenya 5 TOTAL 291 441 355 376 425 % INCREASE P.A. 63.7% 51.5% -19.5% 6.0% 12.9% TABLE 12: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “IT” OFFPEAK LOAD IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 0.0 0.2 10.7 2.4 2.6 Nairobi South 0.0 0.4 0.5 2.3 5.2 Nairobi West 0.0 12.8 11.8 3.2 2.7 Nairobi 1.0 Coast 0.0 0.4 0.4 2.2 8.5 Central Rift 0.0 0.1 0.3 2.7 2.7 West Kenya 0.0 0.3 0.5 2.5 1.2 North Rift 0.0 0.0 0.2 1.2 5.5 South Nyanza 0.0 0.0 0.1 1.2 1.3 West 0.0 Mt Kenya 0.0 0.3 0.4 2.2 2.1 North Eastern 0.0 0.9 1.5 3.2 4.4 Mt Kenya 0.0 TOTAL 1.0 15.4 26.4 23.1 36.3 % INCREASE P.A. -94% 1388% 71% -13% 57% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 213 TABLE 13: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “SL” STREET LIGHTING IN GWh REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 0.0 6.7 9.2 13.1 15.1 Nairobi South 0.0 10.0 6.7 5.6 8.4 Nairobi West 0.0 7.5 8.3 9.8 8.5 Nairobi 13.0 Coast 4.0 3.8 4.0 4.6 7.2 Central Rift 0.0 1.6 2.4 4.9 7.2 West Kenya 0.0 0.2 0.9 3.8 2.7 North Rift 0.0 1.1 1.2 2.4 3.2 South Nyanza 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.3 1.6 West 1.0 Mt Kenya 0.0 2.2 4.3 6.6 7.4 North Eastern 0.0 2.7 2.8 5.5 5.7 Mt Kenya 2.0 TOTAL 20.0 35.7 39.9 56.5 66.9 % Increase P.A. -16.5% 78.7% 11.6% 41.6% 18.4% TABLE 14: REGIONAL SALES OF ELECTRICITY FOR R.E.P. SCHEMES IN GWH REGION 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Nairobi North 7 0 0 0 Nairobi South 53 49 39 38 Nairobi West 43 40 49 36 Nairobi 109 Coast 24 27 29 32 32 Central Rift 75 83 88 96 West Kenya 119 96 59 59 North Rift 62 50 41 50 Soutn Nyanza 0 25 61 68 West 216 Mt Kenya 82 100 117 115 North Eastern 56 64 63 62 Mt Kenya 105 TOTAL 454 525 537 549 554 % Increase P.A. 45.2% 15.6% 2.3% 2.2% 1.0% 214 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 TABLE 15: NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS BY REGION REGION 2013/14 2014/ 15 2015/ 16 2016/ 17 2017/ 18 Nairobi North 514,003 626,662 720,180 759,903 Nairobi South 462,108 590,731 746,961 819,603 Nairobi West 358,279 482,759 632,433 655,504 Nairobi 1,258,555 Coast 248,058 297,985 400,679 490,290 543,009 Central Rift 235,729 340,165 434,163 475,725 West Kenya 215,237 265,700 396,691 454,108 North Rift 156,858 242,328 287,296 315,735 South Nyanza 0 104,161 146,580 171,701 West 438,998 Mt Kenya 244,936 320,137 412,605 487,120 North Eastern 423,579 545,033 645,573 746,473 Mt. Kenya 293,820 KPLC Customers 2,239,431 2,908,714 3,918,355 4,912,772 5,428,881 R.E.P. Customers 528,552 703,190 972,018 1,269,510 1,332,209 TOTAL 2,767,983 3,611,904 4,890,373 6,182,282 6,761,090 % Increase P.A. 18.7% 30.5% 35.4% 26.4% 9.4% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 215 TABLE 16: NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS BY TARIFF CATEGORY MAIN TYPE OF CUSTOMERS COVERED BY TARIFF THIS TARIFF 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 DC only Domestic KPLC 1,987,330 2,646,965 3,665,216 4,628,435 5,135,226 REP 435,749 600,244 861,110 1,153,031 1,215,721 DC & IT Domestic KPLC 57,958 57,827 38,816 57,442 53,172 REP 819 898 765 957 513 SC only Small Commercial KPLC 185,529 193,327 202,477 211,655 224,276 REP 91,647 101,608 109,588 114,893 115,412 SC & IT Small Commercial KPLC 1,542 1,548 1,470 1,741 1,473 REP 211 252 229 287 145 C11 KPLC 2,695 2,930 3,068 3,126 3,202 REP 33 10 19 24 25 CI2 Large Commercial 333 348 378 405 527 and Industrial KPLC CI3 Large Commercial 36 43 43 57 64 and Industrial KPLC CI4 Large Commercial 24 31 35 41 53 and Industrial KPLC CI5 Large Commercial 27 32 32 33 41 and Industrial KPLC IT only Off-peak (Interruptible) KPLC 785 794 796 791 1,110 REP 4 8 13 8 10 SL Street lighting KPLC 3,172 4,869 6,024 9,046 9,845 REP 89 170 294 310 275 TOTAL (KPLC) 2,239,431 2,908,714 3,918,355 4,912,772 5,428,989 TOTAL (R.E.P.) 528,552 703,190 972,018 1,269,510 1,332,101 GROSS TOTAL 2,767,983 3,611,904 4,890,373 6,182,282 6,761,090 % INCREASE P.A. 18.7% 30.5% 35.4% 26.4% 9.4% 216 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 TABLE 17: REVENUE (Shs ‘Mllion) BY CUSTOMER CATEGORY MAIN TYPE OF CUSTOMERS COVERED BY TARIFF TARIFF 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 DC Domestic 31,029 30,897 32,726 38,064 38,066 SC Small Commercial 23,864 23,490 23,639 25,590 26,995 Commercial CI 49,269 51,097 50,862 55,706 59,528 Industrial Off-peak IT 23 26 70 625 391 (Interruptible) SL Street Lighting 392 447 342 414 464 TOTAL 104,577 105,957 107,638 120,399 125,444 Export** 819 806 736 343 410 TOTAL KPLC 105,396 106,763 108,374 120,742 125,854 R.E.P. 7,229 8,051 9,812 10,376 11,846 TOTAL REVENUE 112,625 114,814 118,186 131,118 137,700 % INCREASE P.A. 18.7% 1.9% 2.9% 10.9% 5.0% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 217 TABLE 18: STAFF ANALYSIS Number of Staff in Each Region 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Central Office 1,563 1,863 2,049 2,093 1,779 Nairobi North 3,396 930 851 838 852 Nairobi West 1,075 922 913 918 Nairobi South 951 845 853 837 Coast 1,088 1,067 1,139 1,144 1,156 West Kenya 2,927 1,103 949 960 945 South Nyanza 364 418 421 Central Rift 1,079 1,051 1,079 1,157 North Rift 801 790 803 819 Mt Kenya 1,616 1,120 1,216 1,227 1,136 North Eastern 856 957 967 973 Total Number of Staff 10,590 10,845 11,133 11,295 10,993 % INCREASE P.A. 1.2% 2.4% 2.7% 1.5% -2.7% Gender: Male 8,532 8,691 8,913 8,996 8,712 Female 2,058 2,154 2,220 2,299 2,281 RatioMale/Female 4.1 4.0 4.0 3.9 3.8 TABLE 19: TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION LINES, CIRCUIT LENGTH IN KILOMETRES1 VOLTAGE 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 400 kV 96.8 1244.4 220 kV 1,248 1,352 1,452 1,555 1,686 132 kV 2,797 2,824 3,087 3,208 3,322 66 kV 928 952 977 1,000 1,168 33 kV 20,778 21,370 27,497 30,846 34,508 11 kV 30,860 32,823 35,383 37,234 38,968 Total HV and MV 56,611 59,322 68,396 73,940 80,897 415/240V or 433/250V 110,778 139,642 152,803 TOTAL 56,611 59,322 179,174 213,582 233,700 % INCREASE P.A. 14.0% 4.8% 15.3% 19.2% 9.4% Note: 1. Data for 2013/14 to 2016/17 restated. 218 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 TABLE 20: TRANSFORMERS IN SERVICE, TOTAL INSTALLED CAPACITY IN MVA1 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 Generation Substations 33/220 88 88 88 88 88 15/220KV 95 95 95 95 95 11/220kV 694 1,054 1,054 1,054 1,054 33/132 45 45 45 45 45 15/132 175 175 175 175 175 11/132kV 1,035 1,035 1,035 1,095 1,095 11/66kV 171 291 411 411 576 11/33kV 238 238 238 238 238 3.3/33kV 4 4 4 4 4 TOTAL 2,545 3,025 3,145 3,205 3,370 Transmission Substations 132/220 and 220/132kV 835 1,266 1,266 1,266 1,350 220/66kV 450 450 720 720 1,111 220/33 kV 46 69 69 69 69 132/66kV 360 420 420 600 600 132/33kV 916 939 1,229 1,721 1,721 132/11kV 15 TOTAL 2,607 3,144 3,704 4,376 4,866 Distribution Substations 66/11kV 1,838 2,139 2,345 2,465 2,670 66/33kV 138 138 138 138 161 40/11kV 33/11kV 1,200 1,295 1,365 1,453 1,541 TOTAL 3,176 3,572 3,848 4,056 4,372 Distribution Transformers 11/0.415kV and 33/0.415kV 6,317 6,384 7,088 7,276 7,606 Note: 1. Data for 2013/14 to 2016/17 restated. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 219 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE NINETY-SEVENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders of the Company will be held at Safari Park Hotel, Thika Road, Nairobi, on Friday 21st December 2018 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following business: 1. To read the notice convening the meeting and note the presence of a quorum. 2. To receive, consider and adopt the Company’s Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30th June 2018, together with the Chairman’s, Directors’ and Auditors’ reports thereon. 3. To note that the Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend on ordinary shares for the year ended 30th June 2018. 4. To elect Directors: i. The Cabinet Secretary, The National Treasury, retires by rotation in accordance with Article 120 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. ii. The Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy, retires by rotation in accordance with Article 120 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. 5. In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act 2015, the following directors being members of the Board Audit and Risk Committee will be required to be elected to continue serving as members of the said Committee: i. Mr. Kairo Thuo ii. Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo iii. Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei iv. Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa 6. To approve payment of fees to non-executive Directors for the year ended 30th June 2018. 7. Auditors:  To note that the audit of the Company’s books of accounts will continue to be undertaken by the Auditor-General or an audit firm appointed by him in accordance with Section 23 of the Public Audit Act 2015. 8. To authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors’ remuneration. SPECIAL BUSINESS 9. To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special resolution: Change of name of the Company “That the name of the Company be and is hereby changed from “The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited” to “The Kenya Power and Lighting Company plc” in compliance with Section 53 of the Companies Act 2015, and with effect from the date set out in the Certificate of Change of Name to be issued by the Registrar of Companies.” 10. To consider any other business for which due notice has been given. By Order of the Board Imelda Bore Ag. Company Secretary 29th November 2018 220 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 NOTE: A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of her/him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A Form of Proxy is enclosed with this Report. To be valid, the Form of Proxy must be duly completed and lodged at the office of the Company Secretary, Stima Plaza, or posted in time to be received not less than forty-eight hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting. A scanned copy of the Proxy Form can also be emailed to shares@kplc.co.ke within the stipulated time. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 221 ILANI YA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA ILANI INATOLEWA HAPA KWAMBA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA WA TISINI NA SABA wa Wenyehisa wa Kampuni utaandaliwa katika Safari Park Hotel, Thika Road, Nairobi mnamo Ijumaa Desemba 21, 2018 saa 5.00 asubuhi kuendesha shughuli zifuatazo: 1. Kusoma ilani ya kuandaa mkutano na kutambua kuwepo kwa idadi ya kutosha ya wanachama. 2. Kupokea, kuchunguza na kuidhinisha Taarifa za Kifedha za Kampuni zilizokaguliwa kwa kipindi kilichomalizika Juni 30, 2018, pamoja na ripoti za Mwenyekiti, Wakurugenzi na Wahasibu juu yake. 3. Kutambua kuwa Wakurugenzi hawapendekezi kutolewa kwa mgao wa faida kwa hisa za kawaida kwa kipindi kilichomalizika Juni 30, 2018. 4. Kuchagua Wakurugenzi: i. Waziri wa Fedha, anastaafu kwa mzunguko kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 120 cha Katiba ya Kampuni,na kwa kuwa bado anahitimu, ajitokeza kuchaguliwa tena. ii. Katibu, Wizara ya Kawi, anastaafu kwa mzunguko kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 120 cha Katiba ya Kampuni,na kwa kuwa bado anahitimu, ajitokeza kuchaguliwa tena. 5. Kwa mujibu wa Kipengee 769 cha Sheria ya Kampuni 2015, wakurugenzi wafuatao wakiwa wanachama wa Kamati ya Bodi ya Uhasibu na Ukadiriaji Hatari watahitajika kuchaguliwa kuendelea kuhudumu katika Kamati hiyo: i. Bw. Kairo Thuo ii. Bi Brenda Eng’omo iii. Bw. Wilson Mugung’ei iv. Bi. Beatrice Gathirwa 6. Kuidhinisha malipo ya mshahara kwa Wakurugenzi wasio na mamlaka kwa mwaka uliomalizika Juni 30, 2018. 7. Wahasibu:  Kutambua kuwa uhasibu wa vitabu vya hesabu vya Kampuni utaendelea kutekelezwa na Mhasibu Mkuu wa Serikali au kampuni ya uhasibu atakayoteua kwa mujibu wa Kipengele cha 23 cha Sheria ya Uhasibu wa Umma 2015. 8. Kuidhinisha Wakurugenzi kuamua malipo ya Wahasibu. SHUGHULI MAALUMU 9. Kuchunguza na, iwapo itakubalika, kupitisha azimio maalumu lifuatalo: Mabadiliko ya jina la Kampuni “Kwamba jina la Kampuni libadilishwe, na hii hapa linabadilishwa kutoka “The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited” hadi “The Kenya Power and Lighting Company plc,” kwa mujibu wa Kipengele 53 cha Sheria ya Kampuni 2015, na kuanzia tarehe ambayo itatajwa kwenye Cheti cha Mabadiliko ya Jina kitakachotolewa na Msajili wa Kampuni.” 10. Kuangalia shughuli zozote zile ambazo ilani imepeanwa. Kwa Amri ya Bodi Imelda Bore Kaimu Katibu wa Kampuni Novemba 29, 2018 222 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 KUMBUKA: Mwanachama aliye na haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura kwenye mkutano uliotajwa hapo juu anaweza kuteua mwakilishi mmoja au zaidi kuhudhuria na, endapo kutakuwa na upigaji kura, kupiga kwa niaba yake. Si lazima mwakilishi awe mwanachama wa Kampuni. Fomu ya Uwakilishi imeambatanishwa kwenye Ripoti hii. Ili iwe halali, Fomu ya Uwakilishi inapasa kujazwa kikamilifu na kuwasilishwa kwa Katibu wa Kampuni, Stima Plaza, au kutumwa kwa njia ya posta ili kufika saa arobaini na nane kabla ya kuandaliwa kwa mkutano. Nakala ya Fomu ya Uwakilishi inaweza kutumwa kwa baruapepe shares@kplc.co.ke katika muda uliowekwa. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 223 Notes 224 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 PROXY FORM THE KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED P.O. BOX 3009900100, NAIROBI ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE COMPANY TO BE HELD ON 21ST DECEMBER 2018 I/We _____________________________________________ Share Account No. ______________________ of P. O. Box _____________________________ being a member/members of the above Company, HEREBY APPOINT _____________________________________ of P. O. Box ________________________ or failing him/her ______________________________________ of P. O. Box ________________________ as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company to be held on Friday, 21st December 2018 and at any adjournment thereof. Signature ____________________________________ Dated this _______________________ day of _______________________ 2018 NOTES: 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him/her. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. To be valid, the Form of Proxy must be duly completed and lodged at the office of the Company Secretary, Stima Plaza, or posted in time to be received not less than forty-eight hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting. 2. If the appointer is a corporation or a Government office, the Proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of an Officer or Attorney duly authorised in writing. Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will vote as he/she deems fit. 3. A scanned copy of the Proxy Form and a copy of shareholder’s ID/Passport can be emailed to shares@kplc.co.ke  Please note that the duly signed proxy form should be returned with a copy of the shareholder’s ID/Passport. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 225 FOMU YA UWAKILISHI THE KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED S.LP. 3009900100, NAIROBI MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA WA KAMPUNI UTAKAOFANYIKA DESEMBA 21, 2018 Mimi/Sisi ____________________________________________ Nambari ya Hisa_____________________ Wa S.L.P___________________________________ nikiwa mwanachama wa Kampuni iliyotajwa hapo juu, HII HAPA NAMTEUA ______________________________________ wa S.L.P _________________________ au akikosa _______________________________________________wa S.L.P _________________________ kama mwakilishi wangu kupiga kura kwa niaba yangu/yetu katika MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA wa Kampuni utakaofanyika Ijumaa Desemba 21, 2018 na tarehe mpya endapo utaahirishwa. Sahihi ____________________________________ Tarehe _______________________ ya siku _______________________ 2018 MAELEZO: 1. Mwanachama aliye na haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura anaweza kuteua mwakilishi mmoja au zaidi, na endapo kutakuwa na upigaji kura, kupiga kwa niaba yake. Si lazima mwakilishi awe mwanachama wa Kampuni. Ili kuwa halali, Fomu ya Uwakilishi lazima ijazwe kikamilifu na kuwasilishwa kwa Katibu wa Kampuni, Stima Plaza, au kutumwa kwa njia ya posta mapema kabla ya saa arobaini na nane kabla ya kuanza kwa mkutano. 2. Iwapo anayeteua ni shirika au afisi ya Serikali, Fomu ya Uwakilishi ni lazima iwe na muhuri au ijazwe mbele ya wakili. Isipokuwa aelekezwe vinginevyo, mwakilishi anaweza kupiga kura apendavyo. 4. Nakala ya Fomu ya Uwakilishi na ile ya kitambulisho/ Cheti cha kusafiria cha mwenyehisa zinaweza kutumwa kwa baruapepe shares@kplc.co.ke Tafadhali kumbuka kwamba, fomu ya uwakilishi iliyojazwa inapasa kurejeshwa na nakala ya kitambulisho/ paspoti ya mwenyehisa. 226 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 Notes The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 227 Nanyuki, Laikipia County 8:08 PM POWERING KENYA 228 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017/2018 www.kplc.co.ke www.kplc.co.ke customercare@kplc.co.ke Kenya Power @kenyapower Kenya Power customercare@kplc.co.ke 95551 170 170 0703 070 707 • 073295551 @kenyapower 0703 070
