Communication on progress (COP) for Scania CV AB From the core values to our global management systems and the way Scania conducts its business, Scania is committed to upholding the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are embedding its 10 principles in our operations, in our supplier and other business relationships or partnerships and take actions that advance societal goals. This Communication on Progress (COP) is Scania’s annual disclosure to stakeholders about the company’s efforts to implement the principles of the UN Global Compact. Scania joined the UNGC in 2012. Scania has one primary channel to report sustainability information, our integrated Annual and sustainability report. The 2018 edition of Scania’s Annual and Sustainability Report takes significant steps in outlining the journey that Scania is taking towards a sustainable transport system and Scania’s contribution to society – delivering sustainable transport solutions by improving customer profitability. The report addresses sustainability issues both on strategic and in-depth level all along the value chain of our products. It reflects how sustainability drives and has impact on our business, long-term strategy, risks, and opportunities. Content is written both for business partners, employees and for other engaged stakeholders, CSR specialists and analysts. The report is complemented with information on our webpage. The report is available at https://www.scania.com/group/en/scania-report-2018/. It is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Reporting Guidelines, we aim to fulfil the “In accordance – Core” criteria of the GRI standards. The report is also aligned with the Volkswagen Group guidelines on sustainability reporting, and is self-declared. This year as well you can find our GRI-index with references on how each GRIindicator relates to a UN Global Compact principle: https://www.scania.com/group/en/gri-index/ A description of the transport industries relation with the Sustainable Development Goals and examples on Scania’s contribution can be found on: https://www.scania.com/group/en/delivering-on-the-sdgs-through-sustainabletransport/ In his CEO statement Mr. Henrik Henriksson, Scania’s President and CEO expresses Scania´s continued support for the Global Compact. https://www.scania.com/global/en/home/experience-scania/scania-annual-review2018/ceo-statement.html In addition, the table on the following pages indicates where to find information, on the web about how Scania works with the respective principles of the UN Global Compact. UN Global Compact principle Reference Committed to high principles Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and Responsible sourcing respect the protection of internationally Sustainable every step of the way Doing things right proclaimed human rights. Responsible raw material Principle 2 make sure that they are not Responsible sourcing Sustainable every step of the way complicit in human rights abuses. Doing things right Responsible raw material Responsible business KPI's Labour Committed to high principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Doing things right Responsible business KPI's freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of Responsible sourcing forced and compulsory labour; Doing things right Responsible raw material Principle 5 the effective abolition of child Responsible sourcing labour; and Doing things right Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination Doing things right in respect of employment and occupation. Committed to high principles Environment Environmental footprint Principle 7 Businesses should support a Doing things right precautionary approach to environmental Environmental performance Precautionary principle challenges; Environmental footprint Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote Sustainable every step of the way greater environmental responsibility; Doing things right Environmental performance Three pillars for sustainable transport Principle 9 encourage the development Environmental footprint and diffusion of environmentally friendly Three pillars for sustainable transport technologies. Anti-corruption Committed to high principles Principle 10 Businesses should work Business ethics against all forms of corruption, including Doing things right extortion and bribery.
