Sustainability Report 2018 Our vision Improving our future Our mission To deliver competitive and sustainable solar energy globally, to protect our environment and to improve quality of life through innovative integration of reliable technology Our values Predictable Working together Driving results Changemakers Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 3 Contents CEO letter 4 Sustainability reporting 11 Sustainability priorities 12 Managing environmental and social impacts 22 Being a trusted business partner 31 Health, safety, security and environment 32 Anti-corruption 37 Responsible procurement 42 Our people 45 Local value creation 51 GRI index 62 Appendix 67 4 Letter from the CEO Growing responsibly With ten projects under construction in eight countries across four continents, our ability to manage risks and challenges in complex markets has been tested on many fronts. Our rapid global expansion requires tremendous efforts from local households in line with the IFC Performance Standards. all our people, to ensure that we maintain high standards Every step was carefully monitored by us and our project while delivering on our commitments. partners. We also made significant efforts during the year to raise environmental and social standards in our six projects In 2018, we delivered about 6.3 million working hours without under construction in Egypt. any serious injuries, a remarkable achievement considering that the majority of the nearly 6,000 construction workers Stakeholder engagement is of the utmost importance to us. recruited from surrounding communities are unskilled. A In addition to our regular and continuous dialogue with our core element of our sustainability work is local training and local stakeholders, we see increasing expectations for knowledge transfer – many of the people we hire have never environmental and social governance from investor worked for a corporation before. It becomes our responsibility communities and other stakeholders. In particular, the to train and guide them along the way to support further requirements from financing and project partners are development in the local communities. becoming stricter. We see this as a purely positive development for our industry. Executing several parallel projects is logistically complex. During 2018, our global procurement teams ensured that In 2018 we continued our fast-tracked journey for sustainability approximately 3,000 containers, covering a distance of more reporting. We have maintained close dialogue with partners, than 6 million kilometres by road, were transported safely to shareholders, lenders, employees, and other stakeholders to their respective project sites. get valuable inputs on their concerns and interests regarding sustainability. Their inputs help us target our reporting and Our sustainability work was also tested in many ways in focus on the sustainability issues that really matter to Scatec 2018. We successfully grid connected the Los Prados plant in Solar’s business. Honduras after incidents of social unrest and challenges with local community relations. It was a tough process. Our local In 2017, we began reporting in accordance with the Global project team showed impressive dedication and endurance Reporting Initiative (GRI). In 2018 we became a signatory in getting this project to the finish line. In Mozambique, we to the UN Global Compact. This was a natural step for us. implemented a livelihood restoration programme for 220 It reinforces our global commitment to responsible business In 2018 we became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. This was a natural step for us and reinforces our global commitment to responsible business conduct in the four key areas of labour conditions, human rights, environment and anti-corruption. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 5 conduct in the four key areas of labour conditions, human Solar energy remains the fastest-growing renewable energy rights, environment and anti-corruption. By operating in line source in the world. We see substantial opportunities from with recognized principles across these areas, businesses rapid technology developments that open up for new make an essential contribution to the Sustainable Development business models and solutions. Our New Ventures unit Goals. In 2018, we worked to review and better align our is exploring a range of new technologies to offer better selection of SDGs to our core business, as well as to areas solutions to a broader market. Corporate power purchase where we see substantial risks and opportunities. The result agreements , robotics, and floating solar are just a few is that we now focus instead on fewer goals, those with exciting examples. measurable targets and increased impacts. We are truly enthusiastic to see what 2019 and beyond will The more solar projects Scatec Solar develops, the larger bring. One thing is for sure: We will do our utmost to maintain positive climate impact we generate. In 2018, our operating our position as a sustainable company with the mission of solar power plants avoided about 650,000 tons of greenhouse lighting up emerging economies worldwide. gas emissions. These avoided emissions will more than double when projects currently under construction reach commercial operation. We also began preparations to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) by assessing climate-related risks and opportunities and their impacts on our business. Raymond Carlsen (CEO) 6 Operating across the globe HQ Ukraine Czech Republic Jordan Egypt Mali Honduras Rwanda Brazil Mozambique South Africa Argentina Solar power plants in operation: 584 MW Plants under construction: 1,071 MW Projects in backlog: 225 MW Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 7 Employees: 246 In operation at year end: 584 MW Malaysia Full year 2018 production: 681 GWh In addition to projects in backlog, Scatec Solar Greenhouse gas emissions holds a solid pipeline of projects totalling 4,454 MW avoided 2018: across Latin America, Africa, Europe & Central Asia and Southeast Asia. 650,000 tons of CO2 8 How we work with sustainability Clean and sustainable energy security, and environment (HSSE), corruption, procurement, Scatec Solar develops, builds, operates, and owns solar power environmental and social impacts, and stakeholder plants that generate clean and reliable electricity. Electricity engagement, usually on a monthly basis. is vital for the economic growth of nations and human welfare. We strive to increase access to clean, affordable, Scatec Solar has developed a policy for each material and renewable electricity generation in emerging markets. sustainability topic outlining the key principles and management approach governing the way we operate and Governance address issues. The policy statements and management Sustainability is an integral part of our organisation and is approach for material topics can be found at the beginning embedded in all business units including project development, of each chapter of this report. Further information on our solutions/execution, asset management, and operations. The corporate governance can be found in the annual report and sustainability team in each country consists of both corporate on our corporate website. support teams and specialists, as well as fieldworkers who report to the global headquarters and ultimately to the Compliance Executive Vice President of Sustainability, who forms part Scatec Solar is committed to operate in line with the Equator of the Management team reporting directly to the Board of Principles and IFC’s Environmental and Social Performance Directors. The sustainability team develops key performance Standards to ensure consistent practices across all projects. indicators reviewed by the Management annually. When We work with trusted partners such as the IFC, Norfund, relevant, both the Management and the Board of Directors KLP, and several larger development banks that all have high review specific sustainability topics including health, safety, standards for the projects and their associated impacts. IFC’s Performance Standards The Equator Principles IFC’s Environmental and Social Performance A risk management framework adopted by Standards define IFC clients’ responsibilities for financial institutions for determining, assessing managing their environmental and social risks and managing environmental and social risk in development projects www.ifc.org www.equator-principles.com Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 9 10 Key highlights 2018 Projects People Learnings Doubled Zero serious injuries Community relations installed capacity Delivered 6.3 mill working hours Grid connected the Los Prados Grid connected 262 MW in with no serious injuries plant in Honduras after social 2018 nearly doubled our unrest locally, in large part installed capacity 6,000 jobs created caused by misinformation and in projects under construction resolved through a stronger 650,000 tons of CO2 – the majority local and social team and improved emissions reduced from our unskilled labour dialogue and interactions with solar plants in operation in 2018 the communities Diversity Our total global 3.5 GW Targeting 3.5 GW workforce is represented by Resettlement in operation and under 32 nationalities Livelihood restoration construction by the end of 2021 programme for 220 local households in Mozambique in line with IFC’s Performance Standards Compliance Strong efforts with Environmental & Social management to ensure compliance of all contractors and business partners with international standards and requirements in Egypt and other ongoing projects Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 11 Sustainability reporting Highlights 2018: Best sustainability reporting: Ranked amongst the top 15 companies of the 100 largest listed companies in Norway by The Governance Group Global commitment: Became a signatory to the UN Global Compact to reinforce our commitment to its ten principles relating to labour conditions, human rights, environment and anti-corruption Sustainable Development Goals: Aligning the SDGs with our core business, risks and opportunities and stakeholder feedback Climate reporting: Preparing for reporting to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) in 2019 2018 has been a year to challenge our company to move closer to best practices in sustainability reporting. We want to make it easier for our stakeholders to evaluate our sustainability work and performance through more relevant and consistent reporting. We continue this effort in 2019. We pursued several new global initiatives in 2018, including the UN Global Compact and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We also spent considerable time engaging with several key stakeholders including partners, shareholders, lenders, and employees to make sure we have a clear understanding of their concerns and interests regarding sustainability. About this report This report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Core Level. The climate reporting has been externally assured by DNV GL. We regard this report to be our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In our opinion, we meet the requirements of the UNGC Active Level. Our ambition is to be a sustainable business with regard to our total impact on the societies where we operate. In line with this ambition, we will continue to listen, learn, adapt, and improve our business operations. We appreciate feedback from our stakeholders on our sustainability reporting and always work for continuous improvement. For comments, questions or suggestions, please contact Julie Hamre, Senior Sustainability Advisor: julie.hamre@scatecsolar.com 12 Sustainability priorities The backbone of sustainability reporting is a materiality assessment. This is a process of engaging with stakeholders to understand what types of topics and issues concern them. During 2018 we reviewed our sustainability priorities by employees from business units including Supply Chain, HSSE, reaching out to a range of internal and external stakeholders Sustainability/Compliance, Business Development, Project to get input and feedback on what sustainability issues and Finance, and New Ventures. topics are most important to them. External: Internal: Interviews with a range of key external stakeholders including Survey to rank sustainability topics for the Company’s project partners, shareholders, lenders, and experts in the Board of Directors, Management, and a broad range of sustainability field. 1 2 3 Materiality Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Matrix Priorities Framework Our most material Based on material Ambitions and key targets sustainability topics sustainability topics for each material topic High Stakeholders Low Company High Our sustainability priorities are derived from close dialogue with key internal and external stakeholders. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 13 National governments Local governments and Co-investors and and customers communities partners NGOs Our Financing partners stakeholder groups Suppliers Shareholders Norwegian Contractors Employees government 14 1. Materiality matrix: Our most material sustainability topics High Land resettlement Labour conditions Anti-corruption Labour conditions (employees) (contractors) Community engagement Stakeholder engagement Diversity and equal opportunity Contractor safety and monitoring Local job creation and training Health, safety and environment Freedom of association Promoting solar energy & collective bargaining Security and emergency Importance to our external stakeholders preparedness Human rights Select suppliers with sustainability standards Human capital development Water management Talent attraction and retention Waste management Local development programmes Biodiversity Innovative and green End-of-life management finance solutions Climate risk and opportunities Greenhouse gas emissions Low Importance to our company High See appendix, section 2, for a definition of each topic in the matrix. Our material topics are selected based on two sources; Internal priorities are mapped through a sustainability survey. stakeholder expectations and internal strategic priorities. Topics of high external and internal importance receive the Stakeholder expectations are mapped through formal highest degree of management attention. For such topics, interviews, and in dialogue with our local stakeholders as clear goals are established, monitored regularly, and reported part of our daily business on the ground. We also receive externally. See appendix, section 1, for more details on stakestakeholder feedback at the corporate level through holders’ interests and concerns. The matrix serves as the basis dialogues with investors, regulators, and financiers. for our corporate sustainability framework and reporting. We identify and prioritise the sustainability issues that matter most to our business and stakeholders. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 15 2. Sustainability priorities Delivering competitive and sustainable renewable energy Managing social Being a trusted Contributing to and environmental business local value impacts partner creation Our overall company goal is to deliver competitive and Our corporate sustainability framework incorporates all sustainable renewable energy. Three main sustainability material topics of importance to stakeholders and our pillars contribute towards achieving this goal: company. Each topic is defined by a policy, an evaluation of results in 2018, and a set of targets to be measured and • Managing social and environmental impacts to guide our work for 2019. • Being a trusted business partner • Contributing to local value creation Managing social and Being a trusted Contributing to local environmental impacts business partner value creation • We develop solar projects with • We operate in several emerging • Our solar plants are embedded in potential to impact local communities markets with complex political and local communities for 20–25 years. and the environment social contexts. • Solid interaction and good relations • Our activities are conducted in • Accountability and transparency are with our project neighbours are line with international standards key to ensuring ethical and responsible essential. We always make sure to for labour rights and working business conduct. We maintain high employ local labour, to identify local conditions, pollution prevention, standards regarding anti-corruption, needs in our community development community health and safety, labour rights and working conditions, programmes, and to maintain open human rights, land acquisition and human rights, and responsible and transparent dialogue with involuntary resettlement, biodiversity procurement. relevant stakeholders. conservation, indigenous people, and cultural heritage. Key guidance: International Labour Key guidance: UN Sustainable Organization (ILO) and the Universal Development Goals and IFC’s Key guidance: IFC’s Performance Declaration of Human Rights Performance Standards Standards, Equator Principles, and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 16 3. Corporate Sustainability Framework Our Corporate Sustainability Framework is presented on the next page with key ambitions and targets. We are in the process of developing a longer-term approach to the framework and targets. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 17 OVERALL DELIVERING COMPETITIVE AND SUSTAINABLE RENEWABLE ENERGY COMPANY GOAL SUSTAINABILITY MANAGING SOCIAL AND BEING A TRUSTED CONTRIBUTING TO PILLARS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS BUSINESS PARTNER LOCAL VALUE CREATION KEY AMBITIONS • Operate all projects in line with the • Maintain a zero-tolerance for bribery • Employ local labour, enable IFC’s Performance Standards and the and corruption knowledge transfer, and create Equator Principles • Continuously work for zero harm to jobs in local communities • Maintain an active dialogue during personnel, assets, and the environment • Maintain open and transparent dialogue the project phases with key • Define and communicate the health and with project neighbours and other stakeholder groups safety standards to our employees and relevant stakeholders • Identify risks to and impacts on subcontractors • Identify needs in the local communities employees, communities, and the • Work with suppliers to promote for our community development environment. Avoid, minimize, and sustainable business practices and programmes compensate for negative impacts monitor compliance through regular throughout the life of projects audits and interactions • Monitor the total climate effect from our projects during all project phases TARGETS Environmental and social compliance Anti-corruption Community engagement • Conduct Environmental and Social • Mandatory anti-corruption training for all • Develop a stakeholder engagement Impact Assessments (ESIA) for all employees, offered to new employees on plan for all projects in line with the projects a quarterly basis with a target completion IFC’s Performance Standards • Develop Environmental and Social Action rate of 100% over a 2-year period • Initiate our community engagement Plans (ESAP) for all projects and follow • Provide extended anti-corruption training efforts at least six months prior to up on all required activities for particularly exposed business units expected construction start • Target 100% reporting of non• Appoint a designated Community compliance across all projects HSSE Liaison Officer in all projects • Create follow-up plans with deadlines for • Work to achieve the following • Resolve all project grievances within all non-compliance across projects HSSE targets: two months of their registration Fatalities: 0 Human rights Serious injuries with disabilities: 0 Local job creation • Develop a corporate policy on human Total Recordable Injury Frequency • Hire 70–80% local workers in every rights in line with the Universal (TRIF): ≤ 3.9 project during the construction phase Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Lost Time Injury Frequency • Integrate human rights aspects into (LTIF): ≤ 2.5 Local development the standardized training for all our managers, Community Liaison Officers, • Minimum one audit of all main • Dedicate a specific budget for and security personnel globally contractors working on project sites development programmes for • Develop and implement country-spesific each project, aligned with local HSSE management systems community needs Climate action • Minimum one long-term • Increase annual emissions avoided by education-related programme our solar plants by 500,000 tonnes of Responsible procurement in all projects CO2 by the end of 2019 • Conduct internal reviews of our existing • Start to implement small-scale • Start to report to the Carbon Disclosure due diligence process for selecting solar PV projects to benefit local Project (CDP) in 2019 suppliers and make any necessary communities in new projects improvements – implement at least one new • Review the risk of conflict minerals in our project in 2019 supply chain and ensure that all high-risk suppliers have policies and QA systems covering conflict minerals • Develop and implement a corporate policy on conflict minerals Our people • Increase the percentage of female employees globally by 10% • Performance Management: 100% participation by all employees in our annual Performance, Development and Appraisal (PDA) process 18 UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals that together represent a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. Scatec Solar has a fortunate starting point for contributing to several of the SDGs such as Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy. Review and prioritisation of SDGs • Feedback from key stakeholders: We collected feedback In 2018, we decided to take a step back to review where from employees through an online survey about the SDGs Scatec Solar can contribute the most to the SDGs. Several and through active participation in several forums where important factors were considered: we discussed our work and improvement areas relating to the SDGs, for example, a panel discussion led by Grete • Our core business objectives and processes: Align the Faremo, Executive Director of UNOPS (United Nations selection of SDGs with our core business, risks, and Office for Project Services) on how the private sector can opportunities and our sustainability priorities derived from contribute to the SDGs and best-practice examples, and an our materiality assessment and stakeholder feedback. event led by Sustainability Hub, with a range of sustainability professionals providing feedback on the SDGs and how • Strongest contribution and keeping it simple: Although we businesses should incorporate them. believe that Scatec Solar contributes to many of the SDGs, we focus on fewer goals for greater impact. We aimed to In 2019, we will work to set more specific targets for our identify areas where we can maximise our impacts, but contribution to each SDG and will consider whether we also areas where we see significant risk. should include additional SDGs. Three primary Sustainable Development Goals: SDG 7: As a company we contribute directly to SDG 7 “Affordable and clean energy”. Access to energy is fundamental for economic development and people’s standard of living, which implies that contribution to SDG 7 has a positive impact on several other SDGs. SDG 8: Providing safe and healthy working conditions for our employees and sub-contractors and protecting labour rights are identified as the most material topics for our business. SDG 17: Our partnership-based approach is essential to our role as an integrated solar power producer. We aim to select strong and trusted partners with high standards for all projects. One secondary Sustainable Development Goal: SDG 4: Education is selected as the core focus for our local development programmes. By specialising and gaining valuable experience that can be applied across projects, we escalate the effects of our programmes. We commit to having at least one long-term education-related programme in all our solar projects. The SDGs we have selected are also linked to our GRI reporting; please refer to our GRI Index, p. 62. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 19 Affordable and clean energy Access to energy is central to nearly every major challenge and opportunity the world faces today. It is fundamental for economic development and people’s standard of living. Small-scale solar PV projects 1 BILLION people live without To address the “affordable” element of SDG 7, we have set a target to start implementing electricity – half in Sub-Saharan Africa small-scale solar PV projects to benefit local communities surrounding our solar plants. Scatec Solar’s main objective is to deliver competitive and sustainable solar energy globally. We currently have more Target 2019: Plan, develop, and implement than 1.6 GW installed capacity in operation and under at least one small-scale community-based construction in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, solar project Latin America, and Asia. We will also work to make this a core element By providing access to clean energy and increasing the of our business offering in all new solar projects. share of renewable energy in the global energy mix, we contribute directly to SDG 7. Installed Under Target Nearly capacity construction 2021 doubled our installed 584 1,071 3.5 capacity MW MW GW in 2018 Our main contribution is towards SDG 7 sub-targets: • By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix • By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable, and modern energy services 20 Decent work and economic growth Providing safe and healthy working environments for our employees and subcontractors and protecting labour rights are identified as the most material topics for our business. 6.3 million work hours with no serious injuries across ten projects in eight countries Our solar projects contribute to job creation by employing local labourers and subcontractors as much as possible, regardless of whether this is a requirement. This policy Job creation 2018: 6,000 jobs from projects under construction, where the supports the reduction of unemployment and transfers majority were unskilled from local communities knowledge and technical skills to the communities where we are present. Our main contribution is towards SDG 8 sub-targets: • Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment • By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education, or training Multi-stakeholder partnerships Our partnership-based approach is essential to our role as an integrated solar power producer. We always aim to select strong and trusted partners such as the IFC, Norfund, Some key Equinor, KLP, and several major international development partnerships in 2018: banks that all have the same high standards as we do for all projects and their associated impacts. • EBRD and FMO – 83 MW in Ukraine • BNP Paribas 47 MW in Malaysia Scatec Solar’s key contribution to SDG 17 is multi• Equinor – 117 MW in Argentina stakeholder partnerships with governments, authorities, • Standard Bank – 258 MW in South Africa developers, financing partners, subcontractors, suppliers, shareholders, NGOs, and other stakeholder groups. Our main contribution is towards SDG 17 sub-target: Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology, and financial resources, to support the achievement of the SDGs in all countries, in particular developing countries Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 21 Climate action CO2 emissions avoided 1) from our solar plants globally: Plants in operation in 2018 avoided: 650,000 tons of CO2 Plants in operation in 2019 are expected to avoid: 1.5 million tons of CO2 1.5 million tons of CO2 emissions ….is equivalent to the annual emissions from about 326,000 2) passenger vehicles CO2 emissions from our business activities: Total greenhouse gas emissions for 2018: 10,412 tons of CO2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Vehicles and Equipment Diesel generators Purchased Electricity Business Air Travel Transformer stations Purchased Heating/Cooling Scope 1: Scope 2: Scope 3: Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from from sources that are owned or resulting from the generation sources not owned or directly controlled by the company. of electricity, heat, or steam controlled by the company but purchased by the company. related to its business activities. 1) Source: Calculated based on local grid mix emission factors. 2) Source: United States Environmental Protection Agency, March 2018: Greenhouse Gas Emissions from a Typical Passenger Vehicle. 22 Managing environmental and social impacts Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 23 Managing our environmental and social impacts The development of solar projects has environmental and social impacts. In alignment with Scatec Solar’s policies, requirements of local legislation, and our commitment to Our policy international standards and best practices, we endeavour to minimise our negative impacts and to maximize local • Develop and implement all projects in benefits in positive dialogue with project stakeholders. accordance with the IFC’s Performance Standards and the Equator Principles Our achievements and results in 2018 • Conduct environmental and social impact We are committed to operate all our projects in line with assessments and additional ESG due diligence the IFC’s Performance Standards and the Equator Principles. if significant matters are uncovered in initial According to the Equator Principles, all projects under impact assessments construction in 2018 fall under “Category B” projects, • Integrate environmental, social, and meaning that they have “potential limited adverse social governance considerations in project or environmental impacts that are few in number, generally development tools and processes site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed • Design systems and services to minimise the through mitigation measures”. environmental impact, with an emphasis on protecting the local environment How we manage our environmental and social impacts Our project activities are conducted in accordance with local laws, corporate Company policies, and requirements defined by international standards including the IFC’s Performance Standards and the Equator Principles for specific areas of Performance Standards and the Equator Principles. This work impact including labour and working conditions, pollution will continue in 2019. prevention, community health and safety, land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, human rights, biodiversity conserIn all our projects, we follow a standardized process for vation, indigenous people, and cultural heritage. In 2018, we identifying, mitigating, and monitoring our potential risks and have worked to strengthen our corporate Environmental and impacts. This work forms part of our overall Environmental Social Management System (ESMS) by reviewing our proand Social Management System (ESMS). Key elements of the cesses and management plans in accordance with the IFC’s process are outlined next page. Project classification according to the Equator Principles: Category A: Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented Category B: Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures Category C: Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts 24 Environmental and Social Management System For all our projects we conduct environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) and diligence ESIAs assessments to identify potential environmental and social impacts from our activities. In 2017, we developed ESIAs for our projects in Brazil, Egypt, and Nigeria and in 2018 for our most Environmental and Social Impact Assessments recent project in Malaysia. Assessments of potential environmental and social We also performed Environmental and Social Due impacts from activities during the development, Diligence Assessments for two projects in Ukraine. construction, and operations phases of a project For all our projects, the next step is the establishment of Environmental and Social Action ESAPs Plans (ESAPs) based on initial Environmental and Social assessments. The ESAPs are often developed in close dialogue with project and financing partners and usually Environmental and Social Action Plans include the following items: List of environmental and social actions/measures to • Corrective actions/measures reduce impacts identified during the initial assessments • Purposes of actions (ESIAs) with responsibilities and deadlines • Responsibilities • Status / progress • Timeline All our projects have regular Environmental and Social monitoring and reporting procedures in place. Monitoring & Reporting Important monitoring measures include: • Regular site inspections • Environmental and social internal audits and external audits by third parties Monitoring & Reporting • Regular environmental and social monitoring visits and status reports by lenders Regular monitoring and reporting internally in project • Project reports reviewed in biweekly teams and externally to project and financing partners management meetings and monthly Board of Directors meetings Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 25 Our main impacts The degree and types of impacts caused by solar projects main tools for continuous review of risks and for development vary from project to project based on several factors such as of appropriate mitigating actions. site location, environmental characteristics of the site, and distance to settlements. Most of the environmental and social Scatec Solar recognises land acquisition as an important impacts occur during the development and construction process that can impact local communities and place the phases of a project. rights of affected people at risk, unless diligently implemented. The risk is particularly high when physical Noise, air emissions, solid waste, waste water generation, and and/or economic displacement cannot be avoided. In such increased transportation to and from the site area are typical situations, we follow strict requirements of the IFC’s impacts during the construction phase of a project. Each of Performance Standards to address and mitigate impacts by these impacts is monitored and mitigated by implementing developing and implementing resettlement and livelihood specific management plans. Other examples of main impacts restoration plans that require establishment of long-term are presented over the following pages. monitoring mechanisms. Our target is always to ensure that the affected local households are assisted in adapting to the Human rights new situation and restoring their livelihoods to pre-project Scatec Solar respects human rights and recognises our standards at a minimum. responsibility to avoid infringing rights of employees, local communities, and other stakeholders wherever the company Scatec Solar sees labour management and ensuring good operates. In line with the IFC’s Performance Standards, we working and living conditions for its own and subcontractors’ acknowledge that certain groups might require particular workers as a priority area for all projects during the attention in relation to human rights risks (indigenous people, construction phase. By developing management plans for minorities, and vulnerable groups), and we work to mitigate labour recruitment, training, and accommodation and by any adverse effects by employing specially designed measures. conducting regular inspections, the goal is to ensure Meaningful consultations with affected communities and continuous compliance with IFC’s Performance Standards other stakeholders on a regular basis and a well-functioning and to avoid any practice harmful to workers’ rights. grievance mechanism that local communities trust are the 26 Livelihood Restoration Programme in Mozambique Background: The Mocuba project resulted in an economic displacement of 223 households. The acquisition of land and the obstruction of access to natural resources required mitigating actions to address the loss of income sources and means of livelihood. Compliance: Mozambican law and recommendations in line with IFC Performance Standard 5 for projects involving economic displacement. Target: To ensure that local households are assisted in adapting to the new situation and in restoring their livelihoods to pre-project standards at a minimum. Mitigation: Development of a Livelihood Restoration Plan and a Simplified Land-use and Compensation Plan. A survey in combination with stakeholder engagement identified eligible households and provided agricultural land and monetary compensation for the loss of crops in the local community. The Livelihood Restoration Plan included the following: Agricultural activity support Programme Providing seeds and tools, yield measurement, training in post-harvest handling and storage of produce, evaluating the level of adoption of promoted technology, and governance training. Domestic awareness Training in business planning and management, savings and loan procedures, and follow-up with involved groups. Status: Successfully implemented the Livelihood Restoration Plan. A separate plan for the most vulnerable project-affected people is still ongoing because additional support and training were needed to make sure conditions are left at pre-project standards or better. Both programmes are being implemented under regular supervision and monitoring of Scatec Solar and thirdparty experts. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 27 Human rights and security management Water conservation awareness, minimizing water use for Scatec Solar engages security personnel at its operational dust suppression by maintaining road conditions, and monthly sites to protect employees, assets, and local communities monitoring for identifying causes of abnormal volumes are close to the company’s projects and plants. This is also an among the management considerations implemented at all area that requires awareness and compliance with our plants. international standards. All plant-based security personnel are subcontracted from a third party but are considered part Our main use of water is linked to cleaning modules. Different of our plant teams. We recognise the risk of misconduct, water supplies are used for our projects at different locations, and we try to mitigate this risk by training security staff on including groundwater and tanked water from municipal water human rights and Company policies. networks. The amount of water needed depends on vegetation, module soiling, natural cleaning due to precipitation, and Approximately 60% of security personnel contracted by cleaning method. Efficiency is sought by cancelling unnecessary Scatec Solar globally have been trained in principles related washing cycles and using effective washing methods like to human rights. The training is conducted annually. We are spraying. We are looking into possibilities of dry-cleaning currently working to review and further develop our training techniques for our plants in Egypt that are currently under offerings relating to human rights to ensure that all our construction. security teams globally receive such training. Amongst our plants, Linde, Kalkbult, and Dreunberg in Water usage South Africa and Oryx and Ejre/Glae in Jordan are in areas Water is a scarce resource in many areas, and therefore is of medium or high water risk defined by World Resources an important aspect of our environmental management, Institute’s “Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas”. In South Africa, the particularly in the operation phase. One of our targets for source of water is groundwater. Boreholes are located close 2018 was to start reporting on water withdrawal by source to the plants which are surrounded by only livestock farming and volume in projects located in water-stressed areas. activities, with no nearby settlements. Water-use licences Accordingly, a closer review of volumes of water used at all for each facility are issued by the Department of Water and our operational plants took place in 2018 to monitor each Sanitation, depending on the aquifer’s size and other uses. plant’s water-use performance and to avoid any negative Water volumes withdrawn for our plants are considerably impact on local communities if there is any reliance on the below the volumes authorised by the licences. groundwater in water-stressed areas. 28 Regular biodiversity monitoring in Honduras: • Monthly biodiversity inspections were conducted at our 60 MW Agua Fria project in Honduras during 2018. • Various native faunal species were recorded at the site, such as skunks, rabbits, iguanas, snakes, and different types of birds. • Faunal behaviours like reptiles’ shedding of skin, birds’ courtships, feeding, vocalising, nesting, and incubation were also evident within the premises. • The presence of these animals on site infers that the ecosystem within the plant supports them and that their habitats have not been significantly altered. Biodiversity Installing solar parks requires land-clearing, which might impact biodiversity by causing loss of habitats and disturbance of species. Biodiversity assessments are therefore part of baseline impact and Environmental and Social Due Diligence assessments. If an impact is unavoidable, we implement measures to minimize impacts and restore biodiversity. Habitat enhancement and CDP is a global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions creating new conservation areas are options to be considered to manage their environmental impacts. whenever impacts cannot be fully mitigated. In Honduras for example, we carried out monthly biodiversity inspections during 2018 for the Agua Fria project and a bird monitoring campaign totalling 100 hours of observation for the Los 2018 Prados project. TONS OF CO2 EMISSIONS REPORTING EQUIVALENT 1) Carbon footprint By providing clean electricity, our solar plants contribute Scope 1: Total direct CO2 emissions 4,886.5 to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in every country From offices and sites 840.1 From vehicles 4,046.4 where we operate. However, we acknowledge that our own Scope 2: Total indirect CO2 emissions from operations and the construction of our solar plants produce purchased electricity and heat 1,196.9 greenhouse gas emissions. Location-based 1,196.9 Market-based 1,247.0 One of our 2017 targets was to improve the quality of our Scope 3: Total other indirect CO2 emissions 4,328.5 Company’s reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. In 2018, From air travel 4,328.5 we started preparations to report to the Carbon Disclosure 1) See appendix, section 3, for a detailed description of the methodology used. Project (CDP) with a timeline of completion by May 2019. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 29 VERIFICATION STATEMENT Issue date: March 26, 2019 Verification of CO2 emissions for Scatec Solar ASA 2018 The purpose of this document is to clarify matters set out in the process of verifying CO2 emissions for Scatec Solar ASA. We do not accept or assume any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or any other party who may have access to this letter or related documents. Scatec Solar ASA commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Norway AS to provide an independent third-party limited assurance verification for 2018 of their worldwide operations for CDP reporting. ISO 14064-3 has been used in this work. The scope of the work included: • Scope 1 CO2 emissions (ref. CDP report point C 6.1) • Scope 2 CO2 emissions (ref. CDP report point C 6.3) The verification was conducted in March 2019 and included document review, interviews with personnel at the main office, review of calculation methods, routines (gathering, aggregation and consolidation) for activity data used in the calculations. The scope for 2018 included Scatec Solar activities in 10 countries. Aggregated emissions data: Scope 1: Data as reported in C 6.1.: Total CO2 scope 1 emissions: 4 886,5 metric tonnes CO2 Scope 2: Data as reported in C 6.3: Total CO2 scope 2 emissions (location based): 1 196,9 metric tonnes CO2 The verification is done with limited assurance. During the verification, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the reported CO2e emissions for Scatec Solar ASA in the mentioned countries are not fairly stated. Place and date: Høvik, March 26, 2019 DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE NORWAY AS Thomas Haug Ole A Flagstad Technical reviewer Lead Verifier DNV GL Business Assurance (Norway) AS, Veritasveien 1, 1322 Høvik, Norway. Tel: +47 67 57 99 00. assurance.dnvgl.com 30 and our projects continue to be registered with the United GHG emissions (percentage split) Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) for verification and certification of electricity generation. This displaces fossil-fuel use, leading to improved Stationary 8.1 % access to climate finance and lower-cost implementations for combustion solar projects. Total Transportation 38.9 % 10,412 Electricity 11.5 % tonnes CO2e Stakeholder engagement Air travel 41.6 % For all projects, dialogue with a broad range of stakeholders, including the local communities, is commenced at the early stages of a project. Such dialogue provides a better understanding of a project’s impacts and ensures that inputs are integrated into the project development process. Engagement with local communities is a continuous process during This reporting will lead to more transparency on how we the entire life of a project. The objective is to identify and manage climate-related risks and opportunities, as well as mitigate impacts and to maintain a good relationship based emission-related targets and performance. The total greenon openness and trust. Stakeholder engagement plans are house gas emissions from our activities in 2018 were 10,412 developed for all projects. These plans specify the requirements tons of CO2 emissions. This total includes scope 1 emissions, regarding consultation needs, frequency of consultations, and market-based scope 2 emissions and Scope 3 emissions from methods of communication. The work of a locally appointed air travel Community Liaison Officer to bridge the dialogue between the local people and the project is central to success of the Given the international nature of our company’s business and project. Grievance mechanisms are also established at all operations, we are aware of our significant footprint related projects as a channel for continuous communication and to air travel and local transportation. We aim to reduce this facilitating opportunities for Scatec Solar and communities figure. 2018 was the first year we produced a complete to identify challenges and develop solutions together. carbon footprint, and considerable effort was made to ensure data quality and understand emission sources. In 2019 we Our ambitions and goals will use this knowledge to develop a climate strategy with We will increase our efforts to further strengthen and concrete reduction targets and programmes. standardize our corporate environmental and social management system (ESMS) for all projects. In addition, Furthermore, we are aware of the industry efforts to we have the following key targets for 2019: address climate risk and we intend to implement measures towards more comprehensive climate risk disclosures, based Environmental and social compliance on the recommendations from the Task Force for Climate • Target 100% reporting of non-compliance Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We enter into local across all projects communities for 20–25 years and it is important to try to • Create follow-up plans with deadlines for all foresee and evaluate potential climate related risks to and non-compliance across projects opportunities for our people, business, and physical assets. The most serious climate-related risks relates to the physical Human rights impacts of extreme weather, including droughts and floods. • Develop a corporate policy on human rights in We work to have procedures in place to evaluate potential line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights climate effects related to our sites, and develop mitigation • Integrate human rights aspects into the standardized plans where necessary. training for all our managers, community liaison officers, and security personnel globally Simultaneously, we see substantial opportunities related to the solar energy industry in the transition to a low-carbon Climate action economy. Technology is developing rapidly, enabling solar • Increase annual tons of CO2 emissions avoided panels and other equipment to become more efficient by our solar plants by 500,000 by the end of 2019 and competitive. We take advantage of the emissions • Start to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project reductions resulting from our solar plants in operation (CDP) in 2019 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 31 Being a trusted business partner 32 Health and safety Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) are key priorities for Scatec Solar. We take responsibility, set requirements, and monitor HSSE performance in the Our policy development, construction, and operations phases of our projects. We define and communicate the health and safety • Continuously work for zero harm to standards to our employees and subcontractors. personnel, assets and the environment • Always put safety first, evaluate risk and Our achievements and results in 2018 secure our working environment We delivered approximately 6.3 million working hours with • Ensure that all our business activities are no fatalities or serious injuries involving disabilities in 2018. conducted in accordance with applicable labour The year was characterised by significant expansion, with standards and fundamental human rights norms a high level of construction activities across ten projects as prescribed by the International Labour in Brazil, Honduras, Argentina, Malaysia, South Africa, Organization and the Universal Declaration of Mozambique, Egypt, and Ukraine. We recruited nearly Human Rights 6,000 workers for the construction periods, of whom the • Apply a zero-tolerance approach to alcohol majority were local and unskilled labour. and other drugs in the work environment • Ensure fair working hours and wages for all The rate of recordable work-related injuries amounted to employees and contractors’ employees 4.4 per million working hours, up from 3.4 in 2017. The working on site increase reflects our entrance into new geographical • Always undertake risk assessments of new areas with new projects, combined with efforts for and countries and regions we plan to enter and encouragement of a stronger reporting culture. None of develop security plans based on these the recordable injuries were classified as serious injuries. assessments The main types of work-related injuries involved incidents that resulted in minor injuries, such as a person being hit by an object or people suffering small injuries from handling machinery and construction tools. No cases of work-related occupational diseases were registered among our employees or our subcontractors’ workers in 2018. However, six cases of heat stress in Egypt and several cases of Malaria in our Mocuba project in Mozambique were reported. In 2018, we kicked off a malaria vector control programme for the project to cover all workers on site and their respective households. The programme aims to raise awareness and prevent incidents of malaria by providing control measures such as indoor residual spraying of households. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 33 34 Key statistics 2018 Serious incidents Health and safety 2018 Fatalities Serious injuries Total Recordable Lost Time Injury with disabilities Injury Frequency Frequency TRIF per million hours worked LTIF – per million hours worked 0 0 4.4 3.0 TRIF Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) 8 6 4.4 (Actual) 4 3.4 (Target) 2 0 Jan 2018 Dec 2018 A key focus in 2018 was to encourage better reporting practices across all projects. During the year, 13 incidents were reported as high-potential incidents and 45 close calls were registered in our reporting system. Several projects have had incentive systems in place to encourage the reporting of unsafe conditions and acts, including near misses. Encouragement of better reporting will continue and be further strengthened in 2019. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR TARGETS 2018 ACTUAL 2018 ACTUAL 2017 Fatalities 0 0 0 Serious injuries with disabilities 0 0 0 LTIF (Lost time injury frequency) ≤ 1.7 3.0 2.0 TRIF (Total recordable injury frequency) ≤ 3.4 4.4 3.4 Number of HSSE observations including near misses >1 0.4 0.1 Sick leave 1) ≤ 2% 0.8% 1.4% Working hours including subcontractors 6,368,975 1,180,650 All figures include hours from subcontractors except for sick leave. Rates are calculated per million hours worked. 1) Sick leave includes hours from full-time employees, short-term employees, and consultants. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 35 ISO certification One of our 2018 targets was to obtain an external certification of our HSSE and Quality Assurance systems by year’s end. We engaged DNV GL to perform external audits related to our Quality, Health, Safety, and Environment (QHSE) systems through selected site visits globally. The focus of the audits was the implementation of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and ISO 45001. Scatec Solar has been certified for all three standards. 9001 9001 900114001 14001 1400145001 45001 45001 Quality management Environmental management Occupational health and safety management Contractor management We continuously work to monitor that all our subcontractors operate in accordance with our principles. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and Labour Policy for site personnel are integrated into all our subcontracts to ensure that these principles are respected, even in the parts of the value chain we do not control directly. This is identified as a critical risk area for our company and strong efforts have been made in 2018 to improve our systems and monitoring activities. Ensuring compliance with HSSE requirements in Egypt Project Six projects totaling 400 MW located in BenBan, information: Upper Egypt Challenge: Keep consistent and high performance related to HSSE Main issues: • Aligning contractors’ services to international standards and requirements • Acquiring compliant services such as water and sewage disposal, transportation, and equipment • Achieving a high percentage of local labour and full compliance with local and international labour requirements • Difficult to find accommodation that complies with requirements Measures • Thorough review of the IFC’s Performance implemented: Standards with contractor management teams • Recommend contractors to use compliant services and increase collaboration and monitoring • Implement resource use and waste disposal logging with regular inspections of records and processes • Regular vehicle and equipment inspections and awareness sessions regarding seatbelt use • Use of lender-approved worker accommodations and monitoring and improvement of other accommodation options used 36 Global security practices we registered one recordable injury related to motor vehicle We work systematically to strengthen our approach to accidents. During the year, we established a Transportation security management and emergency preparedness. In Safety Management Plan that also requires all our subcon2018, we continued to develop our partnerships with our tractors to have a plan for transportation safety. two globally recognised third-party security companies. Measures in 2018 include biannual emergency drills with Our ambitions and goals the management and updates of training modules for all We work continuously for zero harm to personnel, assets, employees. and the environment, and we believe that all incidents can be prevented through awareness, training, and preparedness. One of the most serious risks we face when travelling abroad Our main goal for 2019 is to have zero fatalities and serious is related to traffic. The number of fatal traffic accidents in injuries with disabilities and reach our remaining HSSE many of the countries where we are active is high. In 2018, targets shown in the table below. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR TARGETS 2019 Fatalities 0 Serious injuries with disabilities 0 LTIF (Lost time injury frequency) ≤ 2.5 TRIF (Total recordable injuries frequency) ≤ 3.9 Number of HSSE observations including near misses >1 Sick leave 1) ≤ 2% All figures include hours from subcontractors except for sick leave. Rates are calculated per million hours worked 1) Sick leave includes hours from full-time employees, short-term employees, and consultants. We have also set the following targets for 2019: • Minimum one audit of all main subcontractors working on project sites • Develop country-specific HSSE Management Systems Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 37 Anti-corruption We depend on a sustainable business environment and always seek to comply with high standards of business ethics. The selection of, and cooperation with, business partners Our policy including suppliers, consultants, local partners, banks, governments, and local authorities is vital to ensure a • Maintain a zero-tolerance principle for non-corruptive business environment. bribery and corruption • Continuously strive to maintain high We undertake thorough assessments of the potential ethical standards host country, region, and partners before we decide to • Build a culture that values honesty, integrity, conduct our business. We always perform due diligence and transparency, and require each partner of potential partners and suppliers through a screening • and/or supplier to adhere to the same process to identify heightened risks or blacklisted individuals • Conduct risk assessments of potential partners, and organisations. This effort includes using renowned operating countries, and locations to assess third-party international risk specialists to conduct governance-related risks such as criminal background checks of business partners and individuals. records, creditworthiness, breaching sanctions, Some of our main financial collaborators such as Norfund, and engaging in bribery and corruption the International Finance Corporation (IFC), members • Ensure that our own high standards of of the World Bank Group, and other leading Development anti-corruption behaviour are clearly Banks are widely acknowledged for having high ethical reflected in contracts with our partners standards and rigorous due diligence requirements. • Provide anti-corruption training for all employees • Pass all solar projects through four separate decision gates where screening, compliance, and risks of corruption must be cleared “We work systematically to prevent corruption and unethical practices in all projects and operations”. Snorre Valdimarsson, EVP Legal Counsel 38 The Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (0–19) (20–39) (40–59) (60–79) (80–100) EXTREME RISK HIGH RISK HIGH-MEDIUM RISK MEDIUM LOW Mozambique (23) Argentina (40) Norway (7) Honduras (29) South Africa (43) Ukraine (32) Malaysia (47) Egypt (35) Rwanda (48) Brazil (35) Jordan (49) Czech Republic (59) Scatec Solar is committed to develop all projects in industry is characterized by high-value investment and accordance with the IFC’s Performance Standards and the significant government interaction through the awarding of Equator Principles. This commitment includes, for example, power purchase agreements, either through public tenders or the screening of all potential partners against the World Bank bilateral negotiations, concessions, and regulations. In addition, Listing of Ineligible Firms & Individuals. All subcontractors companies operating in the solar power industry need and suppliers must adhere to our Supplier Conduct Principles. licenses and permits to operate in a given country, to rezone land, and to be allowed to produce and sell power. Most of Specific corruption risk assessments the projects Scatec Solar undertakes involve an inherent risk Scatec Solar operates in partnerships and seeks equity of corruption. A high-level list of risk areas identified for our co-investments on a project basis to enhance value and company is outlined in the table on next page, which applies reduce risks whenever feasible. The large-scale solar energy to all our projects (alphabetical order). Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 39 RISKS BRIEF DESCRIPTION KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS • Anti-corruption training for all employees Customs processes are vulnerable to including project teams during corruption. Scatec Solar can be held liable construction phase for corruptive behaviour on the part of its • Responsible procurement policy Customs • Country risk assessment suppliers, distributors, and agents when importing goods and services during the • Trial shipment of components pre-execution construction phase. of project to verify document requirements upfront Employment opportunities through Scatec • Screening of all potential recruitments Employment Solar, especially where there are local content • “One-over-one” approval principle for requirements, can be misused for private gain. new hires Several of the countries where Scatec Solar • Due diligence, control and authorization operates have foreign exchange operations procedures Foreign exchange controls susceptible to manipulation and informal • Country risk assessment exchange processes, which may include • Trial transfer of funds pre-construction to corrupt practices. verify document requirement upfront Practice of giving or receiving gifts and/or hospitality in exchange for advantage as an • Anti-corruption training for all employees Gifts and hospitality • Ethic’s Policy that specifies limits on gifts inducement to something which is illegal or a breach of trust. • Perform due diligence of all permits, licenses and awards. • Monitor, flag and clear deviations in the permitting process Projects are dependent on a range of permits • External due diligence report / legal opinion and licenses, which make Scatec Solar Licenses and permits – lobbying on process vulnerable to solicitation, collusion or other • Transfer funds through accounts held by the forms of corruption. recipient under their name in a bank located in the host country. • Anti-corruption clauses and obligations for the counterparty in all contracts • Perform integrity due diligence of all parties involved, including due diligence questionnaire and background checks on key partners • Screen company, board, managers, key The selection of local partners may expose employees and ultimate owner/beneficiary Scatec Solar to their previous actions that may Stakeholders and Partners through RDC be sanctionable. Social investments a mean for • Transfer funds through accounts held by the embezzlement and/or elite capturing. recipient under their name in a bank located in the host country. • Anti-corruption clauses and obligations for the counterparty in all contracts • Pre-determined auction rules Power Purchase Agreements in high risk Public auction Power Purchase Agreement countries are vulnerable to corrupt practices • Due diligence of criteria and external legal with regard to contracting. assessment on transparency/lender’s due diligence Sourcing of engineering, procurement, and • Management screening of framework construction services and components from agreements Procurement suppliers exposes Scatec Solar to several • Adherence to our Supplier Code of Conduct corruption risks including selection of local • Four eye principles vendors. Solar projects subject to political and governmental interests with regard to • Zero tolerance principle Community investments concessionary and licensing processes. • Anti-corruption training for all employees Underlying risk of political corruption in form • Country risk assessment of donation or favoritism. 40 Our achievements and results in 2018 related to screening, compliance, and risks of corruption All operations, including projects and business partners of (see illustration below). Scatec Solar, were assessed for risks related to corruption in 2018. Projects moving from opportunity, development, During 2018, all projects passing Decision Gate 3 were and structuring to the delivery and power-production screened for risks related to corruption: three projects phases are assessed through Decision Gates. There are in Ukraine, one project in Argentina, and three projects four Decisions Gates with clear criteria and requirements in South Africa. Due diligence process Decision gate 1 Decision gate 2 Decision gate 3 Decision gate 4 Opportunity Development Structuring Delivery Power Production Continuous improvements Preliminary Detailed Internal due diligence – equity partners, suppliers/supply chain due diligence due diligence counterparties, and all other project contract counterparties Reporting Training During 2018, we worked to make our internal reporting In line with one of our main goals from 2017, we started channels more accessible to employees. This work involved mandatory anti-corruption training for all employees, offered setting up a new platform on our Company intranet that quarterly, which increased the availability of the course and compiles all reporting channels into one channel. We encouraged new and existing employees to update their registered a total of four reported incidents through our knowledge whenever necessary. In addition, we organised whistle-blower channel, of which three related to corruption specific anti-corruption and integrity due diligence training and one related to discrimination. The investigation of the for particularly exposed business units including our Supply three concerns related to corruption did not result in any Chain and Business Development units. confirmed incidents of corruption. Corruption incidents 2018 and 2017 2018 2017 Confirmed incidents of corruption 0 1 Confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption 0 1 Confirmed incidents when contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed because of violations related to corruption 0 1 Public legal cases regarding corruption against the organisation or its employees during the reporting period 0 0 Number of companies or individuals on Scatec Solar projects subject to IFC investigation or sanctioning 0 0 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 41 Our ambitions and goals programme and Partner Conduct principles are We will continue to raise awareness of corruption and of the available and known by all stakeholders high expectations we have for our employees and business • Continue to provide anti-corruption training for all partners. In 2019 we will: employees quarterly, with a target completion rate of 100% over a 2-year period • Review, audit, and update our Anti-Corruption programme • Ensure that all business units receive continuous and ensure that our Ethics Policy, Anti-Corruption training sessions and dilemma training tailored to their specific needs 2018 recognition: Scatec Solar’s legal team was listed as one of the most influential and innovative in-house legal teams working in the Nordic region by the Legal 500 GC Powerlist. 2018: Whistleblower function A whistleblower function is available to all employees, No breach of policies or regulations was detected. suppliers, partners, and clients of the company through internal channels and our corporate website. The Two of the incidents were concerns about potential mechanism includes a hotline available 24/7 operated corruption relating to the process of awarding by BDO, a neutral third party. All whistleblowers have contracts in a project. Both concerns were investigated the option to be anonymous. and cleared, as the two incidents complied with our Corporate Procurement policy. Number of incidents reported in 2018: 4 Related to potential corruption: 3 The third incident was a concern about potential corruption linked to an allegedly private sale of damaged All incidents reported in 2018 were received solar panels in a project. The concern was thoroughly anonymously by BDO and investigated according investigated and cleared, as the sale was approved by to the established investigation procedure. the Company. 42 Responsible procurement Scatec Solar purchased goods and services for approximately NOK 3.3 billion in 2018. Responsible procurement is therefore an important part of our sustainability efforts, and we seek to Our policy select and develop suppliers with strong sustainability practices. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is based on internationally • Choose suppliers based on relevant sustainability recognised principles and outlines our requirements regarding criteria including transparency, workplace ethical conduct and sustainable business practices. conditions, HSSE, and human rights standards and environmental performance Sustainability risks in our supply chain • Ensure that suppliers commit to our Supplier Scatec Solar purchases goods and services from a wide Conduct Principles and monitor compliance variety of suppliers, from large international organisations through regular supplier audits of significant and to specialist local suppliers worldwide. We seek to form high-risk suppliers mutually beneficial and trusted relationships with our • Take a life-cycle approach 1) to our carbon suppliers, and to treat all suppliers fairly, as well as to footprint and choose suppliers who contribute provide them with regular and honest feedback. positively to our climate impact • Avoid procuring products from any supplier We regularly assess sustainability risks within our supply who relies on substances that are dangerous or chain. The main risks include corruption, violations of labour harmful to the environment or from suppliers rights, and poor social and environmental performance. using conflict minerals We seek to mitigate these risks through our supplier development programme, transparent and fair tender processes, robust contracting, pre-production audits, and monitoring during production. We source services and components mainly during the Our supply chain department is responsible for ensuring development and construction phases of our projects. compliance with Scatec Solar’s Ethics policy, Procurement The main procurement items include: policy, Sustainability policy, and with the Operating System requirements. Our Supplier Code of Conduct includes more • Solar panels (modules): predominantly procured in China than 20 compliance topics such as compliance with laws, • Inverter stations, including combiner boxes: safety and security requirements, the anti-corruption policy, predominantly procured in Europe human rights laws, environmental practices, and restrictions • Steel structures: predominantly procured in Europe on the use of drugs and alcohol. • Construction services: predominantly procured locally in the country where the project is located The screening process involves a three-stage approach as illustrated on the next page. Sustainability in our procurement process Our procurement process consists of several steps of initial information gathering. Before suppliers are invited to tender, they must pass a desktop due diligence that includes QHSE systems and sustainability aspects, and suppliers are shortlisted based on their scores. 1) Lifecycle approach: Accounting for total energy footprint from raw materials to decommissioning. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 43 Three-stage screening process 1 Request for information from 2 Desktop due diligence of 3 Final audit and in-depth vendors for pre-qualification: the documents listed in due diligence on shortlisted • HR policy step 1 for the pre-qualificavendors prior to tion and during the bid recommendation to award • Ethics policy • Environmental policy • Management plan After the screening process, we seek to continuously monitor In 2018, we rolled out a Supplier Development Programme and control our work with and relationship to our suppliers. for key qualified suppliers. The programme focuses on Before commencing their scope of work, all suppliers must pro-actively working with our key suppliers to enhance their sign our Supplier Code of Conduct and confirm conformance social and environmental performance. Before they could with the IFC’s anti-corruption guidelines which we integrate enter the programme, we screened all participating suppliers into all our contracts, in addition to HSSE requirements, on compliance with our environmental and social criteria. environmental and social requirements, and quality Together with the suppliers, we define new environmental assurance and quality control requirements. and social targets to be evaluated annually. We appoint dedicated resources to follow up directly During 2018 we have initiated a process to ensure that all on quality and on implementing policies during the our main suppliers and sub-suppliers have policies and construction phase. measures in place to ensure that their products are free from conflict minerals. Our achievements and results in 2018 All new suppliers were screened for social and environmental For our South African operations, we have drafted a criteria in 2018, and went through a financial and legal due socio-economic development framework for procurement diligence, screening both the company and the board to support the economic empowerment goals of the South members. All of them have also confirmed conformance to African government towards empowering and developing our Supplier Code of Conduct and to the IFC’s anti-corruption local businesses. guidelines. Training According to our policy, we audited all suppliers in our For training and development, all new team members of major categories from whom we have procured in 2018. the supply chain received anti-corruption and anti-bribery One logistics supplier was suspended from all procurement training, a workshop on contracts (organised by our legal processes after we received an alert that the company was department), and personaland team-development sessions. under investigation for corruption. We undertook 17 audits of subcontractors during 2018, including all main contractors in projects under construction. We completed at least one site audit for each project. 44 Our ambitions and goals We will continue to work with suppliers to optimize products to reduce their carbon footprints and to promote sustainable business practices. In 2019, our main goals are: • To strengthen our supplier base during 2019 by qualifying four to six additional suppliers into our Supplier Development Programme • By the end of 2019, to ensure that all suppliers have policies and measures in place to confirm that their products are free from conflict minerals • To develop relevant training material for each supply chain process. “In 2018, we rolled out a Supplier Development Programme for key qualified suppliers. The programme focuses on pro-actively working with our key suppliers to enhance their social and environmental performance”. Pål Helsing, EVP Solutions Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 45 Our people 46 Our people The people of Scatec Solar make up who we are. A highly skilled and motivated workforce is essential to the success of our Company, to the execution of our strategy, and to our Our policy continued growth. A competent and motivated workforce driving towards the same goals is vital to our success. • Encourage a working environment guided by a culture based on our values Our achievements and results in 2018 • Support our people with opportunities to develop 2018 was a year of strong growth, reflected both in projects according to their aspirations and people. The number of full-time employees reached 246, • Build a high-performance working environment, an increase of 32% compared to last year. In addition, we recognising peoples’ achievements and rewarding had 88 short-term employees and 107 consultants hired to them based on their results deliver on our projects. Scatec Solar continues to develop a • Ensure that all employees know what is strong presence in key markets such as Egypt, Brazil, South expected of them in their roles Africa, Malaysia, and Ukraine. During the year, we recruited • Provide our people with direct feedback and 68 highly skilled full-time employees and the turnover rate guidance on their work performance was 12%, slightly down from 13% in 2017. Diversity As a global company, rapidly expanding into new regions, Scatec Solar continues to be characterised by great diversity. Our total global workforce is represented by 32 different nationalities, up from 31 in 2017. Diverse backgrounds and experiences help our organisation to remain flexible and agile, and ultimately to be better equipped for responding to fluctuating and complex markets and environments. “Our global workforce is represented by 32 different nationalities. A diverse workforce is key to our success”. Toril Haaland, EVP People & Organisation Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 47 Employee statistics 2018 32% 2018: 246 2017: 184 Geographic distribution Global workforce Nationalities Gender 33% 246 32 67% 48 The gender diversity and age groups of the Executive Human capital development Management, the Board of Directors, and Scatec Solar in Scatec Solar targets a value-based high-performance culture total are presented in the table below. and encourages employees to take responsibility for their own development. We facilitate their doing so by providing In 2018, we increased the female representation at the a variety of learning and development opportunities Executive Management level to 14%. Our 2017 target of throughout the employees’ careers to ensure their increasing the number of females globally by 10% from 2017 continuous professional growth . to 2018 was exceeded. However, due to a significant increase in employees the relative share of females declined from Health and working environment 2017 to 2018. This signals a need to continue our focus on We regularly report and monitor the health and working gender diversity for the coming years. See appendix, section environments of our employees. An overview of the sickness 5, for more information on employees and other workers. absence rate is shown in the table below. The rate has been stable for the total company for the last four years. Indicators related to gender diversity and age groups GOVERNANCE BODY GENDER (% FEMALE) AGE GROUP (%) 2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 Under 30 30–50 Over 50 Management 14% 0% 0% 0% 0% 57% 43% Board of Directors 40% 40% 40% 40% 0% 20% 80% Headquarters (Norway) 47% 44% 40% 31% 7% 80% 14% Total company 33% 37% 28% 26% 18% 71% 11% Indicators related to the health and working environments SICKNESS ABSENCE RATE (%) * 2018 2017 2016 2015 Headquarters (Norway) 2.1% 2.5% 2.4% 2.3% Total company 2.0% 2.1% 2.2% 2.4% * Includes full-time employees (FTEs) and short-term employees (STEs) Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 49 Key learning and development Onboarding Survey 2018: initiatives 2018 96% New Online Learning Portal: Launched a new online learning and of new joiners experienced development portal to enhance internal learning across multiple their first day as welcoming departments and countries, offering both e-learning and classroom and informative. courses. Our mandatory courses totalled 1,129 training hours in 2018. Performance Management: Strengthened and formalised our 85% annual PDA (Performance, Development and Appraisal) process for experienced the all employees. Improvements included a new online platform and organisation as helpful mandatory participation. in getting them up and running during their first Leadership Development Programme: Established a new programme, three months. with 30 leaders participating in the first round of the programme. The first workshop was kicked off in January 2019 in Oslo, Norway. Collective Bargaining Agreement The Company’s Global HR policy and related procedures are applicable to all employees, emphasising fair salary levels in accordance with local laws and regulations. In countries where labour unions and labour rights are not effectively enforced, we aim to find mechanisms for workers to express their grievances and protect their rights. Our ambitions and goals In 2019, we will work to further develop and operationalise our new People platform and the recently established Leadership Development Programme. We will maintain a strong focus on diversity throughout our recruitment processes globally. The following targets have been set for 2019: • Diversity: Ensure female candidates are interviewed for all senior positions. • Performance Management: 100% participation by all employees in our annual Performance, Development and Appraisal (PDA) process 50 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 51 Contributing to local value creation 52 Contributing to local value creation Our goal is to positively impact the communities in which we operate, both directly and indirectly. We strive to employ local labour, to identify needs in the local communities for our Our policy community development programmes, and to maintain open and transparent dialogue with relevant stakeholders. • Employ local labour, enable knowledge transfer and create jobs in local communities Solar power plants impact local communities. Changes are • Use local suppliers whenever feasible usually positive, bringing social, economic, and infrastructure • Plan for and contribute to local development improvements. But the possibility of unintended conseinitiatives quences cannot be overlooked. Potential impacts include • Train and educate our people on how best to physical and economic displacement, changes in vegetation operate in a new, often foreign culture and infrastructure, and increased activity levels in the area. • Develop a structured stakeholder engagement plan Impacts during construction such as traffic, noise, and dust for all projects at an early stage to help us inform are considered limited and effectively mitigated if and where and communicate with affected parties. nearby communities exist. • Appoint a designated community liaison officer in our projects to facilitate understanding and We often operate in countries where legal frameworks communications in local communities and governing structures do not necessarily protect the • Maintain an active dialogue during the project communities we might impact to the same extent as in phases with the local communities and engage more mature economies. Solid interaction with our project at several levels, from national governments to neighbours and establishing good relations are therefore project partners. essential. In all our operating projects, we have local community engagement and impact assessments. If dialogue with affected parties is not carried out in a timely and integrated manner, misinterpretations and concerns in local communities might arise. Since our founding, we have gained considerable experience in working with local communities in different countries. We follow the IFC’s Performance Standards when we develop our stakeholder engagement analyses and plans for all projects. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 53 International principles for stakeholder engagement • A stakeholder analysis and stakeholder engagement plan is always carried out in accordance with the IFC’s Performance Standards and with the Equator Principles. • All projects have assigned a Community Liaison Officer (CLO) who is responsible for community engagement and maintaining good relations with the local communities. • We implement a grievance mechanism for all our projects, available locally at the project site and on our corporate website. Our achievements and results in 2018 far as possible, regardless of whether this is a requirement. In 2018, we entered several new communities to construct This practice contributes to reducing unemployment rates solar plants across eight countries. Our key efforts were and provides knowledge and technical skills transfer to the focused around stakeholder and community engagement, communities where we are present. local recruitment processes, handling grievances, and planning and implementing new development programmes. Most of the jobs created through our projects originate during We also worked to ensure that our stakeholder engagement the construction phase, which usually lasts 6–14 months. plans and procedures are aligned with international Workers are provided with important technical skills and standards across projects. experience that make them more eligible for future jobs. Local Job Creation In 2018, we generated approximately 6,000 jobs from our Without income generation, no community is stable or projects under construction, with the percentage of local sustainable. Scatec Solar is strongly committed to contributing employees averaging about 70–80%. to job creation, and we employ local labour and suppliers as 6,000 jobs created in 2018 from projects under construction – majority local and unskilled labour 54 Local recruitment in Brazil: Project: Apodi with a capacity of 162 MW Number of jobs created during the peak construction period: 1,400 Percentage of local employees (citizens): 80% • The unemployment rate in the local community surrounding the site was close to 50%, with low prospects for job opportunities. • The announcement of the local recruitment needs by the project generated strong engagement, with hundreds of individuals lining up outside the project site. • Through open dialogue with the job seekers, a “virtual queue” was created on an app platform where all individuals were registered while keeping their positions in the physical line. • The virtual list was published in the governmental office for local employment and a group containing all registered job seekers was created for information and communication. We also try to hire locally for the permanent positions in the Local supply chain development various stages of our value chain including engineers, plant Scatec Solar strives to use and strengthen local supply chains managers, HSSE experts, civil and mechanical workers, and entrepreneurs to the extent possible in our local security personnel, and community liaison officers , to operations. We seek to procure and contract between mention a few. The table below shows some examples of 20-30% of local goods and services such as accommodation, permanent local job creation on a senior management vehicles, staff, fencing and civil contractors, depending on level and other positions across our projects in operation the country and availability of goods and services. Once a for the last two years. solar plant is in operation, we usually achieve a minimum level of 60–80% of local contracts of goods and services. Permanent local job creation for plants in operation PERMANENT EMPLOYEES 2018 2017 Senior management level Plant Managers 11 9 Other Levels Operation & Maintenance operators 48 32 Community Liaison Officers 10 8 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 55 “To perform our business in a sustainable way is the only way to ensure success for our projects and a respectful experience for the neighbors we affect”. Roar Haugland, EVP Sustainable Business & HSSE Stakeholder engagement in local communities phases with most feedback and concerns from stakeholders There are various ways in which projects engage with local of the projects. communities. To inform the communities about the project and about potential impacts, manage expectations, and to Of the total number of grievances, 54 were related to the ensure local support and understanding of our projects, regular Mocuba project in Mozambique and 17 were related to our meetings with local leaders and representatives from local projects in Malaysia. The remainder were related to our communities are held in all communities where we have a projects in Brazil, South Africa, Egypt, and Honduras. presence. Most grievances in Mozambique were connected to the We usually experience a lot of engagement in local construction period, when workers raised concerns with communities during the initial project phases of development subcontractors regarding salary payments, miscommunication, and construction. and other work-related issues. Some of the grievances were also linked to the final stage of the resettlement programme. Topics and issues raised during local stakeholder meetings that All such grievances were solved during the year. Most of the are considered material are communicated to the management grievances in Malaysia involved concerns related to impacts through biweekly progress reports, usually from project such as dust and minor damage to local roads and managers or other project team members. compensation payments for impacts on agricultural production. Grievance mechanism Scatec Solar has a publicly available grievance mechanism for The majority of grievances were solved by engaging with all projects through the corporate website and at each local the local communities regularly and communicating our project site. The total number of grievances received during processes and principles. At the end of the year, five 2018 for projects in operation, under construction, and under grievances in Mozambique and four grievances in Malaysia development totalled 92. We see a large increase in the were still being resolved. Nine of these were resolved during number of grievances from 2016 to 2017, while there was a the first month of 2019. The remaining four unresolved decline from 2017 to 2018. The higher numbers in 2017 and grievances from other locations are still being addressed 2018 are primarily explained by additional projects under and are expected to be resolvedin the near future. development or construction, which usually represents the Community dialogue and engagement indicators 2018 2017 2016 2015 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 100% 100% 100% 100% impact assessments, and development programmes Number of grievances received 92 118 16 19 Number of grievances addressed and resolved 79 103 10 19 56 Grievance mechanism The grievance mechanism is targeted towards individuals, communities, and companies who have feedback or concerns regarding our projects. It is a channel to present issues to the administration of the projects and is directly supervised by the sustainability unit. All grievances are taken seriously and processed according to our procedures. We aim to have a response time of a maximum of 30 workdays. The mechanism is available at each local project site and in five different languages on our website: English, Arabic, Spanish, Portuguese, and French, and represents a valuable platform for engaging with communities. Grievance mechanism process Receivers Website • Corporate • Grievance sustainability team mechanism form on • Project Manager/ corporate website Receive CLO Assigners Incoming Assign • Corporate 1 2 and register 3 grievance grievance Paper grievance Registered sustainability team • Via Community electronically Liaison Officer, • Central grievance Subcontractor or database Project Manager • Automatically stored for five years Accept Send response Ensure registration • Define solution • Explanation of Register and follow up Resolve approach Respond to action taken/not • Ensure grievance is 4 5 6 and follow grievance • Actions grievance taken to resolve properly registered up solution • Responsibles grievance • Follow up on solution approach Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 57 Challenges with local community relations in Honduras Project information • Project partners: Scatec Solar and Norfund • Project: Los Prados • Energy produced: 73,000 MWh annually • Capacity: 35 MW (phase I) • Providing energy for: 16,300 households • Location: Southern Choluteca region of Honduras • CO2 reductions: Approx 40,000 tonnes annually • Grid connected: Third quarter 2018 Short background • In November 2015, Scatec Solar and Norfund acquired the Los Prados project in Honduras from a local developer. The development of the project had started back in 2014 with all permits in place at the time of acquisition. • The local population consists of more than 4,000 inhabitants. According to surveys most inhabitants were in favour of the project. However, a small group of people of about 20 individuals protested violently against the project. Our employees were assaulted, and the protesting group caused damages to our physical facilities. • Our analyses uncovered that the protests were largely based on misconceptions about the nature of the project and its effect on the local community. Rumours were that pregnant women would lose their unborn child if they went nearby the plant, if looking at the plant you could go blind, that the installations were toxic and could ruin the environment and deprive the locals of their ground water. • Scatec Solar realised that there was a need to enhance our effort in informing the public about the project. Key measures implemented • We assessed the situation, significantly strengthened our social team locally and recruited Community Liaison Officers and involved the HQ Sustainability team. • We conducted a new baseline study identifying the community and stakeholders affected. • We developed information material which addressed all misconceptions in a simple and understandable way and established a community house as a place for neutral dialogue; including forums, meetings, social programmes and other communication initiatives. • We implemented our social programmes more quickly: We were able to shorten the timeline for local community development programmes together with the local village representatives and the mayor, to ensure that local communities could clearly see and influence the programs we planned to implement. Local ripple effects of the project • Employed 272 workers, of which 80% were local workers • Engaged in local training and knowledge transfer at various levels • Funded and implemented numerous social programmes and activities such as: -Home improvement project covering about 450 houses across three communities (improve roofing, walls and flooring) -Electrification project benefiting 83 households -Water project benefiting 81 households -Other initiatives include support to several local institutions such as libraries, churches and schools, as well as general food and tree planting donations in the communities 58 Local development programmes – key highlights 2018 Image placeholder Image placeholder Early childhood development Technical and vocational education South Africa: Custoda Trust ECD South Africa: Business Administration course resource and training centre • 60 entrepreneurs received Business • 8 ECD practitioners trained towards a full Administration Training in South Africa NQF Level 5 qualification • Capacitating unemployed youth and community members by enabling employability • Upskilling small, medium and micro enterprises South Africa: FARR programme (SMMEs) to run their businesses effectively • Foetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder prevention and awareness programme • Healthy Mother Healthy Baby programme Jordan: Al Qantara Center recruited 128 mothers in 2018 • Language Lab set up offering free training courses • Support is provided to mothers through group and workshops sessions and individual home visits • The centre aims to improve the English skills of community members of all ages Honduras: Clean energy informative talks • Quarterly information sessions at 5 schools in Honduras: Women Empowerment programme the communities • Construction at the Los Prados Project • 80 women from the local community including non-skilled and female technicians received HSSE training Malaysia: Training programme at local Our main contribution is towards prison facilities SDG 4 sub-targets: • Recycling waste wood program in collaboration • By 2030, substantially increase the with the Malaysian Prison Department number of youths and adults who • In excess of 1 000 workers (of which 40% were have relevant skills, including technical skilled and semi-skilled locals) benefitted from the and vocational skills, for employment, training focused on carpentry and mechanics decent jobs, and entrepreneurship • By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys have access to quality early childhood development, care, and pre-primary education so that they are ready for primary education Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 59 Mozambique Brazil Malaria Vector Control Programme Local entrepreneurship project Location: Quixere in the state of Ceará, Project: 40 MW project located in Mocuba, Mozambique Northeast region of Brazil Background: High risk malaria area Purpose: Establish an innovation and knowledge Program partnership: Funded by Scatec Solar and hub for existing and new entrepreneurs locally Norfund. Implemented by IMCC (Integrated Malaria Partners: Partnership with CIEDS – NGO Control Consulting) and Scatec Solar. specialising in education and training with more than 20 years of experience The programme consists of two main phases: Total budget: USD 88,000 • Phase I: Work-based programme to cover the approximately 700 workers on the project site and Community mapping: Developed a Social Diagnosis their households Report mapping demographics, local challenges, and • Phase II: Community based programme to cover local skills and education levels. Local authorities were households in the surrounding communities involved in the mapping phase and an open dialogue was established to explore where we can contribute Local job creation: Recruited four individuals from the most. the local communities surrounding the project site to become spray operators in the first phase of the Current activities: Established a local project group programme. and selected 20 established contractors and 50 new entrepreneurs to become part of the network, with Current status: The first phase was kicked off in late access to specialists in their relevant fields. 2018 with training of local spray operators. The local team is currently initiating indoor residuals spraying of Goal: To support the group with their local challenges households, for phase I. and improve their existing businesses and new business proposals To increase local job creation, we recruited four individuals from the local communities to become spray operators in our malaria programme in Mozambique. 60 Our ambitions and goals Local job creation Our targets for 2019 and onwards are outlined below: • Hire 70–80% local workers in every project during the construction period Community engagement • Initiate our community engagement efforts at least Local development six months prior to the expected construction start • Dedicate a specific budget for development programmes • Develop a stakeholder engagement plan for all projects for each project, aligned with local community needs in line with the IFC’s Performance Standards • Minimum one long-term education-related programme • Resolve all project grievances within two months in all solar projects of their registration • Start to implement small-scale solar PV projects to • Appoint a designated Community Liaison Officer benefit local communities in new projects – implement in all projects at least one new project in 2019 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 61 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 62 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index 2018 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK GRI 102 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Page 4-5 Organisational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Scatec Solar ASA Annual Report. Pages 6-7 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/about GRI 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Karenslyst Allé 49, 0279 Oslo, Norway Pages 6-7 GRI 102-4 Location of operations Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/portfolio GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate website: www.scatecsolar.com/investor/share GRI 102-6 Markets served Pages 6-7 Pages 6-7 GRI 102-7 Scale of organization Annual Report GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Pages 46-48 + Appendix, Section 5 GRI 102-9 Supply chain Pages 42-44 Significant changes to the organisation GRI 102-10 Pages 10, 42-44 and its supply chain As a signatory to the UN Global Compact we respect Principle 7 and it represents a guiding principle in assessing and managing GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach risks related to the environment, HSSE, the supply chain, and other areas as described throughout this report. UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI 102-12 External initiatives Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) UN Global Compact Oslo Renewable Energy and Environment Cluster (OREEC) GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Norwegian Energy Partners (NORWEP) South African Photovoltaic Industry Association (SAPVIA) GRI 102-41 11% percent of the workforce are covered by collective Collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreements. Page 49 Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 63 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Report profile Entities included in the consolidated GRI 102-45 Appendix, Section 4 financial statements Unless stated otherwise, the scope of the report includes the GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries company Scatec Solar ASA: all employees, offices, and operations. GRI 102-47 List of material topics Page 14 + Appendix, Section 2 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable. GRI 192-50 Reporting period FY 2018 GRI 102-51 Date of previous report FY 2017 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually Julie Hamre, Senior Sustainability Advisor GRI 102-53 Contact point julie.hamre@scatecsolar.com or post@scatecsolar.com Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance GRI 102-54 with the GRI Standards with the GRI Standards “Core option”. GRI 102-56 External assurance The climate reporting has been externally assured by DNV GL. Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 13 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pages 12-14 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pages 12-15 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Pages 14–17 + Appendix, Section 1 GRI 102-18 Governance structure Page 8 GRI 102-16 Values, standards, principles, and norms Page 8 and throughout the report 64 Specific standard disclosures INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Pages 51-60 Procurement Practices Suppliers are defined as suppliers and service providers of goods and services to Scatec Solar Solutions (project execution) unless GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers otherwise specified. Pages 42-44, 53-54 Supplier Environmental and Social Assessment New suppliers that were screened GRI 308-1 100%. Pages 42-44 using environmental criteria GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened 100%. Pages 42-44 using social criteria Anti-corruption All Scatec Solar’s operations are assessed for risks related Operations assessed for risks GRI 205-1 to corruption. related to corruption Page 40 Confirmed incidents of corruption No confirmed incident of corruption registered in 2018. GRI 205-3 and actions taken Page 40 Water GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Page 27 We aim to report fully on water withdrawal from our operations GRI 303-2 Water withdrawal in 2019. Page 27 Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions Pages 21, 28-30 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas Pages 21, 28-30 emissions GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) greenhouse gas Pages 21, 28-30 emissions Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 65 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Environmental and Socio-economic Compliance Non-compliance with environmental No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for GRI 307-1 laws and regulations non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations in 2018. Non-compliance with laws and regulations No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance GRI 419-1 in the social and economic area with social and economic laws and/or regulations in 2018. Employment GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Page 46, Appendix section 5 Training and education GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills Pages 48-49 and transition assistance programmes Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 48 Non-discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination One reported incident of discrimination in 2018. and corrective actions taken Page 40 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403-2 Types of injuries and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Pages 32-36 of work-related fatalities Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right The percentage of full-time and short-term employees who are to freedom of association and collective covered by formal collective bargaining agreements is 11%. bargaining might be at risk Page 49 66 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER OR LINK Security Practices Security personnel trained in human rights GRI 410-1 Page 27 policies and procedures Human Rights Assessments Operations that have been subject to human GRI 412-1 Page 23-25 rights reviews or impact assessments Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, 100%. GRI 413-1 impact assessments, and development Pages 22-30, 51-60 programmes Operations with significant actual and potential GRI 413-2 Pages 23-30, 51-60 negative impacts on local communities Public Policy GRI 415-1 Political contributions No political contributions in 2018. Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 67 Appendix 1 Stakeholder engagement Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: • How the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting • The stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns STAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT (102-43) KEY CONCERNS (102-44 I) RESPONSE (102-44 II) Close dialogue with national The main concern of governments in host governments is a natural part of countries, that will often also be our customers, our operations and our projects National governments is local impacts and value creation, which usually often involve regular dialogue. This Refer to chapter 3 and customers include the economic value of the projects, dialogue is usually conducted by increased access to energy, the potential for our project development team or direct and indirect job creation. community liaisons. A social impact assessment is conducted in planning all projects and based on this assessment, a plan for stakeholder engagement is The main concern of local governments and Local government developed. Scatec Solar emphasises communities is also local impacts and value Refer to chapter 3 and communities continuous dialogue with local and creation, specifically job creation, local content, regional communities to manage and education/training. and meet expectations. A dedicated community liaison officer (CLO) is appointed in all our locations. Co-investors and partners are concerned that we be a trustworthy business partner who applies international best-practice standards such as the A detailed dialogue regarding IFC’s Performance Standards and the Equator expectations is the starting point Principles to manage environmental and social Co-investors for all partnerships, and is detailed impacts. Refer to chapters 2 and 3 and partners in our agreements. Depending on Investors with a specific impact-investment focus the partnership, we maintain a close are also concerned with the local value creation, dialogue with our partners. and with promotion of green energy. Some of our partners are also concerned with our ability to promote Norwegian exports Financing partners are mainly Financing partners also focus on our business engaged prior to providing conduct and on our efforts to ensure that we are a capital, and often have very trustworthy business partner. Local financiers and Financing partners specific requirements regarding Refer to chapters 2 and 3 financiers with an impact focus are also concerned how environmental, social, and with our local impact and value creation regarding, governance factors are assessed for example, access to energy and job creation. and managed. Existing and potential shareholders Shareholders are concerned with the ability to are engaged on a regular basis create value in the short and longer terms and Shareholders and often express their concerns Refer to chapter 2 with governance aspects such as anti-corruption and expectations directly to top and being a trustworthy business partner. management. Many of our employees are proud of our social and environmental impact through promoting renewable energy and our ability to demonstrate Our employees make up our local value creation. Employees Refer to chapters 1, 2 and 3 company and who we are. Employees are also concerned about own working conditions, health and safety, and about opportunities to develop competencies and their career paths. Contractors concerns are heard as Contractors that work on our projects are part of the project they are involved concerned with their working conditions, fair Contractors with and our contractors are Refer to chapter 2 wages, health and safety and opportunities to considered as if they were our own develop competencies. employees when on our sites. 68 STAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT (102-43) KEY CONCERNS (102-44 I) RESPONSE (102-44 II) The Norwegian government is engaged through the various The Norwegian government regulates our efforts Norwegian government institutions that are interested in and is also interested in supporting the positive Refer to chapters 1 and 3 and regulators our efforts in Norway and in other impacts of our efforts in Norway and abroad. countries. Supplier visits are undertaken each year to monitor and establish Our suppliers are concerned with fair pricing, Suppliers Refer to chapter 2 a platform for good dialogue and working conditions, and health and safety. feedback. NGOs that represent local communities are engaged NGOs in the local communities are concerned through each phase of the project. with our ability to create local value. Norwegian NGOs Environmental NGOs in Norway Refer to chapters 1 and 3 environmental NGOs support us in our efforts to are engaged through collaboration promote renewable energy. with regard to promoting renewable energy. 2 Definition of topics in materiality matrix Promoting and financing solar energy End-of-life management: Ensure that our solar energy Promoting solar energy: Take on a role to promote solar systems can be reused, recycled or disposed safely through energy and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas designing recyclable modules, implementing take-back emissions. Share knowledge and experiences of the benefits systems etc. of renewable energy in dialogue with policy makers, local authorities, investors and other partners. Social Governance Land resettlement: Avoid involuntary resettlement wherever Climate risk and opportunities: Identify, evaluate and possible and minimize the impact on individuals displaced respond to potential climate-related risks and opportunities through mitigation measures such as fair compensation and to our people, business and physical assets improvements to living conditions. Innovative and green finance solutions: Explore and Stakeholder engagement: Interact with and influence project leverage on innovative ways to raise capital such as carbon stakeholders to the overall benefit of the project and its and climate finance. advocates through consultation, communication, negotiation, compromise, and relationship building Environmental Governance Biodiversity: Avoid and minimize negative impacts on Human rights: Respect human rights and recognize our biodiversity (ecosystems, plants, animals) and ensure that this responsibility of avoiding the infringement of rights of local is sustainably managed and conserved for future generations communities or other stakeholders wherever the company operates Water management: Promote responsible and efficient use of water in sourcing of materials, construction and operations Local job creation and training: Contribute to local job creation and skills transfer to the communities where Waste management: Prevent or minimize the impact of we operate waste Local development programs: Implement community Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions: Report on our company’s development programmes in the local communities where we greenhouse gas emissions to establish an overview of our have operations addressing local needs and social challenges own emissions and how to potentially reduce them Scatec Solar ASA Sustainability Report 2018 69 Community engagement: Ongoing communication in Human capital development: Develop human capital communities about the project and potential impacts, manage (knowledge, skills and abilities) in our organization through expectations and ensure local support and understanding of relevant training and education our projects Diversity and equal opportunity: Provide equal Anti-corruption opportunities and value diversity of people (gender, cultural Ensure continuous focus on a zero-tolerance approach background and age) to bribery and corruption and strive for high standards of business ethics. Freedom of association & collective bargaining: Support the right of workers to organize unions and associations to Responsible procurement pursue their interests and take collective action Select suppliers based on relevant sustainability criteria including high environmental standards and performance, 3 Greenhouse gas emissions methodology strong social performance (related to e.g. health and safety Scatec Solar uses The GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and working conditions and respect for human rights) and and Reporting Standard to calculate its emissions. Direct strong scores on transparency and anti-corruption. greenhouse gas emissions reported under Scope 1 include those resulting from onsite backup generators, Scatec Solar Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) vehicles and other maintenance activities. Emissions factors Health, safety and environment: Continuously work for for fuels are from the UK Government’s Conversion Factors zero harm to personnel, materials and the environment for greenhouse gas reporting,2018. Indirect emissions reported under Scope 2, are reported for offices and onsite Labour conditions (employees): Ensure fair working hours, maintenance facilities, with emissions factors from the IEA’s wages and physical conditions for all employees working statistics with a 3 year rolling average from 2014-2016, on site CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2018 edition. Scope 2 emissions are reported using both the market-based and Labour conditions (contractors): Ensure fair working hours, location-based method. Scatec Solar does not purchase any wages and physical conditions for all contractors’ employees guarantees of origin (GoO). Scope 3 emissions are currently working on site reported for business related flights using an average factor from the UK government conversion factor list. Contractor safety and monitoring: Define and communicate our health and safety standards to contractors and monitor 4 Entities included in the consolidated their performance financial statements Refer to the Annual Report 2018 for a complete list of all the Security and emergency preparedness: Prepare for and entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial be able to respond to emergencies and minimize all statements. consequential impacts/losses 5 Information on employees and other workers Our people See tables on next page for information on employees and Talent attraction and retention: Have systems in place to other workers. attract new talents and retain existing talent 70 MEN WOMEN TOTAL Permanent employment 164 82 246 Temporary employment 148 35 183 Temporary employment=Short term + consultants EUROPE AFRICA LATIN AMERICA MENA ASIA TOTAL Permanent employment 90 91 30 13 22 246 Temporary employment 55 36 29 43 20 183 Temporary employment=Short term + consultants MEN WOMEN TOTAL Full time 305 114 419 Part time 7 2 9 Total 312 116 428 Turnover TURNOVER 2018 AGE % 18 29 2.8 30 49 12.6 50 70 20.4 TURNOVER 2018 GENDER % Male 10.1 Female 15.2 Design and layout: Artbox AS, Print: CopyCat AS, Photos: Scatec Solar, Ingar Sørensen, Einar Aslaksen-TRY/Equinor www.scatecsolar.com 72
