Goby 2019 United Nations Global Compact Report Communication on Progress 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 1 CEO Statement: Commitment & Leadership “Goby is proud to present our sixth Global Compact Communication on Progress. We have continued to demonstrate our commitment to the UNGC’s ten principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We remain dedicated to the principles of the Global Compact and injecting them into the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company. We also engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Our commitment to a more sustainable world not only translates ideas into actions but resides in the core of our vision and business model. Goby’s mission has been to apply a sustainability lens to real estate portfolios in order to create real value. We improve building operations by capturing data once and providing actionable information through a powerful, cloud-based platform. Through this platform, we are able to increase asset value and social responsibility. As we continue to grow and expand, we are making certain to develop our activities, culture, and goals with the UN Global Compact and its sustainability principles in mind.” Sincerely, Chris Happ Chief Executive Officer Goby 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 2 Human Rights 1. Our office provides a safe, comfortable work environment for employees; our office is in a LEED-certified building which complies with higher standards of air quality management, access to daylight and views, and an on-premises gym and bike room for our employees. The building is highly accessible to public transportation and less than 2% of employees drive to work. 2. We’ve implemented an open-door policy at all management levels of the company; employees can take complaints, suggestions, etc. to any of the managers throughout the company at any time, without fear of reprisals. 3. Goby’s human resources policies focus on employee welfare and training to motivate staff and improve productivity; competitive pay and benefits, career development in sustainable training, and equal opportunities are fundamental to attracting and supporting employees. Goby has also update the maternity and paternity leave policy to be a very competitive and attractive benefit for employees with expanding families. Goby helps employees to balance work and home commitments by offering flexible work options. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 3 Labor 1. Goby’s hiring practices are based strictly on objective standards and relevant criteria in order to ensure that the most qualified candidates are selected, regardless of gender, race, belief, or other extraneous factors. 2. Goby does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor. 3. We strive to ensure that any partners we work with in any sector of our business do not participate in any form of labor violations, such as slave labor, child labor, etc. 4. The Goby office has been designed to provide a comfortable, safe working environment for our employees, with such amenities as a rooftop deck, foosball and ping pong tables, open area seating, on premises fitness center, and communal dining spaces. 5. Goby provides training and self-betterment opportunities equally for all employees. 6. Goby feels strongly about fair pay regardless of race or gender and strives to be a true meritocracy. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 4 Environment 1. Goby earned the 2019 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence award; this is our sixth ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year award in a row, and our fourth year with Sustained Excellence. This is the most prestigious award given only to highly qualified firms by the US EPA. 2. The Goby office recycles 100% of applicable waste, including proper and responsible disposal of batteries and other technology waste. 3. Goby employees have taken place in many environmentally-conscious initiatives and programs in the last year, including a bike-to-work challenge designed to motivate employees to turn to alternate, healthier modes of transportation. 4. One of Goby’s services involves assisting/managing our clients with their submissions to GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark), a global sustainability framework with the goal of reducing the environmental impact of the commercial real estate industry. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 5 Anti-Corruption 1. Goby’s software offering enables our users to prevent fraud and corruption within their organizations by automatically creating thorough audit trails for all transactions. 2. Goby makes it a fundamental practice to assess any history or risk of corruption when working with any new business partner. 3. One of Goby’s core tenets is a focus on Accountability; we emphasize taking responsibility for one’s actions and expect our employees and business partners to share our dedication to this ideal. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 6 Measurement of Outcomes 1. The Goby office recycles 100% of our applicable waste, including proper and responsible disposal of batteries and other technology waste 2. Goby’s employee gender distribution: 53% female, 47% male 3. Goby employees rode nearly 250 miles collectively on bicycles to/from work in lieu of other forms of transportation over a two-week period in June. 4. Goby closely monitors and tracks employee NPS score as an indicator of both employee and customer satisfaction. 5. Goby closely monitors turnover and retention rates as well as vacation used by employees and encourages employees to use vacation days to ensure a healthy work/life balance. 6. We encourage employees to utilize alternate forms of transportation with lower environmental impact; for example, Goby provides several pre-tax deals on public transit passes for the Chicago Transit Authority. 7. One of Goby’s services involves assisting/managing our clients with their submissions to GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark); we submitted nearly 50 funds to GRESB this year. 8. Goby has submitted and benchmarked over 1,000 properties across the United States to the U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR program. 9. We will maintain our commitment to sustainability programs such as ENERGY STAR, GRESB, Fitwel, and more. 10. Goby employees have formed a Sustainability Committee, which meets monthly to plan volunteer events for Goby employees to take part in, such as volunteering at homeless shelters, donating to food drives, and similar events. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 7
