This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. Public Autodétention Famille Bedouin This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. Une multi-continentale This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. J’aime bien le travail que je fais actuellement. Globalement, j’ai le sentiment du travail bien fait. J’ai le sentiment de faire un travail utile. Au sein de mon activité, nos métiers doivent évoluer pour préparer l’avenir. (*) Sans avis / Non concerné(e) Non pas du tout Plutôt non Plutôt oui Oui tout à fait (*) : Ces questions n’ont pas été posées à la Tunisie lors de la précédente édition This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. Actuellement, ce qui me motive vraiment dans mon travail, c’est: Accomplir des tâches variées. Répondre aux attentes des clients. Rendre plus efficace l’organisation. Etre autonome. Etre au cœur de l’innovation Sans avis / Non concerné(e) Non pas du tout Plutôt non Plutôt oui Oui tout à fait This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. Sans avis / Non concerné(e) Non pas du tout Plutôt non Plutôt oui Oui tout à fait This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. Consommations 2018 2017 Electricité (MWh) 19 735 19 137 Gaz (MWh) 6 940 7 400 Fioul (m 3 ) 1 5 This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization. This document is proprietary and confidential to the LACROIX Group and may not be reproduced without prior authorization.
