CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 www.voestalpine.com TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Page 1. Preface 6 6. Climate Protection 30 6.1 The Political Framework 30 2. About This Report 8 6.2 EU Emissions Trading 31 6.3 Decarbonization: voestalpine’s 3. Figures, Data, Facts 12 Options and Projects 32 3.1 Development of the Key Figures 14 6.4 Technology Scenarios 33 3.2 The Four Divisions 16 3.2.1 Steel Division 16 7. Transparency in the Supply Chain 36 3.2.2 High Performance Metals Division 17 7.1 Structure of the Supply Chain 37 3.2.3 Metal Engineering Division 18 7.2 Supply Chain Management 3.2.4 Metal Forming Division 18 at voestalpine 38 7.3 Supply Chain Management 4. Stakeholder and CR Management 20 in Associations and Initiatives 40 4.1 Stakeholder Communication 21 7.4 Local Suppliers 41 4.1.1 Employees 21 4.1.2 Customers and Suppliers 21 8. Ethical Corporate Management 42 4.1.3 Analysts and Investors 22 8.1 Compliance 42 4.1.4 Research Institutions and Universities 22 8.1.1 Code of Conduct 44 4.1.5 NGOs, Advocacy and Special 8.1.2 Compliance System 46 Interest Groups, and Platforms 22 8.1.3 Preventive Measures 47 4.2 Corporate Responsibility 8.1.4 Reporting Compliance Violations 48 Management 23 8.2 Corporate Governance 48 4.3 Material Topics 24 9. Human Rights 50 5. Product Sustainability 26 5.1 Environmental Product Assessment: LCA in the voestalpine Group 27 5.2 The Decarbonization Challenge 28 5.3 An Issue of Group-wide Significance 28 4 Page Page 10. Research and Development 52 12.2 Equality and Diversity 78 10.1  Research Expenditures 54 12.2.1 Differently-Abled Individuals 78 10.2 Organization of Research and 12.2.2 Women at voestalpine 78 Development 54 12.2.3 Age Structure of Employees 80 10.3 Steel—a Sustainable Material 55 12.3 Attractiveness as an Employer 82 10.4 Innovations for Sustainable 12.3.1 Employee Survey 82 Production Processes 55 12.3.2 Employer Branding 82 12.4 Training and Continuing Education 83 11. Environment 56 12.4.1 Executive Training Programs 83 12.4.2 Professional Academies 84 11.1 Environmental Management 12.5 Apprentices 85 Systems 58 12.6 The Stahlstiftung 86 11.2 Operating Expenses for 12.7 Employee Shareholding Scheme 86 Environmental Protection Systems 59 11.3 Environmental Investments 60 13. health & safety 88 11.4 Air Emissions 61 11.4.1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 62 13.1 The health & safety (h&s) System 88 11.4.2 SO2 Emissions 63 13.2 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 90 11.4.3 NOX Emissions 64 13.3 Health Status 91 11.4.4 Captured Dust Emissions 65 13.4 ISO 45001 91 11.4.5 Organic Air Pollutants 66 13.5 Workplace Safety at Contractors / 11.5 Water Management 67 Third-Party Companies 91 11.6 Waste and Recycling Management 68 11.7 Energy 70 14. Society 92 11.8 Biodiversity 71 15. Appendix 96 12. Human Resources 72 15.1 GRI Content Index 96 12.1 Employee Structure 74 15.2 Memberships 103 12.1.1 Employment by Country and Region 75 15.3 Glossary 107 12.1.2 Years of Service and Employee 15.4 Independent Assurance Report 108 Turnover 77 Contact & Imprint 110 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 5 1. PREFACE Ladies and Gentlemen: Dear Readers: “The Wind of Change” was the title of an voestalpine’s quest to minimize emissions in EU seminar on the use of energy in the steel production has been integral to our activities industry. But this expression could also be for quite some time. The challenge is to help taken as the motto for the present Corporate our suppliers and partners adopt the high Responsibility Report (CR Report) because, just standards that we set for ourselves. like other industrial conglomerates, voestalpine too is faced with the challenge of having to As far as our employees are concerned, nowa­ respond to increasingly rapid changes in its days our responsibilities go far beyond the business environment. What is even more specific work process. Our human resources important, however, is the need to contribute activities encompass training and continued proactively to sustainable technologies. education, the promotion of women, the integration of people of different nationalities, In recent years, voestalpine has had to radically and the promotion of employee health. redefine its understanding of the concept of responsibility, with the result that its focus has Our expanded understanding of “corporate shifted. The evolution from a conventional responsibility” (CR) poses major challenges for us. steelmaker to a global technology group This makes cooperation projects ever more probably was the biggest change. At this level, im­por­tant, whether as part of the UN Global it is no longer enough for the company to fulfil Compact (UNGC) or ResponsibleSteel, an indus­ statutory requirements and act responsibly try initiative that we help shape in crucial ways. within the confines of its facilities. Today, our approach in terms of both time and geogra­ I can say with a good conscience that we are well phy is much broader. Our task now is not only to positioned when it comes to both sustainability predict customers’ needs through our research, and responsibility. Not only has voestalpine but also to break new ground—particularly in developed a detailed strategy with respect to ecological terms. corporate responsibility, which was introduced 6 1. Preface in last year’s CR Report, the issue has also on carefully elaborated criteria. This is an been firmly established as part of its overall important aspect of our quest to secure the high corporate strategy. This ensures that corporate standards we have defined for ourselves. responsibility is taken into account from the start in all decisions, all planning, and all reporting Of particular importance are our committed processes. employees who, in their great diversity, con­ tribute their talent with great enthusiasm. At this point, I want to highlight a few areas that Without them, voestalpine would not be as well saw intense activity this past year. H2FUTURE, positioned for future challenges as it is today. our contribution to the development of tech­ It is critical to voestalpine to be considered an nologies aimed at producing steel in ways that attractive employer, so that it can attract young lower CO2 emissions, is particularly important. talent to the company and maintain the loyalty Our related EU showcase project in Linz will of employees who have rendered outstanding launch demonstration operations shortly. services to us. As a company that operates production plants, workplace safety naturally is It goes without saying that electromobility is a an important issue that we take very seriously. major issue for us, given our position as an im­ We are very pleased to be able to report on portant supplier to the automotive industry. This positive developments in this respect also. is evident from the extensive resources that we have devoted to (and continue to spend on) the Even though the current situation on the world development of new products in this area as political stage does not offer much hope for well as from our sponsorship of the Formula E. optimism, I am convinced that our corporate responsibility strategy prepares us well for the As part of the Sustainable Supply Chain future and that our employees, with their com­ Management (SSCM) project, both our suppliers mitment and enthusiasm, will contribute toward and our partners are regularly reviewed based achieving our goals. Dipl-Ing. Herbert Eibensteiner Chairman of the Management Board CEO of voestalpine AG CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 7 2. ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the fourth Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Report (CR Report) of voestalpine AG. It contains information and data on the company’s activities, performance, and goals in the context of sustainable development. The CR Report gives voestalpine’s stakeholders insight into the Group’s business activities and shows how the company puts its corporate responsibility into practice. STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS The present CR Report was prepared in accor­ The Austrian Sustainability and Diversity dance with the Sustainability Reporting Improvement Act (NaDiVeG), which transposed Standards (the “Core” option) of the Global EU Directive 2014/95/EU (NFI Directive) on the Reporting Initiative (GRI). These Standards are mandatory disclosure of non-financial indicators the most widely used and accepted framework into national law, has been in effect in Austria for sustainability reporting worldwide. The GRI since December 2016. In publishing this CR Index in the Appendix gives a detailed overview Report, voestalpine is fulfilling the requirements of the GRI Standards that are covered by this of the NaDiVeG. CR Report and shows where the respective infor­ mation can be found. voestalpine has participated in the Global Compact of the United Nations (“UN Global Compact,” UNGC) since 2013. This initiative calls on companies around the world to apply ten principles pertaining to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anticorruption. The present CR Report documents the implementation of the UN Global Compact Principles within voestalpine and thus serves as the required “Communication on Progress” (CoP). 8 2. About This Report PARAMETERS OF THIS REPORT Unless otherwise stated, the information, fig­ Impacts along the value chain that occur ures, and facts published in this CR Report re­ outside of voestalpine’s factory gates but are fer to the entire voestalpine Group. The finan­ subject to its sphere of influence are regularly cial performance indicators and employee data evaluated as part of supply chain management encompass all of the Group’s consolidated enti­ and are managed taking into account sustain­ ties. When compiling the environmental perfor­ ability requirements. For reasons of confiden­ mance indicators, the roughly 130 voestalpine tiality, however, this CR Report does not disclose production companies—i.e., those that process, detailed information and financial indicators convert, or treat a product—in which voestalpine related to the business activities of the has a stake greater than 50% were considered. company’s suppliers. This limitation of the parameters with respect to the environmental data accords with both the criteria of materiality and the Pareto Principle: The carbon footprint of the non-producing com­ panies is relatively small, whereas the expendi­ tures required to collect these data would have been unreasonably large. BENCHMARK FOR SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Aside from its crude steel production facili­ indicators since 2017; the production volume ties in both Linz and Donawitz, voestalpine has is used instead. Besides the weight of both the been operating a direct reduction (HBI) plant in crude steel and the sponge iron produced, this Corpus Christi, Texas, USA, since the fall of 2016. variable also includes the weight of the exter­ The company also produces components at nally sourced steel products. Accordingly, since several sites from steel, a portion of which is 2017 the specific indicators have been pro­ externally sourced. As a result, crude steel pro­ vided per ton of product. duction has not been the benchmark for deter­ mining the specific environmental performance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 9 2. About This Report CONTENT OF THIS REPORT voestalpine addresses the issues that are rele­ determining the content of and the material vant to its sustainable development continu­ topics covered in this CR Report (see chapter ously and systematically. Both external and inter­ “Stakeholders and CR Management”). nal stakeholders were included in the process of REPORTING PERIOD voestalpine’s business year runs from April 1 calendar year 2018 is the reporting period for of a given year to March 31 of the following the environmental performance indicators. In year. The business year 2018/19 is the report­ each case, the past five business and/or calen­ ing pe­riod for the key financial indicators and dar years are shown to enhance comparability employee data, but the environmental data and provide insight into the development of the are compiled by calendar year. Hence the key figures over a longer period. REPORTING CYCLE voestalpine publishes its CR Report once a published annually and simultaneously with the year. The CR Fact Sheet, which summarizes CR Report. the Report’s key figures and facts, is also AUDIT AND CONFIRMATION Grant Thornton Unitreu GmbH, an Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act. auditing and tax consulting firm, audited the See the Independent Assurance Report in the Report as to compliance with both the GRI Stan­ Appendix for further information on the audit dards and the requirements of the Austrian and confirmation of the present CR Report. 10 2. About This Report STYLE AND LANGUAGES To improve legibility, gender-specific wording The CR Report is published in German and has been omitted. As a result, the masculine English, and the CR Fact Sheet in 14 languages. form is used where necessary to simplify matters even when both genders are meant. DESIGN The design of the present Corporate Respon­ sibility Report is based on 3D artwork of the atoms of the alloy elements that are used in voestalpine’s production process. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 11 3. FIGURES, DATA, FACTS voestalpine is a technology group that combines materials and processing expertise into product and system solutions using steel and other metals. Thanks to its innovative solutions and highest quality standards, the voestalpine Group is a market leader in technology-intensive industries and niches. 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.1 DEVELOPMENT OF THE KEY FIGURES In millions of euros 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Revenue 11,189.5 11,068.7 11,294.5 12,897.8 13,560.7 EBITDA 1,530.1 1,583.4 1,540.7 1,954.1 1,564.6 EBITDA margin 13.7 % 14.3 % 13.6 % 15.2 % 11.5% EBIT 886.2 888.8 823.3 1,180.0 779.4 EBIT margin 7.9 % 8.0 % 7.3 % 9.1 % 5.7% Employees (FTE) 47,418 48,367 49,703 51,621 51,907 Research expenditures 126.7 131.8 140.3 152.0 170.5 Operating expenses for environmental protection facilities in Austria 222.0 237.0 231.0 258.0 299.1 Environmental investments for production facilities in Austria 43.0 55.0 46.0 40.0 66.0 Crude steel production (in millions of tons) 7,929 7,733 7,596 8,140 6,895 REVENUE BY REGION As a percentage of Group revenue, business year 2018/19 65% European Union (of which Austria: 7%) 16% NAFTA 3% South America 8% 8% Asia Rest of World 14 3. Figures, Data, Facts REVENUE BY DIVISION As a percentage of total divisional revenue, business year 2018/19 35% Steel 22% Metal Engineering 22% 21% High Performance Metals Metal Forming REVENUE BY INDUSTRY As a percentage of Group revenue, business year 2018/19 3% Aerospace 34% Automotive 11% Railway Systems 5% White Goods/Consumer Goods 9% Mechanical Engineering & Steel Production 15% Energy 14% Other 9% Construction SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE In percent, as of the close of the business year 2018/19 3% 2% France Asia 6% 14.8% Scandinavia Employee Shareholding Scheme 44% 15% Austria (excluding Employee North America Shareholding Scheme) 7% UK, Ireland 4.2% 4% Rest of Europe Germany CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 15 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.2 THE FOUR DIVISIONS The voestalpine Group does business in more than 50 countries on all five continents. Its four divisions encompass 500 Group companies. The Group is headquartered in Linz, Austria. voestalpine AG High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Steel Division Division Metals Division Division Steel strip Tool steel Rails Downstream metal Heavy plate High-speed steel Turnout technology processing solutions Foundry products Special forgings Complete railway Special sections Powder-metallurgical systems Precision strip steel steel Specially treated wire Special components Welding consumables for the automotive industry Seamless tubes 3.2.1 STEEL DIVISION In its capacity as the division of the voestalpine The Steel Division is the first point of contact for Group that generates the highest revenue, the major automotive manufacturers and suppliers Steel Division is the quality leader with respect with respect to strategic product development to highest quality strip steel and a global market and supports its customers globally. Moreover, leader in both heavy plate for the most sophis­ it also is a key partner of the European white ticated applications and complex casings for goods and mechanical engineering industries. large turbines. The division produces heavy plate that is used by the renewable energy industry as well as by The Steel Division produces highest quality the oil & natural gas industries for applications hot and cold-rolled steel as well as electrogal­ under extreme conditions, for example, in deepvanized, hot-dip galvanized, and organically sea pipelines or permafrost regions. coated steel strip. This is augmented by electri­ cal steel strip, heavy plate, and foundry activ­ For more information on the Steel Division, visit ities as well as the downstream Steel & Service http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ Center and Logistics Service. The division oper­ divisions/steel/ ates the world’s most advanced direct reduc­ tion plant in Corpus Christi, Texas, USA, which produces highest quality pre-materials (HBI) for steel production by both voestalpine and exter­ nal customers. 16 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.2.2 HIGH PERFORMANCE METALS DIVISION The High Performance Metals Division resulted components for the most demanding applica­ from the acquisition of Böhler-Uddeholm AG. It tions in the oil and natural gas industries as well is specialized in the production and processing as in aerospace. As far as the latter is concerned, of technologically most sophisticated high per­ the division is its leading supplier worldwide of formance materials and in customer-specific materials and components for jet engines, airservices such as heat treatment, state-of-the-art craft engine mounts, fuselages, wings, and tail surface treatments, and additive manufactur­ units; components for landing gear, doors, and ing processes. The division’s production compa­ hatches as well as forgings. Not only steel-based nies are located in Austria, Germany, Sweden, materials are used for these items, but also Brazil, and the USA. Thanks to its unique, global nickel-based alloys and, increasingly, titanium. network of sales and service centers, the High Performance Metals Division offers its customers For more information on the High Performance material availability and processing as well as Metals Division, visit local contacts. http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ divisions/high-performance-metals/ The division manufactures long products, pre­ cision steel strip as well as open-die forge and drop-forge parts made of special steel. It is the global market leader for tool steel and a lead­ ing provider of high-speed steel, valve steel, and other products made from special steel, metal powders, nickel-based alloys, and titanium. The toolmaking industry which, in turn, works primarily for the automotive and consumer goods industries, is the division’s most important customer group. The High Performance Metals Division’s second production pillar comprises CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 17 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.2.3 METAL ENGINEERING DIVISION The Metal Engineering Division bundles the Division offers a complete range of logistics voestalpine Group’s activities with respect to and services for the rail and turnout technology long products in the steel, rail, wire, and seam­ product segments, including planning, shipping, less tube segments. It is the global market leader logistics, installation, and recycling. in turnout technology and associated signal­ ing technology as well as the European market The railway systems industry, the oil and nat­ural leader in premium rails and quality wire. More­ gas industries as well as the automotive, me­ over, the division is considered the leading pro­ chanical engineering, and construction indus­ vider of high-quality welding consumables. tries are its most important customer segments. It operates its own steel production facilities For more information on the Metal Engineering and manufactures the world’s broadest range Division, visit of high-quality rails and turnout products; highhttp://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ quality wire rod and drawn wire; pre-finished divisions/metal-engineering/ seamless tubes; medium and high-alloyed welding consumables as well as semi-finished steel products. In addition, the Metal Engineering 3.2.4 METAL FORMING DIVISION The Metal Forming Division is voestalpine’s com­ Its flexible, mid-sized units offer its customers petence center for highly developed special rapid problem-solving expertise in all stages of sections, tube, and precision strip steel products the development and production process. The as well as for pre-finished system components division’s customers include practically all of the made of pressed, stamped, and roll-formed leading manufacturers in the automotive and parts of the highest quality. This combination of automotive supplier industries (with a definite expertise in materials and processing, which is focus on the premium segment) as well as nu­ unique in the industry, and the division’s global merous companies in the commercial vehicle, presence make it the partner of choice for cus­ construction, storage, energy, and (agricul­tural) tomers focused on innovation and quality. machinery industries. Just as the voestalpine Group on the whole, the Metal Forming Division Aside from customer-specific tailored tubes and also maintains long-term customer relationships sections as well as precision steel tubes, the Metal with most of its key customers and stands out Forming Division also supplies pioneering auto­ both due to its international presence and its motive body parts for lightweight construction unique combination of materials and process­ solutions to the automotive industry and its sup­ ing expertise. pliers. It also produces cold-rolled special strip steel for the most advanced applications. Fur­ For more information on the Metal Forming thermore, the division is known as a provider Division, visit of intelligent rack system solutions for complex https://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ logistics challenges. divisions/metal-forming/ 18 26: Iron Fe 2,8,14,2 4. STAKEHOLDER AND CR MANAGEMENT voestalpine has numerous stakeholders with different interests and concerns. An important task of the company’s management is thus to maintain relationships with them, to take up their concerns, and to reconcile divergent interests as best as possible. This orientation toward stakeholders has been the basis of voestalpine’s successful and sustained development in the past and will become ever more important in the future. Customers Employees and Suppliers Applicants Competitors Management Research Supervisory Board Institutions Works Council Universities Advocacy and Special Interest Groups NGOs and NPOs Investors Associations Analysts Lawmakers Banks Neighbors and Shareholders Neighboring Communities Local Public Agencies Management of communities bordering the new special steel plant voestalpine is building a state-of-the-art special steel The project has its own website and dedicated phone plant in Kapfenberg, Austria, for supplying the most number, and regular office hours and information demanding customer segments. To engage in a dievents are scheduled as well. Display cases and a alogue with the local stakeholders, a comprehensive webcam provide information about the status of the community management plan was developed even construction work. The affected communities are before the groundbreaking ceremony in 2018. The notified early on of potential problems (e.g., excess aim is to tie the local population proactively into the noise), and complaints if any are handled rapidly on project, encourage a dialogue, and create a positive an individual basis through on-site visits. environment at the new site through established processes. 20 4. Stakeholder and CR Management 4.1 STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION Through its Management Board as well as exec­ communications with internal stakeholders. utive and non-executive personnel, voestalpine voestalpine is also represented on a wide variety is in regular contact with the stakeholder groups of bodies serving advocacy groups, trade asso­ enumerated below. Numerous opportunities ciations, lobbying campaigns, and platforms. such as expert discussions and roundtables, conferences, trade shows as well as analyst and During the reporting period, communications investor meetings are used to this end. Both the with individual stakeholder groups took place employee survey, which is conducted on a reg­ in various settings and with respect to various ular basis, and annual employee performance topics as described below. reviews are important settings for structured 4.1.1 EMPLOYEES The voestalpine Group currently has a global Following the last employee survey in 2016, a workforce of just under 52,000 people. In ad­ variety of measures were implemented with re­ dition to annual employee performance re­ spect to issues such as information & communi­ views that are conducted with about 67% of the cation, career development opportunities, and workforce, the employee survey that is carried identification/employer. out every three years (with the next one sched­ uled for the fall of 2019) plays a key role in this connection. 4.1.2 CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS voestalpine maintains very open and close rela­ costs, availability, and delivery dates, increas­ tionships with all of its business partners. Many ingly the conversations are also focused on of them are of long standing and form the basis cli­mate protection, energy and resource effi­ of trustful and transparent cooperation. In turn, ciency, or compliance with labor and human this enables the development of new processes rights in production. and products that meet the requirements of all parties involved and ensure the responsible use voestalpine’s Code of Conduct is binding on all of resources. of the company’s suppliers and business part­ ners and forms part of the terms and conditions. Issues of sustainability are increasingly moving Technical visits and viewings of the production to the center of our communications with cus­ facilities also take place on a regular basis. For tomers and suppliers. Besides conventional sup­ more information on this issue, please see the ply chain management issues such as quality, chapter “Transparency in the Supply Chain.” CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 21 4. Stakeholder & CR Management 4.1.3 ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS voestalpine AG has been listed on the Vienna among the key topics discussed with analysts Stock Exchange since 1995. Institutional inves­ and investors. Specifically, this concerns ways tors and analysts are among the company’s to represent the Group’s CO2 emissions and op­ key stakeholder groups. The members of tions for reducing them in the future—also tak­ voestalpine’s Management Board and the ing into account the resulting negative impact managers of its Investor Relations department on costs. At regular intervals, voestalpine holds maintain close relationships with the com­pany’s so-called “Capital Markets Days,” i.e., special shareholder representatives and investors investor events at which trends and develop­ through investor conferences, roadshows as ments related to a high-priority issue in the well as individual visits in order to discuss cur­ Group are presented. rent issues and the market situation. As regards sustainability, climate-relevant emissions are 4.1.4 RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS AND UNIVERSITIES Working closely with universities and research professorships. The company’s Management institutions is essential, particularly in the field Board regularly attends special student events of research and development. voestalpine at institutions such as the Montanuniversität supports outstanding dissertations, master’s Leoben to answer questions from the students. theses, and research projects; it also endows 4.1.5 NGOS, ADVOCACY AND SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS, AND PLATFORMS Representatives of voestalpine belong to vari­ Since April 2019, voestalpine AG has been a ous working groups and committees of special member of ResponsibleSteel, an initiative that interest groups and platforms such as EUROFER, focuses on the sustainable production of steel worldsteel, ASMET, and Estep. They contribute and the sustainable procurement of both voestalpine’s knowledge of and opinions on a raw and other materials. voestalpine actively wide variety of issues during EU consultations. engages in the ongoing development of the standard on which this policy initiative is based. There are intensive, fact-based exchanges with NGOs, especially with respect to environmental issues such as energy and climate policies. 22 4. Stakeholder & CR Management 4.2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT The Corporate Responsibility Steering Commit­ In its function as a management unit, Corporate tee and the CR Manager are largely responsi­ Responsibility is a part of Investor Relations. ble for Corporate Responsibility Management The CR Manager represents voestalpine at a (CRM) and the identification of topics relevant broad range of events and initiatives re­lated to CR as well as assessments regarding their sig­ to corporate responsibility and sustainability. nificance to voestalpine. As stated above, the company is a member of ResponsibleSteel, a non-profit initiative that is Issues that stakeholders bring to the attention of developing a standard for the sustainable de­ voestalpine or that appear to be particularly im­ velopment of the entire steel chain—from the portant in the ongoing sustainability debate are mining of ore all the way to the end consumer— regularly discussed on the Corporate Responsi­ in a multi-stakeholder dialogue. As a delegate bility Steering Committee. of voestalpine, the CR Manager participates in the preparation of this standard. This Committee, which is chaired by the com­ These intensive, bilateral exchanges between pany’s CEO, comprises the heads of the Group the CR Manager and the department man­ departments Compliance, Legal, Environment, agers—within the divisions and at the level of Research, Communication, Human Resources, the holding company—serve to debate both health & safety, Investor Relations, Procurement current and particularly important issues of sus­ and Raw Materials Procurement as well as Inter­ tainability. national Business Relations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 23 4. Stakeholder & CR Management 4.3 MATERIAL TOPICS voestalpine uses its ongoing communications Information on voestalpine’s approach and with internal and external stakeholder groups to performance regarding the material topics is identify those topics that are key to CR manage­ published in the CR Report. The following topics ment and the relevant reporting. have been identified as central to the Report: A list of the topics that the stakeholder groups consider the most important is drawn up prior to the preparation of the annual CR Report and supplemented by those topics that have been identified in connection with the com­pany’s work in relevant bodies as well as through analy­ ses of trade communications and benchmark analyses of select competitors, suppliers, and customers. Material Topics Transparency Ethical Product Human Research and CR Strategy in the Corporate Environment Employees Sustainability Rights Development Supply Chain Management Climate and SDGs Compliance Processes health & safety Energy Policies Training and Corporate Products Emissions Continuing Governance Education Equal Energy Treatment Water Employment and Employer Quality If you wish to receive further information on indiWaste and vidual topics or have general questions or suggesRecycling Management tions regarding the Report, please send them to the following email address: ­ cr@voestalpine.com LCA 24 6: Carbon C 2,4 5. PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY The analysis of a product in terms of environmental, economic, and social criteria over its entire useful life is becoming ever more important—not just from customers’ standpoint, but also at the political and legislative level. The effects on voestalpine’s climate protection targets are particularly important in this connection. Solid and workable data are the basis for any Environmental Aspects assessment of sustainability. They make it pos­ >>  Life cycle assessment (LCA) for deter­ sible to provide transparent and quantifiable mining the environmental effects (the information on the sustainability of products “carbon footprint”) of voestalpine’s prodto business partners, investors, trade and other ucts, such as a given product’s carbon or associations, non-governmental organizations water footprint and the provision of verified (NGOs), the public at large, and government environmental balance sheets in the form agencies. These stakeholders use a wide variety of Environmental Product Declarations of assessment and certification systems for the (EPDs). individual parameters. This poses a major chal­ >>  Material compliance: Information on lenge for a global technology group that oper­ the handling of relevant substances and ates in different segments. Among other things, substantiation of compliance with the therefore, voestalpine’s activities also focus on applic­able statutory requirements, e.g., helping to shape the legal framework for pro­ “Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, duct sustainability, e.g., through legislation, the and Restriction of Chemicals” (REACH); development of standards, the standardization the “Restriction of Hazardous Substances of methods, etc. Directive” (RoHS); the “Global Automotive Declarable Substance List” (GADSL); and Environmental, social, and economic aspects the EU Directive on End-of-Life Vehicles. must be considered and included in any com­ >>  Circular economy: Development and cre­ prehensive product assessment—specifically, in ation of closed-loop substance, materials, each case across the given products’ entire use­ and value-added chains to boost resource ful life, from the extraction of the raw materials and energy efficiency (e.g., utilization of all the way to the products’ reuse and recycling. waste and recycled materials stemming from the production of steel, creation of Product sustainability thus encompasses all recycling chains for product and secondary three pillars of sustainability along the entire raw materials in the supply chain). supply and value chain, even though the re­ quirements currently tilt the focus in the direc­ tion of ecological issues. 26 5. ProductnSustainability Social Aspects Economic Aspects >>  Disclosure of and transparency regarding >>  Provision of solid and workable information the use of so-called conflict minerals along for various assessment and certification the entire supply chain pursuant to the systems that are included in supply chain Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Con­ decision-making processes and can be sumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”). utilized all the way to the end consumer voestalpine applies the internationally stan­ as conveyors of information. dardized and accepted “Conflict Minerals Reporting Template” (CMRT) of the Respon­ sible Minerals Initiative (RMI) based on infor­ mation from the upstream supply chain. 5.1 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT ASSESSMENT: LCA IN THE voestalpine GROUP A life cycle assessment is a methodology for sys­ product qualities during the production pro­ tematically determining the environmental im­ cess—is a typical example of this approach. pact of products. It always involves analyzing several impact categories such as the carbon Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) are footprint (CO2), the acidification potential (SO2, important tools in this regard: They deliver trans­ NOx), primary energy needs as well as the parent and neutral information on the environ­ utilization of land and resources. mental impact of a product based on its envi­ ronmental balance sheet. voestalpine already While the “cradle-to-grave” concept (i.e., all life has prepared and published EPDs for a variety stages including distribution, use, and dis­posal) of products such as colofer®, heavy plate as well is typically used to define the system limits as hot-dip galvanized strip steel. They are based of products destined for end consumers, the on EN 15804 and ISO 14025, were veri­fied by in“cradle-to-gate” approach generally applies dependent auditors, and have been published to indus­trial products, because these products in the declarations program of the Austrian are turned into end products outside of a com­ Institut Bauen und Umwelt (IBU), an associa­ pany’s own facilities. This is also how voestalpine tion of building product manufacturers. For ex­ applies the procedure in most cases. The find­ ample, additional information and data on as­ ings of such an analysis can be used by the sessments of a product’s sustainability, which given industrial customer to compute a com­ voestalpine makes available to its customers plete life cycle assessment for a specific pro­ on a regular basis, serve as pre-chain data for duct. customers’ products. They also serve as a ba­ sis for different sustainable building certifica­ An LCA of voestalpine products also shows the tion systems; supply chain reporting (e.g., the potential gained from recycling, because doing Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP); international so avoids engaging in new primary production. product-related standards (e.g., the Framework Steel scrap (e.g., from end-of-life auto­bodies)— Standard for Responsible Sourcing (BES 6001)); which is an important raw material in steel­ or national initiatives such as the Netherlands’ making and can be turned back into high value History Database of the Global Environment. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 27 5. Product Sustainability 5.2 THE DECARBONIZATION CHALLENGE The long-term decarbonization of the economic In the automotive industry, for example, and social system plays a role in environmental emissions assessments over a vehicle’s entire product assessments also, especially in the con­ life cycle (so-called “life cycle emissions”) are text of the so-called “circular economy,” which being discussed in this connection. voestalpine refers to sustainable recycling, taking value cooperates intensively with its customers on chains into account. EU legislation is addressing these issues in order to describe the contribu­ this topic too, e.g., through tightened limits on tion of steel as a material and devise long-term emissions up to 2030 and beyond. concepts for CO2-minimized steelmaking as well as to compile data on the joint potentials of the value chain. 5.3 AN ISSUE OF GROUP-WIDE SIGNIFICANCE voestalpine believes that both corporate re­ specific steps: Representatives of all divisions sponsibility and product sustainability are key and numerous operating companies as well as aspects of the sustainability of a company and managers of the Strategy, Research, Sales, Cor­ its products, and aims to bring about a coordi­ porate Responsibility, Environmental Manage­ nated and intensive collaboration of its divisions ment, and Communications departments par­ in this respect. The first-ever product sustainabil­ ticipated in the workshop that was designed to ity workshop in April 2019 signaled the start of facilitate an exchange of information. 28 5: Boron B 2,3 6. CLIMATE PROTECTION The production processes of the steel industry are energy intensive and thus emissions intensive. voestalpine actively engages in research and development projects to reduce CO2 emissions and to contribute effectively to climate protection. Aside from voestalpine’s innovation activities in metallurgy itself, its joint projects with the energy sector are becoming increasingly significant too. The political framework that is decisive to the actual implementation of new decarbonization technologies in the long term must be fleshed out simultaneously at the global, European, and national level. 6.1 THE POLITICAL FRAMEWORK The continued implementation of the World Poland; its participation together with K1-MET Climate Agreement; EU requirements regarding (a metallurgical competence center) in the “Wind energy, climate, research, and trade policies; as of Change” conference that the EU Commission well as Austrian projects such as the national had organized in Brussels, Belgium, on the issue hydrogen strategy are the essential parameters of energy in future steelmaking; and its partici­ of voestalpine’s activities. pation in the Strategic Energy Technology (SET) Plan conference in Vienna. The high-level confer­ The company actively supports its core interests, ence, “Charge for Change: Innovative Technolo­ both directly and through advocacy groups. gies for Energy-Intensive Industries,” was held in This includes promoting innovations; coordinat­ September 2018 at voestalpine Stahlwelt in Linz ing EU-wide energy policies (expansion, electric­ as part of an informal meeting of the EU Council ity & natural gas infrastructure); safeguarding of Energy Ministers. During this event, atten­dees fair competition rules; and securing cost reduc­ from both the political realm and industry, in­ tions in energy-intensive sectors during the tran­ cluding then EU Commissioner for Energy and sition to new technologies. Climate Action, Miguel Arias Cañete, toured the H2FUTURE electrolyzer facility that had been Austria held the presidency of the European installed at voestalpine’s Linz plant. Council in the second half of 2018. voestalpine participated in a multitude of related events Numerous renowned industrial companies— and thus had the opportunity to draw attention including voestalpine’s H2FUTURE project to its challenges, approaches to solutions, and partners, VERBUND and Siemens—as well as ongoing projects aimed at decarbonizing the voestalpine itself signed the European Hydro­ production of steel in the long term. These ac­ gen Initiative that the Energy Ministers had tivities included the unveiling of the com­pany’s adopted. Austria’s hydrogen strategy, which is hydrogen projects in the Austrian Pavilion at based thereon, is currently being prepared at the Conference of Parties (COP 24) in Katowice, the national level. 30 6. Climate Protection Five of the existent working groups that com­ Austrian Federal Ministries for Sustainability prise key stakeholders are looking into technical, and Tourism (BMNT); Traffic, Innovation, and regulatory, and economic aspects of the infra­ Technology (BMVIT); and Finance (BMF) are structure required for generating hydrogen with coordinating the work. voestalpine chairs the the help of electricity from renewable sources working group on “Hydrogen in Industrial as well as into options for storing hydrogen. The Processes” at the invitation of the BMNT. 6.2 EU EMISSIONS TRADING On paper, the Directive on the EU Emissions third of its emissions both in the current trading Trading System (EU ETS) provides for adequate period (up to 2020) and in the subsequent one no-cost allocations of allowances for the “best” (up to 2030). facilities, i.e., those that are aligned with the benchmarks established by the EU. At this time, the voestalpine Group’s expense under the EU ETS is about EUR 100 million This so-called “carbon leakage” protection is per year. Assuming that the CO2 price will stay intended to prevent the shifting of emissionsat least at the current level of about EUR 30 intensive industries from the EU to regions where per ton of CO2 in the long term, voestalpine’s climate protection requirements are weaker. In total expenditures during the next trading peri­ actual fact, however, the European steel indus­ od (2021 – 2030) will exceed EUR 1 billion. try must purchase allowances for about one EMISSION TRADING ALLOWANCES: FORECAST FOR voestalpine Number of additional allowances to be purchased: about 45 million 33% Number of additional allowances to be purchased 67% No-cost allocation CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 31 6. Climate Protection The considerable expenditures for the EU ETS Under applicable EU state aid law, member allowances are not available to researchstates may grant offsets out of their proceeds intensive companies such as voestalpine for from the national auctioning of ETS al­lowances investments in low-carbon technologies. to industrial consumers of electricity which, in some countries, account for up to 60% of the voestalpine thus suggests that the EU ETS ex­ proceeds. This serves to offset higher elec­tricity pense be refunded in full to such energyprices resulting from the energy sector’s passintensive companies for earmarked purposes, through of the EU ETS expenditures to its cus­ i.e., subject to the requirement that the funds be tomers. In Austria, however, this option has not utilized for taking innovative steps in the direc­ yet been put into practice. At a CO2 price of tion of environment and technology optimiza­ EUR 30, voestalpine’s current cost disadvantage tion programs aimed at lowering CO2 emissions. relative to its EU competitors is approximately Moreover, the competitive distortions resulting EUR 40 million per annum. from divergent regulations throughout the EU in connection with the so-called electricity price offsets must be eliminated. 6.3 DECARBONIZATION: voestalpine’s OPTIONS AND PROJECTS Coal and coke—the fossil raw materials on which Several factors thus pose a challenge for the conventional steelmaking is based—simultane­ steel industry. In a first step, the industry must ously are the main source of energy that is con­ develop novel production technologies through verted in the form of process gases into electric­ research and innovation focused on metal­lurgy ity in our own plants. In this way, our integrated and process technology based on the use of steel facilities in Linz and Donawitz generate up renew­ able energy (e.g., green hydrogen) and to 80% of their electricity needs themselves; in upscale these new technologies. Subse­quently, other words, thanks to highly complex internal the industry will have to make heretofore energy cycles they are largely independent of unimag­ inable investments to convert existent the external grid. production processes and, finally, competitively operate the new production technologies on a The energy equivalent for the crude steel pro­ global scale. duction facilities in Linz and Donawitz is about 33 terawatt hours per year, which will have to be While research and development are integral to replaced by renewable energy from the exter­ companies’ metallurgical know-how, the eco­ nal grid and/or by hydrogen generated with the nomic framework required for the broad-based help of renewable energy once the conversion implementation of novel technologies can only to CO2-minimized technologies has been com­ be created by way of a fundamental restructur­ pleted. ing of the energy system. 32 6. Climate Protection 6.4 TECHNOLOGY SCENARIOS LOW-CARBON STEEL PRODUCTION: THE voestalpine SCENARIO CO2 emissions (in %) Carbon steelmaking Low-carbon steelmaking 100 Approach using Incremental implementation integrated blast furnaces: contingent on technical, economic, 75 further optimization and energy-political feasibility Research and development of 50 breakthrough technologies (CDA, CCU): e.g., H2FUTURE, SuSteel, Carbon-2-X 25 Transformation (blast furnace approach, electrical steel production, hydrogen technologies) 0 Current 2050 As already described in detail in the previous CR >> R  esearch and development activities in­ Report, voestalpine is largely pursuing a con­ cluding upscaling for the large-scale use of cept that directly avoids CO2 emissions (e.g., breakthrough technologies (e.g., H2FUTURE, carbon direct avoidance (CDA)). SuSteel, Carbon-2-X): > H2FUTURE: >> voestalpine’s decarbonization concept  Pilot plant in Linz serving to produce aims to lower CO2 emissions through the and test the industrial feasibility of green partial transformation of carbon-based hydrogen. This EU showcase project at steelmaking that requires integrated blast voestalpine’s Linz facility receives major furnaces into electrical steelmaking that support from the Fuel Cells and Hydrogen requires both the combined, flexible use of Joint Undertaking (FCH JU) as part of the raw materials and an increase in the use of Horizon 2020 project. hydrogen (in the form of natural gas, coke > Breakthrough technologies: gas, or pure hydrogen) and renewable Sustainable Steelmaking (SuSteel): Smelt­ energy. Depending on issues of technical ing reduction using hydrogen plasma and economic availability, in the long term and development of the technology in the amount of hydrogen will be increased so cooperation with a research facility at the that, in the end, the CO2 emissions can be Donawitz plant. The aim is to produce reduced by more than 80%. steel directly from iron ore without an intermediate step. This multi-year re­ search and development project, which is supported by funds from the Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG), among others, is still at the bench scale. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 33 6. Climate Protection >>  Bridging technology: >> I ncremental implementation of the break­ Natural gas as a reducing agent in a direct through technologies contingent on their reduction plant (currently in Texas, USA). large-scale technical maturity and the tech­ Subsequently, this may be followed by the nically assured availability of renewable en­ incremental use of green hydrogen (manu­ergy at competitive costs. These measures factured using renewable energy). are intended to enable CO2 reductions of more than 80% in steel production. >>  Transformation of steelmaking in its current form, i.e., from the carbon-based approach using an integrated blast furnace into elec­ trical steelmaking that requires the com­ bined, flexible use of raw materials (pig iron, scrap, hot briquetted iron (HBI)) and an increase in the use of both hydrogen and renewable energy. Aside from these carbon direct avoidance (CDA) The funding requirements for all phases of this options, voestalpine is also exploring the pos­ transformation are massive. Decarbonization sibilities of carbon capture and usage (CCU). also hinges fundamentally on the incremental Ongoing and conceivable projects with respect restructuring of the energy system in the direc­ to Carbon-2-X concern the conversion of CO2 tion of a system where renewable energy is from process gases and the utilization of such available in adequate quantities and on finan­ gases along with hydrogen in both the energy cially feasible terms so that the technologies and the chemical industry. available at the time can actually be operated competitively. Above and beyond the technical feasibility, the use of raw materials and energy (using natural gas and hydrogen) in future steelmaking oper­ ations are material prerequisites for both CDA and CCU. 34 24: Chromium Cr 2,8,13,1 7. TRANSPARENCY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN voestalpine practices active supply chain management. This involves systematically collecting data on and evaluating the social and environ­ mental effects and risks of suppliers’ activities as well as considering them in the development of supplier relationships. Both general and raw materials procurement are integrated into the Corporate Responsibility Strategy. General Procurement When selecting its suppliers, voestalpine en­ The procurement process is continuously opti­ sures that they comply with environmental and mized in order to ensure compliance. The Code social principles. Sustainable supplier manage­ of Conduct forms the basis of business actions ment has been integrated into its procurement and decisions in this respect. processes to maintain long-term partnerships. voestalpine ensures that those of its employees who work in purchasing receive ongoing training through information events such as the Purchas­ ing Power Day as well as the three-stage Pur­ chasing Power Academy, which the com­pany itself developed. Raw Materials Procurement Applying a life cycle approach (“closed loop”) corporate responsibility guidelines (CR Guide­ together with our customers guarantees the lines). New suppliers are assessed in terms of highest levels of efficiency in the process of re­ CR, quality, and performance and, depending cycling our raw and reusable materials. on the outcome of the evaluation, are included in the portfolio of suppliers. The Sustainable We face the challenge of permanently opti­ Supply Chain Management (SSCM) project mizing our supply chains jointly with our sup­ serves to screen our raw material supply chains pliers. Regular visits to the sources of raw ma­ from the bottom up, examining key factors per­ terials and pre-materials, especially mines and taining to corporate responsibility. voestalpine de­posits, are a fixed element of this process. ensures that absolutely all of its raw materials Together, we develop methods for designing are subjected to this process, thus minimizing a supply chain that is efficient and meets the risk over the long term. 36 7. Transparency in the Supply Chain We require all suppliers from whom we source competitive supply of both raw materials and materials and that are subject to the Doddenergy. A high degree of integration into up­ Frank Act to act in accordance with the latter’s stream and downstream processes, scenario provisions. CMRT reports ensure that all materi­ planning, and adaptive supply concepts serve als procured on behalf of the Group are “con­ to minimize potential risks. flict free.” The primary responsibility of raw materials pro­cure­ment management is to secure the long-term, 7.1 STRUCTURE OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN voestalpine works with a large number of suppli­ The conventional steel supply chain that pro­ ers that deliver the most diverse range of mate­ vides the basis for many of the Group’s value rials or products. Supplies are purchased either chains is depicted schematically below. by the companies themselves or in centralized fashion for several facilities jointly, the latter par­ ticularly in connection with raw materials for the production of steel. SUPPLY CHAIN EXAMPLE: STEEL PRODUCTION Ore Coal Scrap Alloys Aggregates Processing Key Materials Alloys Aggregates Iron ore Aluminum Burned lime Coking coal Boron Calcium carbide Scrap Chromium Magnesite Cobalt Manganese Molybdenum Nickel Niobium Phosphorus Silicon Titanium Tungsten Zinc CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 37 7. Transparency in the Supply Chain 7.2 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AT voestalpine Code of Conduct: Procurement Conditions Risk SSCM Management Project CSR Checklist In order to firmly establish voestalpine’s expec­ (SSCM) project, which was already described in tations and standards in a given supply chain, the two preceding Corporate Responsibility Re­ the company’s Code of Conduct is an integral ports, will reach yet another level in the business part of the purchasing terms and conditions that year 2019/20. In addition to the raw materials are binding on all suppliers. voestalpine’s risk for the steel supply chain, henceforth the alloy management continually examines and evalu­ elements purchased by the High Performance ates a variety of risk categories based on pre­ Metals Division will be subjected to a detailed defined checklists, updating them as necessary. analysis too. The Sustainable Supply Chain Management 38 7. Transparency in the Supply Chain This analysis comprises These countries of origin will be examined as the following alloy elements: part of the expanded project: o Boron o Albania o Norway o Chromium o Canada o Russia o Manganese o Chile o Sweden o Molybdenum o China o Switzerland o Nickel o Czech Republic o South Africa o Niobium o Finland o South Korea o Phosphorus o Great Britain o Ukraine o Tungsten o Kazakhstan o USA o Vanadium o Mexico o Vietnam o Zinc In keeping with the existent SSCM activities, the review shall be conducted based on the following criteria: Social Topics Environmental Topics Labor Standards Governance Topics Human Rights Waste & recycling No discrimination Working times Wastewater & water Occupational health No child labor contamination and safety Biodiversity No forced labor Collective bargaining Compliance agreements (incl. anti-corruption Soil emissions work) Freedom of association Fair compensation Airborne emissions Health and protection Use of energy of the local population Water consumption CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 39 7. Transparency in the Supply Chain The intensive research will be rounded out by The hot spots will be discussed in workshops and discussions among experts. As is already the necessary steps will be taken, subject also to the case with respect to the steel supply chain, the inclusion of the respective suppliers. findings will be entered into a matrix contain­ ing various hot spots. These hot spots show the The next CR Report will describe the findings. extent to which potential effects are deemed egregious, the extent of the probability of neg­ ative effects occurring as well as the extent to which the examined sources are valid. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Checklist One of the measures derived from the first com­ workplace safety) as well as environmental pleted phase of the SSCM project for the steel issues in regards to which the suppliers must supply chain concerns the preparation of a provide information and, if available, submit checklist of topics related to corporate respon­ certificates and guidelines. sibility that serves as a binding guideline to be used during regular on-site visits at suppliers’ The results are then fed into a database that facilities. is regularly updated and thus always provides a current overview of the CSR performance of Aside from general information on the given voestalpine’s raw materials suppliers. entity, the checklist comprises topics such as compliance, working conditions (including 7.3 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT IN ASSOCIATIONS AND INITIATIVES Industry initiatives and trade associations are requirements in global supply chains, either be­ also increasingly focusing on transparent, re­ cause it belongs to these organizations’ working sponsible supply chains. In particular, worldsteel groups or because it collaborates in the design (the World Steel Association) and Responsi­ of new standards. Hence the company can con­ bleSteel (an advocacy organization) are inten­ tribute the experience it has gained through the sively dealing with this topic. voestalpine is party SSCM project to these activities in the form of to the ongoing development of transparency current and in-depth inputs. 40 7. Transparency in the Supply Chain 7.4 LOCAL SUPPLIERS voestalpine places great value on regional pro­ Brazil-based voestalpine entities are domiciled curement. Wherever possible and meaningful, in the country. Such a high percentage of local Group companies make their purchases from procurement is not achievable in resource-poor suppliers in the vicinity of their facilities. For ex­ countries. The following graph shows the re­ ample, more than 95% of the suppliers used by spective percentages of regional suppliers. LOCAL SUPPLIERS Brazil 95.16% China 91.49% Germany 90.24% USA 90.00% Sweden 85.35% France 76.80% Great Britain 74.68% Austria 68.28% Netherlands 63.42% CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 41 8. ETHICAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Ethical corporate management means responsible corporate governance of the Group that is geared to creating sustainable value in the long term and to ensuring that the conduct of all Group employees complies with statutory requirements and internal guidelines as well as fundamental moral and ethical values. Ethical Corporate Management Human Rights In order to ensure that the responsible manage­ We commit to upholding human rights in ment and control of the Group serves to create accordance with the UN Charter and the sustainable value in the long term, the Group’s European Convention on Human Rights, and Management Board and Supervisory Board we support the UN Global Compact (UNGC). undertook as early as in 2003 to comply with the Austrian Corporate Governance Code. Compliance We commit to complying with all laws in all of the countries in which voestalpine operates. We believe, furthermore, that compliance is the expression of a culture rooted in ethical and moral principles. 8.1 COMPLIANCE voestalpine requires its companies and all of its employees are spelled out in the voestalpine employees to comply with all laws in all of the Code of Conduct. countries in which it operates. For voestalpine, however, compliance means more than just Likewise, voestalpine requires its suppliers to acting legally and in accordance with other comply, without limitation, with all applicable external requirements. It is the expression of a laws in the respective country and, in particu­ culture that is also rooted in ethical and moral lar, to respect and uphold human rights as principles. The principles of this corporate fundamental values. culture as it relates to the treatment of cus­ tomers, suppliers, other business partners, and 42 25: Manganese Mn 43 2,8,15 8. Ethical Corporate Management 8.1.1 CODE OF CONDUCT controls in some other way. As regards all other The voestalpine Code of Conduct was enshrined in companies in which voestalpine AG has a direct writing in 2009. It is the result of numerous conversaor indirect stake of at least 25% but does not tions and discussions at the level of the Management control them, the Code of Conduct is brought Board, the managing directors, and the department to their attention with the request that they heads of the voestalpine Group. It is based on the enforce it by having their corporate decisionGroup’s corporate values and provides the basis for making bodies recognize it of their own volition. ethically and legally sound conduct on the part of all of the Group’s employees. The Code of Conduct is published in German and Every employee must reckon with disci­ thirteen additional languages and can be down­ plinary consequences if they violate statutory loaded from the Internet: provisions, internal guidelines, regulations, and http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/group/ instructions, or the provisions of voestalpine’s compliance/code-of-conduct-of-voestalpine/ Code of Conduct. Moreover, violations may also have consequences under criminal and/or civil law, e.g., claims to compensation and claims for The Code of Conduct covers the damages. following areas: >> Compliance with laws and other external voestalpine aims to have the Code of Conduct and internal requirements apply throughout its sphere of influence. Sup­ >> Fair competition pliers and consultants are required to comply >> Corruption, bribery, acceptance of gifts with the Code of Conduct for Business Partners. >> Money laundering Additionally, Group companies are required to >> Respect and integrity bring the Code of Conduct to the attention of >> Conflicts of interest their customers and, if possible, to require them >> Handling of corporate information, to comply with it too. All of voestalpine’s busi­ confidentiality ness partners are also requested to reasonably >> Corporate communications promote compliance with the Code of Conduct >> Use of the Internet and IT among their own business partners along the >> Insider information supply chain. >> Reporting of misconduct The Code of Conduct applies to all members of the management boards, the managing directors, and the non-executive employees of all entities in which voestalpine AG has a direct or indirect interest of at least 50% or which it 44 8. Ethical Corporate Management voestalpine AG has adopted several Group Antitrust Law guidelines that serve as a helpful tool for em­ This guideline (most recently revised in April 2019) ployees in applying the Code of Conduct. The describes the prohibition of agreements restrict­ compliance rules and regulations associated ing competition; provides rules for dealings with with the voestalpine Code of Conduct currently trade associations, professional organizations as comprise the following: well as other sector organizations; and establishes specific rules of conduct for all employees of the Business Conduct voestalpine Group. Additionally, manuals have These guidelines supplement and flesh out been developed with respect to issues of informa­ the Code of Conduct with respect to issues of tion sharing and benchmarking, procurement al­ corruption, bribery, acceptance of gifts, and liances, and supplier relationships with competi­ conflicts of interest. For example, they regulate tors; they provide employees with information on the permissibility of gifts, invitations and other these topics from an antitrust perspective. benefits; donations and sponsoring; secon­ dary employment as well as the private pur­ Compliance Manual & Prevention chase of goods and services by voestalpine Program employees from customers and suppliers. The These rules and regulations provide information section entitled “Business Conduct” also ad­ on the Group’s compliance strategy; the compli­ dresses the prohibition of political contributions. ance structure; measures aimed at preventing, The voestalpine Group does not allow donations identifying, and responding to violations; sanc­ to politicians, political parties, organizations af­ tions; and the Web-based whistleblower system. filiated with political parties, or political front or­ ganizations. This does not apply to political front Code of Conduct for voestalpine’s organizations that are devoted solely to social Business Partners issues and have been individually approved by The rules and regulations that are directed to­ the Management Board of voestalpine AG. ward suppliers of goods and services as well as toward brokers, consultants, and other business Dealings with Brokers and partners define the principles and requirements Consultants for doing business with voestalpine. Among other This guideline contains additional supplementa­ things, voestalpine requires its business part­ ry information on issues of corruption, bribery, ners to respect and comply with human rights as and the acceptance of gifts. It defines the pro­ fundamental values in accordance with the cedure to be complied with prior to engaging European Convention on Human Rights and the sales representatives, agents, and other mar­ UN Charter. keting consultants. An objective analysis of busi­ In particular, this applies to the prohibition ness partners’ environment and scope of activ­ of child and forced labor; the prohibition of ities before establishing business relationships human trafficking in any way, shape, or form; with them serves to ensure that the business the equal treatment of employees; and the partners also comply with applicable laws and right to employee representation and collective the voestalpine Code of Conduct. bargaining. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 45 8. Ethical Corporate Management 8.1.2 COMPLIANCE SYSTEM The responsibility for adherence to Compliance Aside from a Group Compliance Officer, a com­ regulations rests with the respective manage­ pliance officer was appointed in each division; ment. A compliance system was established additional compliance officers were ap­pointed in the voestalpine Group in the business year in certain divisional units. The Group Compli­ 2011/12 to support management in fulfilling its ance Officer reports directly to the Chairman responsibility and set up the processes required of the Management Board and is not bound by to this end. instructions. The divisional compliance officers report to both the Group Compliance Officer and the respective division heads. voestalpine AG Group Compliance Officer Steel High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Division Metals Division Division Division Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer in subgroups / in subgroups / in subgroups / in subgroups / major major major major equity interests equity interests equity interests equity interests The compliance officers are responsible for the All other issues of compliance—e.g., environ­ following areas: mental law, taxes, accounting, labor law, pro­ >> Antitrust law tection of employees or data—are not part of >> Corruption the compliance officers’ sphere of responsibility. >> Compliance with capital market regulations These compliance issues are handled by the >> Fraud (internal cases of theft, fraud, respective departments. misappropriation, or embezzlement) >> Conflicts of interest >> Special topics assigned to the compliance system by the Management Board of voestalpine AG (e.g., in connection with issues related to UN or EU sanctions) 46 8. Ethical Corporate Management 8.1.3 PREVENTIVE MEASURES As part of its compliance activities, voestalpine Compliance training is mandatory for young ex­ places particular importance on preventive ecutives: six to seven training sessions are con­ measures including, in particular, education and ducted per year for up to 40 employees each. training, discussions with management, and Face-to-face training on issues of compliance communications. As a result, managing direc­ with capital market regulations is also provided tors, sales personnel, and other employees have to employees of voestalpine AG. attended face-to-face training that is aimed at sensitizing them to issues of antitrust law since Furthermore, compliance is a regular topic in 2002. Group communications and is addressed re­ peatedly—including by top management— Employees of the voestalpine Group have during major employee events at the level of the completed more than 56,000 e-learning courses Group and the divisions. on the Code of Conduct and antitrust law (includ­ing refresher and advanced courses) since e-learning courses were introduced in the voestalpine Group (antitrust law from 2009, Code of Conduct from 2012). The existent e-learning courses on antitrust law (including an advanced course and a course on the Code of Conduct) were revised and updated in the business year 2018/19. In addition to the e-learning courses, face-toface training tailored to target groups has been carried out especially for sales and marketing personnel. This face-to-face training was gen­ erally focused on compliance with the law and internal guidelines as well as on corruption and antitrust law as it applies to the participants’ respective sphere of activity. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 47 8. Ethical Corporate Management 8.1.4 REPORTING COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS Reports of compliance violations should be Furthermore, an option to anonymously report made openly for the most part, i.e., providing violations via a web-based whistleblower sys­ the whistleblower’s name. Pursuant to the Code tem has been available since 2012. Reports us­ of Conduct, such reports may be directed to ing this system may be filed solely with respect the individual’s direct supervisor; the appropri­ to antitrust law, corruption, fraud, and con­ ate legal or human resources department; the flicts of interest; put differently, only reports on management of the respective Group com­ these issues are processed through this system. pany; Internal Audit of voestalpine AG; or one of The system makes it possible for the appropri­ the Group’s compliance officers. Upon request, ate compliance officers to communicate with whistleblowers are ensured of absolute confi­ whistleblowers while maintaining absolute dentiality. anonymity. 8.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Management Board and the Supervi­sory It was most recently revised in January 2018. Board of voestalpine AG resolved as early as The Code achieves validity when companies in 2003 to recognize the Austrian Corporate voluntarily undertake to comply with it. It aims Governance Code (the “Code”); they have also to establish a system for managing and con­ implemented all of the amendments introduced trolling companies and groups that is account­ in the meantime without exception. able and geared to the creation of sustainable value in the long term. By voluntarily undertak­ In addition to the Code’s binding legal require­ ing to abide by the Code, voestalpine supports ments (“L rules”), voestalpine AG voluntarily these objectives and commits to providing a complies with all of its “comply or explain” rules high degree of transparency to all of the com­ (“C rules”) and recommendations (“R rules”). pany’s stakeholders. The Code provides Austrian stock corporations with a framework for managing and monitoring Business transactions with associated compa­ their companies. It is based on the provisions of nies and parties as well as pending legal pro­ Austrian stock corporation, stock exchange, ceedings (e.g., antitrust proceedings) are re­ and capital market law as well as, generally, on ported in the quarterly and annual reports of the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. voestalpine AG. 48 42: Molybdenum Mo 2,8,18,13,1 9. HUMAN RIGHTS voestalpine is committed to respecting and upholding human rights in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights. Since 2013, voestalpine has supported the UN Global Compact (UNGC) whose ten principles address labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption above and beyond the promotion of human rights. The present CR Report simultaneously serves as the annual Communication on Progress (CoP) under the UNGC. The commitment to respecting and upholding “Respect and Integrity.” Human rights are also a human rights is enshrined in detail in the chap­ key element of the company’s binding Code of ter of voestalpine’s Code of Conduct entitled Conduct for Business Partners. UN GLOBAL COMPACT— THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: make sure that they are not greater environmental complicit in human rights abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and LABOR STANDARDS diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the right technologies. to freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ANTI-CORRUPTION to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of corruption in all its forms, including forced and bonded labor; extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. 50 9. Human Rights COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF MODERN SLAVERY ASSOCIATION Companies of the voestalpine Group that are About 80% of voestalpine’s employees are in an subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act fulfil its employment relationship that is governed by a prescribed requirements by publishing a state­ collective agreement. ment to that effect. Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct for Business Partners Every employee has the freedom and right to explicitly mention and expressly prohibit human join a union. The workforce in all voestalpine trafficking and modern slavery. companies may elect representatives to the works councils. The voestalpine Group has both HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING FOR a European Works Council and a Group Works SECURITY PERSONNEL Council, both of which maintain good commu­ voestalpine’s plant security staff is largely made nications with management. up of the company’s own employees. The Code of Conduct also applies to third-party employ­ CHILD LABOR AND FORCED ees, and the Code of Conduct for Business LABOR Partners applies to their employers. Both docu­ voestalpine is strictly against child, forced, and ments stipulate compliance with human rights. bonded labor. So far, there has been no known case of such forms of labor in the entire Group. voestalpine provides human rights training for Nor does voestalpine tolerate any form of child, its own employees; external security personnel forced, and bonded labor at its suppliers and are trained by their own employers. business partners. RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS voestalpine’s Code of Conduct for Business PEOPLES Partners states in this respect: As voestalpine operates solely in developed industrial areas, its business operations do not in The Business Partner undertakes to respect and comany way affect the rights of aboriginal peoples. ply with human rights as fundamental values on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Charter. In particular, this applies to the prohibition of child and forced labor, the prohibition of any form of human trafficking, the equal treatment of employees, and the right to employee representation and collective bargaining. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 51 10. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We continuously conduct research on innova­ The continuous development of new products tive products and processes, and develop novel and production processes is vital for a technologies in order to remain the benchmark technol­ ogy-driven company such as for both resource efficiency and environmental voestalpine, so that it can differentiate itself standards. from the competition and remain successful in the market. This is how innovations ensure the We pursue active know-how management, both company’s future in the long term. Research and internally and externally, and consider this the Devel­opment (R&D) thus are a material element key to our success. We take on the responsi­ of voestalpine’s long-term corporate strategy. bility of educating and continuing to train our researchers in-house, sharing our knowledge within the Group and exploiting the synergy ef­ fects that arise from pooling our expertise. We place great value in long-term, trusted relationships with our customers and suppliers in the field of research too and work closely with universities and scientific institutions. 52 28: Nickel Ni 2,8,16,2 10. Research and Development 10.1 RESEARCH EXPENDITURES The continuous increase in research expendi­ A total of EUR 170.5 million (+12.1%) were spent tures over the past few years reflects the impor­ on R&D in the business year 2018/19. tance attributed to R&D within the Group. GROSS R&D EXPENDITURES Excl. R&D capital investments per business year, in millions of euros 200 170.5 152.1 131.8 140.3 128.4 126.7 100 Budget 0 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 10.2 ORGANIZATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development at voestalpine are among the R&D managers; corporate projects decentralized and located close to both the link the knowledge available in individual divi­ respective production facilities and the mar­ sions; R&D expert clusters offer platforms for ket. This global network of over 70 sites is con­ researchers to discuss particular topics; and trolled by the Research Board and through Re­ the “Synergy Platform” (the Group’s own annual search Coordination. A variety of formats are conference) offers opportunities for sharing used in the exchange of knowledge: Within the knowledge while meeting in person and net­ Research Committee, information is shared working. voestalpine AG High Metal Metal Steel Performance Engineering Forming Research Board Division Metals Division Division Division Research Committee Research Coordination 54 10. Research and Development 10.3 STEEL—A SUSTAINABLE MATERIAL Steel is one of the most important materials steel possessing higher degrees of malleability in our day-to-day lives. Whether buildings or is used in lightweight automotive construction. households, whether industry or mobility: No The reductions in the weight of autobodies lower sphere of life is conceivable without steel. Rising both fuel consumption and emissions. Low-loss standards of living in many emerging economies electrical steel strip as well as inline-bonded go hand in hand with the continual increase in lamination stacks are built into highly efficient the consumption of steel. Yet the protection of electric engines, thus making an important both the climate and the environment call for contribution to electric mobility. Lifecyclea new view of raw materials. On the one hand, optimized turnouts equipped with diagnostic steel’s footprint is good, because the possibili­ and assistance systems as well as tracks made ties for recycling it are almost unlimited. On the of wear-resistant steel grades enable both high other hand, the production and processing of availability of a given rail infrastructure and the steel require lots of resources and energy. The highest degree of passenger safety. research & development departments of tech­ nology groups such as voestalpine face major Special steels boost the efficiency of conven­ challenges against the backdrop of the envi­ tional power plants. Steel also plays a major role sioned decarbonization of the economy. in the generation of electricity from renewable sources, for example, in wind turbines. In the Even in terms of its applications, steel can con­ toolmaking industry, high-performance steel tribute to a sustainable way of life, thanks espe­ equipped with special coatings ensures longer cially to the opportunities that lightweight con­ useful lives and lower maintenance expendi­ struction offers. For example, ultra-high strength tures. 10.4 INNOVATIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION PROCESSES The production of steel will remain an energysteel production. The groundbreaking, so-called intensive process even in the future. voestalpine “SuSteel” project serves to conduct research on works continuously to find new solutions for the direct production of steel using hydrogen decarbonizing steel production. The company plasma. A pilot plant is being built to this end at is endeavoring to replace coal with alternative voestalpine’s site in Donawitz. sources of energy through bridging technolo­ gies—particularly based on natural gas, as in As far as the goal to lower the use of both its new direct reduction plant in Texas. The next resources and energy is concerned, digitaliza­ step is to develop the direct reduction process tion contributes significantly to the continued using hydrogen instead of natural gas. refining and optimizing of existent production processes. Mechatronics, model-based con­ A hydrogen electrolyzer plant is currently be­ trols, and artificial intelligence all contribute to ing built at the company’s site in Linz in order sharp increases in process efficiency. to research the technology and its potential for CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 55 11. ENVIRONMENT Environmentally conscious action is firmly integrated into the voestalpine Group’s corporate philosophy. This concerns all areas of the production chain and focuses on the most economical use possible of resources— especially raw materials and energy—as well as on efforts to minimize the environmental impact of processes and products. To achieve these goals, we utilize the best avail­ voestalpine is committed to the following able technologies in voestalpine’s production principles at all of its production facilities: plants and continually work to boost efficiency, >> To take comprehensive responsibility for our lower emissions, and reduce the consumption of products energy in connection with the existent system of >> To optimize the production processes steel production. Our intensive work to research >> To establish environmental management new, environmentally friendly production pro­ systems cesses and, not least, to refine materials and >> To integrate employees into these processes products makes material contributions to the and ensure environmentally conscious company’s environmental footprint as well. conduct on the part of every one of them and All of these activities are managed through >> To engage in open and professional transparent and efficient environmental ma­ndialogues agement systems (EMSs) that have been As a result of these consistent efforts, voestalpine widely implemented in the voestalpine Group. has become a leader in the European steel industry, for example, with respect to emission inten­sity and resource efficiency. 56 41: Niobium Nb 2,8,18,12,1 11. Environment Environmental protection is a core component of voestalpine’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy. The following principles are enshrined in it. Emissions in the Air, Soil, and Water: minimize using the Best Available Energy and Climate Policy Technologies Commitment to low-carbon production: We Process-related emissions cannot be entirely are meeting the challenge of decarbonizing avoided due to the chemical-physical proper­ the economic system in the long term not only ties of existent production processes. We ope­rthrough comprehensive research and deve­ ate our production facilities pursuant to the lopment of new technologies, frequently via principle of using the best available technolo­ cross-sector cooperation agreements and pro­ gies as appropriate and in economically viable jects. We also engage in an open and construc­ fashion. We also develop new approaches in or­ tive dialogue with stakeholders such as political der to minimize environmentally relevant effects decision makers, the scientific community, tech­ on the air, soil, and water to the greatest extent nical colleges and universities as well as environ­ possible. mental organizations. Circular Economy & Life Cycle Assessment We support holistic, comprehensive, and inte­ grated analyses and assessments of materials ( life cycle assessments ) as well as of all process and value chains within the parameters of the circular economy. 11.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS About 60% of the 130 Group companies world­ Group’s facility in Corpus Christi, Texas, USA, will wide that are included in internal environmen­ be completed by the end of the business year tal data management use an environmental 2019/20. ma­ nagement system (EMS) pursuant to ISO 14001. These entities account for 100% of the In September 2018, voestalpine was awarded company’s crude steel production. About 15% the EMAS prize for the best environmental team of our facilities have also been validated under by the Austrian Ministry of Sustainability and the EU’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme Tourism on account of the scope, effect, and (EMAS), and more than 20% utilize a certified communication of the company’s policies under energy management standard pursuant to ISO the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme. 50001. The implementation of ISO 14001 at the 58 11. Environment 11.2 OPERATING EXPENSES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SYSTEMS The company’s environmental expenditures technology. Current operating expenses related reflect the stringent nature of its standards to environmental investments in the past ten regarding the environment and environmental years exceed EUR 2.3 billion. ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES voestalpine AG In millions of euros 299 300 258 237 231 222 200 100 0 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 Environmental expenditures in the business year In the reporting period, EU emissions trading 2018/19 have grown to EUR 299.1 million due already accounted for fully 23% of the cur­ to the significant increase in costs associated rent environmental funds. About 24% of these with the EU emissions trading system (EU ETS). funds were spent on waste recycling, reuse, and Because of the dramatic increase in the price disposal; 34% went toward clean air activities of the CO2 certificates by 61.7%, the resulting at the operating level; and 16% were spent on expense (which is recognized in net profit or loss) measures to protect the aquatic environment. in the business year 2018/19 for purchasing emissions trading certificates was EUR 69 million and thus EUR 36 million higher year over year. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 59 11. Environment 11.3 ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS Group-wide, some EUR 400 million were spent New environmentally relevant investments in the past ten years on investment projects rose from EUR 40.7 million in the business year ha­ving a clearly allocable environmental 2017/18 to EUR 66.2 million in the business year impact. 2018/19. This increase stems mainly from two major projects in the Steel Division and the High Performance Metals Division, respectively. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS voestalpine AG Cumulative, in millions of euros 300 66 200 41 45 55 100 43 0 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 In the Steel Division, Blast Furnace A (the been contaminated since World War II has been Group’s largest individual blast furnace) at the ongoing since 2011. The work to remove highly Linz, Austria, site saw a complete overhaul. More contaminated areas in the eastern portion of efficient filter systems were introduced and the areal by way of so-called hot spot excava­ extensive supplementary steps were taken tion continued in the business year 2018/19. to ensure blast furnace gas cleaning and Additional investments were made at the Corpus dedusting. The rehabilitation work on the areal Christi plant in the United States to suppress of the division’s Linz-based coking plant that has dust emissions. 60 11. Environment The High Performance Metals Division has The Metal Forming Division invested in the lowe­red its specific energy consumption by expansion of its in-house generation of hydro­ acquiring a new forging press with automated power and thus the production of renewable system controls and by putting in place new, energy, which the voestalpine Group has already energy-efficient furnaces. pursued in the past at several sites. During the In the Metal Engineering Division, additional reporting period, a more powerful turbine was steps have been taken to suppress dust, for installed in one of the existent hydroelectric instance, by misting the production lines near plants, and the power plant on the whole—all the blast furnaces in Donawitz, Austria, as well the way to its control systems—was brought up as by installing dust-suction equipment at the to specifications. Steps aimed at using electro­ annea­ling furnace in Kindberg, Austria. mobility as the intracompany mode of trans­ portation were accelerated in a number of this division’s companies. 11.4 AIR EMISSIONS Major air pollutants generated in the produc­ Technical limitations make it impossible so far tion of steel are greenhouse gases (in particu­ to entirely avoid process-related emissions lar CO2) as well as sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrous resulting from required raw materials and oxides (NOX), and dust. voestalpine fully com­ existent production processes. We have plies with the statutory limits regarding all of succeeded in lowering emission levels to the these emissions. These parameters are verified technologically achievable minimum thanks to and their annual loads determined by means of the environmental measures that were launched conti­nuous measurements, periodic analyses, as early as in the mid-1980s and have been and material flow analyses. pursued since then with the help of extensive investments, both technically and financially. voestalpine endeavors to minimize air pollu­ tants generated during production on account An analysis of the past three decades shows that of purely technical processes to the greatest the specific emissions of the voestalpine Group extent possible. For one, this is accomplished (i.e., per ton of crude steel) have been reduced by the continuous optimization of technical as follows: CO2 by 20%, SO2 by 75%, NOX by processes (so-called “process integrated 27%, and dust by 95%. (PI) measures”) and, for another, by way of state-of-the-art scrubbing facilities that minimize remaining emissions (so-called “end-of-pipe measures”). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 61 11. Environment 11.4.1 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of comprehensive fashion for all production the approximately 130 production facilities facilities along the ent­ire value chain in accor­ of voestalpine in the calendar year 2018 were dance with ISO 14064-3. 12.7 million tons; the two Austrian plants that produce crude steel (Linz and Donawitz) In 2018, voestalpine was given the CDP’s account for 85% of this amount. high “B” rating for its transparency in climate re­porting and its activities with respect to both voestalpine places great value on transparency climate protection and climate strategy. and thus has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) among others since 2017. To this end, the greenhouse gas emissions were tallied and externally verified in DIRECT AND INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS In million tons of CO2e 20 12.7 8.5 10 0.8 0.8 0.4 0.6 <0.1 <0.1 0 Upstream chain Production Transportation Transportation Business travel energy sources (upstream) (downstream) Waste treatment Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct Indirect 62 11. Environment 11.4.2 SO2 EMISSIONS The use of particular raw materials—e.g., coal The specific SO2 emissions in the calendar year and coke—introduces sulfur into the production 2018 were 0.44 kg/t of product, but the abso­ process. In turn, this creates sulfur dioxide (SO2) lute SO2 emissions were lower due to the idling during particular processing steps and when of the plant during the complete overhaul of by-products (coke oven gas (COG) and blast Blast Furnace A at the Group’s Linz site. furnace gas (BFG)) are used for thermal recycling. SO2 EMISSIONS kt 10 5.3 5.4 5.2 4.9 4.2 5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPECIFIC SO2 EMISSIONS kg/t of product 1.0 0.67 0.70 0.69 0.45 0.44 0.5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 63 11. Environment 11.4.3 NOX EMISSIONS In steel production, nitrogen oxides result from calendar year 2018 were about 4.9 kt, and the the operation of industrial furnaces and from specific NOX emissions were about the same as thermal recycling of the by-product gases. in the previous year. voestalpine’s absolute NOX emissions in the NOx EMISSIONS kt 10 4.6 5.1 4.9 4.2 4.5 5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPECIFIC NOx EMISSIONS kg/t of product 1.0 0.58 0.62 0.51 0.48 0.50 0.5 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 64 11. Environment 11.4.4 C  APTURED DUST EMISSIONS Dust-laden exhaust air and exhaust gases plant in Corpus Christi, Texas, USA, a slight de­ occurring during production are captured and cline was recorded in 2018. At 37 g/t of product, channeled to dedusting systems using statevoestalpine’s specific dust emissions during the of-the-art measures and precautions. While reporting period remained at a very low level. absolute dust emissions rose in 2017 due to the start of full operations at the direct reduction CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS kt 0.50 0.37 0.39 0.36 0.32 0.25 0.25 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPECIFIC CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS g/t of product 100 45 42 50 37 37 33 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 65 11. Environment 11.4.5 ORGANIC AIR POLLUTANTS Organic air pollutants (VOC) are primarily pro­ This made it possible to de facto eliminate VOC cess related, resulting from the thermal process emissions from this area of the facility, which stages in crude steel production and/or in the had a significant effect on the absolute VOC respective combustion processes. Regenerative emissions of the Group on the whole. The speafterburning was installed at the Linz facility in ci­fic VOC emissions fell to a new minimum level connection with the drying of coal; 2018 was of 24 g/t of product. the first year during which it was in operation throughout. VOC EMISSIONS kt 0.50 0.36 0.37 0.33 0.30 0.24 0.25 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPECIFIC VOC EMISSIONS g/t of product 100 42 45 39 34 50 24 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 66 11. Environment 11.5 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is used in the production of both pig iron voestalpine used approximately 687 million m³ and crude steel for cooling and genera­ ting of water in the calendar year 2018, but some steam; it is one of the most important consum­ 93% of this amount was used solely for cooling ables and auxiliary materials. It goes without say­ purposes. The water was sourced from surface ing that voestalpine conserves water resources water and returned to the source in the same as a matter of course—especially ta­king the quality. Accordingly, the company’s direct blue local environment into account. This is achieved water consumption in the calendar year 2018 by means of circular systems and the repeated was 12.7 million m³ or 1.32 m³/t of product. use of process water, among other things. Upstream steel production accounted for most of the indirect blue water consumption of In keeping with ISO 14046, voestalpine applies 48.6 million m³ or 5.03 m³/t of product. an integrated life cycle assessment approach to its circular water economy throughout all pro­ The impact of voestalpine’s process plants on duction steps and locations. local water systems thus is relatively low and does not aggravate conditions in regions Determining the “blue water consumption” (i.e., already affected by water scarcity. There are the the net consumption of freshwater) and the wa­ findings of an externally verified study on the ter scarcity footprint of every production facili­ determination of the water scarcity footprint in ty involves conducting a detailed analysis of the 2018, which plotted a Group-wide analysis of ways they contribute to the water scarcity of a the production activities along the entire value region, taking local hydrogeological conditions chain (i.e., from cradle to gate). into account. WATER EXTRACTION 2018 WATER FOOTPRINT voestalpine AG In % 93.1% 100% Surface water < 0.2% Municipal water supply 6.7% 50% Groundwater < 0.01% Other sources 0% Blue water Water scarcity consumption footprint Direct Indirect CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 67 11. Environment 11.6 WASTE AND RECYCLING MANAGEMENT In addition to conserving resources in both a high degree of internal recycling and external production and processing, voestalpine also utilization of residual products and waste from focuses on improving the useful life of its pro­ both the production machinery and the down­ ducts as well as their reusability and recoverabil­ stream machinery (e.g., filter dust and mill scale). ity. voestalpine endeavors to achieve the most Furthermore, products, residual materials, and complete possible circular economy, even with waste that accumulate externally are also uti­ respect to by-products resulting from produc­ lized in voestalpine’s production plants—scrap, tion as well as residual products and waste. in particular, but also plastic pellets as well as waste oil and used grease. Steel is considered a permanent material, i.e., a raw material that may be recycled any number Due to their ingredients, many of the byof times without any loss in quality. The steel mills pro­ ducts generated in the production and of the High Performance Metals Division ope­rate downstream processing of pig iron and steel electric furnaces and produce highest-grade can be utilized as recycled materials in-house steel products from own and third-party scrap or as secondary raw materials in other industries as well as alloy additives. In 2018, the recycling (e.g., steel mill dust in the zinc industry or slag in rate of iron relative to the product output at the cement industry). voestalpine’s crude steel production plants in Linz and Donawitz was 30.0%*. The specific volume of non-hazardous waste in 2018 was 132 kg/t of product. As in the previous Process management in the integrated steel year, the specific volume of hazardous waste mills is optimized on an ongoing basis to ensure was 22 kg/t of product. RECYCLING RATE In % 50% 30.0 24.5 23.7 22.1 22.2 25% 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018* * From 2018: recycling rate of iron relative to product output (= percentage of iron in the product made of secondary raw materials such as scrap) 68 11. Environment WASTE VOLUME kt 2000 1,372 1,267 1,272 1,248 1,275 1000 184 187 197 236 209 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Hazardous Non-hazardous SPECIFIC WASTE VOLUME kg/t of product 187 200 172 137 132 116 100 23 24 26 22 22 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Hazardous Non-hazardous CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 69 11. Environment 11.7 ENERGY Because it is both an environmental and a cost Due to the extended operational shutdown factor, the consumption of energy is a material during the complete overhaul of the Group’s parameter in steel production. Activities aimed largest individual blast furnace (Blast Furnace at the efficient use of energy thus have a long A) in Linz, Austria, total energy consumption in tradition at voestalpine. In conventional, inte­ absolute terms declined in 2018, but specific grated steel mills, efficiency gains are achieved consumption remained largely unchanged year through the continual optimization of process over year. gas recycling, the use of waste heat poten­ tials, and comprehensive energy management Coal (47.2%), coke (14.4%), and natural gas systems. (31.1%) are the sources of energy that account for the lion’s share of the energy consumed. The total energy consumption of the voestalpine By-product gases resulting from processes are Group in the calendar year 2018 was 39.9 TWh fully reused in the steelmaking facilities’ own (4.1 MWh/t of product), with Linz and Donawitz power plants, with the result that their power (the two facilities producing crude steel) as well needs are covered almost entirely through the as the newly built direct reduction plant in the in-house generation of electricity. Externally United States recording the highest energy con­ sourced electricity accounts for a mere 6.4% of sumption by far. total energy consumption. TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TWh 45.0 50 38.7 37.9 39.9 37.1 25 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 70 11. Environment SPECIFIC TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION MWh/t of product 10.0 4.9 4.9 4.9 4.2 4.1 5.0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 PERCENTAGE OF ENERGY SOURCES 2018 31.1% Natural gas 47.2% Coal 14.4% Coke 6.4% 0.9% Electricity (purchased) Other 11.8 BIODIVERSITY voestalpine treats all local ecosystems at its also provide breeding spaces for rare species. production facilities responsibly and contributes A project for establishing and managing se­veral actively to the maintenance of biodiversity. bee colonies at the site is currently being im­ plemented; voestalpine employees with many For example, some 20,000 m² of flower pas­ years of beekeeping experience take care of tures were created in Linz, the Group’s largest them. production site. The resulting wildflower pasture provides an additional source of food for many types of insects—especially bees. “Insect hotels” CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 71 12. HUMAN RESOURCES Our success as a technology group is based on our employees’ particular expertise and high motivation. Hence voestalpine places great value in a respectful corporate culture, the diversity and individuality of our employees as well as their qualifications—all of which is reflected in the guiding principles of our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy. Corporate Culture Training and Continuing Education We create a respectful corporate culture in Targeted measures help voestalpine employees which we expect and encourage trust, diversity, gain qualifications and thus broaden their self-determination, and personal responsibility. career opportunities. We believe, furthermore, voestalpine’s culture, as a symbol of our Groupthat both training young people and encourag­ wide identity, is continually being refined in this ing lifelong learning are long-term determinants sense. of the company’s success. Diversity We value the individuality of all our employees and their capabilities—irrespective of gender, age, origin, religion, sexual orientation, or any impairment—and create the conditions for equal opportunities as well as work that main­ tains people’s health and is appropriate to life’s different phases. 72 15: Phosphorus P 2,8,5 12. Human Resources 12.1 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE As of the annual reporting date (March 31, 2019), apprentices and 3,300 temporary employees, the voestalpine Group had a global work­ this number rises to 51,907 full time equivalents force of 48,792 employees. Including 1,310 (FTEs). DEVELOPMENT OF THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Personnel (excl. apprentices and temporary employees, head counts), per business year 43,164 45,046 45,866 47,603 48,792 50,000 25,000 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT In each case as of the March 31 reporting date; excl. full time employees 4,669 5,000 4,172 3,868 4,405 3,879 3,613 3,825 3,680 3,389 3,300 2,500 1,407 1,377 1,320 1,301 1,310 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Temporary employees (FTEs) Apprentices (head counts) Part-time employees (head counts) 74 12. Human Resources 12.1.1 EMPLOYMENT BY COUNTRY AND REGION voestalpine has about 500 Group companies are based in Austria, and 55.1% work at sites and sites in 50 countries on five continents. outside of the country. A total of 44.9% of the company’s employees 6.7% USA 4.0% Brazil 8.7% Other countries 44.9% Austria 16.6% Germany 2.8% Netherlands 2.4% Sweden 1.8% France 1.3% Great Britain 1.3% Belgium 4.1% China 1.1% Poland 1.7% Romania 1.1% Mexico 1.5% India CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 75 12. Human Resources voestalpine is considered a particularly attrac­ that most employees at any given site are local tive employer in the countries in which it works. residents. This facilitates local recruiting, with the result WORKFORCE BY REGION As of the March 31, 2019, reporting date, based on FTEs 0.7% 0.8% Africa Rest of Europe 12.9% Americas 7.5% Asia 0.6% 77.5% Australia and Oceania European Union German and English are the predominant lan­ as well. For example, the Code of Conduct, the guages in the voestalpine Group. The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Factsheet, and the most important publications are issued in these Employee Magazine are available in a total of two languages, but in multiple other languages 14 languages. 76 12. Human Resources 12.1.2 YEARS OF SERVICE AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER As in years past, in the business year 2018/19 followed by employees who had been with voes­ employees who had up to five years of service talpine for a period of six to 15 years. with the Group were the largest employee group, YEARS OF SERVICE As of the March 31, 2019, reporting date 9.9% 5.5% 26 – 35 years 36 years and more 14.9% 37.4% 16 – 25 years 5 years and less 32.3% 6 – 15 years In the business year 2018/19, the turnover job opening, which reflects the rising trend in rate for employment contracts terminated by recent years and illustrates the attractiveness mutual agreement or by the employee was of voestalpine as an employer. 7.5%. There were 33 applications for each CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 77 12. Human Resources 12.2 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY Globally, just under 52,000 people (FTEs) work This commitment and corresponding actions for voestalpine. Each and every employee is create a climate of acceptance and mutual valuable on account of their individual strengths trust. As laid out in the chapter “Respect and In­ and abilities and must be respected. The fact tegrity” of the voestalpine Code of Conduct, the that voestalpine’s CEO signed the company’s Group does not tolerate any form of discrimina­ Diversity Charter in February 2018 underscores tion. the Group’s approach to both diversity and equal treatment. voestalpine is committed to respecting all people with whom it has a rela­ tionship (employees, customers, business part­ ners)—irrespective of gender, skin color, nation­ ality, ethnicity, religion or worldview, impairment, age, sexual orientation, and identity. 12.2.1 DIFFERENTLY-ABLED INDIVIDUALS In Austria, companies with more than 25 em­ information is collected on employees’ poten­ ployees are required to make jobs available tial impairment. voestalpine fulfills all statutory for differently-abled individuals. For reasons re­ oblig­ations at all of its locations in this respect. lated to data protection, outside of Austria no 12.2.2 WOMEN AT voestalpine As of the annual reporting date (March 31, 2019), excluding members of the Management Board). women made up 14.4% of all employees in the There was a slight increase in the percentage of voestalpine Group. The percentage of female women in most of these categories. At 52.7%, workers among wage employees is 5.7%; among the percentage of women among apprentices salaried employees it is 28.9%. As of March 31, completing non-technical training (shown in the 2019, women accounted for 12.5% of female “Female apprentices (other)” category) is partic­ executives (salaried employees with permanent ularly high. staff responsibility, including forepersons, but 78 12. Human Resources PERCENTAGE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Women overall 13.3% 13.1% 13.5% 13.8% 14.4% Female executives 11.0% 12.0% 11.5% 12.3% 12.5% Salaried female 28.4% 28.4% 28.5% 28.8% 28.9% employees Wage female 4.1% 3.9% 4.5% 4.9% 5.7% employees Female apprentices 12.1% 11.8% 12.4% 13.5% 13.4% (technical) Female apprentices 55.9% 55.2% 50.8% 47.4% 52.7% (other) SALARIED EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY GENDER In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 100% 80% 71.6 71.6 71.5 71.2 71.1 60% 40% 28.4 28.4 28.5 28.8 28.9 20% 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Female salaried employees Male salaried employees CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 79 12. Human Resources WAGE EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY GENDER In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 95.9 96.1 95.5 95.1 94.3 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 4.1 3.9 4.5 4.9 5.7 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Female wage employees Male wage employees 12.2.3 AGE  STRUCTURE OF EMPLOYEES As of the annual reporting date (March The following table shows the average age by 31, 2019), the average age of employees in the employment contract and gender. Group was 41.1 years. AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Wage employees 40.4 40.5 40.5 40.4 40.4 Salaried employees 42.1 42.3 42.2 42.4 42.3 Women 39.7 39.8 39.5 39.7 39.9 Men 41.3 41.4 41.4 41.3 41.4 80 12. Human Resources SALARIED EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY AGE GROUP In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 56.8 55.7 55.6 55.4 55.8 60% 40% 26.2 27.0 27.2 26.9 27.5 20% 17.0 17.3 17.1 17.7 16.7 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Employees < 30 years Employees 30 – 50 years Employees > 50 years WAGE EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY AGE GROUP In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 60% 49.3 49.3 49.5 48.9 48.9 40% 26.1 24.6 25.5 25.2 25.6 24.9 26.1 25.1 25.8 25.3 20% 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Employees < 30 years Employees 30 – 50 years Employees > 50 years CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 81 12. Human Resources 12.3 ATTRACTIVENESS AS AN EMPLOYER 12.3.1 EMPLOYEE SURVEY voestalpine regularly conducts a Group-wide individual companies, i.e., separately from the employee survey. To date, it has done so every Group-wide survey, will offer greater flexibility three years; in the future, it will take place and autonomy. But the key indicator—“commit­ every two years. Currently, the survey is being ment”—will be measured in the future too. It de­ con­verted to an online-only format with a much scribes the emotional and intellectual degree of shorter questionnaire. These adjustments will loyalty to a group or organization and is com­ lead to simpler processing of the survey, quicker piled from a number of different questions. As preparation of the results, and a less complex in the past, actions resulting from the findings process of analyzing the survey’s findings. In the of the survey will be consistently implemented. future, interim surveys conducted at the level of 12.3.2 E  MPLOYER BRANDING Its positioning as an attractive employer is very personnel marketing activities such as collab­ important to voestalpine. We can drive innova­ orations with (primarily technical) universities, tion and compete successfully in the markets participation in job fairs and career expos, only if we have committed and professionally and sponsoring are carried out to enhance competent employees. voestalpine’s employer branding. A strong pres­ ence in all of the relevant online and social me­ The regular voestalpine employee survey serves dia channels as well as active reporting about as a barometer of employee satisfaction and the company increase voestalpine’s visibility results in the development of internal mea­ among the target groups. sures aimed at improving it. Numerous external APPLICANT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (FABIS) The FABIS applicant management system is a platimprove the system. The new version of FABIS ensures form for both potential employees and voestalpine better linking with other portals (including those of itself that makes it possible to electronically process external providers), a visually more pleasing design and track job openings and applications as well as the as well as an application form that is easier to use. entire application process including all related comThe fact that all processes, including data processing, munications. Switching to a new software provider in conform to the General Data Protection Regulation October 2018 helped us to take additional steps to (GDPR) is particularly important. 82 12. Human Resources 12.4 TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION voestalpine believes that enhancing employee development in the business year 2018/19 ex­ qualification levels is instrumental to both inno­ ceeded EUR 54 million. A total of 84.8% of all vation and quality, and thus the company’s suc­ Group employees took part in training and con­ cess. Numerous measures promote employee tinuing education programs. In the business training and continuing education and simulta­ year 2018/19, the total volume of training hours neously serve to expand their career opportuni­ was 913,078, i.e., an average of 22.1 hours per ties. The total expenditure for human resources trained employee. 12.4.1 EXECUTIVE TRAINING PROGRAMS voestalpine relies on the so-called program’s methods, is the intensive collabora­ “value:program” it developed for training tion by representatives of voestalpine’s man­ current and future executives. A total of 176 agement—whether as presenters, project man­ employees from 24 countries participated in agers, or even sparring partners (so to speak) this multi-level leadership program during the in exchanges of experience. This mixture of ex­ business year 2018/19. Of these, 15.9% were ternal and internal know-how along with the women. What makes this program special, aside Group-wide interest in ensuring that employ­ from the skills training offered by leading inter­ ees possess advanced qualifications make the national experts and the broad range of the value:program extremely successful and unique. HIGH MOBILITY POOL The “High Mobility Pool” executive development proof management methods, and excellent communigram is carried out annually to develop international cation skills are the prerequisite for being successful talent. Under this program, young, international in this program. It gives young, talented individuals graduates with a few years of profes­sional experience the opportunity to learn a lot and to promote intercarry out project work worldwide at a high level. Purnational networks within the Group through a range posefulness, flexibility, self-directedness, knowledge of projects. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 83 12. Human Resources 12.4.2 PROFESSIONAL ACADEMIES In addition to its proven programs for executives self-reflection, and agility. Both guiding values and specialists, voestalpine AG also offers train­ and corporate responsibility are also explored. ing programs for wage and salaried employees. The voestalpine Group believes that, besides a These programs not only expand these employ­ high level of professional expertise, these capa­ ees’ professional qualifications and expertise, bilities and competencies are important factors they also boost soft skills such as teamwork, in employees’ successful future advancement. YOUNG PROFESSIONALS TRAINING PROGRAM (YPTP) REFRESHER In 2015, voestalpine launched its own training proin­vited to a three-day refresher training. Here too the gram in China. In the four years since then, it has profocus was on the mutual exchange of experi­ences vided comprehensive training to 146 Chinese emand networking within the Group. The participants ployees on, among other things, Group know-how, also had the option of reinforcing their negotiating competence in communications and presentations and project management skills. A successful “Finance as well as negotiating and project management skills. for Non-Finance Managers” course rounded out the The very first refresher program for YPTP graduates offerings. It focused on a professional understanding was carried out in 2018. Thirty select participants of financial indicators as well as their interpretation who had completed the YPTP in 2015 and 2016 were and application in practice. 84 12. Human Resources 12.5 APPRENTICES As of the annual reporting date (March 31, 2019), complete their training are offered full time 1,310 apprentices were being trained in the positions. voestalpine clearly believes that it voestalpine Group in about 50 skilled trades, the has the duty to invest in the training of young, majority (61.5%) at locations in Austria. A total skilled workers. In addition to excellent profes­ of 21.1% of apprentices were being trained sional training, the focus also is on developing in Germany under the dual system. Because per­sonal and social skills. The Group currently apprenticeships are based on defined needs, invests more than EUR 70,000 in the training of almost all of the apprentices who successfully a single apprentice. TRAINING AT voestalpine: TRADITION WITH A BRIGHT FUTURE Training is a tradition at voestalpine. Under its “expect also and in particular to young women, who are inand encourage” maxim, the Group offers ideal condicreasingly opting for technical jobs in the voestalpine tions for people to give their best and have access to Group. At the close of the business year 2018/19, secure careers in a globally renowned company. So women accounted for 13.4% of all apprenticeships far, more than 25,000 young women and men have in technical professions. Our apprentices have shown been trained as skilled employees at some 40 locathat the categorization of jobs as “typically” male or tions in Austria and Germany. Many of them achieved female no longer applies. At the 2018 apprenticeship excellent results in regional and international compecompetition in Upper Austria, for instance, female titions for apprentices and were honored as champicutting machine operators of voestalpine won first ons at the country, European, and world level. and second place. But awards or titles are generally not foregrounded. Digitalization is also becoming an ever more impor­ What is important to voestalpine, instead, is that its tant issue in the training of apprentices. Digital­ization current 1,310 apprentices believe that the company projects and a new lab for electrical and automation offers them good prospects for the future. Extraortechnology in Kapfenberg, Austria, serve to enhance dinarily high final apprenticeship exam pass rates the company’s ability to impart digital skills. For of 98.7% in Austria and Germany—of the Austrian example, future skilled workers are thus being trained graduates, 70% even did so with “good” or “excelfor the world’s most advanced special steel plant that lent” grades—show that voestalpine’s approach to is being built in Kapfenberg and will be commissioned apprenticeships is the right way to go. This applies in 2021. voestalpine TRAINERS MEETING & GROUP APPRENTICE DAY Apprentices are successful also thanks to motivated was already the sixth Apprentice Day was held in trainers. They enrich the curriculum far beyond Linz, Austria, in 2018. A total of 350 apprentices from statu­tory requirements. Trainers shared their real-life 40 locations in Switzerland, Germany, and Austria experiences at the first voestalpine Trainers Meeting attended the event and were given the opportunity in March 2019. Here too the focus was on how to preto participate in shaping it: by talking to the Managepare and teach course content related to Industry 4.0. ment Board of voestalpine AG; in connection with the Every year, the Group Apprentice Day gives apprenvoestalpine quiz; during a tour of the plant; and in a tices an opportunity to learn from each other. What competition for ideas. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 85 12. Human Resources 12.6 THE STAHLSTIFTUNG In 1987, the so-called “Stahlstiftung” (Steel In the business year 2018/19, about 88% of Foundation) was founded in Linz as an em­ the participants looking for work were able to ployee fund with the aim of providing not de­velop a new professional perspective with only those employees of the VOEST-ALPINE the help of the Stahlstiftung. As of the annual Group (as it was called at the time) who had to reporting date (March 31, 2019), a total of 296 leave the company due to a crisis, but also em­ individuals were receiving assistance from the ployees of companies outside of the Group Stahlstiftung, 60.8% of whom were former em­ the opportunity to reorient themselves profes­ ployees of the voestalpine Group. The total sionally while undergoing up to four years of number of active Stahlstiftung participants in training and continuing education in order to the business year 2018/19 was 560, i.e., 17.2% offset or at least alleviate the impact of the job less than in the previous year (676 individuals). loss. 12.7 EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING SCHEME voestalpine has had an employee shareholding through the voestalpine Mitarbeiterbeteiligung scheme since 2001, which has been continu­ally Privatstiftung, which constitutes 13.4% of the expanded since then. Today, the voestalpine company’s share capital due to the general Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung (employee bundling of voting rights. Furthermore, the vot­ foundation for the Group’s employee sharehold­ ing rights of about 2.5 million “private shares” ing scheme) is the second-largest voestalpine owned by former and current Group employees, shareholder. In addition to all Group employees who may freely dispose of their shares at any in Austria, personnel in Great Britain, Germany, time, have been transferred to the foundation; the Netherlands, Poland, Belgium, the Czech this equates to an additional 1.4% of the voting Republic, Italy, Switzerland, Romania, Sweden, shares. In toto, as of March 31, 2019, 14.8% of and Spain have a stake in voestalpine too. As of voestalpine AG’s share capital was owned by March 31, 2019, a total of 25,500 employees employees. held about 24 million shares in voestalpine AG 86 14: Silicon Si 2,8,4 13. health & safety At voestalpine, human safety and health are fundamental values and have the highest priority. We work to further reduce the frequency of accidents and to improve the health of all employees of the voestalpine Group—wherever they work, whatever their position. In our view, safety standards that apply Group-wide are the basis of a successful corporate health & safety (h&s) culture. 13.1 THE health & safety (h&s) SYSTEM The Group’s employees are its backbone. Hence their physical and psychological wellbeing Within the voestalpine’s health & safety system, (health) and their security (safety) at the work­ a health & safety culture is developed that all place are considered key values at voestalpine. employees throughout the Group are expected to embrace. Aside from the Chief health & This is underscored by the fact that the Corpo­ safety Officer, the h&s Board, and the h&s rate health & safety department reports directly Committee, managers in each division also have to one of the members of voestalpine AG’s a role to play in this connection. Safety projects Ma­ nagement Board. It is run by the Chief that serve to prevent accidents and strengthen health & safety Officer and fosters cooperation peop­le’s awareness of safety issues are carried across the Group. The department cooperates out in all divisions. intensively with a health & safety Committee, which is made up of employees of all four divisions and Works Council representatives, to lower the frequency of accidents. The accident frequency rate has already been reduced by 30% since the department was established in 2015. 88 13. health & safety h&s Board Chair: Management Board h&s Committee Chair: Chief h&s Officer h&s Management High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Steel Division Division Metals Division Division The following safety standards have The effectiveness of the Group-wide safety stan­ been defined for the voestalpine Group: dards is reviewed annually using a Web-based tool. Targeted questions lead to an assessment >> Every production company must put in based on a stoplight system (green/yellow/red). place a safety system appropriate to its size When matters are in the yellow or red zone, and the nature of its activities. actions showing how the transition to green will >> Safety audits are measures aimed at be achieved must be put in place. checking the lived reality of the safety culture and must be conducted by Starting in the business year 2018/19, the production company executives. voestalpine Management Board member re­ >> Near misses must be avoided and sponsible for workplace safety has had to carry documented by way of event analyses; out an annual safety audit. The managing di­ appropriate actions must be devised in rectors responsible for workplace safety at the light of any such events and implemented. production companies must carry out quarterly safety audits. The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and the health status are the two key safety indi­ cators that the companies compile uniformly throughout the Group. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 89 13. health & safety 13.2 LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE The LTIFR shows the number of reportable work­ the figures compiled before this date cannot be place accidents entailing more than three lost compared to the ones compiled after it. days per one million hours worked. Thanks to consistent health & safety measures There are large differences in the definitions in the divisions, the number of workplace acci­ of reportable workplace accidents, lost days, dents has fallen continuously in recent years. and working hours in the individual countries in which voestalpine works. Hence a uniform defi­ In the business year 2018/19, not a single fatal nition was put in place at the Group level. It has work-related accident involving voestalpine governed the figures that have been collected employees occurred in the entire Group. since the business year 2015/16. As a result, DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) As of the March 31 reporting date Implementation of 30 the h&s structure at the Group 20.4 level* 20 16.1 14.8 12.5 11.3 10 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 * Change in the definition of the key performance indicator LEARNING FROM EACH OTHER: EXAMPLES OF HOW TO LOWER THE LTIFR Just as in 2018, this year too the safety experts of all positive examples from the divisions were introduced four divisions were invited to share their experien­ and given the Committee’s health & safety Award. ces during the so-called health & safety Days. The first-ever separate event for European safety experts Six best practice examples among others were who do not speak German was held in Düsseldorf in ho­nored at the health & safety Days in Leoben. The May 2019. The German-speaking safety experts met “One Step Ahead—Get Home Safely” campaign of in Leoben in June 2019. voestalpine Rotec GmbH is but one example. Small groups were formed to engage in discussions with “Learning From Each Other” and “Developing a employees and educate them about workplace Strong Safety Culture” were the events’ mottos. At safety. both events, Group companies were audited, and 90 13. health & safety 13.3 HEALTH STATUS The health status shows the percentage of DEVELOPMENT prescribed working hours during which the OF THE HEALTH STATUS employees are actually present in a preAs of the March 31 reporting date defined period. 95.9 96.0 96.0 100% A high health status is not only good for the employees, it is also good for the company. It demonstrates the outcome of an effective health policy as well as the company’s responsi­ 50% ble and respectful attitude toward its em­ployees. No matter how important it is to achieve a high health status, it is equally important to ensure that employees do not come to work when they 0% are sick. 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 13.4 ISO 45001 Many voestalpine Group companies have al­ The certification pursuant to the new interna­ ready been certified under an occupational tional ISO 45001 standard is carried out in con­ safety and health management system. nection with recertifications pursuant to OHSAS 18001. 13.5 WORKPLACE SAFETY AT CONTRACTORS / THIRD-PARTY COMPANIES voestalpine also endeavors to protect the life Binding guidelines that the employees of con­ and health of third-party employees. tractors and third-party companies must com­ ply with have been issued to this end. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 91 14. SOCIETY voestalpine’s companies engage with their regional environment in multifaceted ways. At the Group level, two projects above all were intensely supported and promoted. Formula E Starting with the 2018/19 season, voestalpine In the 2018/19 season, the “voestalpine has been the main sponsor of all European European Races” took place in Rome, Paris, races of the ABB FIA Formula E Championship. The Berlin, Monaco, and Bern. The driver who came so-called “voestalpine European Races” are out on top after all five races was awarded the street races that feature cars powered by fullytrophy that voestalpine had manufactured electric drive technology and link true motor­ using 3D printing technology. sport ambiance with sustainability. voestalpine is the perfect partner for this up-and-coming For more information on the collaboration racing series: After all, the technology group between voestalpine and Formula E, visit: has been driving the future of mobility for years https://www.voestalpine.com/formele/home/ through continuous development of innova­ tions and new product solutions. Apprenticeships for young asylum seekers When it comes to promoting young, skilled work­ granted asylum so as to ensure that no appren­ ers, voestalpine has an excellent reputation. ticeships have to be abandoned at some point. Young people entitled to asylum in Austria have Currently, 14 young asylum seekers are being had the right since 2016 to benefit from the trained at voestalpine’s facilities in Linz, company’s thorough apprenticeship program. Donawitz, and Kapfenberg. They can take These apprenticeships are part of voestalpine’s language courses in their free time above and refugee and integration action package. The beyond the formal German language instruc­ Group believes that education and access to tion that is part of their training. the labor market in particular are important elements of integration. The apprentices show a great deal of commit­ ment and willingness to learn, have made signif­ The apprenticeships were established above icant progress both linguistically and profession­ and beyond the existent allotments and are ally, and are performing very well in vocational available solely to young people who have been school. 92 20: Calcium Ca 2,8,8,2 THE MANAGEMENT BOARD voestalpine AG Herbert Eibensteiner Franz Kainersdorfer Robert Ottel Franz Rotter Peter Schwab Hubert Zajicek Linz, September 09, 2019 94 12: Magnesium Mg 95 2,8,2 15. APPENDIX 15.1 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization p. 8 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services pp. 16-18 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 16 102-4 Location of operations AR pp. 6-7, 220-232 102-5 Ownership and legal form pp. 15-16 102-6 Markets served pp. 14-15 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 14; AR pp. 2, 8-9 Information on employees and other 102-8 pp. 74-76 6 workers 102-9 Supply chain p. 37 AR pp. 120-123 Ownership and structure of Significant changes to the organization 102-10 voestalpine are largely unchanged. and its supply chain Changes in the scope of consolidation are depicted in the AR. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach pp. 55-56; AR pp. 58-63 voestalpine is a participant of the UN Global Compact and a signatory of 102-12 External initiatives the worldsteel Sustainable Development Charter and Diversity Charter. 102-13 Membership of associations pp. 103-106 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker pp. 6-7 96 15. Appendix GRI Code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards, and norms 102-16 pp. 36-37, 42, 44-45, 52, 58, 72, 88 10 of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure pp. 23, 94; AR pp. 10-15 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 20 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 51 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 20 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pp. 20, 21-22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pp. 21-24 Reporting Practice Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 p. 9; AR pp. 220-232 financial statements Defining report content and topic 102-46 pp. 9, 23-24 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics p. 24 102-48 Restatements of information p. 9 There was no significant change in 102-49 Changes in reporting the list of material topics. 102-50 Reporting period p. 10 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 10 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 10 Contact person for questions regarding 102-53 p. 110 the report Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 p. 8 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index pp. 96-101 102-56 External assurance pp. 108-109 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 97 15. Appendix GRI Code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 200 series ECONOMIC 201 Economic Performance 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 30-34 7 Direct economic value generated and 201-1 AR pp. 32-42, 88-89 distributed Financial implications and other risks and 201-2 pp. 30-34 7 opportunities due to climate change Defined benefit plan obligations and 201-3 AR pp. 163-168 other retirement plans 204 Procurement Practices 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 36-41 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 41 205 Anti-corruption 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 42-48 10 Communication and training about 205-2 p. 47 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures 206 Anti-competitive Behavior 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 42-48 Legal actions for anti-competitive 206-1 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly AR pp. 169-170 practices 98 15. Appendix GRI Code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 300 series ENVIRONMENTAL 301 Materials 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 56-59, 68 8 301-2 Recycled input materials used p. 68 8 302 Energy 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 56-59, 70 7, 8 Energy consumption within the 302-1 pp. 70-71 7, 8 organization 302-3 Energy intensity p. 71 8 303 Water 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 56-59, 67 7, 8 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 67 7, 8 Water sources significantly affected by 303-2 p. 67 8 withdrawal of water 305 Emissions 7, 8, 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 56-59, 61-62 9 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 62 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 62 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 62 7, 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions pp. 32-34 8, 9 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 305-7 pp. 61, 63-66 7, 8 and other significant air emissions CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 99 15. Appendix GRI Code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 306 Effluents and Waste 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 56-59, 67-68 8 Water discharge by quality and 306-1 p. 67 8 destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method pp. 68-69 8 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 36-41 8 All new and existing raw materials New suppliers that were screened suppliers for steel production were 308-1 8 using environmental criteria screened according to environmental criteria. 400 series SOCIAL 401 Employment pp. 72, 82; 103 Management approach disclosures http://www.voestalpine.com/group/ 6 en/jobs/working-at-voestalpine/ New employee hires and employee 401-1 p. 77 6 turnover 403 Occupational Health and Safety 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 88-89, 91 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 403-2 pp. 90-91 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 404 Training and Education 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 72, 83-85 6 Average hours of training per year per 404-1 p. 83 6 employee Programs for upgrading employee skills 404-2 pp. 83-86 6 and transition assistance programs 100 15. Appendix GRI Code Description Reported Reference / Explanation UNGC 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 72, 78 6 Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 pp. 78-81; AR pp. 10-15 6 employees Freedom of Association and 407 Collective Bargaining 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 50-51 3 Operations and suppliers in which the 407-1 right to freedom of association and p. 51 3 collective bargaining may be at risk 414 Supplier Social Assessment 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 36-41 2 All new and existing raw materials New suppliers that were screened using 414-1 suppliers for steel production were 2 social criteria screened according to social criteria. 415 Public Policy 103 Management approach disclosures pp. 42-48 10 In the reporting period, voestalpine did not make any 415-1 Political contributions 10 donations or other contributions to politicians or political parties. LEGEND AR Annual Report 2018/19 Fully reported UNGC As a participant of the UN Global Compact, voestalpine must publish an annual Partially reported progress report. The column labeled “UNGC” indicates which of the 10 principles are addressed in the respective description. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 101 15. Appendix UN GLOBAL COMPACT— THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: make sure that they are not greater environmental complicit in human rights abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development LABOR STANDARDS and diffusion of environmentally Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the friendly technologies. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ANTI-CORRUPTION to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of corruption in all its forms, including forced and bonded labor; extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 102 15. Appendix 15.2 MEMBERSHIPS voestalpine AG and its Group companies are members of numerous associations, organizations, and special interest groups and participate in working groups or work on projects through their employees. The following provides a selection of the memberships that are relevant with respect to corporate responsibility (CR). Altstoff Recycling Austria Verein (Austrian Association for Recycling, ARA) Austria American Society of Safety Engineers (ASSE) USA Arbeitsgemeinschaft für betriebliche Altersversorgung e.V. (German Association Germany for Occupational Pensions, ABA) ARGE OÖ Arbeitsstiftungen (Upper Austria Employee Funds for Senior Homes) Austria Associação de Recursos Humanos (ARH Serrana) Brazil Association of Women in the Metal Industries (AWMI) USA Austrian Business Council for Sustainable Development (respACT) Austria Austrian Business School GmbH (LIMAK) Austria Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) Austria Austrian Standards Institute Austria B.C. Human Resources Management Association Canada Bergmännischer Verband Österreichs (Austrian Miners Association) Austria Berufliches Bildungsund Rehabilitationszentrum (Vocational Training and Austria Rehabilitation Center, BBRZ) British Standards Institution (BSI) Great Britain Bundesverband der Energieabnehmer (Federal Association of Energy Germany Consumers) Bundesverband der Personalmanager e.V. (Federal Association of HR Managers) Germany Bundesverband der PhysiotherapeutInnen Österreichs (Federal Association Austria of Austria’s Physiotherapists, Physio Austria) Business Club for Railways Hungary CD-Labor für Alterung, Gesundheit und Arbeitsmarkt an der JKU (Ageing, Health, Austria and Labor Market Lab at Johannes Kepler University) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 103 15. Appendix Certified Human Resources Professionals Canada Christian Doppler Forschungsgesellschaft (a research institute, CDG) Austria Compliance Link Great Britain Compliance Praxis—Compliance Netzwerk Österreich (Compliance Practice Austria and Network) Dachverband der arbeitsmedizinischen Zentren Österreichs (Umbrella Austria Organization of Austria’s Occupational Health and Safety Centers) Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung e.V. (German Society for Germany HR Management, DGFP) Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS Austria) Austria Employers Association of Matraalja Area Hungary Engineering Employers Federation (EEF, now known as “Make UK”) Great Britain European Committee for Standardization (CEN) Belgium European Steel Technology Platform (ESTEP) Belgium Exchange for Business Angels (EXBA) Germany Forschungsgesellschaft für die technologische Industrie (Research Belgium Association for the Technological Industry, WTCM) Forschungsvereinigung Stahlanwendung e.V. (Research Association for Germany Steel Applications, FOSTA) Hong Kong People Management Association Hong Kong Industrie-Pensions-Verein e.V. (Association for Industrial Pensions, IPV) Germany Industry 4.0 Austria Austria Informelle Plattform österreichischer Arbeitsstiftungen (Informal Platform Austria of Austrian Labor Funds) Institut für Personalund Organisationsentwicklung (Institute for Austria Personal & Organizational Development at Johannes Kepler University, IPO) Institute of Safety Management USA International High Speed Steel Research Forum (HSS Forum) Germany 104 15. Appendix International Metallographic Society (IMS) Austria Kepler Society JKU Austria Kölner Spezial-Beratungs-GmbH für betriebliche Altersversorgung Germany (Special Consultant for Company Pension Plans, Cologne) Kompetenzzentrum für metallurgische und umwelttechnische Austria Verfahrensentwicklung (Competence Center for Metallurgical and Environmental Process Development, COMET/K1-MET) Korean Employers Federation South Korea Montanhistorischer Verein Österreich (Historical Mining Association Austria) Austria National Association of Railway Business Women (NARBW) USA National Employers Organisation of South Africa (NEASA) South Africa Österreichische Gesellschaft für Arbeitsmedizin (Austrian Society for Austria Occupational Safety and Health, ÖGA) Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik (Austrian Society for Austria the Environment and Technology, ÖGUT) Österreichische Vereinigung für Qualitätssicherung (Austrian Association Austria for Quality Assurance, ÖVQ) Österreichischer Energiekonsumenten-Verband (Austrian Association of Austria Energy Consumers, ÖEKV) Plattform für Innovationsmanagement (Platform for Innovation Management) Austria Public Relations Verband Austria (Austrian Public Relations Association, PRVA) Austria Rail Forum Europe (RFE) Belgium Railway Engineering-Maintenance Suppliers Association (REMSA) USA Railway Industry Association (RIA) Great Britain Rat für Forschung und Technologie für Oberösterreich Austria (Council for Research & Technology in Upper Austria, RFT OÖ) Research Fund for Coal and Steel (RFCS) Belgium ResponsibleSteel Australia CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 105 15. Appendix Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Great Britain Shanghai Institute of Labor and Social Security China Singapore National Employers Federation (SNEF) Singapore Society for Human Resources Management (SHRM) USA Solar Electric Power Association (SEPA) USA Stahlinstitut VDEh (Steel Institute, VDEh) Germany Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft e.V. (Association for the Germany Promotion of Education, Science, and Innovation) Sustainable Process Industry through Resources and Energy Efficiency (SPIRE) Belgium The Austrian Society for Metallurgy and Materials (ASMET) Austria The Employers Association of Indonesia (APINDO) Indonesia The European Steel Association (EUROFER) Belgium The Women Secretaries & Administrative Professionals Association Thailand of Thailand (WSAT) Uni Management Club Linz (UNIMC) Austria United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) USA Verband Österreichischer Sicherheits-Ingenieure Austria (Association of Austrian Safety Engineers, VÖSI) Verein Deutscher Eisenhüttenleute (Association of German Steel Manufacturers) Germany Verein zur Förderung des Instituts für Umweltrecht Austria (Association for the Promotion of the Institute for Environmental Law at JKU) Verein zur Förderung von Forschung und Innovation Austria (Association for the Promotion of Research & Innovation, vffi) WingNet TU Wien Austria World Steel Association (worldsteel) Belgium 106 15. Appendix 15.3 GLOSSARY CO2e CO2 equivalent, unit of measurement for standardizing the climate impact of various greenhouse gases Conflict-free Conflict-free raw materials as defined in the Dodd-Frank Act Conflict minerals Raw materials mined or extracted in conflict or high-risk regions Corporate Governance: Rule categories pursuant to the Austrian Corporate Governance Code: L rules L rule (legal requirement): The rule is based on mandatory statutory C rules provisions. R rules C rule (comply or explain): The rule should be complied with. Any deviation therefrom must be explained and justified in order to be in compliance with the Code. R rule (recommendation): The rule worded as a recommendation; noncompliance need not be disclosed or explained. (Source: Austrian Corporate Governance Code as amended July 2012, Austrian Working Group for Corporate Governance, www.corporategovernance.at) Dodd-Frank Act US federal law: requires companies to avoid using raw materials from conflict regions EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes Earnings before taxes, equity interests of non-controlling shareholders, and financial result EBITDA Earnings Before Interest and Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization Earnings before taxes, equity interests of non-controlling shareholders, financial result, depreciation, and amortization EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe on the voluntary participation of organizations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme FTE Full time Equivalents: number of full time positions, mathematically speaking, computed on the basis of the working hours of both full time employees and parttime employees HBI (hot briquetted iron) / Direct reduction of iron ore by means of reduction gas. The resulting DRI (direct reduced iron) product is solid sponge iron (DRI) or sponge iron pellets (HBI). technologie Head count Actual number of individual employees Life cycle assessment (LCA) Systematic analysis of the environmental impact of products during their entire life cycle aimed at achieving an objective assessment subject to consideration of economic, social, and technical factors Load per annum The amount of certain substances that are introduced into wastewater or the air, aggregated over the year Scope 1, 2, and 3 Emission categories pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 107 15.4 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT 108 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 109 Contact & Imprint CONTACT & IMPRINT Contact voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility T. +43/50304/15-6599 cr@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Investor Relations T. +43/50304/15-8735 ir@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Corporate Communications T. +43/50304/15-2090 mediarelations@voestalpine.com www.voestalpine.com http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/group/corporate-responsibility/ Imprint Owner and media proprietor: voestalpine AG, voestalpine-Strasse 1, 4020 Linz, Austria Publisher and editorial staff: voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility, T. +43/50304/15-6599 cr@voestalpine.com, www.voestalpine.com Design and implementation: 7 Punkt Communication Group GmbH, www.7punkt.at Printed by: Kontext Druckerei GmbH, www.kontextdruck.at 110 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 111 EN voestalpine AG voestalpine-Strasse 1 4020 Linz, Austria T. +43/50304/15-0 www.voestalpine.com
