FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Annual Report 2018 WORLD OF OUR WORKWEAR Heavy/ light workwear Outdoor/ leisure wear Promotional wear Service wear Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP FROM OUR CEO It has been over 2 years since the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) officially came into force, mobilizing efforts to tackle climate change, poverty and to fight inequality. At Fristads Kansas Group, Sustainability is about how we do business. We are committed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and to maintain leadership positions, we believe we must raise our commitment to the next levels, integrating all relevant aspects – from human rights to product performance into the business to build trust with all stakeholders, from customers to employees and producing partners. Sustainability is part of what we do every day, throughout our value chain and wherever we operate. Our brands are making positive long-term changes to the communities in which they operate by finding efficiencies in their supply chain, supporting the successful operations of their supplier partners and customers, and contributing to worthwhile community organizations through volunteering and multiple types of support. Anders Davidsson CEO Fristads Kansas Group Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP WHO WE ARE 11 Brands 2,000 Employees 3 Owned factories Over 600 From Europe to Asia factories Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY OUR JOURNEY Transparency & Traceability Ownership & Communication Monitoring 2025 Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 2017 Building our Supply Chain 2016 Compliance program 2014 2011 2008 Corporate Responsibility and Quality merger Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP MATERIALITY OUR MATRIX High 1 2 3 5 4 1Customer experience and satisfaction 6 2Water management 7 8 3Human rights 10 PRIORITY FOR STAKEHOLDERS 4Health and safety Medium 5Responsible production and consumption 8 6Climate action 7Partnership for the goals 13 11 12 8No poverty 15 14 9Gender equality 16 10Material recycle and circular economy 11Training and development 12Decent work and economic growth 13Labour/ management relations 17 14Local community development 15Industry innovation and infrastructure Low 16Governance and business conduct 17Biodiversity PRIORITY FOR FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP Moderate Significant Major Financial Environmental Social Governance Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP OUR COMMITMENT We have chosen • framework to address the 4 SCR issues amongst our brands, setting a Group minimal requirement on policy implementation addressing: Labor practices and Human rights Ethics (fair business practices) Environment Sustainable Procurement (covered by the Group) Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP OUR APPROACH GROUP SCR Team STRATEGIC ROAD MAP SUPPLY CHAIN VALUES & IDENTITY RISK MANAGEMENT ▪ Integrate sustainability, ▪ Global initiatives visibility through processes, UNGC & MONITORING products and specific amfori BSCI BEPI ▪ Product traceability and factory transparency partnerships. ▪ Social/ Environmental & Chemical compliance ▪ Specific strategic sustainability initiatives ▪ Sustainability ▪ Trends and operational support minimum standards for policy implementation ▪ Action plan implementation and monitoring Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP GROUP OUR SUPPLY CHAIN COMPLIANCE Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP COMPLIANCE Mandatory and Applicable to all suppliers/ factories across PROCESS all branded product categories and nominated raw materials Code of Conduct Factory Audit Supplier Self Remediation Plan & (BSCI/ SA 8000) Follow-up and Support Assessment (SSA) Restricted Substances list (RSL) other Rating Order placement A,B,C,D Product development stage (quotation/ prototype sample) E and NO orders can be placed. Zero Tolerance Code Red Mandatory requirement/ 3 months lead-time ▪ Specific mandatory requirement and monitoring: ✓ All factories in Bangladesh under the New Accord remediation scheme, ✓ Effluent Treatment Plant quarterly review in Bangladesh, ✓ China fabric mills: review of environmental inspections and schedules. Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP COMPLIANCE ROLES & RESPONSIBILITY Group SCR Team Brand/ Group Supplier Owners Group SCR Coordinator Regional Compliance Managers 1. New suppliers / factories 1. New suppliers / factories 1. New suppliers / factories • Send contact details to Group SCR Team. • Send Compliance guideline / COC / RSL • Send SSA, review and confirm Cc to Supplier Owners and send to • Support RCM to get SSA completed. once SSA reviewed and confirmed by SCRC. Escalation to SO after 1 week. • Once audit successfully completed inform PDC and Supply Chain. RCM • Initiate announced BSCI/ SA8000 audit or review existing and • Update MSB ( worksheet : Propose confirm to SO. High Risk Countries Low Risk Countries new factories ) , upload SSA / COC / • Risk assessment visit upon SO/ Head SCR info + report. • BSCI/ SA 8000 audit mandatory for all • For garment supplier/ factory RSL on KIT garment supplier/ factory and only for review of existing certification • Input factories details in BSCI platform nominated raw material if no other (ie.ISO or other) or if no audit audit available. available BSCI/ SA 8000 audit 2. Existing suppliers / factories recommended • Yearly audit schedule according to factory rating and review with • For occasional raw material supplier/ 2. SCR data management factory: Risk assessment visit to be • For nominated raw material SO. • Kit data input • Monthly update of worksheet “ Annex 2 – SSA” and send to SCRC agreed with Head SCR. supplier/ factory: review of • Update worksheet “ Annex 2 COC /RSL” • Monitor audit report release and remediation plan within BSCI • For temporary own factories’ existing certification (ie.ISO or other) and/ or Risk assessment • Update audit details in MSB timeline. subcontractors : Risk assessment visit to be agreed between Sourcing/ Supply to be agreed with Head SCR. • Review & save monthly “SCR Factory • For Bangladesh monitor Accord remediation plan. Chain and Head SCR. Follow up Chart”. • With Head SCR initiate Code Red Process. • Save BSCI audit / Risk assessment • Send audit report to concerned supplier owner, Head SCR / SCRC. reports and upload on KIT • Complete “SCR Factory Follow up Chart” and send to SCRC/ Head 2. Existing suppliers / factories • Send updated MSB to SO monthly SCR. • Inform Group SCR Team/ PCD/ Supply Chain of inactive supplier/ factory. • Upon change of factory list, update • Prioritize yearly audit schedule (preferred-strategic/ tactical/ • Group SCR Team monthly review and highlight of non compliant MSB (QC allocation) and Supplier suppliers/ factories complementary). owners and planners (Boras). • Escalation implementation with SO in case of non remediation. • Support RCM for follow up or renewal of audit. • Quarterly KPI through BSCI platform • Review audit report (KIT or BSCI platform) prior to supplier/ factory visit and per region: number of factory audited 3. Capacity building activities engage on remediation with report back to RCM. and per rate +number of new and • Enroll factories in BSCI Producer Workshops per remediation • Code Red escalation and internal information. inactivated factories. issues and in webinars through the FTA academy platform. • Yearly supplier/ factory rating. • Taylor capacity building trainings for strategic factories. • Report number of factories enrolling on quarterly basis to Head 3. 3PP (3rd Party Producer) Non branded Group product suppliers 3. 3PP (3rd Party Producer) Non SCR for brand sourcing information and rating. • Send COC and RSL for signature and return to SCRC and ensure of existing branded Group product suppliers compliance program. • Upload signed COC & RSL to Kit Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP COMPLIANCE RISK Based on amfori Country Risk Classification https://www.amfori.org/sites/default/files/amfori%20BSCI%20CRC%20V2019%20Final.pdf CLASSIFICATION HIGH RISK COUNTRIES For all garment factories For nominated raw material For all garment factories For raw material factories mandatory audit factories If no BSCI/ SA 8000 audit Review of existing • BSCI/ SA 8000 mandatory audit available certification • BSCI/ SA 8000 Review of existing • ISO 9001/ 14001/ 26000 • STeP by OEKO-TEX® certification • STeP by OEKO-TEX® • ISO 26000/ ISO 14001 • ISO 9001/ 14001/ 26000 • SMETA (Sedex) • SMETA (Sedex) • …/... For temporary own factories’ For occasional raw materials’ • WRAP subcontractors factories • …/… • Risk assessment to be • Risk assessment to be agreed between SCR/ agreed between SCR/ sourcing sourcing Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP FULL SUPPLY CHAIN TRANSPARENCY In 2018 compliance visibility and on site follow up for factories: • Worldwide for all Tier 1 suppliers (Ready Made Garments & Cutting and Making factories) and Tier 2 suppliers (nominated raw material and accessories factories). Remediation and improvement at factories is followed through by our regional compliance team (3 teams). Factories are encouraged to participate in capacity building trainings, through on site visits, BSCI platform and New Transition Accord activities. Amongst our brands, colleagues regularly visit each factory, and ensure that they are compliant and develop in the right direction. In 2019, Tier 3 suppliers (Trims and Accessories) will be eligible to enroll in our compliance programs. Tier 1 Garment / CMT Tier 2 Raw Materials (including Nominated) 250 250 218 218 202 202 200 200 161 161 147 150 150 135 100 100 57 55 50 30 50 27 28 27 12 0 0 High Risk Low risk Coc RSL High Risk Low risk Coc RSL Number of factories BSCI audits Other standard audits Number of factories BSCI audits Other standard audits Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP EMPOWERED MONITORING Eastern European Platform Latvia based • Supplier owner sourcing Eastern/ allocation. Europe SCR & Quality • 100% Quality control performed Large Asia Platform on all finished orders in Pakistan Hong Kong based China Quality SCR & Quality “large Asia” region. • Quality controllers are trained to Bangladesh SEA identify compliance deviations. SCR & Quality Quality • If Zero Tolerance spotted in factory, real time reporting to Regional SCR teams. Madagascar Quality • Chemical compliance sample picking by QC. Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP Code Red PROCESS If Zero Tolerance issues reported: Child / Bonded labour Risk level Unethical Behaviour Occupational health and safety Inhumane treatment/ Time frame RED Immediate RED Immediate RED on hold From Group SCR Group SCR Group SCR Sourcing/ Sourcing/ Sourcing/ CR Owner CR Owner CR Owner To Supplier Owner/ Supplier Owner/ Supplier Owner/ Supply Chain/ Supply Chain/ Supply Chain/ Product Development Product Development Product Development To Brand and Group CEO/ Board Group Board Quarterly reporting Group Board Quarterly reporting No new orders placed until remediation No new orders placed until remediation Action Running orders frozen completed completed 3 months: anti-corruption policy 3 months with potential 3 months Time frame within 24h-48h implemented in factory/ QC control extension Supplier compensation in case of Group SCR monthly remediation review Group SCR monthly remediation review Additional action orders cancelled if no remediation And brand team update and brand team update Additional action Resourcing Resourcing In 2018, no Zero tolerance audit result or issue was reported. Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP GROUP OUR CHEMICAL COMPLIANCE Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP RESTRICTED SUBSTANCE LIST Our Restricted Substance List (RSL) is based on the chemical guidance of our partner , updated twice a year it reflects the latest EU harmonized legislation which includes: Biocide Regulation Substance of Very POPs regulation High Concern Product Safety Regulation Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP COMPLIANCE PROGRAM BACKGROUND • Apply same methodology assessment than for supply chain compliance, • All suppliers sign our Restricted Substance List, • 2016, with our partner launch of our own chemical testing protocol. PROCESS • Dedicated chemical testing packages defined with SGS appointed as third party testing laboratory. • Testing of core range raw materials and finished goods at supplier’s cost. • Compulsory testing program managed centrally by our Group SCR Team. ROAD MAP • 2016: over 100 nominated fabrics and trims reports performed or reviewed, • 2017: test focus on core ranges’ finished products from non nominated raw materials 80%, • 2018: Focus high risk ranges (FR/ sensitive certifed tenders) and new launches. • 2019: ongoing continuous tests. Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP CCP PROGRAM PROCESS Responsibility Core range definition Sampling and Test report and Corrective action plan Follow up corrective Grade Testing evaluation action plan Brands Define core range for catalogue articles and tenders SCR Brand Owners and Activate RED Code if Supplier Owners necessary 1-2 Group SCR Team FKG’s Quality Controllers Analyze test report pick up samples at and share with SCR Request Follow on CAP Grade supplier vendor’s place Brand/Supplier Owner CAP from Supplier 2 2-5 1-2 Suppliers Send TRF (Test Pay Requisition Form) and invoice Fill in initial CAP sample to SGS 30 2-3 2 SGS Conduct testing send test report send invoice 5-10 Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP CCP RATING RED – Non Compliance REACH ORANGE SVHC Substance of Very High Yellow Common market requirements (Restricted Substances Annex XVII) Concern (Candidate List) (Not yet restricted) When chemical is banned or regulated (limited Rule of 0.1% weight article But under high concern example PFOA, Green Risk level value) Duty to communicate to professional formaldehyde, … Product recall/ sales restriction/ fine + users/ dealers (not final consumer) communication hazard Time frame RED Immediate ORANGE YELLOW From Group SCR Group SCR Group SCR To Sourcing Supplier Owner/ Sourcing Supplier Owner/ Sourcing Supplier Owner/ Supply Chain/ Product Development Product Development Product Development High performance To Brand and Group CEO/ Board Group Board Quarterly reporting Group Board Quarterly reporting No new orders placed until Action Running orders frozen Corrective Action Plan with supplier remediation completed 3 months with potential 3 months Time frame within 24h 3 months extension Additional action Supplier compensation in case of orders Supplier owner responsible to request Supplier owner responsible to request cancelled if no remediation random testing (from 1 to 10 within 12 random testing (from 1 to 10 within 12 months) at supplier’s expense months) at supplier’s expense Additional action Resourcing In 2018, no Red issue occurred amongst the 40 random tests performed. Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP BRANDS’ OUR INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Report 2018 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP Workplace OUR COMMITMENT We take pride in being known as an employer of choice dedicated to helping our employees achieve their best. This extends to providing them the opportunities and environment suitable to allow them to excel, through: • Creating a safe, healthy, supportive and discrimination-free working environment, • Providing ample opportunities to enhance one’s skill, through on-the-job training and clearly defined progression pathways, • Ensuring equal opportunities and competitiveness in staff remuneration and recognition. OUR PEOPLE OUR STRENGTH 750 employees We perform in-house employee surveys to gather feed back and ideas regularly and stay up to date on the pulse of the organization throughout geographical locations. In August 2018, we conducted a 3rd party workers survey at our factory in Riga to enable us to assess the areas of improvements on health and safety and workers’ satisfaction to tailor trainings in 2019. 3 Own factories Sustainability Report 2018 Marketplace PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Supply Chain Risk Management As a member of the BSCI and BEPI, initiatives committed to improving social and environmental conditions in the global supply chain, it is a mandatory requirement that all our suppliers and factories sign our Code of Conduct and our Restricted Substance List, and participate in regular compliance audits carried out by external 3rd party certified testing companies to be eligible to manufacture our products. Tier 1 – garment/ CMT Tier 2 – Fabric / Accessories 100 120 90 80 100 70 80 60 50 60 40 30 40 20 20 10 Sustainability Report 2018 0 0 High Risk Low risk Coc RSL High Risk Low risk Coc RSL Number of factories BSCI audits Other standard audits Number of factories BSCI audits Other standard audits OUR COMMITMENT Environment Our dedication to preserving the environment and our resources include: • Actively pursuing sustainable development initiatives and implementing good environmental practices, » All our geographical location and own productions sites are ISO 14001 certified, • Regularly reviewing our business practices to identify how we can use resources like energy, water and other raw materials sustainably and more efficiently, while reducing waste and greenhouse gas emissions, • Ensuring that our products are safe for our customers and the environment » 100% of our nominated fabrics are OEKO-TEX certified, » Our Restricted Substance List (RSL) is based on the chemical guidance of our partner Swerea, and updated twice a year it reflects the latest EU harmonized legislation, » In 2016 we launched our own Chemical Compliance program, in partnership with SGS to ensure that our suppliers were committed to our RSL. • New office building, during 2019 Fristads are moving in to an office building with an integrated warehouse. Substance of Very Sustainability Report 2018 Throughout this project the environmental aspects have been constantly considered High Concern Collaborative sustainability: From design to materials Environment At FRISTADS we track the reach of our social, environmental and economical impacts and pursue meaningful sustainable initiatives. WASTE RECYCLING To recycle the waste generated by the production of our garments, our design team has developed, in collaboration with one of our best compliant factory in South East Asia, a process enabling the waste to be reused for knee and elbow pads filling. ENVIRONMENTAL FRIENDLY SOLUTIONS To reduce our products’ environmental footprint, we offer our customers with full sustainable uniform collections, from conventional raw materials, fabrics & accessories, to organic cotton and recycled polyester . • Organic cotton uses far less water and the crops aren't treated with pesticides, insecticides, herbicides and Genetically Modified Organisms. • Recycled polyester doesn’t require new petroleum to create, lowering the demand for petroleum extraction and reducing overall carbon footprint. • Producing recycled polyester is better for the climate, creating 75% less CO₂ emissions than virgin Sustainability Report 2018 polyester. Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS ISO 14001:2015 • In 2017 Wenaas Workwear AS get certified according ISO 14001:2015. Ahead of the certifying, we mapped all our challenges and benefits related to environmental impact. • New goals were set, and during the last year we have worked to improve the performance further. And have had no deviations at the external audit in 2018. Supply chain • When applicable, raw material suppliers should be located in the same area as the producer of finish products. • We are continuously working to consolidate our suppliers base. Sustainability Report 2018 AMELIORATIONS SOCIALES ET ENVIRONNEMENTALES 2018 I. Thématiques sociales (RH) 1. Diversité et égalité des chances / égalité de traitement (RH) • Egalité hommes/femmes • Insertion des personnes handicapées • Lutte contre les discriminations • Embauches juniors/seniors • ESAT 2. Promotion et respect des droits de négociations et de réunion • Organisation du dialogue social, procédures d’information, de consultation et de négociation avec le personnel (CE) RESULTATS AUDITS BRAGARD ECOVADIS Bragard a obtenu un score de 55/100, ce qui lui Sustainability Report 2018 permet de recevoir un niveau de reconnaissance Silver . Bragard se place donc parmi les 30% des entreprises les mieux notées par EcoVadis. II. Thématiques sociétales 1. Relations entretenues avec les personnes ou organisations intéressées par l’activité de l’entreprise PROJET SOCIAL MENDES En plus de ces vêtements, 152 paires de chaussettes offertes par le tricoteur Bleuforêt, ainsi que 50 sacs à dos Décathlon ont été distribués aux associations Samu social et Accueil Ecoute sur les secteurs d’Epinal et de Nancy cet hiver. Sustainability Report 2018 2. Sous-traitance et fournisseurs • Label France Terre Textile BRAGARD met un point d’honneur à favoriser l’économie locale et à réduire son empreinte carbone. Ainsi plus de cent articles dans notre catalogue 2018 sont fabriqués avec des matières labélisées France terre textile® Notre objectif est d’augmenter ce chiffre dans les années à venir. Quatre nouveaux produits certifiés seront ajoutés au catalogue 2019 et plusieurs fournisseurs sont en cours d’agrément. • Entreprise du Patrimoine Vivant (EPV) BRABARD comptabilise six fournisseurs labellisés EPV. • HADJI est un fournisseur stratégique et historique de la marque. Exemple d’améliorations au sein de l’usine : AVANT APRES Au dernier audit SMETA commandite par la société ACCOR, HADJI a obtenu une note de Sustainability Report 2018 91.6% et a mis en place un plan d’actions correctives afin de continuer à progresser. III. Thématiques environnementales 1. Politique générale en matière environnementale Bâtiment passif Notre bâtiment office est passif, équipé de volets BSO qui s’abaissent et se relèvent automatiquement selon la lumière du jour, afin de garantir une meilleure isolation thermique. Il est également conforme à la norme Accessibilité et à la Réglementation Thermique (RT2012). Formation et information des salariés Dans une démarche éco-responsable, les employés ont été appelé à réduire leurs impressions et à réutiliser les feuilles de brouillon. Catalogue L’engagement environnemental de BRAGARD passe par son réseau de distribution. Nos catalogues sont imprimés en France avec du papier certifié PEFC qui promeut la gestion durable et responsable des forêts françaises. Notre impact carbone est donc fortement réduit et nous favorisons l’économie locale. 2. Gestion des déchets En 2017, Bragard a revalorisé 45% de ses déchets, trié 5 tonnes de papier et a augmente ce taux grâce à la mise en place de bennes destinées aux déchets textiles. Elles sont collectées, revalorisées et recyclées par le Centre de tri de textile Vosges TLC. Les salariés peuvent également y déposer leurs vêtements et textiles personnels. Collection Sustainability Report 2018 • 7% du CA réalisé avec nos fournisseurs est dédié au coton Supima®. • Développement d’une capsule de produits éco-responsables conçus avec des tissus alternatifs peu consommateurs en eau tel que le lin et en fibres recyclées certifiées « Recycled Content ». Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Circular model RAW MATERIALS DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT SECOND LIFE • NEW FIBERS EACH PRODUCT • CHARITY 2ND HAND IS MATCHED TO • REDESIGN THE BEST • ETC. ALTERNATIVE MANUFACTURE FOR RECYCLING PRODUCTS / UPCYCLING RECYCLE Closing this Closing the gap is the loop on focus for CUSTOMER workwear re:hejco SENDS BACK PRODUCTS TO COLLECTION & SALES & FINE SORTING DISTRIBUTION Instead of old products going to waste USAGE OF we collect and fine sort for a second life PRODUCT UNTIL NOT Sustainability Report 2018 WANTED ANYMORE WASTE Our 2018 Sustainability Achievements ➢ Engaged with and started garment testing for 2nd life product range, ➢ Started to change cotton to eco-cotton in all jersey tops, ➢ Reduction of carbon footprint & sustainable collection tender offer through local proto-making, ➢ Waste recycle: Using left over fabric to make limited collection, ➢ Cooperating with several local organizations internationally and nationally to find new ways to handle our garments i.e. rental, logistics ➢ Caring for society and supporting organizations such as , Plogga and Stadsmission with Hejco clothes, our time/work. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=21ucJ2e_wKk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDNW9sIYrKU Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable achievements 2018 ▪ The use of alternative fibers/material with less environmental impact, has increased from last year by 46 %, ▪ 10 % of the volume of patient wear (knitted garments) is Eco-labelled, ▪ By using single-dyed fabrics (where only the polyester is colored) in patient wear we have saved over 2 000 m3 water. Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability strategy 2018-2021 Martinson sees a sustainability challenge together with customer, supplier and other interested parties to minimize resource consumption and environmental impact on land, water and air. Our focus areas for sustainable development are integrated into our management system, and include sustainable chain from production to waste, and enable circular textiles etc. Martinson participates in projects for feasibility study for circular value chains in the textile industry. Plan for the best use of materials and energy by using fabrics, trims and transports that have the least environmental impact. Collaborate with suppliers who have a well-functioning environmental and CSR work ▪ Increase the use of alternative fiber/materials with less environmental impact. ▪ Improve sustainable logistics solutions planning, coordinating and reducing the number of transports, as well as increasing renewable fuels in the transports. ▪ Reduce consumption of water and energy in manufacturing/purchasing products. Sustainability Report 2018 COMMITMENT to the OUR UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Sustainability Report 20178 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Fristads Kansas Group Sustainability & Corporate Responsibility Policy proclaimed human rights; and Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program and Union engagement Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Fristads Kansas Group Code of Conduct BSCI Code of Conduct Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program and Union engagement recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Fristads Kansas Group Code of Conduct occupation. BSCI Code of Conduct Environment ISO 14001 Certification Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance Program challenges; BEPI ISO 14001 Certification Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance Program and BEPI ISO 14001 Certification Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance Program technologies. BEPI Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Fristads Kansas Group Anti-corruption Policy and Compliance Program extortion and bribery. Sustainability Report 20178 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP Sustainability Report 20178 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP BOX 1102 / NORRA DÄCKVÄGEN 2 / 501 11 BORÅS / SWEDEN OFFICE: +46 (0)33 20 22 00 E-MAIL: csr.rsl@fristadskansas.com WEB: www.fristadskansasgroup.com All together
