OUR GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY ✭✭✭ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTENTS CEO’S STATEMENT 2 SOCIETIES AND COMMUNITIES 22 ABOUT SUNRICE 4 Workplace health and safety 23 Our people 26 OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS 6 Labour practices 30 GLOBAL CONTEXT 7 Product safety and quality 34 SUNRICE’S APPROACH 8 Role in local communities 36 Secure rice supply 39 OUR MATERIAL TOPICS 10 GOVERNANCE 41 ENVIRONMENT 12 Anti-bribery and corruption 43 R&D and agronomics 13 ABOUT THIS REPORT Financial challenges in the supply chain 45 Climate change 15 Energy efficiency and emissions reduction 18 OUR PERFORMANCE 48 Water management 20 This is SunRice’s first stand-alone sustainability report. It sets out our sustainability achievements, our sustainability commitments in the year ahead, and serves as a basis for future sustainability reports and initiatives. The report covers the activities of Ricegrowers Limited for the crop year 2017 (‘CY17’), focusing on SunRice’s direct operations and the interactions we have with our supply chain and local communities. In certain sections, we have included data relating to periods prior to CY17 where such data is relevant and useful to the reader. The content of this report has been informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. The GRI Standards are the world’s most widely used standards for sustainability reporting. They enable organisations to measure and report their most important sustainability topics. We are committed to ensuring our next report is in accordance with the GRI core option. We have included a GRI Index on page 48 to ensure transparency and as an indication of the extent to which we are already aligned. This report represents a commitment to the public and transparent communication of our sustainability performance, but does not claim to ENVIRONMENT SOCIETIES & COMMUNITIES GOVERNANCE provide coverage of all our impacts. The SunRice Sustainability Report also serves as our Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. We welcome feedback on our sustainability reporting and performance. Please email us at sustainability@sunrice.com.au 12 22 41 ACTING WITH OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) RESPONSIBILITIES IN MIND IS NOT JUST THE RIGHT THING TO DO, IT IS ALSO CENTRAL TO OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 1 CEO’S STATEMENT wherever we operate and address the challenges that emerging markets may present. We believe that we have the obligation to share what we have learnt in Australia with growers and communities around the world. The SunRice Sustainability Program, consolidated in 2017, brings together SUNRICE HAS COME A LONG WAY SINCE 1950, WHEN AUSSIE RICE GROWERS good practice from around our business under one umbrella. It is designed to POOLED THEIR MONEY TO ESTABLISH A SINGLE RICE MILL IN LEETON, AND complement our broader business objectives, and emphasises that SunRice will excel in product quality and availability, ensure transparent and ethical WE ARE NOW A MAJOR INTERNATIONAL PLAYER IN THE FOOD GROWING AND business practices, address social issues, and efficiently manage resources to PRODUCING SECTOR. TODAY MARKS ONE OF THE MANY MILESTONES SINCE OUR preserve the environment. BIRTH; THE RELEASE OF OUR INAUGURAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. Managing the downside risks these issues present is good business. Capturing the opportunities these issues present is great business. Our Sustainability Program also reflects our farmer-owned heritage by highlighting SunRice’s views that: growers and employees are our most Sustainability has always been a priority for SunRice. Since our earliest days, we valuable assets; suppliers must be treated ethically; and the economic and have understood that financial success depends on sustaining the health of social wellbeing of host communities in Australia and around the world be both the fields and the communities in which we operate. To cite one example, proactively pursued. our Australian rice uses 50% less water than the global average; the outcome of our multi-decade commitment to research and development. This commitment to the long-term sustainability of our operations is demonstrated through further developments in aerobic rice production and Acting with our environmental, social and governance (ESG) responsibilities flush irrigation. The ability to offer our growers a late-planting, and possible in mind is not just the right thing to do, it is also central to our social license double-cropping option gives them flexibility and delivers significant gains in to operate. More than ever, customers, consumers and shareholders expect water efficiency. us to uphold a set of values and obligations that extend beyond the pursuit of profit alone. Every day I talk about our values of community, dynamism, In April and August 2018, we also offered fixed price contracts to growers, integrity, collaboration, and innovation. When I talk about sustainability at considerably earlier than in previous years. By providing greater clarity, we SunRice, the values that I consistently call out are community, integrity and improve the ability of growers to navigate the inevitable uncertainties of innovation. agricultural life, which, in turn, helps underwrite a reliable and sustainable supply of rice for SunRice. Sustainability is not an add-on to our business strategy – it is the foundation for our long-term viability and success. That is why we continue to work on Further afield, our Papua New Guinea business, Trukai, this year worked with a sustainable, reliable and traceable global supply chain. This focus on a local farmers to grow domestic rice of high nutritional value and quality. This sustainable supply chain is also in response to the worldwide demand for relationship culminated in the sale of 100% Papua New Guinean grown and clean, green, responsible produce, which is why we have made it a centrepiece produced rice for the first time. Indeed, this was the first time these local of our current five-year strategy. As we move into more vertically integrated farmers have grown a commercial crop since independence. supply chains beyond Australia, it is critical that we uphold the same standards 2 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability is not an add-on to our business strategy – it is a foundation improving farm-gate returns for our Vietnamese growers by an average of 30% above long grain prices. of our long-term viability and success. That is why we continue to work on a In 2017, the Board endorsed the SunRice Sustainability Charter, which sustainable, reliable and traceable global supply chain. commits our organisation to respect the societies, communities and environments in which we operate, and to report on these commitments transparently. We also became a signatory to the United Nations Global We continue to work with Papua New Guinean farmers to develop their land Compact. I strongly support our continued efforts to conduct business, guided and improve farming techniques, and are extremely proud of the fact that by the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, with care for the Trukai is enhancing the wellbeing of its suppliers and their communities. environment, respect for human and labour rights, and with zero tolerance to To progress the supply chain established to support rice production in bribery and corruption. Vietnam’s Mekong Delta last year, SunRice opened an office in Can Tho City. In closing, I am proud of the progress we have made on our sustainability Our work in Vietnam is achieving numerous benefits for local farmers and commitments to date, but I also acknowledge there is more work to do. I invite their communities. With guidance from agronomists and quality control you to read the following pages, which review our efforts so far and outline our experts employed by SunRice to work with Vietnamese growers, our exports plans for the years ahead. are approaching 600,000 paddy tonnes equivalent a year from Vietnam we are now one of the country’s largest exporters, representing over 5% of total rice exports and almost 60% of Japonica exports. Through lifting rice growing and milling practices to Australian standards, SunRice is helping to improve the reputation of Vietnamese rice in world markets, while simultaneously Rob Gordon Group CEO SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 3 ABOUT SUNRICE The SunRice Group (hereafter SunRice) is one of the largest rice food companies in the world, with over 2,200 employees across eight countries, producing high quality nutritious food through our 30 brands. From our roots in the Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia in the 1950s, when we started as a farmer cooperative, we are now aiming to be one of the world’s most significant food production companies. 1987 RGA develops first rice environmental 1970 policy. Industry Deniliquin mill imposes hydraulic 1925 is built and loading limits to Growers restrict area used form the becomes the largest rice for rice growing Murrumbidgee Irrigation Rice 1930S 1950S milling complex Growers’ CoWorking with The Coin the Southern 1988 1992 operative and 1930-40 Government the operative Hemisphere Government hands Federally funded rice industry Mills are industry imposed builds mills over management R&D program infrastructure constructed at restrictions on at Leeton and of rice areas to to focus on established Murrami, Yenda, the areas where 1939 Coleambally, industry and opens rice breeding Griffith and rice could be Rice R&D program and launches 1977 up additional rice and yield in the 1927 Echuca grown to ensure initiated through its own branded CopRice growing areas. The 1990 Riverina 1994 1880S Federal a sustainable rice RGA retail pack of purchased and Rice Environmental Industry Quick Cups Introduction of Government industry Sun white rice retooled to Policy was set as introduces Project initiated rice seed into prevents rice process rice bya prerequisite for first quality to value add Australian gold production products in the bulk water supply assurance rice into fields by Chinese outside of pet food industry and reported program for rice readymade prospectors the MIA annually vendors meals 1950 1987 1989 1993 1928 RGA forms State Government Construction Riviana started to Rice Marketing Ricegrowers’ extends of Rice diversify product Board for the State Co-operative Mills requirements Cakes Plant range and spread 1906 of New South Wales Limited 1950S on the industry 1988 at Leeton to market risk in (RMB) commences in relation to SunRice manufacture times of drought Murrumbidgee Regional managing salinity establishes value add rice Irrigation Area operations 1930S Sponsorship and water tables Rice Research products (MIA Scheme) Seed Saver program initiated Australian Pty is launched program to support local Ltd (RRAPL) for 1991 introduced schools, charity SunRice 1970 the purposes of reducing weeds groups, sporting purchases the Trukai carrying out rice and use of events and the Solomon’s established to research and herbicides SunRice Festival Rice Company extend markets development (SolRice) 4 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 2010 2011 Breeding program Australian extended to operations develop rice complies 2016 2001-2010 varieties suitable with National SunRice develops Millennium for aerobic Greenhouse and 2004 new markets for Drought (partially or fully) Energy Reporting Safety System bulk rice hulls cropping practices (NGER) formally to reduce water introduced logging and 2005 2014 2017 2003 Co-operative methane emissions 2012 Construction Introduction of Brandon Mill SunRice achieves converts to a of SunRice Murray Darling in Queensland Bronze status public company Specialty Basin Plan and Rice purchased to in Sustainability and renamed 2000 Foods retort Ricegrowers 2010 Environment Policy supplement Advantage RGA joins 2001 for microwave Initial GIS tool updated. supply of Riverina program RGA Growers Limited Sustainable ready introduced to rice in extended Agriculture Environmental improve efficiency drought periods products Initiative Platform Champions 2004 2006 in logistics and 2017 Program Environmental Launched System SunRice quality through 2013 SunRice joins purchases paddy identifying ideal Anti Bribery and the UN Global formally 2003 introduced storage facilities planting locations Corruption Policy Compact on 2000 HR Policy from RMB, for particular adopted 2015 Sustainability SunRice on equal increasing vertical cultivars. Allowed SunRice commissions a new opportunity integration and tracking of industry Joins NSW Rice Flour Mill at and diversity facilitating whole water use and Sustainability Leeton to value add in the of supply chain fertiliser/chemical Advantage core rice workplace management practices 2000 2003 2016 2018 SunRice becomes Aqaba Introduce SunRice the new trading Processing 2008 2013 Supplier produces its first name for Company SunFoods Assurance Sustainability 1995 Ricegrowers’ Co(Jordan) started 2005 venture started SunRice Program with Report Network planning Industry Group Code operative Limited to extend to diversify ethical sourcing system formalised 2002 markets into researches water supply from the of Conduct 2015 to reduce transport SunRice efficient rice formalised in Safety the Middle east US in times of and fuel use in (including varieties, including Policy Certification drought the delivery of raw CopRice and short season achieved for all 2017 products to AGS Riviana) varieties allowing subsidiaries SunRice Group signs on as double cropping Sustainability a member to and sets targets Charter the National for tonnes yielded published Packaging per ML Covenant SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 5 OUR OPERATIONS Today, SunRice operates in 8 countries, has 30 brands, and exports to around 50 global markets. Our global operations allow for the consistent supply of affordable, high quality Aqaba grains and the production of a premium product. We are committed to continued research Processing and development (R&D) and aim to play a pioneering role in managing agricultural Company resources, and to address the good health and well-being of our customers, suppliers and communities globally. (APC) Jordan Packaging operation 46 PEOPLE SunRiceVietnam sourcing operations 10 Quality and assurance operations, servicing and managing supply chain, SunRice, milling and R&D activities PEOPLE Dubai Office servicing Middle Eastern and  African markets 5 PEOPLE Trukai, Papua SunFoods, New Guinea Milling, packaging, California, USA marketing and research 935 Milling, packaging, operations, as well as a 54 marketing and large-scale distribution distribution operations network across the (California and Hawaii) entire country PEOPLE PEOPLE SunRice Singapore Office managing SolRice, Asian supply SunRice, Solomon 9 sources and servicing Asian Australia Islands 38 markets Storage and drying Warehousing, PEOPLE facilities, milling,  marketing and distribution 1035 packing, value-add and warehouse operations PEOPLE facilities, corporate offices, domestic PEOPLE distribution facility 6 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 GLOBAL CONTEXT SUSTAINABILITY IN AGRICULTURE We are proud of our sustainability performance to date. But as one of the largest rice companies in the world, we recognise that we have a responsibility to move beyond just ‘good’ performance. We need to be a leader in our sector, setting an example for our peers. The following infographic outlines some of the challenges facing global agriculture now and in the future. It explains how SunRice is contributing to potential solutions, including by demonstrating how we view each challenge as an opportunity that needs to be addressed, not only to guide GLOBAL us in improving our performance but also to achieve positive outcomes for all our stakeholders. AGRICULTURAL ISSUE Population Water Availability of land Nutrition Labour standards Demographic shift The global population is Agriculture consumes 70% The percentage of land used Rapid urbanisation and The global poverty problem In a fast-paced world, expected to reach 8.5 billion by of ‘blue water’ available to for agricultural production emerging middle classes across stems primarily from consumers are demanding 2030, and 9.7 billion by 2050. humanity globally. Demand for grew by only 8% between developing countries have exploitative working conditions, convenient and nutritious Global agriculture must meet water in agriculture is expected 1967 and 2007. resulted in higher rates of not unemployment; 85% of packaged food. this increased demand with the to rise by over 30% by 2030, diabetes globally. For example, those living in poverty are same amount of resources. with total water demand set to the rate of diabetic adults in working. double from 2000 to 2050. China grew from 1% to 10% between 1980 and 2008. OUR RESPONSE Our multi-decade Extensive R&D has To meet the restricted SunRice is playing a role As SunRice expands SunRice has expanded its investment in research allowed us to increase availability of land for in addressing the global operations beyond product range to include and innovation has helped yield per tonne for each agriculture, SunRice obesity and diabetes Australia, we are healthy and convenient increase yields throughout megalitre of water used recognises the importance epidemics through its committed to managing products. This includes our global supply chain. by 9% since 2012. While of protecting current low-GI product range. In human rights risks in our microwaveable This means SunRice we currently yield, on available land. This addition, our nutrition our supply chain and to rice, as well as healthy products can nourish more average, 0.83 tonnes/ML, means caring for our strategy seeks to decrease maximising the benefits snacking alternatives. people in more places. We our target is to achieve environment, and ensuring the use of saturated of our presence for local recognise the importance 1.5 tonnes/ML. that we maintain the fats and sodium in our communities in those of increasing yield agronomic integrity of our product lines. countries in which we efficiency and have helped productive soils. operate. our growers increase their average yield by 11% since 2012. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 7 SUNRICE’S APPROACH Managing our operations in a sustainable way is good for business and the The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) seek to address the most significant challenges our world is presently facing. communities in which we operate. After all, looking after growers, employees, We believe we can help to address some of these challenges and have given consideration to how we can best make a positive impact. suppliers and their families is central to our business model, and our heritage as We have identified seven SDGs to which we have made a meaningful contribution throughout the year. a community-based cooperative. In this context, one of the key pillars of our five-year strategy is to secure a sustainable and reliable global supply chain. If we cannot sustain a reliable global rice supply, we do not have a viable business. It is that simple. Our Sustainability Program includes the goal of making our supply chain more sustainable, which, in turn, will support the implementation of our broader business strategy and global growth ambitions. The first public element of the Program was the release of SunRice’s Sustainability Charter in 2017. The Charter outlines our commitment to care for the natural environment, to support the societies and We provide appropriate We aim to help feed the Our efforts to provide good Through our partnerships, income to our suppliers world. By producing a health and wellbeing for programs and guidelines, communities in which we operate, and to reflect high standards of in emerging markets. By nutritious and high-quality all are two-fold: we uphold we seek to ensure women ethical behaviour across our supply chain. increasing the standard of product for sale across high standards of safety across our operations and rice production in these developing countries, we and wellbeing across all surrounding communities markets, we can also create play our part in working our operations, and we are afforded the same new jobs and support towards zero hunger. develop nutritious products opportunities as men. community development to combat the global obesity in a way that contributes and diabetes epidemics. towards eliminating poverty and improving livelihoods. Environment Societies and Governance We are committed to Communities SunRice strives to exceed ensuring SunRice has an At the core of our the requirements of the ongoing social licence to mission is our laws and regulations operate into the future. commitment to respect that govern our Efficient resource use, fundamental human operations. SunRice waste reduction, and rights in the value has a ‘zero tolerance’ enhancing biodiversity chain. We will increase approach to bribery are key to meeting this traceability in our supply and corruption and a commitment. chain and maintain commitment to publicly our social licence to and transparently operate. We recognise communicate that our people are our our sustainability We are working across our Our research and We are building resilience in We uphold a zero-tolerance most valuable asset performance. supply chain and operations development teams are our operations and supply approach to bribery and and are committed to to ensure human rights are working to improve resource chain as we transition to a corruption. We have maintaining a diverse respected and upheld and efficiency across our supply low carbon future. undergone a review of our and safe working our rice growers receive the chain. We recognise the supply chain to ensure environment for all. best price for their product. importance of improving best practice and maintain resource use in rice a 100% training rate in production. anti-bribery and corruption (ABC). 8 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 MATERIALITY The materiality process is about identifying the issues Supplier Sustainability Program Sustainable Rice Platform that really matter to an organisation and its stakeholders. SunRice conducted a formal materiality analysis and As we build a sustainable and reliable global supply chain, especially The Sustainable Rice Platform (SRP) Standard is a voluntary assessment during the past year; the results of which with a focus on expanding our operational footprint globally, we certification scheme that aims to provide consumers with need to respond to emergent risks such as child and slave labour. confidence that the rice they consume has been sustainably have guided the content of this report. We expect challenging questions from our stakeholders on how we produced. SRP is a partnership between the International Rice SunRice’s comprehensive materiality assessment manage these risks, and our approach to traceability and labour Research Institute (IRRI) and United Nations Environmental included discussions with 26 stakeholders across practices. We are committed to providing fair labour practices Program (UNEP). At its core, the SRP Standard provides an our businesses, peers, customers, suppliers, and and good working conditions, and we will not tolerate people overall framework for sustainable best practice across ESG industry associations, as well as a review of 28 being exploited in our supply chain. We see enormous potential to and economic criteria. internal and 20 external documents. influence positive change through our supplier relationships. The SRP has identified 12 performance indicators, many of which The 2018 materiality process: In 2017, we commissioned a review of our approach to align to the material topics identified throughout this report. procurement and sourcing. This review determined that we needed Labour productivity, child labour, food safety, water use, health to make improvements in the way we managed our sustainable and safety, and greenhouse gas emissions are key components of supply chain. Over the past year, we have been working to address the SRP Standard. We are focused on all of these areas, and are the gaps identified in this review and to formalise a group-wide collaborating with our growers to manage them throughout the approach through the development and implementation of the supply chain. Across all the regions in which we operate, SunRice identified the prioritised the included a SunRice Supplier Sustainability Program. ensures that its rice meets a high level of sustainable standards. topics that topics of high workshop In developing our Supplier Sustainability Program, we engaged This year in particular, we worked with the SRP to understand how were material importance with senior with suppliers (including rice growers) across the Mekong our Australian growers can certify what we already know – that to our to both the management Delta (Vietnam) and Riverina (Australia). The Supplier Impact Riverina rice is the most sustainable in the world. organisation SunRice Group to prioritise the Assessment resulting from this engagement provided us with a As part of our collaboration with the SRP initiative we conducted and our and external material topics better understanding of how material supply chain issues (e.g. a pilot program with Riverina growers aimed at establishing an stakeholders; stakeholders; using the criteria water availability and labour standards) are experienced on a daily Australian sustainable rice growing standard. Initial observations and of relevance, basis by our suppliers, and how they respond to these issues. The indicate that Australian Growers are 40% more advanced than control, influence results of this world-leading approach, as well as the adaptation the UNEP average, with Australian cropping techniques resulting and impact. of traditional social impact assessment techniques, informed the in decreased water use and increased nitrogen efficiency. development of SunRice’s Supplier Sustainability Program, and, Additionally, labour practices on Australian farms exceed the importantly, ensured its design and implementation considered our expectations of the SRP Standard, and our growers have been suppliers’ own challenges, concerns, priorities and motivations. As a identified as effective stewards of their overall land holdings, not result, suppliers are much more likely to engage positively with the only their rice paddies. Supplier Sustainability Program. Over the coming years, we are aiming to roll out SRP certification The Supplier Sustainability Program aligns with international leading across all of our rice supply chains. By providing our customers practice and standards. Once the roll out is completed, it will apply with the knowledge that our product is environmentally and to all stages of engagement with our suppliers, from pre-screening socially sustainable, we believe we can gain better access to of potential suppliers, to strategic sourcing and other procurement niche, higher returning markets, which will assist our growers in activities, and to supplier monitoring and performance recognition improving their own financial sustainability and profitability. programs. The scope of sustainability issues covered by the program is aligned to our Sustainability Charter, addressing such issues as human rights and labour standards, health and safety, environmental impacts, governance and business conduct. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 9 MATERIAL TOPICS To ensure we prioritise the sustainability issues which matter most to us and our stakeholders, we have identified our most material topics. These topics are considered under the three pillars framework of Environment, Societies and Communities, and Governance (ESG). Our top material topics for 2018 are further detailed in the Materiality section of this report. The 12 topics we have identified as priorities align with the ESG commitments outlined in our Sustainability Charter. WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY (WH&S) This key describes the degree of relevance SunRice is committed to providing each material topic has to the other topics. a safe work environment for its Most connected employees, contractors and suppliers. We intend to achieve this through: OUR PEOPLE Medium connection establishing a culture that places In order to attract and retain Lowest connection safety front-of-mind; developing strong high-performing staff, SunRice leadership; and implementing and recognises the need to maintain monitoring management systems to a continuously improving culture. maintain a safe working environment. We encourage collaboration and ENVIRONMENT innovation across our businesses, including by promoting diversity and inclusion, and preventing discrimination. R&D AND AGRONOMICS SunRice needs to maintain investment in innovative research and technologies to manage the risk of fluctuating volumes of rice production. It is vital to our WATER MANAGEMENT business that we increase the efficiency Water use in rice production is a critical of rice production, while minimising the CLIMATE CHANGE, NATURAL DISASTERS AND topic to many of our stakeholders. SunRice environmental impacts and supporting the EXTREME WEATHER EVENTS recognises the need to minimise water development of rice varieties that meet Climate change and/or extreme weather consumption, while maintaining secure access customers’ needs and preferences. events could have major, but isolated to high quality water for rice production. impacts on rice production around the world. Appropriate water management is vital to We recognise the need to manage these maintaining our social license to operate. ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND EMISSIONS REDUCTION risks through diversifying the geography and SunRice recognises the need to reduce our product range of our supply chain. energy consumption and emissions across INNOVATION our operations and supply chain. A SAFE AND ACCOUNTABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PROCESSING SUSTAINABLE SOURCING 10 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 SOCIETIES AND COMMUNITIES ROLE IN LOCAL ECONOMIES SunRice plays an important role in our communities, including by creating employment and procurement opportunities, and by investing SECURE RICE SUPPLY GOVERNANCE in community-based activities. As identified in our five-year strategy, securing a sustainable and reliable global supply chain LABOUR PRACTICES is key to our future success. SunRice must ensure fair labour To achieve this we will secure standards and good working a multi-varietal and resilient conditions in our operations, and supply chain with our Australian effectively manage the risk of PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY growers at its core. exploitative labour practices that Ensuring high standards of product could occur in our supply chain. safety and quality is critical to maintaining consumer trust in the SunRice brand, and to managing reputational risks associated with any food safety issues. ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION SunRice continues to manage the risk of bribery and corruption in our operations and supply chain, both in Australia and globally. We will achieve this by maintaining high standards FINANCIAL CHALLENGES IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN of ethical conduct and integrity, We will inevitably face financial challenges particularly in those markets into and pressures across our supply chain, such which we are expanding, and as our as rising input costs that might discourage operational footprint extends into growers from undertaking or increasing rice MARKETING AND SALES new countries. production. The development of valueadded products, and rice by-products, is an opportunity to further support the financial CONSUMPTION viability of the rice growing industry. GOVERNANCE SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 11 ENVIRONMENT WE ARE COMMITTED TO ENSURING SUNRICE HAS AN ONGOING SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE INTO THE FUTURE. EFFICIENT RESOURCE USE, WASTE REDUCTION AND ENHANCING BIODIVERSITY ARE KEY TO MEETING THIS COMMITMENT 12 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 50% less Riverina growers achieve 50% less water usage than the global average R&D AND AGRONOMICS Investing in new rice Improved farm techniques Opportunity to further Background As with all organisations, the ability to continuously improve is vital to the longvarieties in Australia to reduce methane emissions reduce emissions in the term sustainability of our business. We are proud of our ongoing efforts to and Asia and water use supply chain improve the efficiency of rice varieties, while focusing on the management of the environment in which we operate. Investing in research and development (R&D) helps us manage the risks of fluctuating rice supply and increasing global production costs. What we are doing Our fully-owned subsidiary, Rice Research Australia Pty Ltd (RRAPL), continues to seek improvements in rice growing through the development of new varieties, and the monitoring of input use to improve crop quality. This year we were excited to commercially launch a new late-season, lower water use, medium grain variety – Viand. Ongoing research efforts to cultivate efficient varieties for Australian conditions have allowed Riverina growers to achieve 50% less water usage than the global average. As we continue to expand our supply chain into South East Asia, we understand the need to bolster R&D efforts in tropical production. Last year RRAPL commenced tropical rice research in northern Queensland, supported by $4 million in funding from the Australian Government’s Rural R&D for Profit Program. We are now expanding this research into Vietnam. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 13 R&D & AGRONOMICS SunRice has always strived to help our growers become more efficient with their input use. For instance, improving our understanding of tropical rice will assist new growers in Queensland, Papua New Guinea and across Asia, especially in Vietnam. This year we provided our Vietnamese farmers with information packs detailing the recommended input levels for producing a high-quality grain. RRAPL also continues to research improved farming techniques to support the environment in which we operate. Because of continued research and collaboration with our Australian growers, for instance, more than 50% now utilise direct drill seeding and delayed permanent water techniques. Drill seeding, along with flush irrigation techniques, have produced four times less methane emissions from rice production than aerial seeding, and delayed permanent water can save up to 4.5 megalitres of water per hectare. These are just two of the benefits our R&D teams have provided to our growers, the environment, and local communities. As part as our ongoing environmental initiatives we identified a major R&D opportunity to reduce SunRice’s indirect emissions in the supply chain. A SunRice project in 2016 indicated that greenhouse gas emissions from Australian grown rice is approximately 65% less than the global average. While this is outside the scope of our direct control, we are working closely with our growers to encourage farming practices that could further reduce emissions LAUNCH OF VIAND IN THE RIVERINA In 2018, SunRice commercially launched Viand in the Riverina. and possibly identify further emissions reduction opportunities. This new rice variety provides growers with a short season and water-efficient variety. Further afield, we are working with global growers to improve farming techniques. As we expand into emerging markets, we are providing growers with detailed seeding and input guides. These RRAPL-developed guides are helping our growers produce a high-yielding premium crop with higher returns, and a premium product for our customers. 14 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Our ability to source rice from SunFoods in California during prolonged periods of drought in Australia is vital to SunRice maintaining a secure supply of sustainable high quality Japonica rice. CLIMATE CHANGE & NATURAL DISASTERS Diversified supply California sourcing to Committed to implementing Background Changing weather patterns will continue to have an impact on global rice chain helps mitigate supplement Australian supply the TCFD recommendations in supply. The risk and impact that climate change has on our direct operations climate risks during El Nino periods full; gap analysis planned is relatively small when compared to the impact on our growers. For example, the impact of an acute weather event on our milling operations would have less significance to our organisation than a severe drought would have on rice supply. What we are doing Our approach to managing the impact of climate change is two-fold: to identify and manage climate-related risks through our entity-wide risk management framework and risk culture; and to avoid these risks through diversifying our supply chain. As a response to changing markets and the millennium drought, SunRice has the capability to source rice supply from California. Climate conditions on the east coast of Australia and the west coast of the United States are appositely linked due to the El Nino oscillation. Today, our ability to source rice from SunFoods, SunRice’s fully owned subsidiary in the United States, during prolonged periods of drought in Australia is vital to SunRice maintaining a secure supply of sustainable high quality Japonica rice. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 15 A secure and sustainable global supply chain CLIMATE CHANGE & NATURAL DISASTERS Harvesting underway for SunFoods in California. One of the key drivers for our international growth strategy is to secure a Extreme weather events may pose a risk to facilities or the supply of raw sustainable and reliable global supply chain which mitigates our exposure ingredients. All SunRice facilities have emergency response procedures in to isolated weather events in any one region. Our dual-hemisphere, multi place. In addition to site specific plans, SunRice business continuity plans origination sourcing strategy led to the supply of rice in FY18 from the have contingencies in place to continue to operate in the event of an Riverina region and Queensland, Australia, and from seven different countries extreme weather. (Thailand, Vietnam, Pakistan, India, the United States, Spain and Italy). At SunRice we recognise the risk of adverse stakeholder perception due to The business seeks to find solutions to, and prepare for, the risks associated our water consumption. SunRice continues to disclose its activities in water with climate change, including setting measures to improve management risk management and greenhouse gas emissions. Over the next 12 months of water and energy. The risk of water scarcity in the supply chain has been we will work to better understand the potential impact of climate and weatherrecognised for many years. The risks associated with extended drought related risks across our business and implement specific controls to address periods or reduced water availability have led to a number of specific initiatives. these risks. In recent years, our response to this risk has been through expanding our As discussed in the R&D and Agronomics section of this report, our R&D teams geographic reach of supply. This has included sourcing rice for our customers continue to develop rice varieties to both improve efficiency and respond to from alternate supply chains which are now managed to Australian standards, changing climatic conditions. as well as direct investment in processing facilities in California to supplement Australian supply during El Nino periods. 16 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Climate-related financial disclosures The drought conditions currently being experienced through much of eastern Australia are a reminder of the urgent need: to prioritise environmental INTRODUCING DRILL SEEDING/FLUSH IRRIGATION stewardship in our operation; to increase the resilience of our supply chain to climate risks; and to incorporate climate considerations into our strategic SunRice is working with growers to introduce drill seeding/flush irrigation, decision-making and business planning. combined with delayed permanent water as a standard practice amongst our growers. Drill seeding/flush irrigation, with the option of delayed We will establish governance processes to identify and manage the effects permanent water, is a world leading farming practice that has been of climate change on our business, including the introduction of direct Board developed in Australia and highlights SunRice’s commitments to R&D. oversight of our climate-related risks, opportunities, strategies and policies. Key reasons behind developing this practice in Australia include: The Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) final 1. Lowering water use recommendations report, released in June 2017, provides recommendations 2. L  owering methane gas emissions considerably for how companies should disclose their exposure to climate risks and 3. Improving Nitrogen use efficiencies opportunities to stakeholders. 4. Greater opportunity for rotational cropping. We will work towards implementing the TCFD’s recommendations in full. To this end, we have committed to conducting a gap analysis in the next 12 months to address gaps in our climate strategy and reporting. We will provide an update on progress in our next sustainability report. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 17 In line with our commitment to be transparent in our sustainability reporting we have captured complete CY17 data for energy use and carbon emissions. ENERGY EFFICIENCY & EMISSIONS REDUCTION High cost of energy placing Improved rice farming Government collaboration and ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND GHG EMISSIONS pressure on sustainable techniques reducing methane R&D improving environmental Background profits and carbon emissions performance The increasing cost of energy is placing greater pressure on maintaining sustainable profits and is driving the need to reconsider energy sourcing arrangements and reduce consumption. Through reducing our energy consumption, which represents almost 90% of our GHG emissions, we recognise the role we can play in reducing global emissions. The indirect emissions of rice production are an increasing focus, and we are working with our growers to improve farming techniques to reduce associated methane and carbon emissions. Finding alternatives to the burning of rice stubble and reducing nitrogen ponded paddies are just two of the approaches we are taking to reducing our indirect emissions. What we are doing Our Environment Policy sets our commitment to managing our operations in an environmentally sustainable manner through continuous improvement of all our activities. The key focus of this policy is to identify the environmental impact of our operations, understand and minimise our environmental risks, and collaborate where possible with industry to improve our environmental performance. 18 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 0.16GJ/T Average energy intensity 48.1 across the SunRice Group MILLION GJ Energy consumption 117,618T CO2 Emissions Aerial fertiliser application to boost crop growth following Near-Infra Red (NIR) for the SunRice Group for the SunRice Group rice tissue testing to determine specific nitrogen requirements. Collaboration has been key to our energy improvements to date, and our partnership with the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage (OEH) has paid Energy use (million GJ) Carbon emissions (‘000 T CO2e) Average energy use per tonne major dividends in assisting our operations to develop energy saving plans and production (GJ/T) initiatives. During FY19, energy management plans will be developed across every site of our business. These plans identify current levels of consumption, initiatives to deliver potential savings over the short, medium and long term, as 1.6 3.7 0.04 well as costs associated with instituting these initiatives. We have set ourselves 4.1 0.3 13.1 the goal of identifying and implementing one energy saving initiative per 0.5 7.4 business unit over the next year. 1.5 0.13 0.20 The energy management program is also complemented by a new initiative to collect data from Australian and overseas supply chains in order to benchmark and improve transparency in energy use. This program will also assist in reducing emission intensity in production facilities. SunRice has also signed 91.1 0.02 41.2 0.14 onto the NSW OEH renewable energy program in 2018 in order to facilitate implementation within Australia and overseas. Australia Australia Australia Outside of our direct emissions, we have continued our efforts to understand Jordan Jordan Jordan and reduce the emissions released through rice production through research PNG PNG PNG at RRAPL. Efficient and effective use of fertiliser can have a significant impact Solomon Islands Solomon Islands Solomon Islands in the methane emissions of rice production. Australian growers have already USA USA USA begun to shift their farming techniques such that fertiliser inputs are timed with irrigation to decrease methane emissions and improve water efficiency. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 19 4.5ML/HEC Reduced water consumption by our growers through the use of drill seeding and flush irrigation with delayed permanent water WATER MANAGEMENT R&D focus on water-efficient Viand rice variety R&D has significantly Background As a food grower and producer we rely on rain and snow fall to generate water rice varieties and farming launched in the Riverina reduced Riverina growers’ – a critical input to our production process. There is increasing research on the techniques this year water use long-term trends for rainfall variability, however the constraints on our ability to reliably predict short-term water availability remains a challenge. Notwithstanding these challenges, SunRice is working hard to find innovative solutions on more water efficient rice varieties and farming techniques through investment partnerships in R&D. We are constantly striving to attain greater efficiency and returns for our farmers – a key component of achieving our strategic ambition of realising a sustainable and reliable global supply chain. What we are doing For our growers, water availability and flexibility in planning dates are key drivers of their decision making. Economic return per megalitre of water is a key measure of performance for our growers. We are constantly working with our R&D teams to ensure our growers can maximise their ability to make better onfarm decisions, and in turn, increase their return. RRAPL continues to provide growers with more efficient crop varieties. The latest product of this research is our Viand rice variety, which we launched in the Riverina this year. Viand has been bred by RRAPL in partnership with the NSW Government’s Department of Primary Industries and AgriFutures Australia, and highlights our efforts to continue developing more water efficient varieties. 20 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Water use: ML/Hectare Yield: Tonnes/Hectare Yield: Tonne/ML GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) 17 16 12 1.1 Geographic Information System (GIS) machinery, weather feeds, irrigation is a new data collection management systems, satellite imagery) 11 15 platform designed to aggregate 0.9 Optimise AGS and Supply chains: agronomic data, product performance Varietal rationalisation, geographic 14 data and modern satellites imaging optimisation, supply chain (mill delivery) 10 into a single platform. SunRice’s GIS will optimisation. 13 be available on PC and mobile devices allowing the collection of farming Improve Sustainability and 0.7 12 conditions, water use, planting and Traceability: 9 harvesting times, fertiliser and chemical •F ull traceability and validation of 11 applications and map back to yield and supply chains for product integrity product performance. •O ptimise varietal selection by region 10 8 0.5 to meet specific customer needs CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 Through integration with internal SunRice management and quality •A llow future Blockchain initiatives Coleambally Irrigation Area Murrumbidgie Irrigation Area Murray Valley Average systems, GIS will be used to: •A platform for future scalability Increase Grower & Group performance: Phase 1 will be implemented by June The use of predictive analytics for; 2019. GIS will expand on existing data varietal selection, planting rates, sowing management within SunRice’s vertically Along with providing our growers with a late planting variety and possible double dates, nutrition, irrigation, panicle integrated supply chain which will also cropping option, the new Viand variety provides significant water-use efficiency initiation, draining, harvesting and facilitate benchmarking and provide a gains on existing varieties. This variety contributes to our ongoing work to weather alerts by utilising a combination platform for the future of sustainable achieve an average return of 1.5 tonnes of rice per megalitre of water used. of internal (historical) information and production of rice in Australia. external data sources (topography, farm At SunRice, we work hard with our growers to improve on-farm efficiency throughout the rice growing process. Our Rice Extension team works on farm with our growers to benchmark water use and farming techniques. As discussed in the R&D and Agronomics section, the recent uptake in drill seeding and delayed permanent water over aerial seeding has resulted in a step change by reducing water consumption by our growers by up to 4.5 megalitres per hectare, with an added benefit of drill seeding resulting in four times less methane generation. Water is a precious resource, and one that we understand needs to be carefully managed. Our ongoing R&D efforts have helped to reduce Australian rice growers’ use by 30% per paddy tonne compared to 20 years ago. Australian rice growers are the most water efficient and productive rice growers in the world, growing on average 0.8 tonnes of rice per megalitre of water* compared to the global average of 0.4 tonnes of rice per megalitre of water**. Rice is only planted in Australia when sufficient water is made available from rivers and groundwater sources through government regulated water licensing schemes. When there’s no water, there’s no rice. While water availability is not seen as a current risk in our South East Asia supply, we do recognise that geopolitical risks do exist over water supply throughout the Mekong Delta. By improving water efficiency in these regions we can minimise this risk and ensure a reliable and secure supply across multiple geographies. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 21 SOCIETIES & COMMUNITIES AT THE CORE OF OUR MISSION IS OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPECT FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE VALUE CHAIN. WE WILL INCREASE TRACEABILITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN AND MAINTAIN OUR SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE. WE RECOGNISE THAT OUR PEOPLE AND GROWERS ARE OUR MOST VALUABLE ASSETS AND ARE COMMITTED TO MAINTAINING A DIVERSE AND SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT FOR ALL. 22 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 45% Reduction in recordable injuries over two years WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY Zero harm approach Global rollout of new Reduction in total Background to WH&S safety management recordable injuries over At SunRice we are committed to providing a safe work environment for our system two years employees, contractors and suppliers through developing, implementing and monitoring robust management systems to reduce Workplace Health & Safety (WH&S) risks. While there is a strong focus on WH&S at our sites, there is a need to continue to encourage and support rice growers and other suppliers, both in Australia and overseas, to continuously improve their own practices. We already operate across a range of countries, and as part of our five-year strategy, more will be added. Standards and laws related to WH&S in Australia are well-established and understood. For operations outside of Australia, we have a number of controls and systems in place to drive our zero harm approach, and to ensure we comply with local and international standards and expectations. Understanding local customs, laws and behaviours in the other jurisdictions in which we operate is an ongoing focus and we manage this challenge by utilising a combination of uniform corporate compliance, inclusive leadership, safe behaviours and tailored systems. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 23 WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY 10% Targets: Reduce both the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by 10%. Safety training is a critical part of the role for SunRice employees. What we are doing To the extent that local law does not specify safety requirements, or standards are not equivalent to Australian requirements, we are guided by Australian and international standards, including in In the past year we invested significantly in a safety management system across risk management and design control. As an organisation that has learnt from our experience, we our Australian operations, which is helping to improve transparency and our have identified high risk elements that are a focus of our safety program throughout the world. ability to embed consistent health and safety standards and performance. Our expectations in these areas are the same, irrespective of the location or country in which our The time taken to implement the system globally will vary depending on operations are conducted. the location and country in which our operations are conducted, but full implementation should be completed within a year. Our vision is to achieve the following milestones across all our operations, including in our regional subsidiaries: Governance in relation to Workplace Health & Safety • short-term establish reporting to the existing executive management committee: all business units SunRice’s Safety Health and Environment Committee supports the Board in its are to specifically report on issues arising in international operations; oversight of all WH&S matters. The Committee’s role is to: • medium term establish routine processes that capture uniform corporate compliance, inclusive • ensure that SunRice meets its WH&S obligations and, ultimately, achieves and leadership, safe behaviours and tailored systems, whilst keeping in mind cultural and local heritage; maintains zero harm across the business; • long-term – all operations are aligned to the SunRice Group’s standards and expectations, managed • ensure that WH&S policy is understood and implemented by all stakeholders; by inclusive leaders who inspire safe behaviours. • ensure the Board exercises due diligence in confirming that SunRice is meeting its obligations under WH&S legislation. Transparency through reporting A desire for greater internal transparency has led to greater collaboration across our operations and Supporting WH&S performance improvement in developing countries a more integrated approach to risk management. Our Australian-based enterprise risk management SunRice is committed to encouraging the same commitment and behaviour platform is being rolled out to all subsidiaries in the coming year. This platform will enable uniform from our people and our leaders globally. reporting across all our international operations and provide opportunities to maintain a broader base of information, as well as our capacity to effectively manage current and emerging sustainability issues. 24 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 16% The LTIFR has fallen 16% to 4.63 injuries per million hours worked in the last 12 months Workplace Health & Safety training Training is a critical component which underpins a shared understanding of preferred practice. All our operations, in all areas of the world, take a consistent approach to Safety Training. The development of a group-wide central Learning Management System is currently underway and planned MANAGING SAFETY WITH SAFESTART for implementation in FY20. This will enable us to improve reporting and the forecasting of training needs on safety. After a series of significant incidents in 2015, SunRice identified the need for a more behavioural-based approach to safety management. This commenced KPIs with the adoption of the SafeStart program. This program educates our people Targets: Reduce the Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) by 10% about safety in day-to-day situations and how seemingly insignificant errors and reduce the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by 10%. and omissions can lead to serious injury. All levels of the business have adopted the SafeStart program, which has been followed by a revised observation SunRice adopted the TRIFR metric in 2015 to measure its performance against program, and new induction and investigation processes. This emphasis on other industry members. The business has experienced an impressive 45% a behaviour-based approach to safety management – including through our reduction in TRIFR over the past two years. After a small rise in CY16 the LTIFR reporting and risk management frameworks – has helped significantly reduce has returned to CY15 levels in the past 12 months, falling 16% to 4.63 injuries the number of injuries year-on-year since 2015. per million hours worked. SunRice has adopted a more proactive approach toward safety management in recent years with a series of indicators being adopted around behavioural based safety observations, inspections and leadership activity encouraged for senior leaders. A more ambitious program comprised of lead indicators has just been released for FY19 which will broaden our approach to day-to-day activity in all areas of the business. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 25 37% Number of women in senior Australian management positions, up from 12% in 2014 OUR PEOPLE Strong improvement in overall 84% of employees proud Goal of 75% favourable overall At SunRice, we believe that our people really do ‘make a difference’. Our vision employee engagement score to work at SunRice engagement score is for a positive, inclusive and accountable culture. We strive to provide an (69% favourable) enjoyable, flexible and innovative workplace in which everyone is comfortable to express fresh ideas and creativity. What we are doing Engagement is more than just job satisfaction or feeling happy at work. Engaged team leaders and team members bring many benefits, and lifting engagement can impact things like performance, innovation, and the retention and attraction of talent. Measuring our engagement levels has been a key focus since 2016. We have been working hard to improve our performance and we are starting to see results. In 2018, our overall engagement score was 69% favourable, following our “Say it as you see it!” employee engagement survey, in which 698 team leaders and team members had their say (a participation rate of 74%). This result demonstrates a strong improvement with our overall engagement score up from 62% since our last survey in 2016. 26 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 The results also confirmed that engagement levels remain high in relation to day-to-day decisions, demonstrating that safety and quality are a priority, and that our products and services are as good as, or better than, our main competitors. Our people are also very proud of our genuine commitment to social responsibility. In 2016, in order to raise our levels of engagement, we agreed to: • create an environment where constructive behaviours that demonstrate we FIGHTING DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, AIDS AND OTHER HEALTH care about our people are encouraged; • focus on internal communications that encourage our people to stay informed and involved in our progress, including having a greater presence at ISSUES IN PNG our regional sites; and • make time to develop our people, to ensure they can continue to grow. SunRice’s subsidiary business in Papua Through its TruCare program, Trukai New Guinea (PNG), Trukai Industries invests in healthy living and healthy The following table indicates we made significant improvements in these areas: Ltd, plays a very proactive role in the eating opportunities to improve the lives local community, helping to address key of Papua New Guineans. Key initiatives domestic violence and health issues. include: Highest 3 scores in 2018 87% 86% 84% To help combat epidemic levels of • M  onthly rice donations to the Kaugere family and sexual violence against Clinic in Port Moresby to support women and children, Trukai has signed patients with tuberculosis, which is a memorandum of understanding with a major health problem for PNG. The local service provider Femili PNG to assist vitamin enrichment in Trukai’s Roots I know what I need to I am able to arrange I am proud to work survivors through education (including Rice is also a boost for patients to help do to be successful in time out from work for SunRice training of Trukai employees), awareness them rebuild their immune system. my role when I need to and financial support. • H  IV/AIDS is another major health issue in PNG that Trukai has played a key Most improved scores in 2018 vs. 2016 Since opening its Family and Sexual role in raising awareness of through 61% 72% 57% Violence Case Management Centre in the annual Trukai Fun Run. 2014, Femili PNG has helped more than 1,000 women and children in high-risk • T  o support rural health care in Morobe situations, supporting them through the Province, Trukai has partnered with Lae court system and assisting in their return based helicopter company, Manalos (up from 42% in 2016) (up from 38% in 2016) (up from 55% in 2016) to their village of origin, away from Aviation to provide medivacs for violent perpetrators. patients in this area. This year, Trukai The Corporate We are genuinely The Corporate Management also donated four mobile ultra sound Management Team supported if we choose Team at SunRice demonstrate Each month, Femili PNG receives 60 scanners valued at about AUD$42,000 at SunRice have to make use of flexible that people are important to kilograms of rice from Trukai Industries to Manalos Aviation to help with precommunicated a vision working arrangements the Company’s success Ltd to support Femili PNG clients in diagnosis for women. that motivates me safe houses. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 27 DIVERSITY IN DENILIQUIN OUR PEOPLE SunRice Deniliquin is the largest Awards, in recognition of the positive non-government employer in impact we created for both our Deniliquin, in the southern Riverina employees and the broader community. of NSW. Deniliquin is home to one of Key initiatives implemented by the mill the largest rice mills in the Southern included professional development Hemisphere, which is a key component programs, flexible work arrangements, Generation profile Age bracket % of our global supply chain. a health and wellbeing program 43% including physiotherapy support, an Being able to work in the community employee recognition program, ongoing where many people have family (who go Millennials 1981-1994 31 investment in technology to ensure best 29 back generations) helps us attract staff. practice safety and quality standards, 39% Our rice mill currently has 108 people, and a commitment to providing a safe, which can reach 150 at peak capacity. inclusive and diverse workplace. Generation X 1965-1980 Our Deniliquin team live by the mantra: 19 ‘We believe in engaging our people and Following the win, the mill went on to 14% Baby boomer 1946-1964 10 10 supporting our community, showing pride in what we do, within a sustainable and dynamic business’. In addition, the be a finalist the State awards. Although we did not win the State award, it was a result for everyone to be proud of. local community is engaged through In 2018, our Deniliquin team also won 4% Generation Z 1995-2009 18-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 1 65 or older contractors and local businesses to support the operation, making it a the ‘Excellence in Workplace Inclusion’ Award and will go on to compete for the significant driver of the local economy. NSW state title in November 2018. Average tenure (years) Average age In 2017, our Deniliquin Rice Mill won the ‘Employer of Choice’ award at the Deniliquin Business Excellence Awards 6.1 Female 6.5 Male 6.4 Total average 40 Female 39 Male 39 Total average and the Murray-Riverina Business Based on our review of potential focus areas from our 2018 survey results, SunRice – who are we our focus over the next 12 months will centre on leadership, collaboration We are proud of who we are. 71% of our global employee population is made and communication. We have committed to encouraging open and honest up of operational team leaders and team members and 29% is made up of communication in several ways: corporate team leaders and team members. Our generational profile is well• prioritising the development of our people by ensuring regular ‘check in’ balanced, as is tenure within our business. conversations with their team leader; • encouraging ‘unfiltered’ feedback, and seeking employee buy-in to solve One of the things we are most proud of is our focus on increasing the number issues that help ensure a positive and inclusive workplace; of women in senior management positions in Australia. Since 2014, we have been working hard to increase the number of women in senior management • continuing to check-in (e.g. team meetings, toolbox talks and site tours) on positions from 12% to 37% in 2018. Although we fall just short of our 2018 our ways of operating to ensure we are living a culture of accountability daily. target of 40%, we will continue to strive for gender balance in all our senior management roles. 28 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Gender pay gap As part of SunRice’s Diversity and Inclusion strategy, the no gender pay gap principle is reflected in our remuneration philosophy and forms the basis for all our decision making. Gender equality is addressed at the outset of our recruitment process, ensuring salaries offered to candidates are gender neutral and reflective of an Left to right – Rob Gordon, SunRice CEO, Judy Johnston, Jan Cathcart’s sister, Annabel Arnold, 2018 winner of Jan incumbent’s experience and skills, and aligned to the job for which they are Cathcart Scholarship, Sue Naumann, Jan Cathcart’s sister, recruited. and Laurie Arthur, SunRice Chairman. To instill our Rewards strategy, ongoing training is provided during the annual JAN CATHCART SCHOLARSHIP ENHANCING remuneration review to highlight the need to assess any gaps between males and females doing ‘like’ work. Business leaders have access to gender pay gap reports as part of the annual remuneration review, as well as analysis of the average salary increase for male versus female employees. Data is analysed and any issues proactively addressed prior to sign-off to ensure leaders are WOMEN’S CAREERS IN THE RICE INDUSTRY held accountable for pay equity outcomes. SunRice launched the Jan Cathcart Scholarship in 2014 to honour the memory of long-term SunRice employee Jan Cathcart. It recognises her Annually, SunRice also reviews the pay gap as part of the Workplace Gender high principles, commitment and 43-year contribution to the rice industry, Equality Agency (WGEA) reporting requirements, which are available publicly SunRice and our shareholders and growers. and communicated to all employees. Open to female shareholders, growers and employees and their extended Before making recommendations for promotions and appointments, SunRice’s families, the scholarship is designed to support women who demonstrate a Group Rewards teams centrally review internal equity and will include passion for and commitment to the rice industry and who can contribute to recommendations to align any pay gaps. shaping a positive future for our industry. SunRice is proudly ahead of the industry standard and will continue to ensure Valued at $10,000 a year for up to three years of tertiary study, to date the closure of any gaps. scholarship has provided six recipients with numerous opportunities, from financial support, to work experience and employment placements with SunRice, and professional and personal growth. Successful applicants are chosen on: her commitment to a career in agriculture or agribusiness; her involvement in work experience and community service; leadership potential; and academic achievements. Please watch this short video to learn more about the Jan Cathcart Scholarship and how it has advanced the career of 2015 recipient Samantha Glenn: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1XH-2qmO15g SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 29 As we seek further global growth, we are seeking to improve the conditions for our non-Australian staff to a level consistent with that of Australia. LABOUR PRACTICES Providing training Addressing gaps in Supplier Sustainability Background and community support procurement and sourcing Code sets expectations on Throughout our global operations we set and uphold a high standard of to address social through the Sustainable supplier standards and labour conditions. We have long-standing governance mechanisms over issues in PNG Supplier Program behaviour recruitment, labour practices, performance management and the entire employment life cycle. As we seek further growth beyond Australia, in regions where employment conditions and labour standards are not as high, we are seeking to improve the conditions for our staff to a level consistent with that of Australia. Within our operations we have a high degree of control, visibility and certainty in the quality of our labour practices. However, the level of transparency over our broader non-SunRice controlled supply chain in these regions makes it challenging to ensure poor practices do not occur. Commitment to being home grown What we are doing We are committed to maintaining a stable workforce in the Riverina and actively managing fluctuations in local supply through various mechanisms including: the use of planned fixed-term contracts; maintaining our own casual workforce; and active consultation and direct engagement with our workforce 30 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 and local communities. We have been recognised in our local communities as an employer of choice on several occasions, particularly for our commitment to developing a diverse and inclusive workforce. Entering new frontiers Over the past 45 years, we have learnt a great deal from our Trukai business in PNG. Our intention is to set up comparable employee life cycle models in all our future foreign operations. Getting to know the community in which we operate is our priority. Understanding the cultural differences and local social issues in new countries is critical to ensuring the successful integration of expatriate / international leadership and the effective engagement of the local communities and workforces. We also seek to undertake direct recruitment so we can maintain control and oversight over the quality of our workforce. We have rolled out cultural intelligence training across all our leadership group in PNG and other overseas entities, both for local and expatriate / international employees. One objective of this training is for the leadership team to better understand how social and cultural norms in PNG can be integrated into the workplace. In this way, employee engagement will increase and drive business IMPROVING LIFE FOR TRUKAI WORKERS success. This was an area specifically explored in an employee engagement Trukai is currently implementing provision of health insurance survey in 2016, from which we developed specific action plans. The success of to all salaried Trukai employees and their families. We are also these initiatives will be retested in another survey later in 2018. working with Femili PNG to provide counselling to staff where needed: We have also conducted unconscious bias training for gender and cultural • Demonstrates Trukai is improving labour conditions of workers issues. This involved conducting a pilot cross-cultural business protocols in PNG through: program for SunRice employees doing business in Asia. This covered meeting • Shows Trukai cares for its employees protocols, visible signs of emotion and what they mean, the use of English language, how to act in formal and informal occasions and establishing • Reduces employee’s time away from work contacts and networks through official channels. The SunRice Board and • Improves productivity, employee satisfaction and incident Corporate Management Team also participated in education sessions reporting culture conducted by KPMG and King Wood Mallesons on doing business in Asia. Trukai has also implemented cultural intelligence training to managers and seniors within the organisation. This highlights SunRice’s global commitment to work with local communities and is planned to be rolled out in other regions. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 31 LABOUR PRACTICES Social issues such as domestic violence and sexual abuse, and health issues such as malaria and TB, are prevalent in PNG. Through various avenues we provide local community support to address these issues. A partnership has been formed with a local NGO based in Lae, Femili PNG, which supports the survivors of domestic and sexual violence. Through this partnership, Trukai staff are receiving ongoing holistic education of the issues, as well as access to the services that are needed. We will seek to understand and engage with the community in whichever country or region we operate and to provide targeted and relevant support to our employees and their families. Strengthening our supply chain What we are doing In 2017, we commissioned a review of our approach to procurement and SOLRICE ON TRACK TO DELIVER VITAMIN sourcing. This review determined that a number of critical elements of sustainable supply chain management required improvement. Over the past year we have been working to address the gaps identified in this review and formalise a group-wide approach through the implementation of the SunRice Sustainable Supplier Program (SSP). ENRICHED RICE TO IMPROVE HEALTH OF SOLOMON The SSP aligns with international leading practice and standards. Once the roll out is completed, it will apply to all stages of engagement with our ISLANDERS suppliers, from pre-screening of potential suppliers, to strategic sourcing and SunRice’s subsidiary in the Solomon Islands, SolRice is working other procurement activities, and to supplier monitoring and performance hard with local government authorities and NGOs to introduce recognition programs. The scope of sustainability issues covered by the vitamin enriched rice to help address the country’s high rate of program is aligned to our Sustainability Charter, covering such issues as preventable diseases, especially in women and children. human rights and labour standards, health and safety, environmental impacts, The Solomon Islands Government is expected to make vitamin governance and business conduct. enriched rice mandatory by the end of 2018. SolRice is poised to be the major supplier, offering a unique formula developed by the World Health Organisation and other NGOs. Approved by the Ministry of Health, this product has been designed specifically to prevent diseases such as anaemia, stunting and neural tube defects among others that are prevalent among Solomon Islanders. 32 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 The Supplier Sustainability Program will apply to all stages of engagement with our suppliers, from pre-screening of potential suppliers, to strategic sourcing and other procurement activities. The program design is underpinned by research and engagement with SunRice personnel and suppliers to understand the nature of SunRice’s most material supply chain issues. Importantly, this involved exploration of the way these issues are currently experienced and managed by suppliers and growers in Australia and Vietnam, and the potential impacts that our decisions and actions have on these suppliers, their families and businesses. We did this through supplier impact assessments in Australia and Vietnam. This gave us insights into both our positive impacts and where we could improve. Current work is focused on addressing identified gaps in our management approach through formalising existing practices and proposing modifications and additions to existing policies and procedures in procurement and quality management. Consideration is also being given to align with other related activities already underway such as the Sustainable Rice Platform. The program has already closed a range of gaps identified including the factors in our procurement decisions, such as financial stability, quality, and following group-level policy documents: ethics, amongst others, to ensure sustainability factors are well considered • SunRice Supplier Sustainability Code; throughout our supply chain. • Group Procurement Policy; and The Group Supplier Assurance Management Procedure directs the ongoing • Group Supplier Management Assurance Procedure. monitoring of the quality of products and services supplied to SunRice and The Supplier Sustainability Code outlines the standards and business practices supports ongoing visibility and management of food safety, quality and to which we expect our suppliers to adhere, and sets out expectations relating sustainability risks across the supply chain. The Procedure builds on existing to: labour standards; quality, health and safety; broader impacts on society; division-level food safety and quality assurance standards, procedures environmental management; and governance and business conduct. These and practices. It formalises a set of group-wide principles and tasks that expectations are aligned with SunRice’s Sustainability Charter and commitment incorporate sustainability requirements alongside existing food safety and to uphold the principles of the UNGC and the International Finance quality requirements, to support a consistent approach to supplier assurance Corporation Performance Standards, as well as global responsible sourcing management. standards such as the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code. We will continue to engage closely with our suppliers to help raise the standard The Group Procurement Policy is designed to provide a foundation for supply of labour practices and effectively implement these policies and procedures. management that ensures the best commercial value is obtained through fair and open competition. This policy includes a consideration of non-price SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 33 At SunRice we supply a product that feeds the world, and also offer nutritious products that can be part of the solution in managing the emerging global health issues of obesity and diabetes. PRODUCT SAFETY & QUALITY High-quality, ‘clean and Opportunity to lead in healthy Investing in Riverina Background green’ product key to our and innovative snacks and mills to further raise Producing a safe and high-quality product is essential to maintaining customer global reputation low-GI rice products standards and consumer trust. SunRice is proud to be seen by its customers as a producer of high quality rice from around the world. The pristine environment in which we grow rice in Australia is the foundation on which we have built a global reputation as a supplier of high quality, ‘clean and green’ product. At SunRice, we are inspired by our ability to positively impact communities. We supply a product that feeds the world, and also offer nutritious products that can be part of the solution in managing the emerging global health issues of obesity and diabetes. SunRice’s ability to play a pioneering role in addressing these health issues is outlined in our renewed five-year strategy, and we are excited by our opportunity to be a leader in healthier and innovative snack products. 34 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 As a leader in the production of high-quality Japonica rice, our Deniliquin Mill has continued its efforts to learn from our customers SunRice uses the Japanese Hanasaki quality test to ensure Riverina-grown short and peers in Japan. grain rice meets the standard demanded by sushi chefs across the world. What we are doing As a leader in the production of high-quality Japonica rice, our Deniliquin Mill has continued efforts to learn from our customers and peers in Japan. By Continuous improvement has been crucial to all our business operations since improving our milling standards and processes we can ensure our growers are foundation. We are proud of our efforts to improve product safety and quality receiving the best return possible for their high-quality product. We are proud in the past year across multiple markets and growing regions. We have also that we did not have any major quality concerns over the past year. increased our efforts to create innovative and healthier snacking options for our consumers. While the integrity of our food is of primary concern to our customers, nutritional quality plays a significant role in our efforts to provide a highAs SunRice continues to globally expand our supply chains, we recognise and quality product. The rise of middle classes across the developing world, and acknowledge our ability to continue producing high quality rice in Australia the increased pace of life in the developed world, have combined to increase for niche markets. Our growing environment in the Riverina positions SunRice demand for convenient food products. In response to this, we are proud of our as a leader in Japonica rice, and we have continued this year to improve our efforts in developing microwaveable rice-based products. Of importance to our milling operations in both Leeton and Deniliquin to ensure the consistency of product development teams is a focus on producing healthier convenient food our products. choices for our customers. We are confident that our R&D efforts to produce Over the last two growing years we have invested in new Integrated Pest and promote low-GI rice products will play a major role in combating the global Management solutions at our Leeton mill. Traditional ‘fogging’ techniques rely obesity and diabetes epidemics. on the use of chemicals to ensure food quality standards are upheld. While these techniques can be effective, we have sought alternative management techniques to improve the safety of our Leeton mill. We are now utilising thermal pest management in our Leeton mill, a technique which has been tried and tested in flour mills. Thermal pest management has provided our mill with an increased understanding of the high-risk zones within our plant, resulting in an improvement in pest management efficiency when we conduct concentrated fogging. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 35 100% Trukai in PNG achieved its first commercial sale of 100% grown and produced domestic rice ROLE IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES Background SunRice plays a significant role in the communities in which we operate through employment, procurement opportunities, investment in communityfocused activities, and, in regions like the Pacific, through being the major supplier of a reliable and consistent food staple. Strong community focus Trukai achieved first commercial Trukai recognised for Building on our heritage as an Australian, farmer-led cooperative, our business in all our operations sale of 100% PNG-grown and promoting women in approach and the social responsibility initiatives and programs we promote, produced rice agriculture in PNG will strive to strengthen the communities we touch around the world. What we are doing At SunRice, we recognise our ability to collaborate with local communities around the world, to not only provide employment, education, and support, but to enable others to meet their own personal aspirations. This is highlighted by our continued support of communities where ever we operate. 2018 was a milestone year for Trukai in PNG. With our support of PNG growers in Umi, Morobe Province, the country achieved its first commercial sale of 100% grown and produced domestic rice. This was the first commercial crop grown by these farmers since PNG independence. We are proud of the willingness of growers to learn new farming techniques and cultivate previously underutilised land to produce high quality rice. To augment the processing of locally grown rice, Trukai invested $0.4 million in a new hulling mill to process. Trukai is now the only 100% vertically integrated rice company in PNG. To mark this auspicious occasion, the mill, in Lae, was opened in September 2017 by Trukai Chairman, Mark Robinson, and the PNG Minister for Commerce and Industry. 36 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Over the last few years, Trukai has supported rice growing through the funding and manufacturing of 100 solar powered rice mills, to ensure the milling of rice is more effective at a village level. Trukai, with the National Agricultural Research Institute, PNG Women in Agriculture, and the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade have funded a further 80 mills for villages in the Morobe province. We are proud that Trukai’s work with local communities has been recognised by the PNG government. This year Trukai re-signed a second, five-year memorandum of understanding with the PNG Woman in Agriculture Development Foundation. Trukai is a major funder of this Foundation, which works with local communities to ensure women are recognised as equal partners in agriculture businesses. Trukai has also played an important role in disaster relief across PNG. Trukai has registered as a provider to the UN World Food Program to support their response to natural and other disasters in PNG, including the provision of 325 tonnes of rice during FY16 in response to El Nino effects on food supplies in the Highlands. Trukai is proud to build on this relationship and will continue working with the World Food Program in the future. ROTATING WITH RICE TO BOOST SUGARCANE PRODUCTIVITY Closer to home, SunRice is proud of its continued support of Foodbank Australia. Since 2013 SunRice has donated 507 tonnes of rice products to Foodbank which equates to almost one million meals. According to an IN NORTH QUEENSLAND As part of our commitment to building a sustainable rice industry in North independent study into Foodbank’s social return on investment, Foodbank’s food assistance not only addresses people’s immediate nutrition needs, but also contributes to improvements in their health, emotional wellbeing, Queensland, SunRice has invested significantly in research and development sense of self-worth, social relationships and ultimately overall standard of and extension support to help local sugarcane farmers understand the value of integrating rice into existing cropping systems. living. Combined with the environmental savings of food not going to waste, the benefit to the individual and broader community that flows from every Being a high value crop, adding rice to the legume-cane rotation can assist cane kilogram of food distributed by Foodbank is valued at $23. SunRice’s total social farmers to improve their cash flow by utilising fallow land, while potentially return on investment over five years has been $11.7 million. improving soil condition and breaking disease cycles that are prevalent in a sugarcane monoculture. This year, an employee-led initiative in our Melbourne office provided over 200 volunteer hours of support to Foodbank. In line with SunRice’s strategy “Growers who have added rice to their farming system are seeing much improved soil structure and conditions after the rice crop and we’d expect them to see gains to combat the global diabetes and obesity epidemic, much of the support in the cane crop immediately after planting,” said Russell Ford, Manager of Rice provided to Foodbank this year has been through the School Breakfast 4 Research Australia Pty Ltd (RRAPL), a subsidiary of SunRice. Health Program. This program sees volunteers work with local schools to assist children in making healthy choices for breakfast. Ongoing research, development and extension effort in North Queensland is focusing in on how to best manage rotations along with irrigation systems, varieties, The Royal Agricultural Society (RAS) AgBag is always a huge success at the nutrition and disease control. annual Sydney Royal Easter Show. SunRice again supported the efforts of the “Rice grows well in both the wet and dry seasons in North Queensland, meaning RAS this year, donating rice and chia cups, for use in this year’s bag, which there is flexibility to incorporate rice to best suit your existing farming system,” raised over $55,000 to support communities in regional NSW. The biennial added Mr Ford. Leeton SunRice Festival was once again hosted in 2018. This year’s event was a huge success, and we are proud that the efforts of our ambassadors and sponsors have helped to provide 35 local community groups and organisations with over $49,000 in donations. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 37 A mother of five children was Our greatest achievement however brutally murdered at the hands of will be as a key initiator, driver her husband. The murder took place and provider of added vitamins in front of the children while mum and minerals into the diet of held onto the baby of the family, Solomon Islanders through the Food who was also severely injured in Fortification Initiative, a combined the attack. activity of SolRice, the Ministry of Health, DFAT and a number of An aunty came forward and other NGOS and governmental although she had very little departments. personally, opened her home and adopted the five children. We took The aim of this program, unique and this tragic story and the kindness specific to the Solomon Islands, is and willingness by the aunty to take to fortify rice to a point where it is SOLRICE COMMITTED TO WELL-BEING on the challenge of five additional, an effective carrier of vitamins and traumatised children as our minerals into the diets specifically opportunity to step up. of women and children. The aim IN THE SOLOMON ISLANDS Firstly SolRice took care of all medical bills, both for the physical is to achieve an efficacy that helps to eliminate anemia, stunting and neural tube defects amongst other SolRice is very proud of both our SolRice is also a major supporter but also the mental injuries brought debilitating and life threatening long term commitments to the through fundraising and supplying about by the actions of the father. issues, which can be addressed by health and well-being of Solomon all rice needs free of charge to this program. From there, for the last two years Islanders as well as our many adhoc Seif Ples, a shelter for women and and for a minimum of three more, activities, all aimed at improving the children who suffer from violence Legislation is the only hold up SolRice feeds the family with a quality of life across a wide range of and abuse in the home. We also currently and we hope to see the weekly rice delivery to their home the community. purchase our Christmas card program in place by early 2019. and all children of school age are requirements annually from the SolRice has a long term now in school for the first time, shelter which are made by those commitment to improving literacy with a commitment by SolRice to needing their services: a major in a country with an illiteracy rate pay the cost of school fees for all fundraiser for Seif Ples. of 87%. We have now been involved the children each year. This took for four years in supporting READSI, SolRice has many activities of away some major financial burdens a not-for-profit organisation that which we are proud that look to from this wonderful family and the provides volunteer teachers, small provide a better future for Solomon children are thriving despite the libraries, books and pamphlets to Islanders. But we are most proud horror start to their young lives. villages across the country. of our support for a local family SolRice encourages rice for copra that suffered a tragic and traumatic We continue to work with new trading to alleviate costs of rice to event two years ago. partners to try and resurrect the copra farmers. We invest in Rotary annual SolRice Fun Run; a major hospital projects, youth sporting national event that encourages events and numerous other healthy eating and a healthy localised initiatives. 38 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 lifestyle. Managing our supply across multiple regions allows us to maintain a reliable and premium product for our customers and to support our growers’ businesses. SECURE RICE SUPPLY Cementing sustainable Focused on working Riverina growers offered Background and reliable global supply with growers to improve earlier fixed contracts to help SunRice’s ability to secure a sustainable, reliable and global supply of rice is chain key to long-term farming techniques manage water allocation and central to our long-term viability and success. We understand that by allowing success beyond Australia planting decisions our growers to make more informed decisions, we can support the continued production of rice and help meet increased global demand. This includes providing growers with up-to-date information on varietals, which in turn, will help them produce a quality crop with higher returns. What we are doing The five-year strategy recognises our need to cement a sustainable and reliable global supply chain in response to increased demand in branded products, while ensuring quality and sustainability. By expanding our rice supply chains into South East Asia, we have enhanced our capabilities in meeting the quantities of high-quality product demanded by our customers. We are also working with our local Riverina growers to reposition Australia as the supply source of choice for premium branded rice markets. Through managing our supply across multiple regions, we are able to maintain a reliable and premium product for our customers and to support our growers’ businesses. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 39 SECURE SUPPLY CHAIN As a Group, our brands have a reputation for high quality and affordability. To maintain this reputation, we must ensure that our supply of rice remains reliable, not only in terms of quantity, but also quality. In the past year we have placed an increased focus on working with farmers in Vietnam to improve farming techniques. As a supplement to the sale of rice seeds in all regions, we offer our growers an information pack with recommended fertiliser and other input quantities. This is just one approach we have taken to improve the reliability and quality of rice grown beyond Australia. In PNG, the establishment of the first commercial rice crop has been premised on extensive research to determine that the right variety is grown and that Trukai’s quality standards are maintained. SunRice standards for crop management have been adopted for the growing of domestic rice in PNG. Our SunFoods milling and supply operations in the US provide further support in FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS IN THE RIVERINA securing a stable supply of rice throughout periods of lower supply in Australia. The impact of these operations is discussed in the Climate Change section of this report. Through our Growers Services team, we are working to help growers make more Aiding our growers to make better informed decisions is crucial to informed choices about growing rice. For instance, water availability is a critical factor ensuring we have a reliable, secure, and sustainable supply of rice. in a farmer’s decision to plant a crop, and we want them to have the option of growing For the first time this year we have offered our Riverina growers fixed rice alongside winter and other summer crops. Our continued efforts in R&D to price-tonnage contracts in March/April for rice to be harvested in 2019 develop more efficient and alternative duration crop varieties are discussed in the (C19) – this was five months earlier than previous years. We followed R&D and Agronomics section of this report. This year we also provided our Riverina this in August by offering further fixed price contracts for C19 and farmers with contract options earlier in the year – a major milestone in agricultural increasing the prices of the earlier contracts. The decision to offer fixed price contracts is intended to encourage local rice production by decision-making. providing Riverina growers with greater certainty regarding upcoming summer crop planting decisions, in the context of the current low water allocations and high water prices. Offering fixed price contracts for C19 is also in the best interests of the SunRice Group. The contracts provide a strong incentive to growers to secure sufficient paddy rice to service our key high value markets and also provides a base level milling program for our Riverina facilities. 40 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 GOVERNANCE SUNRICE STRIVES TO EXCEED THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE LAWS AND REGULATIONS THAT GOVERN OUR OPERATIONS. SUNRICE HAS A ‘ZERO TOLERANCE’ APPROACH TO BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION AND A COMMITMENT TO PUBLICLY AND TRANSPARENTLY COMMUNICATE OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 41 MANAGING The Board’s role in managing sustainability SUSTAINABILITY The Board’s role is to: • provide an • determine Board • r eview and In 2017, we committed to implementing the SunRice Sustainability Program. Our additional layer processes around the approve Program builds on decades of previous sustainability work, which was focused of knowledge, Sustainability Program, the annual on our environmental performance in Australia and communities in the Pacific. expertise and including: the frequency Sustainability Given our ambitions to grow the business by expanding into new markets and review and nature of Board Report. establishing supply chains beyond Australia, we now need to consolidate past to the process; reporting; key actions successes as we prepare to manage new and emerging risks. A sustainable and policies; and and reliable global supply chain will not only generate profitable returns, but prioritising items of also demonstrate performance aligned with our environmental and social focus; and responsibilities. The first step in cementing our Sustainability Program as a core part of the business has been to formalise how sustainability is governed at SunRice. The Board views sustainability as critical to SunRice’s success in building a global MANAGING supply chain and, therefore, will take an active role in monitoring and guiding the Program’s implementation. We have undertaken two significant steps to formalise our commitment to sustainability. The first was to issue the SunRice RISK Our business units are required to identify and manage material risks across Sustainability Charter. Our Charter outlines what we stand for in the areas of their respective activities, functions and processes through the Group’s Risk environment, society and communities, and governance. To further strengthen Management Framework. our sustainability commitment, we have also become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a signatory, SunRice is committed to All material risks are assessed by considering their impacts on a range of key adhering to the UNGC’s 10 principles, which include respect for human rights, issues, including health and safety, the environment, community relations, environmental stewardship, and working against bribery and corruption. Our reputation, legal and finance. By embedding risk management into our business commitment also means we submit a public report each year in relation to our processes and critical systems, we ensure we make decisions based on relevant progress on the Principles. Our annual Sustainability Report is intended to satisfy inputs and valid data. this requirement into the future. A broader discussion of our risk factors and management approach is provided Another key element of the Sustainability Program was publishing our first in our FY18 Annual Report and Corporate Governance Statement which can be sustainability report. In 2017, we made a public commitment in our Annual Report downloaded at https://corporate.sunrice.com.au/investors/reports/ to establish and implement a sustainability reporting framework and publish our first sustainability report in 2018. Any further steps or additional processes to formalise management of the Sustainability Program will only occur once the Board is satisfied that the sustainability framework is embedded and standard routines are in place. For example, over time, various aspects of the sustainability framework are likely to be overseen by Board committees, such as the Finance and Audit Committee, the Safety Health and Environment Committee, and the Remuneration Committee, rather than the full Board. 42 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 At SunRice we are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical conduct wherever we operate. ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION As a result of our global growth strategy, we will often be exposed to countries High standards of ethical Uncompromising Training for all that are considered high risk in terms of bribery and corruption. In some of conduct wherever we approach to bribery and employees these countries, corruption is considered endemic and an accepted part of the operate corruption business culture. At SunRice we are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical conduct wherever we operate. Doing the right thing is not only the correct way to conduct business, but also critical in protecting our brand and maintaining consumer trust. To meet this challenge we have implemented a best practice anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) framework. This framework is based on a ‘zero tolerance’ commitment, which means that we do not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption, whether direct or indirect, regardless of the value of the bribe. This uncompromising approach applies across the SunRice Group and in whatever country we operate. At times, it means we adopt a higher standard of behaviour than the standard required by local laws. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 43 ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION Our overarching ABC policy came into effect in May 2013. Other related policies in the ABC framework include: ‘ZERO TOLERANCE’ APPROACH TO BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION • Code of Conduct; • Donations, Sponsorship and Political Activities Policy; • Dealings with External Parties Policy; Over the past three years, SunRice has rolled • Procurement Sourcing Policy; out Anti-Bribery and Corruption training to • Gifts, Benefits and Hospitality Policy; all Australian and international sites with • Delegations of Authority; and key materials translated into Pidgin, Arabic • Speak Up Policy. and Vietnamese, and associated materials translated into simplified Chinese and Our Speak Up Policy encourages SunRice employees across the Group to traditional Chinese. raise potential instances of bribery and corruption through an external and This has resulted in all employees across the independent Speak Up hotline. Instances are reported to the Group’s Legal TRUKAI TO BECOME A CASHLESS SunRice Group being trained on this important function for investigation and the General Counsel reports on Speak Up topic, which is core to our commitment of matters twice annually to the Board’s Finance and Audit Committee and the embedding a culture of ‘Zero Tolerance’ to BUSINESS Corporate Management Team. bribery and corruption across our business. Training is tailored to the level of risk Anti-Bribery & Corruption training for employees In 2014, a decision was made to convert Trukai employees may be exposed to and ongoing The SunRice Group takes a risk-based approach to identify training needs for to a cashless business in order to practically measures are in place to ensure that existing employees. The “ABC risk classification” criteria were developed to categorise and effectively address the risk of bribery and and new employees are adequately trained and employees according to the level of ABC risk associated with their role. There corruption, which in some parts of PNG is a made aware of any legislative changes or policy culturally accepted way of doing business. updates. are tailored online training modules for low and medium/high risk employees, and more comprehensive face-to-face training is conducted for medium/high The business had more than 500 employees As a global food business operating in risk employees. who did not have bank accounts. The HR competitive markets across diverse team worked with these employees to open geographies and with numerous third-party Training for overseas employees is delivered using materials translated into bank accounts with local bank BSP so they relationships, our Anti-Bribery and Corruption their local language, and, where access to online materials is an issue, through could be paid directly by bank transfer. The initiatives help to reinforce our strong ethical ‘ambassadors’ who have been specifically trained to deliver the training practice continues today through our current standards and values while strengthening our face-to-face. recruitment practices. New recruits are asked business operations and further protecting our to provide their bank account details on the people, reputation, brands and assets. The Group’s Legal function monitors the completion of ABC training for all first day of their employment or complete an employees. SunRice’s People and Culture professionals are responsible for application form. assigning ABC risk categories and ensuring new starter training is provided upon induction. New starters are given 90 days to complete their ABC training. All training is up-to-date for medium and high-risk employees. 44 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Our ability to efficiently manage the transfer of rice from the farm gate to our customers is a key factor in managing the cost of supply. FINANCIAL CHALLENGES IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Working with our growers Continue to generate Engaging with relevant Background to understand and manage attractive paddy prices for governments to manage Contributing to the financial health of our growers and suppliers is critical to financial pressures Riverina growers sovereign risk ensuring the security of our rice supply. But the rising cost of inputs for our growers, is placing increased onus on us to provide them with strong financial returns to ensure that growing rice remains profitable. What we are doing Input costs are a major determinant of the return that a grower will receive. We have been working with our growers to better understand the financial pressures they face, and have conducted analysis across the Australian market to determine the appropriate return our growers need in order to ensure rice remains a viable crop option. Understandably, the cost of water is the most important variable in determining our Riverina growers’ returns. As a consequence, we need to provide our growers with a paddy price that provides a return appropriate for the cost of water and encourages them to plant rice. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 45 FINANCIAL CHALLENGES IN THE SUPPLY CHAIIN 11% increase in average yield for our Australian crops since 2012 Thanks to ongoing R&D, Australian rice growers use 50% less water than the global average. Even as we expand our supply chain beyond Australia, we recognise the need storage facilities are not stressed. We have done this by separating high and to maintain financially viable rice production in the Riverina. This region has low quantity packaging between our various Riverina mills, and by developing been, and will continue to be, the cornerstone of SunRice’s business. In order mobile mills in some of our emerging markets. to provide a higher return for the Riverina rice crop, we are developing more The establishment of supply sources beyond Australia to service our lower efficient varieties; benchmarking growers’ use of inputs to understand how returning markets, and the expansion of our sales into higher returning this may impact rice quality; and improving milling processes to create a higher premium markets, have helped us generate attractive paddy prices for our value product for final sale. Our Australian Growers Services team is working Riverina growers. SunRice is working across the Group to ensure that prices with growers to understand stresses and pressures across the Riverina, for Riverina growers remain attractive. providing us with a better understanding of the needs of our growers and whether rice continues to be a viable crop. We address SunRice’s ongoing efforts to manage water consumption throughout this report, specifically in the Water Management, and R&D and Agronomics sections. Our ability to efficiently manage the transfer of rice from the farm gate to our customers is a key factor in managing the cost of supply. Through optimising our production facilities, we ensure our mills are not overstretched, and our 46 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 SOVEREIGN RISK •G  iven the nutritional and cultural became concerned about their importance of rice as a food staple dependence on an allegedly fickle in Asia, many Asian countries international market. In reality, have aspired to become selfthe rice market is fairly stable. sufficient in rice production. Production has largely matched Governments have sought to help or exceeded population growth domestic producers become more rates in Asia. Rice prices shot competitive through investment up then because governments in agriculture and infrastructure, panicked. India, The Philippines while also seeking to protect their and Thailand restricted exports. viability through subsidies, tariffs Vietnam, Cambodia and Myanmar and other support mechanisms. created a rice-exporting cartel. IMPROVING LIVELIHOODS IN VIETNAM These interventions have tended Elsewhere, smaller exporters to be counterproductive, distorting cut exports while importers and supply and demand, disincentivising farmers hoarded. Prices did not private investment in productivity start falling until the second half The People’s Committee of An Giang Province and SunRice have signed a and technology, and raising prices of 2008 when Vietnam, Japan and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to produce seed, source and process for consumers. Thailand all said they would boost high-quality, traceable, sustainable and reliable Japonica paddy rice from 30% exports. Vietnamese farming cooperatives in Tri Ton, Tinh Bien, Thoai Son and Chau •T  he rice-spike of 2007-08 is seen Thanh. The MoU is based on using appropriate and transparent systems of as the reason governments built • Government intervention remains communication between the parties at all times. up domestic production; Asian a risk for SunRice today. We rice importers in particular are managing sovereign risk by The MoU is an example of the kind of win-win cooperation that we insist on implementing an engagement pursuing throughout our global supply chain. At all times, rice growers and strategy to build relationships their local communities will benefit from decent wages and employment with governments in the countries certainty, as well as the adoption of SunRice’s quality control, food safety and in which we operate, as well as SunRice has improved farm gate returns industry advocacy groups. These production practices. We will benefit from an additional, Northern Hemisphere-based rice growing for our Vietnamese farmers by an efforts have been vindicated. SunRice is increasingly invited capacity to service our fast-growing Asian markets and to guarantee the certainty of our rice supply in response to increased global demand. average of 30% above long grain prices to participate in delegations, discussions and conferences, The agreement also includes provisions for exploring the development of and we have established strong high-value rice derivatives (such as rice flour), made from the by-products of relationships with a large number Japonica rice production for local and international markets. of senior government officials. Ongoing and regular engagement SunRice is also investing in rice variety breeding programs in Vietnam to has increased our capacity to develop quality rice varieties that can be grown under the tropical conditions resolve problematic issues as of the Mekong Delta to suit our various markets around the world. These they arise, especially in relation varieties are targeting high yield and quality that should provide growers with to market access and regulatory economic returns equal to or improved on current returns. hurdles. SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 47 OUR PERFORMANCE Key data in In Annual Sustainability Performance data Datapoint Report Report General Tonnes rice produced 801,714 paddy tonnes harvested* ✓ ✓ General Tonnes per hectare average yield 9.9t/ha average yield* ✓ ✓ General Revenue A$1.2bn group revenue ✓ ✓ General Average Paddy Price A$379/tonne (Reiziq)* ✓ ✓ Environment Group Scope 1 emissions 14,938 tonnes ✗ ✓ Environment Group Scope 2 emissions 102,680 tonnes ✗ ✓ Environment Group Total energy consumed 48.1 million GJ** ✗ ✓ Environment Average t/ML of rice grown 0.83* ✗ ✓ Environment % increase in recycles packets 9% increase ✓ ✗ Environment Waste diverted from landfill 50 tonnes ✓ ✗ Environment Packaging recycled at Leeton, CopRice and Deni sites 139 tonnes* ✓ ✗ Environment Number of countries from which rice is sourced 7 countries ✗ ✓ Societies and communities Total Employees 2180 ✓ ✓ Societies and communities Female Employees 719 ✓ ✓ Societies and communities Male Employees 1,461 ✓ ✓ Societies and communities Number of growers 772* ✓ ✓ Societies and communities TRIFR 13.17/million man-hours worked ✗ ✓ Societies and communities Change in TRIFR Decrease of 19.7% ✓ ✓ Societies and communities LTIFR 4.63/million man-hours worked ✗ ✓ Societies and communities Change in LTIFR Decrease of 16% from CY16 ✓ ✓ Societies and communities Employee Engagement Score 69% ✓ ✓ Societies and communities Change in Employee Engagement Score up from 62% in CY16 ✗ ✓ Societies and communities Average Age of Employees 39 ✓ ✗ Societies and communities Average Tenure 6 Years ✓ ✗ Societies and communities Indigenous employees 2.60%* ✓ ✗ 48 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 Key data in In Annual Sustainability Performance data Datapoint Report Report Societies and communities Generational statistics 15% baby boomers, 38% Gen X, ✓ ✗ 43% Millennials, 5% Gen Z* Societies and communities Mandatory safety compliance training courses 60 ✓ ✗ Societies and communities Number of training courses 122 ✓ ✗ Societies and communities Number of completed training courses 11,306 ✓ ✗ Societies and communities Number of employees who undertook leadership 281 ✓ ✗ development courses Societies and communities Other employee engagement stats 73% believe safety top priority, 68% happy with L&D opportunities, 77% believe ✓ ✗ SunRice services as good as, or better than competitors Societies and communities Diversity statistics at board, snr management, senior See full graphs in annual report (page 23) ✓ ✗ executive, and total women Societies and communities WHS targets reduction of TRIFR and LTIFR by 10% ✗ ✓ Societies and communities Number of major quality concerns NIL ✗ ✓ Governance % of employees completed ABC training All training is up to date for medium and high risk ✗ ✓ employees * Measured for Australian operations only ** Fuel consumption contributed 47.7 million GJ SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 49 GRI INDEX “Set out below is the GRI Index which outlines what we have done to address the GRI guidelines and uphold the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As this is our first sustainability report, we have used the GRI Standards to inform the content of our report. We are committed to ensuring our next report is in accordance with the GRI Standards and have included the GRI Index in the interests of transparency over our sustainability performance to date. The SunRice Sustainability Report also serves as our Communication on Progress for the UNGC.” GRI Standard Number GRI heading SunRice response UNGC Principle 102-1 Name of the organisation Ricegrowers Limited trading as SunRice 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Annual Report page 6 and 7 102-3 Location of headquarters Annual Report page 54 102-4 Location of operations Our Operations 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report page 54 102-6 Markets served Our Operations 102-7 Scale of the organization Our Operations 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Partially Reported in Our People 8 102-9 Supply chain Our Operations 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain No significant changes occurred during FY18 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Partially Reported 7 102-12 External initiatives About this report 102-13 Membership of associations Labour Practices 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Statement 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Materiality 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour CEO Statement, and Group Code of Conduct available 10 online 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report Corporate Governance Statement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Not Applicable 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Not Reported 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Consolidated Financial Statements section 37 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this report 50 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Standard Number GRI heading SunRice response UNGC Principle 102-47 List of material topics Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information Not Applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting Not Applicable 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report Not Applicable 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report 102-55 GRI content index Sustainability Report GRI Index 102-56 External assurance Not provided 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual report pg. 3 201-2 Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have Climate Change the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Anti Bribery and Corruption and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Anti Bribery and Corruption 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Energy and Emissions 8 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water Management 8 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Sustainable Rice Platform 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Energy and Emissions 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions Energy and Emissions 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions Not reported 305-4 GHG Emissions intensity Energy and Emissions 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG Emissions Not reported SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 / 51 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Number GRI heading SunRice response UNGC Principle 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Our People 6 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management WHS Not Reported committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Workplace Health & Safety 2, 6 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Workplace Health & Safety 6 assistance program 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our People 6 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of SunRice's Approach (SSP) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 association and collective bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of SunRice's Approach (SSP) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 child labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of SunRice's Approach (SSP) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Forced or compulsory labour 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or Anti Bribery and Corruption 1, 2 procedures 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or SunRice's Approach (SSP) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Anti Bribery and Corruption 1, 2 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SunRice's Approach (SSP) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 52 / SunRice Sustainability Report 2018 CONTACT US FOR FURTHER INFORMATION sustainability@sunrice.com.au www.sunrice.com.au
