GLOBAL COMPACT END OF YEAR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2018 TactiX Strategic Consulting Building No.20, Farazdaq St. Jabal AlWeibdeh, P.O. Box 1989 Amman 11118 Jordan Contact Person Mrs. Niveen El-Far CEO/Partner Tel: + 962 6 5689820 n.alfar@tactixconsulting.com 1 Statement of Commitment Tactix Strategic Consulting is privileged to endorse this undertaking as a part of our annual plan to be committed and to perform the main principles and basics that UN Global compact are obligated for, to empower sustainability and achieve the development goals. Being a part with UN action Global has empowered us to implement the rules and obligations that would elevate the work environment and enhance the general workplace atmosphere to become to its utmost levels of productivity, safety, cooperation and positive behaviors and values among the team players by applying the strategical actions. We are hereby, and with this endorsement, we express our intent to advance these principles and provisions within our sphere of influence, and will make a clear statement of this commitment to our clients, stakeholders, employees and the general public. Continuing with our past commitment, Tactix Strategic Consulting supports the ten principles and the key tenets that UN Global Compact stands for and keen to spread these principles among the surroundings and entities, out of believing in the highest positive impact that would be reflected to the companies and stakeholders. Tactix will not be accepting or tolerating Human rights, labor, Environment corruption, or any compromise that might cause harm or damage the balance of sustainability or its needs. It is a great pleasure to present our annual report to show the progress that improved sustainability and reduced inequalities. Niveen El-Far CEO – Partner at Tactix Strategic Consulting 2 About TactiX Strategic Consulting TactiX Strategic Consulting is the first Jordanian-born public relations and communications agency, and it was founded in 2003 with the goal of providing our clientele with elite services to meet their professional objectives and aspirations We offer innovative and insightful strategic approaches with tactical and immaculate implementations. Our years of experience means earned expertise, hence offering the highest quality as well as thorough consultation. We are skilled at identifying the latest global trends in the: automotive, entertainment, food and beverage, non-governmental organizations, industrial groups, education, tourism and retail sectors. And incorporating them to our services for maximum impact. We aim to take the brands, products, and services to the next level. We go above and beyond to ensure tangible results, every time In addition to that, TactiX is a member in the Action Global Communications Network, global communications collective offering TactiX clients any services they may require with their affiliates anywhere around the world. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Based on our faith that Human rights are basic moral guarantee, Tactix pledges to support and ensure to uphold all of The Universal Declaration Human articles Rights as it contains guidelines that guarantee the rights of all are duly recognized. The responsibility to implement these globally recognized articles has given us the ability to have a good judgment and act correctly within the institution. Equality for All Assessment, Policy and Goals In Article 2 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it states: “Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status” Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty. TactiX's administration does its utmost to ensure the unconditional respect of all its employees, regardless of their religious and/or ethnic background. We have adopted numerous measures and company policies to guarantee the integral preservation of all our employees. Implementation Tactix succeeded in consolidating the meanings and values of mutual respect, justice and equality among all parties all over the past years, thus demonstrating its interest in abiding by the principles of Action Global. Through 2018, TactiX has implemented all possible plans, rules and laws that maintain human, functional and labor rights. It is worth mentioning the keenness and the role played by the management to provide and support its employees with that by making opening discussions, regular staff meeting with management, suggesting articles, essays and books to read, applying open door policy between the employees and the management, organizing team building activities that helps to facilitate better communication, increase the trust factor between the employees and improve the ability to think rationally and strategically and solve problems, Enhance the importance of adhering to the rules of human rights at it utmost among all individuals, employees, administrators and clients, Inside and outside the institution. 4 Measurement of Outcomes As for the previous years, senior management keeps the open-door policy effectively applied to everyone and anytime. One several occasions, with situations of workplace conflicts, management would listen and try to resolve the conflict in an amicable and professional manner. Management believes that the strength of any team is nothing but the collective inputs of everyone involved, therefore positive and negative feedback is always welcome and taken into consideration Employee grievances are dealt with effectively and always without bias. TactiX’s Social Security Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals A monthly deduction occurred to the employees’ wages, this deduction is determined with a particular rate for all the employees without any exclusion, and this to be applied from the first day of joining work. Implementation The above mentioned deductions will secure the basic needs of the employees and their family members by providing a regular and continuous income in the future, and will lead to improve the relationship between the employees and employers. Measurement of Outcomes As all employee bank checks are processed and certified by TactiX's senior management, the opportunity arises to periodically review and assess social security and income tax deductions made prior to the issuance of salaries. 5 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Labour principles provide the social justice, safe environment and ensure transparent to the employees in an institution. Honestly in Pay scales Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX is determined to exercise honesty in all its dealings and assure a fair deal is given to all employees. By upholding such values and giving due appreciation to its members of staff, TactiX hopes to set an example for other corporations and secure deals of mutual benefit. Pay scales are predetermined by TactiX and the minimum offer is given and made clear in the employment contract before it is put into effect. Implementation While conducting interviews, TactiX’s senior management attentively listens to all the interviewee’s stated qualifications, while viewing his/her curriculum vitae for accuracy. After the administration determines that the employee’s background qualifies for the posted position, it suggested that the employee states his/her desired salary. However, if the stated salary is below the minimum offered by TactiX, the interviewer will revert with a counter offer that is more appropriate. Measurement of Outcomes Our current policy has proven useful as it promotes trust and sets a good first impression for our employees. All hired employees know that they are appreciated at TactiX and the current method has contributed greatly to lowering turnover and guaranteeing dedicated performance from the whole team. Moreover, the performance of all our employees is reviewed on a yearly basis and bonuses are measured and given according to work ethics seen, as well as the quality of their work. Health Insurance Assessment, Policy and Goals Health insurance is the fundamental right of all workers after the three-month probation period is completed. Tactix informs its employees of this during interviews and puts it into effect during the initial week after the probation period. 6 Implementation After employees are briefed on the full medical coverage offered by TactiX, senior management will send them a follow-up email and arrange a meeting to discuss the salary deductions that will be made upon their approval. Currently, our company has upgraded the health insurance to a larger network with one of the largest health insurance company. This now includes dental coverage, and elective cancer insurance. Moreover, TactiX has added Maternity benefits within its health insurance plan. Therefore, additional applications are available upon request. With the employee’s approval, the management informs its insurance company for registers the individual as a TactiX employee. The new staff member is given a yearly insurance card, a directory of doctors insured through the company and health insurance applications. The employee may request new applications when needed and will be given additional ones at the earliest possible date. Measurement of Outcomes TactiX’s administration ensures that all staff members have enough insurance applications and any individual who may be suffering from a chronic illness is checked on every two weeks to guarantee they are getting the best medical treatment. Annual Gatherings and Retreats Assessment, Policy and Goals In order to foster a positive company culture and strengthen bonds with the employees, the administration conducts recreational outings on a yearly basis. This is also an effective way of relieving stress accumulated over the year, and employees look forward to such events upon its arrival. TactiX also makes sure to celebrate birthdays of its employees, and has recently increased the number of its team building activities. This also includes charity and celebration of local religious celebration of all beliefs, such as breaking fast (Iftar) during the holy month of Ramadan. Implementation Our senior management arranges the recreational activities that are suggested by any of the employees. After discussing it with our employee’s person-to-person or via email, TactiX arranges the outings according to a majority vote. A reminder is sent to the team on the scheduled outings. Birthday celebrations have now become part of the company culture, where each employee gets to celebrate his or her birthday with cake and a small gathering at the end of the day to celebrate the individual. 7 In 2018, Tactix has enhanced the importance of employee recognition, by celebrating their work anniversary, because it understood that the greater employee satisfaction is one key to improving the entire organization’s bottom line Measurement of Outcomes We gather feedback from the team to assit us in planning future outings, and management is open to suggestions made by any and all the employees at TactiX. Furthermore, at the begging of every year, we create an annual calendar of the upcoming events and celebrations to be done during the coming year for the related above matters. Biometric Time Attendance Clock Assessment, Policy and Goals To guarantee the prompt attendance of all employees and with our high transparency policy, TactiX has installed a biometric time attendance clock. Implementation TactiX administration has set up a biometric time attendance clock adjacent to the main entrance; employees are given fingerprint identifications and are required to identify themselves upon arrival and departure or break time. Measurement of Outcomes This helps measure that all the TactiX employees are working within hours as supported by the Jordanian labour policies that execute their rights, as well ensures that they work an appropriate number of hours. Employees who fail to honor our prompt attendance policy are given a verbal warning for their tardiness. Employees who continuously to fail to abide then receive a written warning from the administration and are informed that timely attendance at the office is vital to performance. As a final course of action, non-adherents will have their employment contract terminated. The policy is effective and necessary in guaranteeing that both the employer and employee benefit mutually. Abolition of Child Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX’s senior management has taken on the responsibility of ensuring that no individual below 18 years of age is hired. This is articulated in the ILO Core Conventions, under Article 11 which stipulates: 8 Implementation TactiX periodically reviews all received résumés before contacting qualified individuals for interviews. Before putting employment contracts into effect, we request general identification and references to verify the eligibility of our staff members. To implement this law further, we strictly work with vendors that share these principles. We ensure that the freelancers are also given their full rights as well. Measurement of Outcomes If any information regarding the above article is breached, Article 10 of the ILO Core Conventions is reviewed for possible conditions of continued employment. If no options are internationally recognized, the worker’s contract is immediately terminated. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES TactiX is aware that we are a part of a larger ecosystem that supports a plethora of species, and we hope to leave a clean earth for all the generations to come. It is paramount that we all contribute our share, and we hope to leave a legacy of our time with very little negative environmental impact. Smoking Free Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals By making areas smoke-free, we can directly improve the health of our community and patrons. At the same time we will be promoting a positive health message and creating a cleaner, safer environment. Over time, TactiX has discouraged smoking, and encouraged the current smokers to stop smoking. Smoking is not allowed in Tactix Offices. Implementation TactiX has agreed as whole that with new innovations in communications, we are able to do our job well without hurting the environment. Therefore, it has applied the Smoke-free policy within its offices, and has assigned for a reward system to those who would quit smoking. Tactix is emphasizes on the necessity of having a clean and clear air, as a right for the individuals all around. Being aligned and going in parallel with King Hussein cancer center believes to fight smoking and raise awareness about the importance of cancer prevention, Tactix has participated in the launched initiative “Smoke-Free Zone Certificate in 2018 9 Measured outcome Being awarded a Smoke Free certificate from the King Hussein Cancer Foundation reveals that we are succeeding in providing a healthy and smoke-free environment for our employees and customers, and is a practice of communal commitment. Furthermore, Tactix has supported and coordinated many campaigns and projects that trying to raise the awareness of the negative impact of smoking, such as supporting the “Generation Protected” program, launched by our Client “The Royal Health Awareness Society”, that was made through our Public relations, Media and Social media Channels and platforms, and by being responsible for creating the messages, designs and overall theme campaign. Automated and energy saving lighting Assessment, Policy and Goals We recently moved to a new, economically and environmentally conserving office space. Additionally, we have installed motion censored lighting to ensure regulated energy saving to illuminate utilized spaces only. We also made sure that all light bulbs are energy saving. Implementation We aim to make sure that all electronics that are not in use are turned off, and again, only areas with movement are illuminated. We try to keep all electronics updated and any innovations to save natural resources are in use at TactiX. We aim to use natural lighting, and light use of the Air Conditioning when the weather permits. Measured Outcomes We try to decrease our carbon footprint as much as possible. The newly implemented automated lighting and energy saving methods have helped reduce the amount of energy consumption at TactiX. 10 Other Environmentally Friendly Campaigns & Social Initiatives Al Hussein Society – Corporate Social Responsibility Assessment, Policy and Goals Tactix is aware to the importance of CSR in Jordan itself and MENA region as a whole. As this need is growing rapidly since the last decade, Tactix accepting adoption and improving in the concept of CSR significantly over the years and is currently on the rise. For the second year, we are helping in Al-Hussein Society organization, and assisting in the delivery of their noble message to the society. Implementation We offer full PR, digital communications and media services to Al Hussein Society on a pro bono basis since 2017. We support and create strategies, and tactical approaches that help increase awareness and funding for the organization. Measured Outcomes Tactix had an active role with Al Hussein Society. A key contribution was coordinating the fundraising efforts from Major Telecom companies in Jordan. An awareness campaign was launched with a concept of getting the general public to envision life as a physically challenged person. In addition, Tactix assisted on advocacy in contacting major establishments in Jordan and requesting that they add accessible areas to their premises. In recognition of the efforts mentioned above, Tactix won the first place in the 11th edition of the Arab CSR Award 2018 for SME’s, for the Notable project with Al-Hussein Society for Persons with Disabilities and matching the primary objectives of the Arabia CSR Awards. 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES: TactiX honors and enforces all local and international laws, especially anticorruption, as it is a rampant issue that is faced in Jordan. It is part of daily professional activities. Therefore, TactiX truly takes this matter seriously and is sincerely dedicated to preventing corruption in every way possible. Single Person Accountability Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX has incorporated a single accountability policy to properly prevent any attempts made at embezzlement and guarantees. Our accountant is the only one with access to our company’s safe, giving him the sole privilege of accessing TactiX’s internal finances. Additionally, a single individual is authorized to sign cheques by TactiX. This makes sure that only one individual is liable. Implementation Our methods safeguard that a single copy of keys is given to the accountant with the exact amount of money recorded. Secondly, a record is kept by the senior administration of any withdrawals made, reasons behind each deductions and deposits are similarly tracked. Furthermore, our financials are accounted for at the end of every week to assure that exact amounts are in accordance with financial records. Measured Outcomes TactiX annually administers internal and external auditors to verify that our financial statements are free of any misconduct, waste, or fraud. Any ambiguity is addressed with due diligence. Our senior management arranges an appointment with our auditors and our accountant to ensure there is mutual understanding in our transactions and all audits are in harmony with our internal records. If any acts of corruption are made apparent, legal action is taken and the utmost levels of professionalism are maintained. No Bribery Policy Assessment, Policy and Goals TactiX guarantees that higher management and all other employees faithfully uphold this internal principle guideline. Any gifts received with a nominal value exceeding 40 USD are not accepted, and all employees are prohibited from accepting any form of cash. This policy has been active since the first year of our establishment. It is a key pillar which underlines our honest and trustworthy reputation. 12 Implementation Over the years, our adopted methods of implementation have proved fruitful. We have requested that all our employees inform TactiX's senior management of gifts received which must have a clear and legitimate basis for its presentation. Moreover, all dinners and arrangements for customers of all types are required to have a clear and appropriate reason and take place publicly. Measured Outcomes TactiX has never been involved in any sort of legal cases related to bribery or other acts of corruption. Our auditors can support our claims, as our General Manager receives a detailed yearly report of all our incoming and outgoing financial transactions. All audits are frequently reviewed by higher management to ensure TactiX’s profits can be accounted for and no form of bribery has occurred. We are also notified throughout the course of the year of any suspicious activity. Active Involvement in Anti-Corruption Campaigns Assessment, Policy and Goals Tactix’s Senior Management is increasingly trying to relate the assistance to the sustainable development process, and to focus on corruption as a core obstacle to the encouragement of the societies; therefore, they are always seeking to participate in anti-corruption initiatives whether locally or regionally. TactiX is a strong advocate of anti-corruption awareness and tries to devise additional strategies to ensure the highest levels of trust are achieved at the company. Implementation Tactix still during its weekly gatherings (mentioned previously in Human Rights Principles) we regularly stress the hazards of corruption and continually emphasize to maintain our ethical behavior. TactiX further encourages its employees to bring forth any attempted acts of bribery made by clients and affiliates. Measured Outcomes If any information surfaces of an attempted bribe, a timely investigation is conducted and can result in the cancellation of a client's contract; however, no such incident has occurred over the past year. Our employees have learned to appreciate strong moral value while working with us, and ones who have pursued other jobs have informed us of their strong conviction to preserving such values. 13
