2018 Sustainability Report Executive Letter GRI 102-14, 102-18 The Greif Way de nes the key principles that guide our business. Our commitment to ethics, diversity, sustainability and continuous improvement enables us to use nancial, natural and human resources wisely without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. In 2018, Greif made tremendous progress on our sustainability goals and objectives, creating positive outcomes for our customers, shareholders, suppliers, colleagues and the environment. Greif’s values drive our vision of, in industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world. Our strategic priorities, which enable us to achieve our vision while fully supporting our sustainability e orts, remain steadfast: 1. Invest in our people and teams to foster a strong culture of employee engagement and accountability. 2. Deliver industry leading customer service excellence to achieve superior customer satisfaction and loyalty. 3. Strive for and realize performance excellence and value creation. Peter G. Watson Ole G. Rosgaard We made signi cant progress toward our sustainability agenda this past year: Greif experienced another strong year in safety. We continue to advance our culture of safety and have placed increased focus on our Life Changing Injury and Fatality Elimination (LIFE) program. While over half of our facilities experienced zero accidents in 2018, we will continue working to achieve zero accidents across all of Greif, allowing all of our colleagues to go home both safe and healthy. We experienced the greatest level of customer service excellence in our history. Our Customer Satisfaction Index and Net Promoter Scores increased to their highest levels ever. We continue to focus on these metrics as clear signals of customer loyalty and pro table growth. We enhanced our ability to share and implement innovation within the organization, which will help us better advance the circular economy. Our innovation initiatives – including more products made with post-consumer resin (PCR) and advancements in the Greif Green Tool – reduce our environmental footprint and provide stronger, more sustainable products for our customers. Our 2018 nancial results included increasing operating pro t year-over-year by 23.7 percent. We generated over $177.8 million in Free Cash Flow, which allowed us the nancial exibility to return $100 million to shareholders in the form of dividends paid. Our sustainability initiatives continue to receive recognition from our stakeholders. EcoVadis awarded Greif the ‘Gold Recognition Level’ in sustainability performance, placing us in the top ve percent of companies they evaluate. Additionally, we received an Arating from CDP for our 2018 Climate Change response, illustrating our robust energy and emissions management practices. Our continuous improvement and external recognition attests to the shared value we are creating for our stakeholders through The Greif Way. Greif continues to embed sustainability within the organization by engaging our colleagues as part of our strategic priorities. This past year, we introduced a companywide employee engagement survey using the Gallup Q12 survey framework. To engage as many colleagues as possible, we conducted the survey in numerous languages and achieved an overwhelming response rate. As a result of the survey, we have built training and placed increased emphasis on providing all colleagues with more opportunities for feedback and recognition. In 2018, we awarded the Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award to a team from Greif’s Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) business in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region for their successful e orts in reducing total fuel costs and overall CO2 emissions by standardizing the types of cars available for use in the region around low emission vehicles. We are proud to share our 2018 sustainability report, marking our tenth year of reporting on our sustainability progress. Our report, prepared in full accordance with the GRI Standards Core guidelines, serves as our annual Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. Our commitment to The Greif Way, operating with a culture of integrity, would not be possible without our incredible Greif colleagues around the world. Their dedication, hard work and support help us be a conscientious global citizen. Looking forward, we are committed to building value for all Greif stakeholders. We have important work to do, and we look forward to continuing our progress and sharing our results in future reports. Best Regards, Peter G. Watson Ole G. Rosgaard President and Chief Executive O cer Senior Vice President and Group President, Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services, Americas and Global Sustainability 0.98 Medical Case Rate Gold Recognition from 87.8 Average Customer EcoVadis Satisfaction Index Score Down 72 percent since 2007. Received for our commitment to Corporate Our highest scores ever, demonstrating our Social Responsibility, placing us in the top ve commitment to serving our customers better. percent of all assessed suppliers. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. About Our Company GRI 102-1, 102-3, 102-7 With approximately 200 production, warehouse and o ce locations across the globe, Greif is a leading global producer of industrial packaging products and services. Our approximately 13,000 colleagues work in more than 40 countries, with our headquarters in Delaware, Ohio. During Fiscal Year (FY) 2018, we generated more than $3.8 billion in net sales. * Data provided is for Greif’s 2018 Fiscal Year ending October 31, 2018. In December 2018, Greif announced the acquisition of Caraustar, a leading vertically-integrated paperboard manufacturer in North America. Our 2018 report focuses exclusively on Greif, with the expectation to integrate Caraustar into our operations and subsequent sustainability reports in 2019. Products, Services & Markets GRI 102-4, 102-6 At Greif, we produce rigid industrial, paper and exible packaging goods as well as provide land management services. Our packaging services primarily consist of lling, blending, reconditioning, warehousing and logistics. Soterra, our land management subsidiary, provides timberland management, consulting, wildlife stewardship and wetlands mitigation bank development. We sell to various industries including food and beverage, chemicals, agricultural, pharmaceutical, petroleum, automotive, home appliances and many more. To see a full description of our products, services and markets, please visit Greif.com. COUNTRIES OF OPERATION* North America Canada1 United States1, 2, 3, 4 Latin America Argentina1 Colombia1 Mexico1, 2 Brazil1, 2 Costa Rica1 Venezuela1 Chile1, 2 Guatemala1 Asia Paciﬁc Australia1 India2 Singapore1 China1, 2 Malaysia1 Vietnam1, 2 Philippines1 Europe Austria1 Hungary1 Romania2 Belgium1, 2 Ireland2 Russia1 Czech Republic1 Italy1 Spain1 Denmark1 Netherlands1, 2 Sweden1 France1, 2 Poland1 Turkey1, 2 Germany1, 2 Portugal1, 2 Ukraine1, 2 Greece1 United Kingdom1, 2 Middle East Israel1 Saudi Arabia1, 2 Africa Algeria1 Kenya1 Nigeria1 Egypt1 Morocco1 South Africa1 1 Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services; 2 Flexible Products & Services; 3 Paper Packaging & Services; 4 Land Management *As of close of FY2018 Our Workforce GRI 102-8, 102-41 EMPLOYEES BY REGION EMPLOYEES BY ROLE Europe, the Middle East Operations and Africa Facilities/Engineering North America Professional Asia Paci c Transportation/Logistics (4%) Latin America Sales (3%) Other (0.9%) Management (0.1%) PERMANENT EMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT INTERNATIONAL SENIOR EXECUTIVES UNIONIZED EMPLOYEES BY REGION (APPROXIMATE VALUES) Europe, the Middle East, & Africa Latin America Asia Paciﬁc North America 200 More than 200 sites 13,000+ Employees in 2018 141 Years of Experience around the world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 141 years, the world’s most Our global reach is near you. reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Governance, Policies & Partnerships Governance GRI 102-20 Sustainability reaches all levels of our organization. In 2016, we established board oversight of sustainability. The Board of Directors receives annual updates from the Senior Vice President and Group President, Rigid Industrial Packaging & Services, Americas and Global Sustainability on behalf of our 11-member Sustainability Steering Committee. The Committee, which includes representatives from Greif’s Executive Leadership Team, is tasked with further integrating sustainability into our strategy and operations, reviewing our sustainability progress and priorities biannually and ensuring accountability at all levels of our organization. The Board holds the Sustainability Committee accountable for reaching annual goals, which impacts the remuneration of Committee members and determines the level of funding for Greif’s sustainability programs. The Steering Committee guides the activities of our six-member Sustainability Management Team, which works with topic teams consisting of representatives from each region and business unit to drive facility level projects and priorities. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Corporate Policies GRI 102-16 We believe that behavior in uences culture and culture determines performance. Our culture—and ethics and compliance expectations—are based on the principles set forth in The Greif Way. We practice these principles every day through the policies that govern our organization. Anti-bribery and Sanctions Policy Environmental Health and Safety Policy Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy Equal Employment Opportunity & Diversity Policy Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Child Labor Policy Human Rights Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Insider Trading Policy Contractor Safety Policy Records Management & Retention Policy Corporate Governance Guidelines Talent Management Policy Economic and Trade Sanctions Policy Tobacco-Free Workplace Policy Partnerships GRI 102-12 Greif seeks to actively engage with organizations to increase the reach of our sustainability e orts. Some of our key partnerships include: Operation Clean Sweep To expand our commitment to reducing waste, in 2017, Greif became a signatory to Operation Clean Sweep (OCS), an international program originally designed by the plastics industry and supported by The British Plastics Federation and PlasticsEurope to prevent pellet, ake and powder loss and the potential introduction of pellets to the marine environment where they create both a litter problem and a threat to sea life and wildlife. The essence of OCS is to help each segment of the plastics industry, including resin producers, transporters, bulk terminal operators and plastics processors, to implement good housekeeping and pellet, ake and powder containment practices towards achieving zero pellet, ake and powder loss. For more information on our partnership with OCS, please visit our Waste page. Pollinator Partnership In 2009, our Soterra operations embarked on a multi-year study with the Pollinator Partnership and NAPCC, the world's foremost experts on pollination issues, to learn how pollinators impact wildlife food availability on timber landscapes, the added value of hosting honey bees and beekeepers on the landscape and to discover the best management practice for ecosystem services on forest landscapes. For more information, please visit our Biodiversity page. SmartWay The SmartWay Transport Partnership is an innovative collaboration between the freight industry and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA). It is a market-driven partnership aimed at helping businesses move goods in the cleanest, most e cient way possible. Its purpose is to accelerate the availability, adoption and market penetration of advanced fuel-e cient technologies and operational practices in the freight supply chain, while helping companies save fuel, lower costs and reduce adverse environmental impacts. To improve e ciency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our vehicle eet, Greif joined the SmartWay Transport Partnership in 2009. For more information about our partnership, please see our Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions page. UN Global Compact Integrity and respect for people are Core Values for Greif, and we believe that social and environmental responsibility are aligned and essential for long-term sustainability. The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally-accepted Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We consider these principles to be a natural extension of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which outlines our commitment to be open, honest and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, excellence in environment and health and safety. In April 2016, Greif became a signatory to the UN Global Compact, con rming our commitment to these Principles. Each year, we publish our Communication on Progress on the Ten Principles of the compact. World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greif is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), a CEO-led global association of approximately 200 of the most environmentally-responsible companies in the world. Member companies are committed to providing business leadership as a catalyst for change toward sustainable development. Members are drawn from more than 30 countries and 20 major industrial sectors. We signed on to the organization's Manifesto for Energy E ciency in Buildings (EEB). Greif is proud to have hosted the rst Midwest WBCSD conference in 2011, and again in 2012 and 2013, to discuss and share ideas and strategies about how to respond to some of the key environmental and business sustainability questions we face today and to share best practices. We are proud to have partnered with WBCSD to publish From Cradle to Grave: Greif's Life Cycle Analysis, a case study on how we implement Life Cycle Analysis in our business. Trade Associations GRI 102-13 As a leader in the global industrial packaging industry, Greif participates in trade associations to discuss relevant issues and opportunities and to continue to move the industry in a positive direction. Please review our Trade Associations for more information. 200 More than 200 sites 13,000+ Employees in 2018 141 Years of Experience around the world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 141 years, the world’s most Our global reach is near you. reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. About Our Report GRI 102-12, 102-50, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 This is Greif’s tenth annual sustainability report, based on our scal year, November 1, 2017, through October 31, 2018. This report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and ful lls the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) annual Communication on Progress (COP). For questions on this report, please contact Aysu Katun, Director of Sustainability at Aysu.Katun@Greif.com. 200 More than 200 sites 13,000+ Employees in 2018 141 Years of Experience around the world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 141 years, the world’s most reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the Our global reach is near you. every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102-49 We published our rst sustainability report in 2009. While Greif has experienced incredible success these past 11 years, we continue to evolve and re ne the way we approach sustainability. In 2018, we enhanced the sustainability programs that make our company e cient. We created new partnerships, enhanced the management of our material topics, engaged colleagues on sustainability and continued to build a competitive advantage. The progress we made in 2018 builds on the materiality assessment we conducted last year. Our 2018 GRI Core report showcases our accomplishments and progress on our long-term sustainability goals. In December 2018, Greif announced the acquisition of Caraustar, a leading vertically-integrated paperboard manufacturer in North America. Our 2018 report focuses exclusively on Greif, with the expectation to integrate Caraustar into our operations and subsequent sustainability reports in 2019. Value Chain GRI 102-9 Greif’s value chain consists of raw material suppliers, transportation and distribution partners, customers, end-of-life services and external stakeholders that in uence our activities. Stakeholder Engagement Process GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 We reviewed our value chain to identify the stakeholders that can speak to our impacts, risks and opportunities and engaged them to better understand their expectations of us. We engaged internal cross-functional leadership, Greif’s Board of Directors, investors, customers, community patterns, suppliers, community members and sustainable experts through surveys and interviews. We reviewed stakeholders’ publicly available information (e.g., peer sustainability reports, ESG analyst reports, industry association websites, peer benchmarking) to supplement direct engagement. We worked with Greif leadership to validate our ndings and decide the topics most material to our business. Material Topics GRI 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 We began with 32 environmental, social, product, economic and governance topics and narrowed the list down to 16 topics during the stakeholder engagement process. These 16 topics represent the highest priority indicators to our stakeholders. We anticipate refreshing our materiality assessment in 3-4 years to account for our stakeholder’s new priorities and expectations. MATERIAL TOPIC BOUNDARY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGED & TYPES OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Greif’s Board of Customers Investors Society/Community Environment Directors & Leaders Daily interactions, impact Daily Daily interactions, Community Greif LCA, interviews mapping interviews, interactions, surveys, materiality engagement (face-towith sustainability materiality assessment materiality assessment face meetings, experts (e.g., survey assessment interviews interviews, survey) WBCSD) interviews Delivering Superior Customer Experience Product All internal Quality operations; during use Customer All internal Service operations; all Excellence customers MATERIAL TOPIC BOUNDARY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGED & TYPES OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Reducing Our Footprint Environmental All internal Management operations Systems Climate All internal Strategy, operations Energy & Emissions Water PPS operations Waste & All internal Eﬄuents operations Supply Chain All internal Management operations; all suppliers; trucking partners Addressing Risk Ethics & All internal Compliance operations; all suppliers Risk All internal Management & operations; all Business suppliers Continuity Security All internal operations Valuing Our People Talent All internal Attraction, operations Development & Retention Community All internal Health & Safety operations; Community Human Rights All internal & Fair Labor operations; all Practices suppliers Advancing Circular Economy Innovation All internal operations; suppliers; customers End of Life Reconditioning Reconditioning, operations; Reuse, & reconditioning Recycling partners; customers Financial Performance & Proﬁtable Growth Financial All internal Performance & operations Proﬁtable Growth The stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment process validated many topics that have historically been important to Greif and our stakeholders. Our engagement yielded topic owners within Greif and goals for 2025. We continue to strengthen our approach to managing and addressing the opportunities available to our company. Throughout this report you will learn about our goals, management approach and performance for our material topics. 200 More than 200 sites 13,000+ Employees in 2018 141 Years of Experience around the world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 141 years, the world’s most reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the Our global reach is near you. every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. Strategic Priorities From our material topics to our strategic priorities, Greif’s sustainability strategies support our fundamental vision of, in industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world and our commitment Invest in our people Deliver industry leading to conducting business The Greif Way. Our sustainability e orts contribute to our and teams to foster a customer service commitment to creating shared value for our customers, stakeholders and the strong culture of excellence to achieve environment. We invite you to explore our strategic integration graphic, which employee engagement superior customer demonstrates the interconnectedness of Greif’s sustainability program across and accountability. satisfaction and loyalty. our entire business. Vision In industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world. Strive for and realize performance excellence and value creation. Invest in our people and teams to foster a strong culture of employee engagement and accountability. Sustainability Strategies Valuing Our People Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Talent Attraction, Development & Retention The Greif Way Ethical Strong Through Diversity 2025 Goals 2025 Goals 100 percent of permanent employees will participate in regular performance development discussions by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase average hours of annual training per employee by 50 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of employees will be covered by parental leave by the end of scal year 2025. Reduce Medical Case Rate by 10 percent annually to achieve 100 percent safety – Medical Case Rate Zero – in the long term. Every plant will have a collaborative environmental health and safety committee consisting of both management and workers by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of our operations will be subject to internal human rights reviews, measured on a rolling cycle, by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of employees will be trained in human rights policies and procedures by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase the proportion of women in management positions by 25 percent by the end of scal year 2025. Deliver industry leading customer service excellence to achieve superior customer satisfaction and loyalty. Sustainability Strategies Delivering Superior Customer Service Customer Service Excellence Product Quality Reducing Our Footprint Supply Chain Management Addressing Risk Risk Management & Business Continuity Advancing Circular Economy End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Innovation The Greif Way Ethical Serious About Sustainability Committed to Continuous Improvement 2025 Goals Using a scal year 2017 baseline, reduce raw materials/logistical costs used to produce current product o ering by one percent by the end of scal year 2025. Move from non-green (oil-based, more energy intensive) to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality products to our customers by the end of scal year 2025. Strive for and realize performance excellence and value creation. Sustainability Strategies Addressing Risk Ethics & Compliance Security Financial Performance & Pro table Growth Reducing Our Footprint Biodiversity Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Environmental Management Systems Waste Water The Greif Way Ethical Strong through Diversity Serious About Sustainability Committed to Continuous Improvement 2025 Goals 10 percent reduction in energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of production, from a scal 2014 baseline.* (* 2020 Goal) Reduce Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) discharged in kilograms by 10 percent per metric ton of production from Riverville and Massillon mills using a 2014 baseline by the end of scal year 2025. Divert 90 percent of waste from land lls from all Greif production facilities globally by the end of scal year 2025. Provide online training of the Greif Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to 100 percent of employees with access to computers by the end of scal year 2025. Provide training and information on the Greif Anti-bribery Policy to 100 percent of employees for whom training is relevant by the end of scal year 2025. Provide online training of the Fair Treatment of Employees Policy to 100 percent of employees with access to computers and provide accessible and traceable information to all employees by the end of scal year 2025. 200 More than 200 sites 13,000+ Employees in 2018 141 Years of Experience around the world Our people—principled, intelligent and For the past 141 years, the world’s most Our global reach is near you. reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity important products have travelled around the every day with their every action. world in Greif industrial packaging. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Delivering Superior Customer Service Our vision of, in industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world, depends on our ability to supply quality products and continually ﬁnd ways to better serve our customers. 50 Net Promoter Score 1.0 Corrective Action Rate 87.8 Average Customer Satisfaction Index Score We realized continued improvement in our Reduced by 52 percent since 2015 in our RIPS NPS score, outperforming the all company North America business. Our highest scores ever, demonstrating our average of 44, as reported by NPS commitment to serving our customers better. Benchmarks. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. DELIVERING SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE Product Quality Establishing quality control standards to meet customer expectations with every order and every delivery. Why Product Quality Matters GRI 416: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 The quality of our products lies at the heart of our business. We hold ourselves to the highest standards, as product quality is non-negotiable for our customers. Every year, our customers’ expectations increase, leading us to focus on continuous product quality improvement. Greif’s nancial success depends on our capacity to reliably produce high-quality, defect-free products that meet the applicable speci cations at all of our manufacturing facilities. Governance We evaluate product quality based on the structure and integrity of our products and compliance with applicable speci cations for each item we manufacture. In 1.0 2018, 87 percent of Greif’s 148 global production sites were certi ed to ISO 9001 standards—a quality management designation. We actively maintain product quality centrally through our quality standards and tracking performance on two product quality indicators: Corrective Action Rate (CAR) and total customer complaints. Additionally, select facilities use Orders Between Failure (OBF) Percentage as a product quality indicator. Each month, regional presidents, vice presidents and Corrective Action Rate general managers are updated on our performance on these indicators. Reduced by 52 percent since 2015 in our RIPS North We use our integrated quality system, Greif QS, to communicate quality standards America business. to our production network. Greif QS houses a suite of applications that ensure quality and consistency in our product processes throughout all of our facilities. Examples of these applications include: Complaint Response/Corrective Action Systems Internal Corrective and Preventive Action Systems Audit Management System Calibration Systems Supplier Management Systems Management Review System Document and Training Management Systems While each facility implements the applications most relevant to their operations, Greif QS enables us to utilize critical control points in the manufacturing process to discover and correct deviations from production speci cations before a potential defect has the opportunity to negatively impact production or reach a customer. Potential quality issues are reported through our ERP system. When a quality issue is identi ed, corrective procedures are documented and conveyed through the appropriate communication channels. If we identify a recurring product quality defect, we launch a Product/Process Audit, which is conducted by an internal team of engineering, quality and product representatives. The team uses speci c criteria to assess a facility against the processes, standards, equipment and tools that were used during production. This enables the team to work with the facility to resolve the reoccurring issue and improve the product quality process. In 2018, we launched several initiatives to improve our product quality management. We introduced our Quality Management System (QMS) scorecard to better evaluate the performance of the applications within Greif QS. The scorecard generates an organizational health report based upon all the tools centralized within Greif QS, including customer complaints, internal corrective actions, management reviews and supplier evaluations. We created a steering committee for Greif QS consisting of quality leaders from our RIPS, Tri-Sure and FPS divisions. The committee reviews all applications and requests for new applications to determine and prioritize improvements that will provide the most bene t and improve product quality performance globally. The committee supports regional Quality Councils comprised of regional, business unit and product management leadership. We nished developing a root cause corrective action tool that allows us to assess the severity of a quality complaint based on a number of indicators, including nancial impact, frequency and type of complaint. By providing objective criteria to evaluate complaints, the process allows us to better prioritize and address the highest risk complaints. We created a Management of Change tool to identify and categorize changes to raw materials, suppliers, processes and other indicators that could impact product quality. Management of Change uses a series of questions to determine the severity of the change and initiates a review process prior to the change being approved for implementation. Once a change is approved, it is communicated to the impacted functions throughout Greif. This tool allows us to engage departments across the organization and generate tasks to ensure compliance. In RIPS North America, we created a process for mapping individual initiatives to strategic objectives – including our 2025 goals – and created area roadmaps to execute on those objectives, driving continuous improvement. Led by RIPS North American leadership, this new initiative enables us to standardize the process for identifying areas of improvement across all RIPS NA facilities. Through the process, we identify facility speci c areas of risk and opportunity, determine a threeto ve-year roadmap of focus initiatives and establish detailed project plans for short-term initiatives. Outcomes of the initiatives contribute to individual and team performance goals and contribute to improvements to CAR, customer complaints and ultimately Greif’s CSI and NPS performance. In 2019, we will focus on integrating food safety and ISO standards to develop minimum speci cations for food and safety across the organization, in alignment with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards and FDA regulations. We will integrate these standards within Greif QS to ensure consistency across the organization. Greif will continue to work with customers to reduce the response time when answering questions about quality. In response to customer requests, we will focus on improving not just structural, but aesthetic quality, by nding ways to improve the external appearance of our products. Performance GRI 416-2 CORRECTIVE ACTION RATE* ORDER RELIABILITY RATE* 99.61 99.7 99.75 99.8 2 1.9 99.80 1.6 99.75 1.5 1.3 99.70 1.0 1 99.65 99.60 0.5 99.55 0 99.50 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS* 1000 900 800 700 672 593 600 500 433 389 400 350 300 200 100 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 *Order Reliability Rate de nes the rate of failure between orders produced and estimates non-compliance with voluntary codes. No regulatory failures or resultant nes have been identi ed. Highlight Stories Zero-Leak Program In 2014, our CAR data indicated that leaks were the most common quality complaint from our customers. In response, we initiated a Zero-Leak Program to eliminate leaks from our products. When a leak complaint was received, it was escalated to the regional vice president and general manager and our engineering team was tasked with developing a concrete resolution to the problem and disseminate it to all facilities. Our focus on reducing leaks led to a 67 percent reduction in leak complaints. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. DELIVERING SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE Customer Service Excellence Leading through service, reliability and creating a customer-centric culture. Why Customer Service Excellence Matters Customer Service Excellence 2016: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 For over 140 years, customers have relied on Greif’s industrial packaging to ship their most important products. They depend on our business acumen and ability to quickly and reliably provide quality packaging. Our value and technical expertise have set us apart from our competitors for over a century. We focus on meeting our customers’ expectations, a key aspect of Greif’s vision of, in industrial packaging, be the best performing customer service company in the world. We are committed to nding the best ways to serve our customers. Governance All Greif businesses manage customer service daily. Our practices and policies are managed through our Customer Service Excellence Team, led by our chief 31 administrative o cer. The team is comprised of 10 representatives from various business units and regions within Greif. The team meets monthly to discuss customer service initiatives, while tracking progress on Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and Net Promoter Score (NPS)—our measures of customer satisfaction and likelihood of a customer recommending Greif to others. Our Customer Service Excellence Team partners with all global business units to share best practices, Customer Service Excellence improve communications, drive processes, engage cross-functional leaders and Award Winners develop a curriculum and training to bolster our employee’s skills and behaviors related to providing exceptional customer service. Honoring our facilities that demonstrated best-in-class customer service performance throughout 2018. In 2018, we continued to build on our customer service culture. With the support of Greif’s executive leadership, we expanded our customer service training globally and to departments serving internal customers and integrated best practices from other industries into our training. We expanded our training services from 10 to 19 languages, helping us reach all 358 global customer service colleagues who interact directly with external customers. Across Greif, we view feedback collected during our NPS process as an opportunity to address our customers’ concerns and provide corrective action when necessary. Through this approach, we work with our customers to create improvement plans addressing their concerns. As a result of these engagements, we are focusing on improving our communication with our customers, proactively engaging them so they have the time to respond to communications appropriately – one of the seven skills we are teaching our colleagues through training. We are also evaluating the quality of our sales visits through analysis and coaching sessions by sales leaders. Our sales account managers are more prepared than ever to address our customers’ needs and ensure quality visits with our customers. Additionally, we directly engage customers via Product Lunch N’ Learns—informal events to provide training and information about our products, as well as build relationships with our customers. In 2019, we will begin rolling out facilitated CSE training for all Greif professional colleagues. Every six weeks, these colleagues will focus on one of seven unique Customer Service Excellence skills, each of which is followed by an online knowledge check. As each colleague advances in the program, peers are expected to provide feedback to each other, reinforcing learning on a daily basis and helping to instill the customer service culture we are working to achieve. By the end of 2019, 100 percent of our professional colleagues will have received training on at least half of the material in the program. We will continue to build Customer Service Excellence into our everyday behaviors via development programs and by using NPS and CSI results to inform how we provide service to our customers, including enhancing our understanding of the industries our customers serve. Performance CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX 100 85.9 87.8 81.9 80 72.5 60 40 20 0 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 NET PROMOTER SCORE 50 50 47 47 46 42 39 40 40 30 20 10 0 NOV 2015 MAY 2016 NOV 2016 MAY 2017 NOV 2017 MAY 2018 NOV 2018 Highlight Stories Dempsey Award for Customer Excellence Each year, Greif's Dempsey Award is presented to a Greif business unit that achieves a CSI score of 95 or greater, an NPS of 55 or more and demonstrates best in class customer service performance throughout the year. The award formally honors the business, function or team within Greif that exhibits the greatest performance aligned to our values and vision. In 2018, our Flexible Products and Services (FPS) business received the Dempsey Award for achieving a CSI score of 95 and NPS score of 63. FPS’s strong leadership and commitment to providing outstanding customer service enabled the business to strengthen their NPS performance, which has increased from a score of 33 just three years ago. The team has built strong relationships with key customers by clearly understanding their needs, contributing to increased performance and pro tability. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Huayou Cobalt Supplier of the Year In November 2018, Greif’s FPS business in China was named the “Excellent Supplier of the Year” by Huayou Cobalt for their commitment to understanding and delivering upon, the exact needs of their customer. Greif supplies three Huayou Cobalt plants with a variety of big bag products. This award is the latest achievement in a partnership that started in 2013 that we look forward to continuing in the future. Reducing Our Footprint As a global manufacturer, it is our obligation to understand and work to minimize our environmental impact. Whether in our operations or along our supply chain, our sustainability agenda works to create sustainable value for our customers, the environment and Greif stakeholders. 4.2% Energy Intensity 10.3% Emissions Intensity 16 ISO14001 Certiﬁed Reduction Reduction Facilities Against our 2014 baseline in support of our Against our 2014 baseline in support of our We take our responsibility towards 2020 goal. 2020 goal. environmental standards and regulations seriously and implement systems to manage our obligations. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Environmental Management Systems Demonstrating our commitment to our regulatory obligations. Why Environmental Management Systems Matter GRI 307: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Following the various environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business is an integral part of Greif’s ongoing operations. Our environmental management systems and collaborative relationships with regulators, enable us to proactively and e ciently demonstrate to our stakeholders our deep understanding of the complex regulatory obligations we are subject to, while illustrating our ability to consistently meet them. Governance Greif implemented our proprietary Compliance Management System (CMS) in 2011 to allow us to track and monitor our compliance with certain laws and regulations, 16 including environmental compliance related to emissions, energy, water and waste in our facilities. CMS is administered by our Environment, Health and Safety Team (EHS), led by our Vice President of EHS and Operations for North America. While CMS is accessible to all Greif facilities worldwide, 50 of our 55 North American facilities* use it to manage environmental compliance tasks. In these facilities, management leverages the CMS to track progress on upcoming regulatory tasks ISO14001 Certiﬁed Facilities and deadlines. As deadlines approach, CMS sends noti cations to facility managers reminding them of their obligation. If progress on a task is not made in a timely We take our responsibility towards environmental standards manner, noti cations are escalated through Greif’s EHS Team, ultimately reaching and regulations seriously and implement systems to the CEO if it is not addressed in a timely manner. Beyond our CMS in North America, manage our obligations. our global FPS, Paper Packaging and Services (PPS) and RIPS production facilities manage quality, safety and environmental standards through certi cations such as OHSAS, ISO, FSSC and SQF. Our PPS operations maintain ABI, FSC, OSHA, PEFC, SFI and PEFC certi cations. Globally, 16 sites have achieved ISO 14001 certi cation. In 2018, we standardized the CMS noti cation process to ensure each task has the same escalation protocol and introduced incentives to minimize escalations. In support of better tracking of our waste data, we piloted a waste management task in CMS that prompts facilities to collect and record their waste data. In November, we rolled out the task to all Greif facilities globally, which will enable us to collect more accurate waste data in the future. We piloted third-party EMS audits at ve facilities in 2018. The results of each audit are used to determine additional resources and support that is needed at each facility to better manage their unique environmental risks beyond minimum regulatory requirements. In audited facilities, we also improved our ability to assess our readiness to comply with upcoming regulations by implementing an advanced EHS compliance and risk management software, Dakota, which tracks new and upcoming regulations applicable to each facility’s unique pro le. In 2018, we restructured the North America EHS Management Team to add an EHS director and a fourth regional manager to align with Greif’s four operating regions. We added an onsite manager in our Alsip, Illinois RIPS facility. In 2019, Greif will conduct third-party audits and implement Dakota in at least 10 additional RIPS facilities in North America. These audits will continue to provide valuable insight into the best practices for managing EMS across our operations. We will pilot an additional ISO 14001 certi cation at our Naperville, Illinois facility. *Our Paper Packaging and Services mill in Riverville, Virginia, manages their environmental compliance through their own on-site EHS team. The remaining sites that do not use CMS to manage regulatory compliance tasks manage compliance through maintaining quality, safety and environmental certi cations. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Driving operational change in a changing world. Why Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Matters GRI 302: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 305: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 We focus on creating our products e ciently to improve our bottom line, prevent emissions that contribute to climate change and give Greif a competitive advantage. Governance AWe integrate energy e ciency throughout the organization. Greif includes energy and emission reduction targets in incentive structures for executive o cers, ensuring emissions reduction strategies reach executive leadership. Energy e ciency is a factor in capital expenditure decisions. All Greif colleagues are eligible for awards and recognition related to energy reduction. Our 11-member Global Greif’s 2018 CDP Score Energy Team is responsible for coordinating energy and emissions reduction projects throughout the company. Comprised of members from various business Demonstrating excellence in carbon management, functions including management, real estate, energy management, engineering, governance, strategy and best practices, and outperforming quality management, plant operations, business unit management, environmental, the overall average CDP score of a Band the North technical management, health and safety management and maintenance, the team American average score of a C. is supported by facility-level management to identify and implement projects across the business. In 2017, the team began working with facilities to create energy roadmaps that identi ed energy reduction projects, a practice that remains in 2018. Five of our production facilities have achieved ISO 5001 certi cation for energy management. In 2018, we increased our focus on sourcing renewable energy by implementing a new Energy Procurement Policy that provides more exibility and incentive for our facilities to identify and purchase energy from renewable sources. We piloted a renewable energy credit (REC) program in two facilities in North America. We planted 30,000 trees to o set emissions from operations and business travel. To identify new projects to drive energy e ciency, we engaged a third-party to audit our Riverville facility’s energy systems. We completed 47 energy e ciency projects and introduced a formal process to quantify savings from energy e ciency projects. We are proud to announce that our projects resulted in over $2,367,777 in savings. In 2019, we will continue to complete energy e ciency projects, informed in part by our third-party audit, and report the savings resulting from those e orts. We will continue to increase our focus on renewable energy by evaluating solar power opportunities in NA and the success of our REC pilot. Goals & Progress In 2016, Greif announced a 2020 goal of 10 percent reduction in energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of production globally, from a 2014 baseline. 2020 Goal: 10 percent reduction in energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of production, from a scal 2014 baseline Progress: As of the end of scal 2018, we achieved a 4.2 percent energy and a 10.3 percent emissions reduction per unit of production from a scal 2014 baseline. Performance GRI 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 FY 2014* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Energy Total Energy Consumption (MWh) 3,228,000 3,057,000 3,009,000 3,058,000 3,103,200 % Reduction in Energy per Unit of Production (Baseline year) 6% 1.8% 3.1% 4.2% % Reduction in Emissions per Unit of Production** (Baseline year) N/A 2% 8.4% 10.3% FY 2014* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GHG Emissions (Metric Tons) Scope 1 362,300 322,500 345,700 367,700 376,700 Scope 2 496,000 438,600 446,700 416,000 415,900 Scope 3 251,500 221,900 2,927,000 3,089,000 2,867,090 Total 1,109,800 983,000 3,719,400 3,872,700 3,659,600 Notes: 1. Source: 2017 CDP submittal input data 2. Emissions data accounts for CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 3. Scope 3 emissions takes into account upstream transportation and distribution. In 2017, scope 3 was expanded to include purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2, including waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting and end of life treatment of sold products. 4. Emission data is assured through Bureau Veritas. *To standardize emissions and inform year-over-year progress toward our 2025 goal, our 2014 emissions data has been restated to correct several facilities’ eGRID regions. Total does not include 246,000 metric tons of CO2e from biogenic sources. **Our percent reduction in emissions per unit of production dropped from FY 2015 to FY 2016 due to increased fugitive emissions from our Riverville, Virginia, paper mill and total emissions from our Massillon, Ohio, paper mill. Updated emissions and global warming potential factors also contributed to this change. Highlight Stories CDP Climate Greif scored an Ain its fth year of reporting to CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). Greif outperformed the overall average CDP score of a Band the North American average score of a C. We achieved this CDP Leadership-level score by demonstrating excellence in carbon management, governance, strategy and best practices. EPA’s SmartWay Transport © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Partnership To manage logistics in an environmentally-responsible manner, Greif uses carriers that are approved through the EPA’s SmartWay initiative whenever possible. We include SmartWay certi cation during our new carrier certi cation process. Greif’s SmartWay-approved carrier base accounts for 88.5 percent of ton miles traveled. From 2014 to 2017, we saved 189,000 tons of CO2 mass emissions through the use of SmartWay carriers. Global Energy Projects In 2018, Greif completed over 44 energy e ciency projects estimated to generate more than $963,000 in savings and reduce energy consumption by greater than 8.8 million kWh, annually. Projects included installation of LED lighting, equipment upgrades and improved waste recovery systems. Greif also works to reduce energy use in our corporate operations. Greif’s IT Team has virtualized servers and retired legacy equipment leading to 10 percent savings since 2015. The Greif Green Tool In 2010, we developed the Greif Green Tool to enable our customers to evaluate the GHG emissions associated with di erent shipping scenarios and calculate their scope 3 GHG emissions. Since being introduced, over 65 customers have used the tool. This past year, we updated the tool to enhance its analytical modeling capabilities, allow plant/process speci c analysis and improve the tool’s product and process classi cation. For more information about how the Greif Green Tool supports packaging decisions, please review our presentation, video and the following publications: Harvard Business Review: Making the Consensus Sale The Corporate Executive Board Company: Improvement Potential Calculator WBCSD U.S., Inc.: From cradle to grave: Greif's Life Cycle Analysis Advancing Renewable Energy Renewables, such as solar and wind energy, will play a major role in addressing the challenges of climate change over the long term. We are committed to testing and expanding the use of renewable energy technologies across our global operations when doing so is economically viable and in the best interest of our stakeholders. We have installed more than 2,000 solar panels in seven North American facilities, delivering 2.7 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy and saving more than $100,000 annually. Due to our continued investment, renewables now account for 23 percent of Greif’s energy. In 2016, three of our largest Brazilian plants began sourcing their energy partly through renewable resources. In 2017, we expanded the program to three additional plants in Brazil, reducing emissions by 70 percent and saving $1.4 million USD annually. In April 2017, Greif’s Shanghai RIPS facility completed installation of solar panels, converting 15.4 percent of the facility’s electricity to a renewable source and saving over $16,000 USD annually. Throughout our China operations, we source renewable energy through 4,800 solar panels via energy purchase contracts. Our Turkey FPS operations produce over two million kWh of energy through wind turbines and windmills. REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Water Optimizing the use and improving the quality of water in our operations. Why Water Matters GRI 303: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, GRI 306: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 306-1, As global concerns over water scarcity rise, Greif is at risk of higher water supply costs and potential shortages in water-stressed regions. Ensuring water consumption is responsibly managed and water is properly treated and returned to its sources, leads to operational e ciencies, lowers operating costs and minimizes the impacts of regulations, water supply shortages and any community-related concerns. Governance GRI 303-2, 306-1 Greif’s Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy provides global guidelines for water conservation to improve water e ciencies in existing operations and 79.6% incorporate water management in planning for future projects and technology investments. Each Greif facility is expected to manage water locally in accordance with our EHS policy. Through analysis of Greif’s water use, we determined that 90 percent of Greif’s water use and impact is from our two Paper Packaging and Services (PPS) Reduction in Biochemical containerboard mills in Riverville, Virginia, and Massillon, Ohio, drawing water from Oxygen Demand the James River and two onsite wells, respectively. Total withdrawal from the James River is less than two percent of water ow. Our e orts in water quality have allowed us to already meet our 10% reduction by 2025 goal. Both mills are equipped with water treatment facilities to improve water quality prior to being discharged. In total, Greif returns 90 percent of water to local sources. Water is reused numerous times through the facilities before being treated and returned to sources. While Greif’s water impact is predominately in our PPS operations, we do operate in some water-stressed regions in Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, where local e orts to curb water use are underway. In 2019, we will continue our e orts to recycle and reuse water through our PPS operations and spread best practices on consumption in water-stressed regions. Goals & Progress In 2017, Greif announced a 2020 goal of 10 percent reduction in kilograms of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) per metric ton of production, from a 2014 baseline of 1.47, in our PPS operations. Our 2017 materiality process led to the creation of new 2025 goals. We have restated our BOD goal as a 2025 goal. In 2018, we reevaluated our historical water use and BOD data to con rm our baseline and assumptions to support continual improvement related to water. Through this process, we have restated our 2014 BOD baseline to 1.40. 2025 Goal: Reduce Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) discharged in kilograms by 10 percent per metric ton of production from Riverville and Massillon mills using a 2014 baseline by the end of scal year 2025. Progress: Since 2014, we have reduced BOD per metric ton of production by 79.6 percent. Our signi cant progress against our BOD goal was enabled by the installation of a wastewater treatment facility at our Massillon mill. Completed in July 2017, the project led to modest improvements in 2017 and far surpassed expectations in 2018. In 2019, we will continue to track on progress in reducing BOD while having additional conversations on how we can improve water quality and water use in our mills. Highlight Stories Improving Our Wastewater In 2017, Greif’s Massillon mill completed construction of a water treatment facility to signi cantly reduce the biological oxygen demand (BOD) of the plant’s discharge water before being returned to municipal treatment plants. High BOD levels promote bacteria growth, release odors and must be controlled using chemicals. Since installing the treatment facility, we reduced BOD discharged to the municipal system by over 96 percent, contributing to our 2025 BOD goal. This also eliminated several chemicals that were previously needed to control bacteria from our operations, improving water quality in the community. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Waste Working towards a zero waste to landﬁll organization. Why Waste Matters GRI 301: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 306: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 We reduce our operational waste, waste to land ll and packaging waste to e ciently drive our business. By working to reduce waste, we lower material use and transportation costs, providing the lighter weight and more cost-e ective products that our customers value. Since 2012, our RIPS North American operations have saved over $618,175 through reduced material costs, waste disposal and transportation and logistics improvements. As part of our waste program, we actively manage the reduction and proper handling of hazardous materials. Governance 35 The regional leaders and the global leader of our Global Waste Team, comprised of 22 representatives from each business unit, meet monthly with the director of sustainability to discuss waste reduction strategy. The Waste Team holds facility management accountable for managing and reducing waste. Waste reduction is integrated into the annual performance reviews of select facility management. Greif Facilities Achieving Zero Waste implements employee engagement strategies to encourage line colleagues to focus on waste reduction. Greif’s EHS policies, procedures and training govern the to Landﬁll labeling, handling, storage and transportation of hazardous waste. Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with each facility In 2017, we established trackable waste stream data, identi ed most plant-level working towards our 2025 goal. waste streams and set waste baselines for each facility globally. In 2018, we built on this critical step in managing waste by creating a task within our Compliance Management System requiring all facilities to report waste data monthly–the rst globally required sustainability task we have implemented in our CMS. In addition to improving the accuracy of our waste data, we are now able to more e ciently collect and take action on the information. In 2018, we introduced the Best Demonstrable Practice program to expand our waste reduction e orts. Through the program we established and promoted a small number of scalable waste management activities in select facilities that could be expanded throughout Greif. These initiatives included recycling personal protective equipment, co ee grounds and single-use co ee pods and implementing absorbent laundering. Collectively, these three programs removed 47 tons of waste from land ll and will be expanded to additional facilities in 2019. In 2018, Greif partnered with Operation Clean Sweep (OPS), an organization dedicated to keeping plastics out of the environment, to expand our commitment to reducing plastic waste. As part of our partnership with OPS, we audited our Hazelton facility to identify opportunities to reduce plastic pellet loss. Hazelton’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) audits include sanitation schedules to address housekeeping and best practices in all areas of the facility. Hazelton’s monthly zone audits verify that each area remains clean and organized. We report audit ndings through our quality system to address root causes and implement corrective actions. Hazelton’s PPC plan, audited and revised in 2017, ensures the facility maintains tight controls. The facility received a No Exposure Certi cation for Storm Water Discharge from the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection based on our latest test results of the storm water discharge. In 2019, we will expand our partnership with OPS by conducting audits at two additional facilities. In 2019, the Waste Team will be able to use the waste data collected to understand and share best practices globally. We created standardized guidelines for facilities working with steel to better manage waste. In EMEA, we engaged our two largest waste producing facilities. By focusing on education and waste awareness, we reduced the amount of waste to land ll at these plants by 35 percent. In Saudi Arabia, the team modi ed the plant to better separate water wastes and avoid additional waste to land ll. Our Waste team has engaged leadership in each region and business unit to increase waste reduction awareness throughout Greif. In North America, we renewed our contract with our waste collection partner and identi ed additional services to further improve our waste management in 2019. Among these services, our partner will provide monthly reports of waste collected to better understand trends in our waste data. With their support, we will pilot waste roadmaps at several facilities to identify the highest impact waste reduction opportunities, a rst step in developing a global waste roadmap. We will continue to share and implement best practices across facilities and create guidelines for additional materials, including bre and plastic, to ensure uniformity across the business. We will continue to quantify the costs associated with our waste streams and identify ways to better manage them. Goals & Progress In 2018, we created a goal to divert 90 percent of waste from land lls from all Greif production facilities globally by the end of scal year 2025. Progress: 20 of our 56 North American facilities* achieved waste diversion from land ll of 90 percent or greater, three of which achieved 100 percent diversion from land ll. In Europe, 48 of 66 facilities achieved waste diversion from land ll of 90 percent or greater, 31 of which achieved 100 percent diversion from land ll. In Latin America, ve out of 16 facilities achieved waste diversion from land ll of 90 percent or greater. In the Asia Paci c Region, 10 out of 15 facilities achieved waste diversion from land ll of 90 percent or greater, one of which achieved 100 percent diversion from land ll. *54 production facilities and two warehouses Globally, we diverted 83 percent of total waste from land lls in 2018. Performance GRI 301-3, 306-2 WASTE STREAM FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Hazardous Waste Total Waste to Landﬁll 220 146 527 1,639 Waste to Land ll 220 146 527 1,292 Incinerated (no energy 347 recovery)**** Total Non-Landﬁll* 413 411 7,109 14,105 Incinerated (with energy 1,202 3,372 recovery)** Composted*** Recycled† 10 39 2,011 7,604 Reused†† 399 1,513 Reclaimed††† 25 194 217 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll) †††† 378 372 3,303 1,399 Total Hazardous Waste 633 556 7,638 15,744 Non-Hazardous Waste Total Waste to Landﬁll 41,174 45,199 57,403 54,594 Waste to Land ll 41,174 45,199 57,403 54,110 Incinerated (no energy 485 recovery)**** Total Non-Landﬁll* 40,827 51,904 161,796 257,219 Incinerated (with energy 945 2,054 recovery)** Composted*** 15,277 35 Recycled† 9,764 9,129 111,861 231,997 Reused†† 33 128 17,147 11,641 Reclaimed††† 14 5 13,187 9,439 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll)†††† 31,016 42,642 3,379 2,052 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 82,001 97,103 219,199 311,813 Total Waste (Hazardous & Non82,634 97,660 226,835 327,557 Hazardous) Notes: 1. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, we reported our waste stream for our RIPS North America business unit only. In 2016, we expanded our data collection to all of our North American business units. In 2017, we expanded our data collection to all global operations. 2. In 2018, we reviewed our global data collection practices across our business. FY 2017 data has been restated as a result of standardizing units across regions. *Non-Land ll: Includes chemical-physical, incineration with energy recovery, recycled, reused, reclaimed, composted and fuels blending treatment methods **Incinerated (with energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that results in energy capture. ***Composted: Treatment method involving the biological decomposition of solid or liquid operational waste **** Incinerated (no energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that does not result in energy capture. †Recycled: Treatment method involving the separation, preparation and sale of recyclable materials to end-user manufacturers. ††Reused: Treatment method involving the use of a material for its original purpose multiple times †††Reclaimed: Treatment method involving the process of extracting and converting materials from recycled materials to be used again. †††† Miscellaneous (Non Land ll): All other treatment methods not mentioned previously, including Deep Well Injection and On-Site Storage, which were reported separately in 2017. EARTHMINDED LIFE CYCLE SERVICES ESTIMATED DRUMS AND IBCS RECONDITIONED* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Recycled 780,500 1,045,093 904,883 849,498 Steel Drums 553,300 689,513 534,369 571,355 Poly Drums 196,300 277,672 212,272 161,447 IBCs 30,900 77,908 158,242 116,696 Reconditioned 4,076,700 3,808,242 3,218,885 3,258,848 Steel Drums 3,356,200 3,072,348 2,565,052 2,713,025 Poly Drums 374,100 375,307 321,188 244,497 IBCs 346,400 360,587 332,645 301,326 Total Collected 4,857,200 4,853,335 4,136,828 4,105,936 Steel Drums 3,909,500 3,761,861 3,099,633 3,284,380 Poly Drums 570,400 652,979 535,460 405,944 IBCs 377,300 438,495 501,735 415,612 Virgin Materials Saved by 77,773 71,573 63,111 63,587 Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** Steel 70,198 65,743 56,200 57,664 High-Density Polyethylene 5,742 5,830 5,150 4,243 Wood 1,833 1,761 1,680 Virgin Materials Saved by 12,076 17,402 18,755 16,644 Recycling (Metric Tons)*** Steel 9,657 13,288 13,463 12,697 High-Density Polyethylene 2,297 3,817 4,580 3,385 Wood 122 297 712 562 Notes: 1. Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse data has been restated to standardize units across regions *Estimated Drums and Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (North America and Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) REBU – ESTIMATED FIBCS RECONDITIONED (EMEA)* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Total FIBCs Collected 316,324 Reconditioned 224,418 Recycled 91,906 Virgin Polyethylene Saved 516.2 by Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** Virgin Polyethylene Saved 211.4 by Recycling (Metric Tons)*** *Estimated Flexible Intermediate Bulk Containers (FIBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) Highlight Stories Reducing VOCs Through Use of Water-Based Exterior Paints Since 2009, Greif has been committed to using water-based exterior paints in our operations, rather than high volatile organic compound (VOC) exterior paints. Through transitioning to water-based paints, Greif reduced VOC-based emissions by 40 percent. Greif’s Alsip, Illinois facility reduced VOC content by approximately 2 lbs./gallon. Reuse of Exterior Paint in RIPS North America Greif’s North American RIPS operations collect excess exterior steel drum paint to reuse to paint the bottom of the drums. Termed “Greif Gray,” this recollected paint reduced paint waste 22 percent in 2017. REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Supply Chain Management Working with our suppliers to create shared value. Why Supply Chain Management Matters GRI 301: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; Supply Chain Management: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Greif engages suppliers to ensure our commitment to sustainability encompasses more than just our own operations. We expect our suppliers to uphold the same levels of integrity, responsibility and commitment to sustainability that we do. By actively working with our suppliers, we minimize potential environmental and social risks while creating opportunities to e ciently use materials and implement solutions that positively impact our customers. Governance Greif sources direct materials such as resins, paint and steel and indirect materials such as consumables, services and transportation. Greif’s Global Sourcing and $1.0M Supply Chain Team tracks monthly improvements in material costs, working capital, deal terms and inventory as part of the Greif Business System (GBS). We outline our expectations for our suppliers in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We evaluate each of our top 20 suppliers on a scorecard that considers quality, delivery, cost, valueadded services, environmental and technical support. Sustainability criteria, such as material reduction, use of lower environmental impact materials and supplier Savings from Gauge sustainability initiatives, account for ve percent of the supplier scorecard. Improvement Program Greif complies with applicable laws to manage potential human rights violations in Working with our suppliers to meet minimum speci cations our supply chain. Given some Greif products contain tin, we are committed to requirements resulted in signi cant savings in 2018. understanding the 3TG metals in our supply chain. To assess con ict risk throughout our supply chain, we validate our Con ict Minerals Policy and publish our Con ict Minerals Report annually. In accordance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010, Greif takes measures to prevent and eliminate forced labor in our direct supply chain, outlined in our Supplier Code of Conduct and Transparency in Supply Chain Disclosure. Supply chain sustainability objectives are supported by our Sustainable Procurement Team, which evaluates opportunities to minimize material use and nds more sustainable raw materials alternatives. The team, made up of colleagues from each region, evaluates opportunities across the globe and works to share best practices in sustainable sourcing with the Global Procurement Team. Greif works to identify and implement chemical substitutions in our products and operations to remove and reduce hazardous waste, including VOCs. Since 2015, we replaced 10 percent of steel coil material volume and potentially hazardous paint within our operations. We now use safer alternatives in many of our products, including our Tri-Sure Vreeland linings and our water-based acrylic paints. The steps we take to reduce hazardous waste align with our Environmental Health and Safety Policy. In 2018, 100 percent of our new suppliers were given access to our Supplier Code of Conduct via Greif.com and expected to adhere to the principles within. We integrated sustainability into the GBS, allowing us to identify projects with positive sustainability impacts. This capability allowed us to identify 10 projects with $1.3 million in sustainability impact completed in 2018. We continue to integrate environmental and social criteria into our supplier audits. To ensure continuous supplier improvement in areas such as employee health and safety, we integrated language on conformance to standards and ISO certi cation development into our supplier audit. We benchmarked industry best practices to improve our supplier scorecards, Supplier Code of Conduct and rating procedures. We created legal training on anti-trust policies and products, which are available to all colleagues through our online training system. Goals & Progress In 2017, we set 2025 goals to: Using a scal year 2017 baseline, reduce raw materials/logistical costs used to produce current product o ering by one percent. Move from non-green (oil-based, more energy intensive) to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality products to our customers. To progress on our 2025 goals, we began incorporating our goals into our RFQ process when soliciting potential suppliers. Our sourcing managers incorporate topics such as carbon content, recyclability and packaging improvement into conversation with many of our suppliers to identify opportunities to impact our goals. We have made green material substitutions to increase the use of post-consumer regrind plastic in our products. We increased our e ciency with Gaylord boxes and other packaging materials to increase reusability, while optimizing logistical routes, to reduce shipping expenditures. In some EMEA facilities, we have introduced a more biodegradable oil to clean our paint lines. In 2019, we will continue to identify green material substitutions and identity cost savings opportunities. Highlight Stories Gauge Improvement Each month, Greif tracks speci cations of incoming raw materials. We work with our suppliers to consistently meet our minimum speci cations, helping us reduce logistics costs and minimize virgin material used in our products compared to materials at our maximum speci cations. In 2018, our gauge improvement e orts resulted in $1 million in savings. Together for Sustainability © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Since 2014, Greif has worked with Together For Sustainability (TfS), to help build an industry-wide sustainability standard for suppliers to chemical manufacturers. On behalf of its more than 20 chemical manufacturer members, TfS audits supply chain partners on more than 30 management, environment, health and safety, labor and human rights and governance criteria. TfS distributes results to their members to support purchasing decisions, replacing the need for company-speci c audits and holding suppliers to a consistent standard for the industry. Eight Greif facilities have been audited, achieving an average score of 91 percent, indicating no major concerns at our facilities. In 2018, TfS conducted audits of RIPS facilities in Campana, Argentina and in Ústí nad Labem, the Czech Republic. TfS Audit Performance RIPS Naperville, Illinois: 100% RIPS Lockport, Illinois: 98% RIPS Europoort, Netherlands: 97% RIPS Attendorn, Germany: 96% RIPS Usti, Czech Republic: 95% RIPS Campana, Argentina: 83% RIPS Shanghai, China: 80% FPS Samandira, Turkey: 76% EcoVadis In 2018, Greif earned Gold Recognition level from EcoVadis for superior Corporate Social Responsibility performance. This score places Greif in the top three percent of plastic products manufacturers and top ve percent of all suppliers assessed by EcoVadis. REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Biodiversity Protecting and understanding the habitats where we work. Why Biodiversity Matters GRI 304: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Greif focuses on biodiversity to help preserve a healthy environment. By taking actions to understand and manage the potential impacts of our operations on ecosystem services and biodiversity, we position ourselves to preserve natural resources. Greif partners with the scienti c and academic communities dedicated to conserving the Earth’s biodiversity and ecosystem functions to promote wildlife and habitat restoration. Governance GRI 304-3 Since December 2008, Soterra, LLC, our subsidiary engaged in Land Management, has adhered to the principles of the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) as well as 243,000 Best Management Practices de ned by each state for its managed timberlands. Soterra forests provide timberland habitat for wildlife, forestry management services and serve as a space for recreational land use. Soterra operates in the Southeastern United States, managing timberland in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi. In 2018, Soterra forests sequestered over 37,211,000 tons of CO2, an increase of 1,528,000 from 2017. Acres Under Management Soterra incorporates a sustainable harvest methodology in its harvest planning to We practice sustainable forestry across our operations ensure the continued availability of its resources. Additionally, Soterra, in a in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi and o er services to partnership with the National Estuary Program, uses donated drums from Greif’s improve land management practices across industries. Lavonia facility to harvest rainwater. The 200 new 55 gallon plastic drums collect rain water for irrigation purposes, to help local growers reduce costs and water usage by approximately 260,000 gallons. We are currently out tting each barrel with a rain barrel conversion kit to help capture, store and put the rainwater to good use. *According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, a rain barrel saves 1,300 gallons of water during peak summer months. With the growth of Soterra’s Consulting Services business, industry best practices and sustainable harvesting of timber have expanded from Soterra’s footprint to private landholdings within the region. Since 2016, Soterra has regenerated more acres on private land than on its company-owned land. Growth in this business helps ensure the forest products industry will remain strong for future generations. Highlight Stories Pollinator Habitat Improvement Study The year 2013 marked the conclusion of a multi-year pollinator research project that occurred on Greif/Soterra LLC timberlands in south Mississippi. The study was conducted in conjunction with the Pollinator Partnership and NAPCC—the world's foremost experts on pollination issues —to learn how pollinators impact wildlife food availability on timber landscapes, the added value of hosting honey bees and beekeepers on the landscape and to discover the best management practice for ecosystem services on forest landscapes. The study produced some interesting recommendations for sustainable timberland management practices that should bene t timberland owners, pollinator species, local wildlife and ecosystems alike. Greif is committed to its sustainable land use platform, and will help distribute any resulting publications to industry partners, regulators and members of the academic © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. community globally to in uence positive environmental management in timberland systems. In 2013, the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) recognized Soterra LLC and the Pollinator Partnership with its coveted Conservation Leadership Award for this research. The state of Louisiana also recognized the e orts on the program by declaring a state-wide Pollinator Week in the spring of 2018. As of 2019, Soterra LLC continues its support for education, outreach, conservation and scienti c research relating to the importance of pollinators in our ecosystem by maintaining its involvement in the Pollinator Partnership as an active Board of Directors member. To learn more, please see our article in Bee Culture Magazine. Addressing Risk Protecting our business, employees and stakeholders from risk is paramount to our sustained success. The principles that guide our business ensure we’re engaging in ethical behaviors and partnering with organizations that share our values, contributing to how we mitigate risk. 200 More than 200 sites 13,000+ Employees in 2018 24 SOx Audits Completed around the world Our people—principled, intelligent and We work to ensure our internal policies are reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity implemented and our operations are Our global reach is near you. every day with their every action. compliant with relevant regulations. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. ADDRESSING RISK Ethics & Compliance Creating a culture The Greif Way. Why Ethics & Compliance Matters GRI 102-11; 102-16; 205: 103-1, 103-2,103-3; 205-1; 205-2; 206: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 412-2 The principles set forth in in The Greif Way establish a company culture rooted in ethics and compliance. We believe that behavior in uences culture and culture determines performance, which is why establishing positive behaviors is important to our business. Every day, our colleagues implement these principles which are formalized through the policies that govern our organization. Governance Greif maintains a broad set of ethicsand compliance-related policies: Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Corporate Governance Guidelines Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination Policy Economic and Trade Sanctions Policy Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Child Labor Policy Human Rights Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Insider Trading Policy Each policy is managed, reviewed and implemented by a diverse team comprised of representatives from human resources, nance and legal. We regularly review our policies and revise them as necessary to strengthen language, address emerging risks and communicate best practices. Greif leverages training and audits to actively implement our policies. We require each of Greif’s over 2,000 manager-level and above colleagues to complete policy training. We conduct annual SOX audits for all of our facilities that are material to our nancial statements. Greif conducts risk-based audits at each of our facilities at least once every ve years. We encourage our colleagues to anonymously report ethics and compliance violations by maintaining an Alert Line with the phone number posted at every Greif facility. In 2018, we investigated and resolved 94 percent of the complaints from our Alert Line. Quarterly, Greif’s Audit Committee receives internal audit reports and a report of all Alert Line calls during this period, prepared in conjunction with a third-party. The committee evaluates and prioritizes the risks that are most material to our business. For more information on Greif’s approach to risk management, please see Risk Management & Business Continuity. To validate our compliance to our established policies, we regularly conduct audits of our controls and processes. Across Greif, we have 170 auditable entities. In 2018, 40 of these entities were in-scope for SOX testing and we completed risk-based audits for 24 of them. We continue to strengthen our internal control environment as we leverage shared processes across locations. In 2019, we will implement a clawback policy to further promote ethical behaviors. We will introduce web-based training for our Anti-bribery Policy in French and German. Greif will ensure our Whistleblower Policy and Alert Line procedures address new regulations in the European Union. Goals & Progress 24 In 2017, we established our rst ethics and compliance goals. By the end of scal year 2025 we will: Provide online training of the Greif Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to 100 percent of employees with access to computers SOx Audits Completed Provide training and information on the Greif Anti-bribery Policy to 100 percent of employees for whom training is relevant We work to ensure our internal policies are implemented Provide online training of the Fair Treatment of Others Policy to 100 percent of and our operations are compliant with relevant regulations. employees with access to computers, and provide accessible and traceable information to all employees As part of our plans to reach our 2025 goals, we revised our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in 2018 to improve its clarity and better reinforce the key behaviors we desire our colleagues to demonstrate. We implemented the new code in conjunction with our revised online training, which now reaches over 2,000 professional, administrative and clerical colleagues. In 2019, we will begin to translate the training into additional languages, helping us reach more colleagues for whom training is relevant in their primary language, and begin formally tracking completion metrics in order to report against our 2025 goals. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. ADDRESSING RISK Risk Management & Business Continuity Maintaining our commitments through diﬃcult situations. Why Risk Management & Business Continuity Matters 102-11; Risk Management & Business Continuity: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Greif mitigates risks that may negatively impact our customers through risk management and our business continuity e orts. By focusing on e ectively managing our risks, we ensure quality in our products, safety of our colleagues and are able to maintain commitments to our customers. Governance 200 Greif assesses organization-wide risk through our formal Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, which considers all Greif Business Units and geographies. Risk information is identi ed and analyzed through Greif’s Risk and Content Monitoring processes by assurance providers across the organization, including Executive Leadership, Internal Audit, Legal/Compliance, feedback from More than 200 sites around the regular customer and investor engagement and Greif’s Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC). Information from these groups, including long-term emerging world risks, is provided to Greif’s Risk Leader Committee (RLC), led by Greif’s chief audit executive, and is comprised of members of Greif’s Executive, Business Unit and Our global reach is near you. Strategic Business Unit Leadership teams. The RLC identi es, ranks, reviews and prioritizes risks in conjunction with Greif’s Audit Committee to determine the most critical risks based on potential impact and likelihood to occur. Each risk is evaluated for potential opportunities and reported to the Board annually for approval. Once approved, risks are evaluated by the RLC to develop plans for risk mitigation and opportunity capture. This team meets quarterly. In 2018, we added our director of sustainability to the RLC to better assess, and incorporate, sustainability risks and opportunities to the business. In 2019, we will continue to re ne our approach to risk management by better de ning our risk appetite and improving our ability to nancially quantify risk. We will start using independent data and working with our risk owners to better understand the inputs to each risk factor. Our new approach will help us develop KPIs to better manage risk. Business Continuity Our We Got Chu program, established in 2017, manages risk and business continuity through inventory and production redundancy capabilities, facility risk assessments and proactive labor relations. Colleagues from sales, customer service, operations, marketing and logistics administer the program in tandem with business unit leadership. Greif’s global network of more than 200* locations allows us to manufacture identical products at multiple sites, giving us the exibility to shift production based on inventory, customer needs or in the unlikely event a shutdown would occur. This capability is enabled by centralized inventory management and our robust Sales and Operations Planning process (S&OP), which allows for visibility into raw and nished good materials across our facilities. Each facility multi-sources raw materials, ensuring production will not be interrupted due to delays or shortages from a supplier. Greif’s facilities undergo loss control engineering inspections by our property insurance company periodically. These inspections are conducted by engineers and focus on identifying risks to the facility, including those that may be caused by natural disasters, and ways to reduce and control those risks. We make capital investments in our facilities to mitigate the risks identi ed in these inspections. For example, Greif is currently upgrading the roof in one of our Houston, Texas facilities to better protect against wind and water damage that was caused by hurricanes. We also consider the risk of labor disputes to business continuity. We manage collective bargaining agreements on a two-to-three-year timeline, not simply when a negotiation must occur. Our senior leadership actively builds relationships with union leadership and members in each plant. This proactive approach ensures positive labor relations and business continuity. Greif has not experienced a work stoppage since 2014, when we experienced a labor strike and illegal occupation at an FPS facility in Turkey. In response to the stoppage, Greif conducted in-depth focus groups with management and line colleagues to gain a deeper understanding of the issues that led to the strike and occupation. We implemented new compensation and bene t plans, safety processes, hiring practices and training to address the concerns raised by our colleagues and created a compliance manager position at the facility to help build and strengthen local relationships. From May 2014 to June 2015, Greif directly hired and unionized 1,300 workers. The workforce became the largest non-government direct hiring in Turkey–where most workers are hired as sub-contractors–and signaled a new approach to hiring in the country. During this period, we shifted production to other sites, ensuring we kept our customer commitments. We continue to build on our reputation as a model employer in Turkey. Turnover in the facility has reduced from 36 percent in 2014 to 14.8 percent in 2018. We recently implemented our Gallup Q12 Employee Engagement Survey to create a formal forum for employee feedback, including those in Turkey. To learn more, please visit Talent Attraction, Development & Retention. *This is from FY2018 and does not include sites as a result of the Caraustar acquisition. After the acquisition, we now have 308 facilities in 43 countries. Highlight Stories Maintaining Our Commitments Through Harvey and Irma In 2017, Greif’s North American operations were hit by hurricanes Harvey and Irma, resulting in $5.3 million of impact to our business. Despite the impact, our risk management and business continuity practices allowed us to meet our customer commitments during recovery without declaring force majeure. Greif supported our directly impacted colleagues by continuing to pay wages during the week production was down, paying for hotels and rental cars and setting up a Wish List for employees in North America to purchase items for their peers. Greif also matched colleague cash donations to the Red Cross to support relief e orts, donating a match of $11,745. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. ADDRESSING RISK Security Protecting our people and products, and the data we are trusted with. Why Security Matters GRI 102-11; 418: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 418-1 Greif prioritizes the security of our assets—people, product and data. This includes the physical security of our facilities, ensuring the safety of our colleagues and maintaining a safe environment for our manufacturing assets. Data security protects our internal and customer data from cyber-attacks. Product security safeguards our customers' products throughout the supply chain, including shipping and transport. Governance Our data security practices comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Greif’s Records Management and Retention Policy. Greif’s Information Technology Team manages data security, which includes annual audits for IT control processes, quarterly reviews of data permissions and quarterly phishing simulations. All colleagues with access to computers are required to complete quarterly cyber security training, receive quarterly newsletters promoting cyber security awareness and weekly security tips. Tips range from password security to avoiding phishing scams. Greif Executives receive updates through a cybersecurity dashboard that is also shared with Greif’s Enterprise Risk Management Team and Board quarterly. The dashboard currently tracks our performance using the National Institute of Standards and Technology NSF maturity index score. To manage the physical security of our buildings, Greif installs tag readers and PIN codes locks at our facilities. We require a bill of lading for each shipment picked up from our facilities. Greif supports product security throughout our supply chain by o ering tamper-resistant closures. Greif received zero substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and identi ed zero leaks, thefts or losses of customer data in 2018. To ensure we are able to continue protecting against potential breaches, we partnered with a third-party cybersecurity expert in 2018 to conduct a maturity assessment on Greif’s current cybersecurity protocols. The ndings of the assessment helped us identify new focal points and laid the groundwork for our plan to further strengthen our cybersecurity program. To better manage our new focal points and implement our plans, we hired a manager of Global IT Security who is dedicated to cybersecurity. We took the necessary steps to ensure our compliance with the EU GDPR, which entered into force on May 25, 2018, including engaging with a third-party to assess our GDPR readiness. This engagement identi ed gaps that we are currently addressing by disseminating training to our workforce. The training is available to all colleagues via our existing KnowBe4 security and awareness platform. We also launched an internal IT Services Cyber Incident and Response Plan and an IT Services Global Business Continuity Plan to establish a clear response process should an event occur. In 2019, we will focus on establishing annual Cybersecurity and Awareness training to mitigate risks by improving our colleagues’ ability to identify and respond to potential threats. We will engage our colleagues with monthly security tips on data access, storage, transmission, classi cation and handling. Our enhanced focus on employee training is part of our e ort to implement a more robust incident response process, which we are continuously re ning. We will continue to develop our IT Security Dashboard by adding additional KPI’s that will allow us to proactively identify potential risks and track performance improvements. Highlight Stories FPS In Turkey Receives ISO 27001 Certi cation Greif’s FPS Turkey operations strengthened our commitment to keeping Greif’s, and Greif’s customers, information assets secure by earning ISO 27001 certi cation in 2018. The certi cation demonstrates that the information security management system (ISMS) meets international best practices and shows the signi cant e orts made by FPS Turkey towards compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in Europe. The certi cation builds on FPS Turkey’s impressive quality credentials, which include ISO 9001 certi ed Quality Management Systems, Grade AA BRC IoP Global Standard for Packaging and Packaging Materials Issues compliant Product Safety Management Systems and ISO 14001 compliant Environmental Management Systems. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Valuing Our People With more than 13,000 employees and operations around the globe in FY 2018, our success is dependent on our ability to protect, engage and develop talent in our organization and uphold human rights along our supply chain. 0.57 Lost Workday Case Rate 0.98 Medical Case Rate 85% Performance Development Review Down 56 percent since 2011. Down 72 percent since 2007. Completion Eligible employee completed their annual Performance Development review, reviewing their competencies and planning against their competency frameworks. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. VALUING OUR PEOPLE Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Discovering and growing the workforce that will carry Greif into the future. Why Talent Attraction, Development, & Retention Matters GRI 401: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 404: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 404-2 Greif’s success hinges on our capacity to attract, develop and retain the greatest talent from around the world. Our talent management programs span the globe and ranges from recruitment to succession planning. Governance Our Talent Management Policy governs our talent attraction, development and retention strategies and provides the foundation for our Global Talent Management 266 Strategy and philosophy. Together, our policy, strategy and philosophy set our global standards for performance management, training and development activities, recruitment and career planning. Our talent programs are overseen by our director of talent management with support by regional representatives who are responsible for implementing programs in accordance with country-speci c laws and regulations. We are currently identifying additional regional champions within the LEAP Participants business to serve as an extension of the team. Since 2014, 266 employees have participated in LEAP, our The Greif Way outlines our commitment to continuous improvement, which informs three-week leadership development program. our commitment to employee development. Greif uses performance management as a platform to communicate employee performance expectations, maintain ongoing performance dialogue and conduct annual performance appraisals. We enable the assessment and development of our employee’s knowledge, attitudes, skills and behaviors through competency frameworks. All professional, clerical and administrative colleagues —approximately 20 percent of Greif’s workforce— participate in an annual Performance Development Review. The process consists of a selfand manager-evaluation of their performance against job-speci c competencies. In 2018, 85 percent of eligible colleagues completed the program. In an e ort to promote more consistent performance feedback throughout the year, we piloted a quarterly, as opposed to annual, review process in RIPS NA. Our Performance Development Review process informs our succession planning, which occurs for director-level and above roles, ensuring we have an appropriate talent pipeline to enable our success in the future. Training and development are integral aspects of our development strategies. Our global Leadership Development and Training archive contains more than 220 courses dedicated to educating our colleagues on topics ranging from computer literacy to job-speci c technical training. Any Greif employee with access to a computer can access the courses through the Greif Learning Network, Skillport. Our network tracks required training to ensure compliance with internal policies and relevant regulatory requirements. We supplement our global training with regional programs that address relevant needs and are actively improving our practices to integrate compliance and code of conduct training into the system and making it easier for our colleagues to navigate. In 2018, Greif experienced a 146 percent increase in the number of unique users leveraging our learning management system We continue to build our onboarding program in North America. This includes 3060and 90-day touchpoints, onboarding modules and new hire focus groups. To strengthen the overall program, we will create a manager onboarding guide, new hire onboarding guide and Workday hiring guide in 2019. We will also implement expanded training programs, including o ering Champions, Customer Service Excellence and manager training sessions. We continued to build our internship program in 2018 by hiring 19 additional interns and o ering supplemental housing coverage for those hired. During the past two years, we hired 28 interns. In 2019, we will launch this program in EMEA and work with a university in Italy to hire interns. In 2018, Greif introduced a company-wide internal employee engagement survey using the Gallup Q12 engagement survey. We conducted the survey in 16 languages 85% and achieved a 91 percent response rate across all of our colleagues. The results identi ed employee recognition as a key area for improvement. As a result, over 800 action plans from over 500 teams were created to improve engagement with our employees. The plans focus on addressing local engagement needs based on direct input from our colleagues. In 2019, we will begin linking improvements in employee engagement to our key safety, customer service, nancial and human capital Performance Development metrics to better understand the impact of employee engagement on our business Review Completion and drive continuous improvement. Eligible employee completed their annual Performance Goals & Progress Development review, reviewing their competencies and planning against their competency frameworks. In 2017, Greif established three Talent Attraction, Development, and Retention Goals: 100 percent of permanent employees will participate in regular performance development discussions by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase average hours of annual training per employee by 50 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of employees will be covered by parental leave by the end of scal year 2025. Greif’s continuous improvement in talent attraction, development and retention enabled us to make great progress on our 2025 goals this past year. As of 2018, almost all eligible colleagues receive some form of performance review. Our aim is to continue to increase colleague participation in a performance review process, formalize measurement and communicate progress annually. We implemented a Parental Leave policy in the United States which provides four weeks of paid parental leave for professional colleagues, including parents who adopt a child, and we will strive to continue to expand this program across the globe. Using feedback collected from the quarterly performance review process piloted in RIPS NA, we will make adjustments to the program and determine how it will be introduced in additional business units and regions. Performance GRI 401-1, 404-1, 404-3 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 New Employee Hires 3,917 2,467 2,925 2,941 Employee Attrition* 27.9% 21.8% 21.3% 24.3% Training Hours per employee** Skillport (Greif Learning 2 2.6 Network) Leadership, Professional, 9.6 6 Production Employees Completing 90%^ 92 % 85% Regular Performance Reviews^ *Attrition by region and length of service given as percent of attrition for scal year. **Average hours of training per unique participant. Data excludes safety training and local functional training. FY2017 data has been restated from the 2018 Sustainability Report to exclude this data. For more information on safety training, please see Health & Safety. ^Includes eligible professional, clerical and administrative employees. FY2016 data has been restated to re ect completion, not participation. Highlight Stories Greif Scholarship Program In 2007, Greif established a scholarship program to assist our colleagues’ children who plan to continue education in college or vocational school programs. Scholarship recipients are selected on the basis of nancial need, academic record, demonstrated leadership, participation in school and community activities, honors, statement of educational aspirations and goals, unusual personal and family circumstances and an outside appraisal. The program is administered by Scholarship Management Services, a division of Scholarship America. Scholarship Management Services is the nation's largest designer and manager of scholarship and tuition reimbursement programs for corporations, foundations, associations and individuals. Awards are granted without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender, disability or national origin. Selection of recipients is made by Scholarship Management Services. In no circumstance does any o cer or colleague of Greif play a part in the selection. Since 2007, 119 students from around the world have received scholarships. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Developing Leaders In 2014, Greif established a three-week leadership development program designed to support high-potential colleagues develop leadership skills and career-advancement opportunities. In 2018, we continued to grow the program globally. Since inception, 266 colleagues have participated in our three-week course, including 52 in 2018. Greif Champions Greif recognizes colleagues at all levels of the organization who embody our values and demonstrate leadership through our Champions program. Since launching in 2016, 303 colleagues have been recognized in the program, including Debora Migoni, HR director for Latin America, who was recognized for her dedication to providing customer service in her role by taking the time to empathize and understand the needs of others to solve problems. VALUING OUR PEOPLE Health & Safety Protecting our employees’ right to work in a safe and accident-free environment. Why Health & Safety Matters GRI 403: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 403-1, 403-4 Employee safety lies at the heart of our business and is our rst and foremost priority. Our colleagues deserve a workspace that supports their health and safety and our e orts work to reduce lost wages from missing work time, avoid near misses and prevent injury, particularly potentially serious and life threatening safety events. Governance Our global Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Policy establishes our safety culture. The policy is supplemented by regional EHS policies for all facilities, further strengthening our commitment to safety. Our Safety Leadership Team, comprised of representatives from each region and business unit, manages our global EHS policy. To ensure our policies fairly represent the entirety of our workforce, we implemented safety committees comprised of laborers and management at all of our locations. Every two years, we conduct third-party audits at each facility to ensure compliance with all laws, regulations and policies. We use our Compliance Management System (CMS) to track health and safety tasks at the facility level. Our Contractor Safety Policy, one of our 20 policies related to occupational safety, makes provisions for the safety of our contractors. Our global policies apply to all union and non-union colleagues in our workforce. In an e ort to increase our management of safety, we recently integrated the tracking of safety observations and close calls into our CMS. Our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) global workgroup was formed in 2016 to analyze industry research regarding SIF events and methods of advancing our program. Based on their work, we introduced the Life Changing Injury and Fatality Elimination (LIFE) program in 2017 to better understand and track close call and potentially life-altering, life-threatening and life-ending safety events. Through LIFE, we introduced our PIT-Pedestrian Policy to safeguard our colleagues against the dangers of lift truck operations, the event with the highest risk of life-threatening injury in Greif’s facilities. In 2018, we continued to focus on reducing potentially life-threatening events in our facilities by addressing suspended load-related safety, lockout-tagout procedures and enhanced machine guarding and focusing on safety behaviors that are most important in each of our facilities. To improve incident tracking, we incorporated reporting incidents and close calls into our CMS. We use this data to increase our knowledge and awareness of the conditions and behaviors that lead to at-risk situations, including developing a risk index to inform future decision making. In 2019, we will use our LIFE data to identify global and regional leading indicators and develop safety action plans to address the highest risk injury events. Our 2019 commitment to our LIFE program is a natural continuation of our commitment to creating a culture of safety every day. Our colleagues in RIPS North 16.68 America use our Commitment-Based safety program to highlight the value of daily safety. They identify potential safety hazards within their job function, articulate and rank their safety performance and make pledges to take responsibility for their actions. Formal training continues to be critical to our safety initiatives. In 2018, we delivered Average Safety Training Hours 16.68 hours of safety training per production colleague, an increase from 16.34 in 2017 and 16.2 in 2016. Across Greif, 799 managers, health and safety experts and Each production employee in our business receives safety technical experts have completed our GROW Safety Leadership and Development training, ensuring our safety culture is understood and Academy. practiced every day. As part of our ongoing commitment to safety, we held a global Safety Week in 2018 with the goal of raising safety awareness within Greif. Each facility provided educational resources to their plant colleagues and dedicated a half day to sharing best practices with each other to mitigate safety risks at work and at home. Our PPS Division held two Safety Summits convening safety leaders from across the Division to re ne the safety charter, establish safety priorities, share best practices from LIFE and promote new close call reporting and lockout-tagout procedures. These leaders strategized the best ways to engage our colleagues so we can keep them safe. To expand our global approach to safety, in 2019 we are creating modules from the GROW program as electronic learnings, recorded videos and online trainings so all plants will have access to the information. We want to embed GROW throughout the organization. Our PPS Division safety leaders have two more Safety Summits scheduled in 2019 to continue sharing best practices with one another. Goals & Progress Greif has two Health & Safety goals: Reduce Medical Case Rate by 10 percent annually to achieve Medical Case Rate Zero in the long term. Every plant will have a collaborative environmental health and safety committee consisting of both management and workers by the end of scal year 2025. Performance GRI 403-2 As of 2018, each Greif plant had a safety committee comprised of managers and colleagues. We are proud of the results that have come from our vigilance in health and safety. While we did experience an increase in MCR from 0.95 in 2017 to 0.98 in 2018, we have experienced a 72% reduction in MCR since 2007, improving from 3.51 to 0.98. Since 2011, LWCR has improved from 1.3 to 0.57, a 56 percent reduction. We are con dent that our approach to safety is e ective and the additional focus we are placing on injury prevention and eliminating life-threatening injuries will continue to reduce MCR and LWCR in 2019 and in support of our 2025 goals. EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY MCR LWCR *MCR, or Medical Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries or illnesses per 100 full-time employees in a 12-month period. **LWCR, or Lost Workday Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries or illnesses resulting in lost workdays per 100 full-time employees in a 12-month period. Highlight Stories Employee Assistance Program (EAP) All Greif colleagues in Canada and the United States have access to an employee assistance program (EAP). Greif’s EAP is a con dential work-based intervention program o ering colleagues and their families informational services designed to enhance emotional, mental and general psychological well-being. The program provides preventive and proactive interventions for the early detection, identi cation and/or resolution of both work and personal problems that may adversely a ect performance and well-being. These problems and issues may include but are not limited to, relationships, health, trauma, substance abuse, gambling and other addictions, nancial problems, depression, anxiety disorders, psychiatric disorders, communication problems and coping with change. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. 10 Years Accident Free In 2018 Greif’s RIPS facility in Västerhaninge, Sweden celebrated 10 consecutive years of operation without an accident. The facility has focused on continuous improvement of safety practices and has been regularly commended for safety performance. In addition to receiving Bronze in Greif’s Plant Olympics, the facility has received the Chairman’s Safety Excellence Award seven times. Chairman’s Safety Excellence Award Each facility that achieves an MCR of less than one and third-party EHS audit score of 90 percent* or greater wins the Chairman’s Safety Excellence Award. Globally, 61 of our 148 production facilities received the award in 2018. *Sites receiving rst time audits are only required to achieve a score of 80 percent to qualify VALUING OUR PEOPLE Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Upholding fundamental rights in our operations and throughout our supply chain. Why Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Matters GRI 102-41; 405: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 406: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 407: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 407-1; 408: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 409: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 412: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 As a manufacturing company, Greif participates in a labor-intensive industry. Our commitment to upholding international human rights and fair labor practices is directly aligned with our commitments to the health and safety of our colleagues. We maintain these standards and expectations throughout our supply chain. We are committed to working with responsible supply partners to ensure our customers’ con dence in our responsible sourcing and labor practices. Governance Gold Greif maintains human rights and fair labor practices in accordance with the UN Global Compact Principles and International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We enforce various policies to manage our commitment to these Principles internally and in our supply chain. This includes our Anti-harassment, Child Labor, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Equal Recognition from EcoVadis Employment Opportunity and Diversity, Fair Treatment of Others, Human Rights and Supplier Code of Conduct policies. Received for our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility, placing us in the top ve percent of all Greif’s local HR teams leverage risk assessments, age and legal working status assessed suppliers. veri cations, awareness training, localized gender equality procedures and whistleblower procedures to implement these policies in our operations. To enable our colleagues to anonymously report potential human rights violations, we publicly post our global Alert Line in all facilities. Each complaint is instantly directed to a regional vice president so it can be addressed appropriately. We hold not only ourselves, but our suppliers to the highest standards via our Supplier Code of Conduct. We manage supplier performance through EcoVadis, a tool that allows us to assess each supplier’s human rights and fair labor practices performance. 52 percent of Greif’s colleagues engage in collective bargaining agreements (CBA). Each CBA is independently managed in each region with our Human Resources and Legal teams providing oversight. For further information on Greif’s approach to labor relations, please see Risk Management & Business Continuity. In 2018, Greif received 78 human rights and fair labor practice complaints through our Alert Line. We investigated and resolved 94 percent of complaints. The remaining complaints are under ongoing investigation. We translated our human rights and fair labor practices policies into 18 di erent languages. We completed updates to local policies and procedures, as needed, in each of our operating countries to maintain compliance with local regulations and standards within the employment market. In the United States, we updated our Parental Leave Policy to include four weeks of paid leave for any parent, including adoptions. To enhance our understanding of the human rights risks faced by Greif, we began formalizing a Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) process. The HRIA will enable a systematic process to identify, prioritize and address human rights issues within our operations, supply chain and other business relationships. Referencing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the starting point was to identify a suitable framework and we are currently researching potential partners to help develop and implement a robust assessment process. In 2019, Greif will continue enhancing our regional policies and procedures. We will complete our supply chain human rights impact assessment. In the United States, we will introduce full-tuition reimbursement for any colleague that enrolls in an MBA program and develop a plan to expand this bene t beyond the United States, starting with EMEA. Goals & Progress In 2017, Greif established three Human Rights & Fair Labor Practice goals: 100 percent of our operations will be subject to internal human rights reviews, measured on a rolling cycle, by the end of scal year 2025. 100 percent of employees will be trained in human rights policies and procedures by the end of scal year 2025. Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase the proportion of women in management positions by 25 percent by the end of scal year 2025. In 2018, Greif formed a Human Rights and Labor Practice Team to support progress towards these goals. The team is responsible for the creation of speci c action plans and milestones for each objective, extending the team to involve other business stakeholders as necessary, ensuring there is a systematic approach to achieving our goals. The starting point was to benchmark best practices from around the globe and other organizations, to identify whether and how any of these existing best practices can be leveraged throughout Greif. The team comprises members of the global HR community, and provides coverage of all Greif geographic regions and lines of business. A scorecard and range of KPI’s had been developed to track progress. In 2019, we will continue to develop and implement these action plans, and report progress towards our 2025 goals. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Advancing Circular Economy Through process, materials and manufacturing innovations, we work in collaboration with our stakeholders to reduce the environmental impact of our products and work towards a more circular economy. Gold Recognition from 35 Facilities Achieving Zero 87.8 Average Customer EcoVadis Waste to Landﬁll Satisfaction Index Score Received for our commitment to Corporate Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with Our highest scores ever, demonstrating our Social Responsibility, placing us in the top ve each facility working towards our 2025 goal. commitment to serving our customers better. percent of all assessed suppliers. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. ADVANCING CIRCULAR ECONOMY Innovation Improving products and processes to reduce our footprint and drive customer satisfaction. Why Innovation Matters Innovation 2018: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; GRI 301: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Our approach to innovation enables Greif to advance sustainable packaging and circular economy principles. As we continue to innovate, we reduce our footprint and support our customers’ desire for safer, lighter weight products and reduced transportation costs. We analyze our entire value chain—from the extraction of raw materials to our products’ end-of-life—to nd opportunities to improve our products and processes. This strategy is not only the right thing to do, but provides us a competitive advantage. Governance Our innovation e orts focus on transforming our product portfolio by developing sustainable packaging solutions based on a set of eight environmental, social and nancial sustainability criteria. Through internally-initiated solutions and collaboration with customers, our innovation e orts focus on dematerialization—producing products that are lighter weight, utilize less virgin raw materials and more recycled content—and green material substitution—identifying safer materials to produce our products, including bio-based materials—while continuing to meet performance requirements. 2018 saw signi cant changes to how we manage innovation. We combined our Global Innovation and Sustainable Innovation teams into a single Global Innovation Committee and established a formal innovation function in our RIPS North America business. The newly formed committee is comprised of representatives from each of Greif’s business units and is responsible for driving collaboration and idea sharing across business units. The new committee structure prevents ideas that may be bene cial to multiple business units from becoming siloed in one area. In RIPS NA’s innovation function, innovation priorities are evaluated and prioritized based on potential nancial return, sustainability impacts and overall value to Greif and our customers. In 2019, the committee will provide quarterly updates to our Executive Leadership Team on progress on innovation priorities and industry megatrends that may in uence innovation and overall company strategy in the future. The Greif Green Tool continues to be an important tool for us to communicate our sustainable products to our customers. This past year, we updated the Greif Green $1.0M Tool by enhancing its analytical capability to allow detailed modeling, allowing plant/process speci c analysis, updating the tool’s underlying data sets and improving the classi cation of our sustainable products and processes portfolio. We also completed an analysis of the majority of our product portfolio against our eight sustainable product criteria. Through the analysis we identi ed the products we will consider part of our sustainable product portfolio. All new product launches will be Savings from Gauge analyzed and added to the portfolio if they meet the criteria. Improvement Program In 2018, we continued focusing on innovation around food safety. As part of Greif’s Working with our suppliers to meet minimum speci cations Food Safety Initiative, our Greif Flexibles Team diligently worked with leading baby requirements resulted in signi cant savings in 2018. food producers and stakeholders to gain valuable insight into the evolving industry needs and regulations. The team continues to work with customers and regulators to understand current and emerging legislative requirements to ensure our products meet both regulatory and customer needs. Our IBC product line saw advancements in both food safety and dematerialization this past year. We opened a new IBC plant, equipped to produce state-of-the-art food safe IBCs. We operationalized two lines dedicated to producing lighter weight IBC bottles and anticipate adding three more in 2019. We continued to collaborate with external partners in 2018. We worked with customers to build a business model around nancing and leasing equipment to compress used products, which can then be used to make other products. This model diverts waste from land ll by nding secondary applications for our used products. Items such as fencing, furniture and roadside cones have been produced using Greif materials. These secondary products demonstrate our continued commitment to reducing waste and driving innovation. For more information about our innovation e orts, please see: MITSloan Management Review: Surprising Insights from Environmental Screenings MITSloan Management Review: The Innovation Bottom Line, pp11 Packaging Strategies: A Commitment to Life Cycle Assessment, pp 6-7 WBCSD U.S., Inc.: From cradle to grave: Greif's Life Cycle Analysis World Resources Institute: Aligning Pro t and Environmental Sustainability: Stories from Industry Goals & Progress Our innovation priorities continue to support our 2025 supply chain goals to reduce raw materials/logistics costs used to produce current product o erings by one percent and move from non-green to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality of product to our customers. In 2019, we will continue to analyze new and innovative products through research and development. We will continue to grow partner support as we scale our innovative ideas. Highlight Stories Innovating Injection and Welding Production with NexDRUM® Greif’s NexDRUM® plastic drum is produced with 15 percent less material than our standard blow molded plastic drum. The NexDRUM® design was created through an innovative injection and welding production process that works with reduced material inputs, without negatively a ecting the performance and stability of the drum. The unique production method also results in a 12 percent CO2 emissions reduction compared with conventional drums. DoubleGreen™ Product Line © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. In 2014, Greif received the IAIR Sustainability Award for our enduring commitment to sustainability and innovations in industrial packaging and services. IAIR speci cally cited our DoubleGreen COEX 10L stackable jerry can, which incorporates green polyethylene derived from sugarcane ethanol, exceeding 50 percent of the total packaging composition. Through its stackable design, the can eliminates the need for carbon boxes for transportation, improves inventory management costs, removes the necessity for printing a duplicate label and optimizes the recycling process. We conducted a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) demonstrating the DoubleGreen COEX 10L jerry can is able to reduce CO2 emissions by roughly 50 percent compared to traditional jerry cans. Annually, this can equate to a 220 ton reduction in CO2 emissions, while saving 112 tons of paper. By reducing carbon packaging from transportation, we estimate saving 3,643 trees and avoiding 23 tons of excess CO2 emissions. Our DoubleGreen COEX 10L jerry cans are UN certi ed and achieve higher SKU utilization. In Brazil, our team developed the rst 20 liter monolayer packaging for agrochemicals. With a weight less than 1kg, it requires fewer raw materials for production while preserving the mechanical strength required for stacking. Packaging weight reduction also translates into a CO2 emissions reduction of approximately 42 tons per year. Customizing Caps and Closures Greif’s Tri-Sure business works closely with our customers to ensure our caps and closures meet their industry-speci c needs. After working with our customers in the agricultural chemicals sector, we launched the Plasticap Agro, which features improved tamper evident ring, Micro-Porous Venting as an option, and fully customizable designs catering to speci c market needs and branding requirements. Innovating Food Safety In 2014, Greif’s Flexible Product & Services segment was approached by multiple leading producers within the infant food and formula industry to develop solutions to meet changing requirements for product handling in the industry. Greif worked with milk powder producers and stakeholders throughout the supply chain to understand the developing industry regulations. In partnership with our key customers and suppliers, we implemented solutions to meet their requirements. In 2017, Greif opened a food safety center of excellence in Belgium featuring an ISO Class 7 clean room. The facility set the highest hygiene and food safety standards in the industry and has made Greif the supplier of choice for exible packaging in the infant food and formula market. We are also improving food safety in our Tri-Sure business. In 2018, we introduced our RDL 100 and RDL 101 BPA-free linings that not only comply with all current EC and FDA food application requirements, but also meet regulations that we anticipate being introduced in the near future. Our new linings reduce working capital, save costs, guarantee consistent quality, provide sustainable solutions and protect our environment. Agribusiness Virtuous Cycle Greif’s Cimplast operations in Brazil developed a process that uses DuPontTM Fusabond®, a polymer compatibilizer, to turn waste into automotive lubricant bottles, rigid pipes and other products. The “Agribusiness Virtuous Cycle” is a full-cycle recycling system that diverts multilayer plastic agrochemical bottle waste from land lls and remakes it into high-value products. Through this process, over 507,013 tons of agrochemical plastic bottles have been collected*, saving 1.4 million barrels of crude oil and 625,000 tons of CO2 equivalents. This innovation was honored as a Gold winner in the 23rd DuPont Awards for Packaging Innovation. *2018 gures estimated by INPEV Automatic Unloading System Helps Greif Reach Milestone One of Greif’s RIPS facilities in France unloaded its 1.5 millionth drum for a major customer. This milestone would not have been possible without the implementation and operation of an automatic steel drum unloading system. This unique system unloads nearly 400 drums per hour. It was designed speci cally for this customer and is able to interact with a variety of standard transport equipment. Thanks to the installation of this system, safety, quality, working environment and e ciency have all improved. Our colleagues no longer frequently handle heavy loads as the automatic system helps them manage the unloading process. In its rst year of operation, this automatic system has led to cost savings for not only Greif, but for our customers. Increasing the Use of PCR in Our Products Containers made from post-consumer resin (PCR) signi cantly reduce the need to use virgin resin—in some cases eliminating it completely—require less energy to manufacture and divert materials headed to land lls by repurposing them into new products. Where possible, Greif works to increase the use of PCR in our product lines. At the end of 2017, Greif launched its new EcoBalance™ product line in North America. The line includes drums and other shipping containers made using approximately 75 percent recycled plastic obtained from post-consumer shipping containers, while still meeting competitive performance standards. One of the initial o erings from the EcoBalance product line is the tight head GP55 drum made in Bradley, Illinois – Greif’s only facility currently able to manufacture UN-certi ed PCR drums. Our line of PCR containers reduces CO2 emissions by 30-53 percent. In 2018, Greif’s Italy operations processed 7,400 metric tons of PCR to produce almost one million drums, pallets and drum accessories. In 2019, we will expand our EcoBalance product line by introducing multilayer drums that can be made with up to 70 percent PCR and add the ability to produce UN-certi ed drums in two additional facilities. Life Cycle Assessments Life cycle assessments (LCAs) are key to Greif’s innovation process. LCA is a technique that evaluates the environmental impact of products over their entire lifetime including raw material extraction, manufacturing, transportation, distribution, use and disposal or recycling. This information helps us understand the overall environmental pro le of our existing products, where and how our impacts occur, target improvements in materials and products and to prioritize analysis of processes, components and materials that have the greatest environmental impact. In the mid-2000s, we began using LCA to evaluate our entire product portfolio to assess our products’ overall environmental impact and identify steps in the cycle where a sustainable improvement can have the most positive impact. We learned that material mass is strongly linked to the environmental performance of most industrial packaging. This nding led us to focus on lightweighting our products, including the NexDRUM®, contributing to reduced emission and environmental impact in our supply chain. LCAs also showed that extending product life has a greater impact on the environmental pro le of our businesses than transportation of our products. Based on this knowledge, we launched EarthMinded Life Cycle Services, to recondition, refurbish and recycle used drums, extending the life of our products and ful lling a critical need for our customers. Please visit End-OfLife Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling for more information. ADVANCING CIRCULAR ECONOMY End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Working to divert used packaging from landﬁlls and reduce the use of virgin materials. Why End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Matters End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling 2018: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3; 307-1 Greif actively manages end-of-life reconditioning, reuse and recycling to advance circular economy principles. We work with our customers, and even their customers, to produce new packages and products that build economic, environmental and social capital. Our end-of-life reconditioning, reuse and recycling solutions help divert waste to land ll while strengthening relationships within our supply chain. As the demand for sustainable solutions increases, our collaborative e orts with our suppliers and our customers, enables us all to reach our collective sustainability goals. Governance We provide end-of-life services through a program called EarthMinded Life Cycle Services (LCS), which leverages a network of Greif joint-venture owned and other thirdparty owned and operated facilities in EMEA and North America. Participant reconditioners in the network collect used, empty, plastic, steel and IBC containers. FIBC containers are recollected in EMEA through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Rebu. The collected containers are reconditioned so they are suitable for reuse and then reintroduced into trade. The reconditioned containers reduce the demand for new containers and demand for virgin raw materials, while decreasing the number of containers that go to land ll. If a container cannot be reconditioned, the materials are recycled for use into other products. In 2018, the EarthMinded LCS network reconditioned close to 3.3 million containers and recycled another 849,498 containers. Many of Greif’s largest customers use the EarthMinded LCS network to recondition their containers. Customers who use the network can access real-time reports through EcoTrack and the Greif Green Tool, which enables customers to quantify performance by tracking key indicators like carbon impact and weight of reused and recycled materials. Globally, we are receiving increasing interest in reconditioning services. We are continually evaluating opportunities within this space to serve our customers and educate our customer base on the opportunities available to them. Greif is continually evaluating partners who can both manage collection and ensure Greif’s safety standards so we can support our customers’ goals in an e ort to better o er a truly global reconditioning service. We are building the infrastructure to respond to demand, particularly as the global market continues to evolve to meet consumer expectations for sustainable products and operations. As our services expand, we will continue to be responsive to the needs and concerns of the communities in which we operate, as we have been in the 63,587 community of St. Francis. Since 2017, one of the Greif joint-venture’s, Container Life Cycle Management (CLCM) has been actively addressing the concerns of the St. Francis community and applicable regulators related to odor and alleged health and safety violations (many of which CLCM disputes) at a reconditioning facility operating under the trade name “Mid America Steel Drum.” Among the steps taken to address potential issues, CLCM created a hotline for community members to Metric Tons of Virgin Materials voice their concerns, consulted emissions experts and control equipment leaders to Saved develop solutions, and provided tours to elected o cials, community members and regulators. The facility has also made operational changes to address wastewater Our reconditioning and reuse operations helped us remove discharge concerns, limit the intake and processing frequency of certain drums over 60,000 metric tons of virgin steel, high-density related to the odor issue and raise the height of the plant’s discharge stack. polyethylene and wood from our supply chain in 2018. In 2018, CLCM installed a regenerative thermal oxidizer (RTO) at the St. Francis facility intended to reduce odors emanating from the site’s operations. Thermal oxidation is recognized as the most e ective way to destroy odor-causing compounds and is commonly used throughout the United States for a wide variety of processes. CLCM initiated the use of the RTO in February 2019. CLCM is one of the rst industrial packaging reconditioners to adopt this technology. CLCM is continuing to engage with local o cials to endeavor to maintain positive relations with the community and continue to identify areas for improvement. For more information on CLCM’s relationship and commitments to the St. Francis community, please visit CLCMWI.com. In 2019, we will continue to engage customers on packaging innovation and partner to developed new reconditioning solutions. Greif will develop the appropriate tools to educate and encourage our customers to ensure empty packaging is disposed of in a sustainable fashion. This includes engaging customers at conferences and other speaking events. Goals & Progress Our end-of-life e orts support our 2025 supply chain, waste and innovation goals. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Financial Performance & Proﬁtable Growth Focusing on the future while creating value today. Why Financial Performance & Proﬁtable Growth Matters GRI 201: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2 Our nancial performance and sustainability strategy are mutually bene cial. We leverage our strong nancial performance to invest in the sustainability e orts that we believe in—a pillar of The Greif Way. Our sustainability strategy enables stronger sales, increased e ciency and reduced costs that create greater value for our shareholders. Performance We celebrated our 141st year of operation in FY 2018. We continued our strong trend of nancial performance by increasing operating pro t by 23.7 percent over FY 2017. We generated over $177.8 million in Free Cash Flow while returning roughly $100 million to our shareholders via dividends paid. Our commitments to delivering the highest level of customer satisfaction through product quality and service excellence enabled us to improve our Customer Satisfaction Index, Net Promoter and Corrective Action Rate scores, all contributing to our e orts to attract and retain customers. As we worked to incorporate sustainability more into our products and conversations with customers, we have continued to reinforce our belief that our customers value our commitment to sustainability and the added value it provides. We are building stronger relationships with our customers, which is leading to greater strategic partnerships. We work closely with our customers to create new and innovative products. Our collaborative approach to product innovation and end-of-life solutions enables us to support our customers in solving the business challenges they face while lowering input costs and contributing to sustainability performance. Through our end-of-life services we actively work to provide our customers with e cient steel, plastic and IBC reconditioning options, reducing demand for virgin materials. Greif’s focus on sustainable activities reduces our operational footprint while providing economic and environmental bene ts. We are actively working to reduce energy and waste, as they tie directly to cost savings and our e orts to drive raw material and water e ciencies. Our compliance management system reduces the risk of regulatory nes and aligns to our initiatives that address ethics, security risks and business continuity. Our colleagues make these e orts possible. We are creating a workplace that our colleagues want to participate in by creating a safe and productive environment. We focus on employee retention and development to ensure our colleagues have a customer service mindset and do business The Greif Way. Our 2018 nancial performance was supported by lower raw material costs, better than anticipated performance in our PPS business and continued growth of our FPS business, o set by weather challenges and raw material and other cost in ation challenges in RIPS. Even with these challenges, we achieved topline growth by continuing to focus on delivering value to our customers. We invested in capital expenditure projects in our RIPS facilities to address maintenance needs and expand capacity to address increasing demand in the U.S. and Russia. We also elected to further strengthen our CorrChoice sheet feeder system by funding a sixth facility to be built in the mid-Atlantic region of the U.S. Finally, we invested in portfolio maintenance needs and continued to make investments in our facilities to protect against the risk of damages from extreme weather events, protecting not just our facilities, but our colleagues. As a result of our e orts, we generated $3.55 in Class A Earnings per Share before Special Items. We generated $177.8 million in Free Cash Flow, slightly below our target of $200 to $220 million primarily due to higher than expected capital expenditures. We feel the added capital expenditure is in the best interest of the long-term health of the company and positions us to better serve our customers and compete more strongly in the market. In February 2019, Greif completed the acquisition of Caraustar Industries, Inc. (Caraustar) enhancing the presence and scale of our PPS business in the U.S. and Canada. This acquisition is expected to improve Greif’s overall margin and cash ow pro le. During 2019, Greif will begin integrating Caraustar into our operations. We will also continue to advance the implementation of our new single system ERP platform around our portfolio. The integration will provide additional e ciencies in business support services including accounts payable, accounts receivable and general ledger, in support of achieving our 2020 nancial goals, and allowing us to continue investing and focusing on delivering high quality, sustainable solutions to our customers. Goals & Progress $1.0M Our 2019 nancial goals include: Generating between $3.55 and $3.95 in Class A Earnings per Share before Special Items. Delivering between $175 and $205 million in Free Cash Flow. Savings from Gauge We continue to progress toward our 2020 nancial goals: Improvement Program Increasing gross margin to greater than 21 percent of sales. Working with our suppliers to meet minimum speci cations Decreasing selling, general and administrative expenses to 9.7 percent of sales. requirements resulted in signi cant savings in 2018. Delivering Free Cash Flow of between $230–270 million. Due to the acquisition of Caraustar, we will update our 2020 nancial goals in 2019. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Sustainability Goals Reducing Our Footprint Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions 2020 Goal: 10 percent reduction in energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of production, from a scal 2014 baseline. Water 2025 Goal: Reduce Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) discharged in kilograms by 10 percent per metric ton of production from Riverville and Massillon mills using a 2014 baseline by the end of scal year 2025. Waste 2025 Goal: Divert 90 percent of waste from land lls from all Greif production facilities globally by the end of scal year 2025. Supply Chain Management 2025 Goal: Using a scal year 2017 baseline, reduce raw materials/logistical costs used to produce current product o ering by one percent by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Move from non-green (oil-based, more energy intensive) to green material sourcing if it is economically feasible and doing so provides high quality products to our customers by the end of scal year 2025. Addressing Risk Ethics & Compliance 2025 Goal: Provide online training of the Greif Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to 100 percent of employees with access to computers by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Provide training and information on the Greif Anti-bribery Policy to 100 percent of employees for whom training is relevant by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Provide online training of the Fair Treatment of Employees Policy to 100 percent of employees with access to computers and provide accessible and traceable information to all employees by the end of scal year 2025. Valuing Our People Talent Attraction, Development, & Retention 2025 Goal: 100 percent of permanent employees will participate in regular performance development discussions by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase average hours of annual training per employee by 50 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: 100 percent of employees will be covered by parental leave by the end of scal year 2025. Health & Safety 2025 Goal: Reduce Medical Case Rate by 10 percent annually to achieve 100 percent safety – Medical Case Rate Zero – in the long term. 2025 Goal: Every plant will have a collaborative environmental health and safety committee consisting of both management and workers by the end of scal year 2025. Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices 2025 Goal: 100 percent of our operations will be subject to internal human rights reviews, measured on a rolling cycle, by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: 100 percent of employees will be trained in human rights policies and procedures by the end of scal year 2025. 2025 Goal: Using scal year 2017 baseline, increase the proportion of women in management positions by 25 percent by the end of scal year 2025. 10.3% Emissions Intensity 35 Facilities Achieving Zero 0.98 Medical Case Rate Reduction Waste to Landﬁll Down 72 percent since 2007. Against our 2014 baseline in support of our Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with 2020 goal. each facility working towards our 2025 goal. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Performance Dashboard Environmental Data GRI 302-1, 302-4 ENERGY FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY2018 Total Energy Consumption (MWh) 3,228,000 3,057,000 3,009,000 3,058,000 3,103,200 Energy Reduction per Unit of Production Baseline year N/A 1.8% 3.1% 4.2% Electricity Used (MWh) 848,000 859,000 861,000 Renewable Energy Used (Thousands of MWh) 3 3 4 Energy Reductions Due to Reduction Initiatives (Scope 1, 2, 15,000 27,000 32,000 and 3; gigajoules) GRI 302-1 FUEL FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Total Non-Renewable (gigajoules) 5,138,000 5,470,000 5,626,000 Coal/Lignite Used (Thousands of MT) 0 0 0 Natural Gas Used (Thousands of m3) 127,000 135,100 139,400 Crude Oil/Distillate Fuels (Including Diesel, #2 Fuel) Used (Thousands of m3) 14,000 11,700 10,700 Renewables* (gigajoules) 2,631,000 2,446,000 2,446,000 Total Fuel (gigajoules) 7,770,000 7,916,000 8,072,000 Total Fuel (Th Liters) *Renewable fuel sources include bark, scrap wood and cardboard GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 EMISSIONS (THOUSANDS OF METRIC TONS) FY 2014* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 GHG Scope 1 362.3 322.5 345.7 367.7 376.7 GHG Scope 2 496.0 438.6 446.7 416.0 415.9 GHG Scope 3 251.5 221.9 2,927.0 3,089.0 2,867.0 GHG Total 1,109.8 983.0 3,719.4 3,872.7 3,659.6 % Reduction in Emissions per Unit of Production** Baseline year 6.0% 2.0% 8.4% 10.3% GHG Intensity (Scope 1 and 2, total per $ revenue) 0.00020 0.00021 0.00025 0.00022 0.00021 Emission Reductions Due to Reduction Initiatives (Scope 1, Baseline year 25.0 25.0 2, and 3) Percentage of the Company’s Operations That Are Covered 100% 100% 100% in Its Disclosures on Emissions Notes: 1. Source: 2017 CDP submittal input data 2. Emissions data accounts for CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 3. Scope 3 emissions takes into account upstream transportation and distribution. In 2017, scope 3 was expanded to include purchased goods and services, capital goods, fuel and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2, including waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting and end of life treatment of sold products. 4. Emission data is assured through Bureau Veritas. *To standardize emissions and inform year-over-year progress toward our 2025 goal, our 2014 emissions data has been restated to correct several facilities’ eGRID regions. Total does not include 246,000 metric tons of CO2e from biogenic sources. **Our percent reduction in emissions per unit of production dropped from FY 2015 to FY 2016 due to increased fugitive emissions from our Riverville, Virginia, paper mill and total emissions from our Massillon, Ohio, paper mill. Updated emissions and global warming potential factors also contributed to this change. GRI 303-1, 306-1, 306-5 WATER* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Water Withdrawal (Thousands of cubic meters)* 8,365.4 8,420.2 9,666.3 9,360.8 Surface Water 9,242.7 8,630.0 Ground Water 423.6 730.7 Rainwater Wastewater Municipal Water Wastewater Discharge (Thousands of cubic meters)** 8,255.1 7,961.4 8,983.2 9,316.2 James River 8,788.8 8,907.1 City of Massillon 191.6 407.1 Tuscarawas River 2.8 2.0 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (Thousands of kg) 2,080.4 1,050.4 890.4 204.2 Total Suspended Solids (kg) 489,334 546,857 465,098 349,003 Phosphorus (kg) 5,517 5,728 4,991 6,617 Production (MT) 637,000 665,000 690,000 713,336 Consumption Rate (m3/MT) 13.1 12.7 14.0 13.1 Notes: 1. The data above is from Greif’s two paper mills, one of which is located in Riverville, Virginia, and the other in Massillon, Ohio. These two paper mills combined account for more than 90% of Greif’s global water footprint. They draw from the James River and onsite water wells, respectively. *Evaporative losses estimated **Water discharged to the James River comes from our Riverville mill and is treated with primary clari cation, secondary clari cation and aeration. Water discharged to the City of Massillon and the Tuscarawas River comes from our Massillon mill and is treated by anaerobic digestion. Quality of wastewater discharged from both mills meets permit requirements. There were no unplanned discharges at either mill. No discharged water was used by another organization. GRI 306-2 WASTE STREAM FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Hazardous Waste (Thousands of Metric Tons) Total Waste to Landﬁll 0.22 0.15 0.53 1.64 Waste to Land ll 0.22 0.15 0.53 1.29 Incinerated (no energy recovery)**** 0.35 Total Non-Landﬁll* 0.41 0.41 7.10 14.10 Incinerated (with energy recovery)** 1.20 3.37 Composted*** Reused† 0.40 1.51 Reclaimed†† 0.02 0.19 0.22 Recycled††† 0.01 0.04 2.01 7.60 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll)†††† 0.38 0.37 3.30 1.40 Total Hazardous Waste 0.63 0.56 7.64 15.74 Non-Hazardous Waste (Thousands of Metric Tons) Total Waste to Landﬁll 41.17 45.20 57.40 54.59 Waste to Land ll Land ll 41.17 45.20 57.40 54.11 Incinerated (no energy recovery)**** 0.48 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Total Non-Landﬁll* 40.83 51.90 161.80 257.22 Incinerated (with energy recovery)** 0.95 2.05 Composted*** 15.28 0.35 Reused† 0.03 0.13 17.15 11.64 Reclaimed†† 0.01 0.01 13.2 9.44 Recycled††† 9.8 9.1 111.86 232.00 Miscellaneous (Non Land ll)†††† 31.02 42.64 3.38 2.05 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 82.00 97.10 219.20 311.81 Total Waste 82.63 97.66 226.84 327.55 Notes: 1. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, we reported our waste stream for our RIPS North America business unit only. In 2016, we expanded our data collection to all of our North American business units. In 2017, we expanded our data collection to all global operations. 2. In 2018, we reviewed our global data collection practices across our business. FY 2017 data has been restated as a result of standardizing units across regions. *Non-Land ll: Includes chemical-physical, incineration with energy recovery, recycled, reused, reclaimed, composted and fuels blending treatment methods **Incinerated (with energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that results in energy capture. ***Composted: Treatment method involving the biological decomposition of solid or liquid operational waste **** Incinerated (no energy recovery): Treatment method involving the combustion of solid waste that does not result in energy capture. †Recycled: Treatment method involving the separation, preparation and sale of recyclable materials to end-user manufacturers. ††Reused: Treatment method involving the use of a material for its original purpose multiple times †††Reclaimed: Treatment method involving the process of extracting and converting materials from recycled materials to be used again. †††† Miscellaneous (Non Land ll): All other treatment methods not mentioned previously, including Deep Well Injection and On-Site Storage, which were reported separately in 2017. GRI 306-3 EARTHMINDED LIFE CYCLE SERVICES ESTIMATED DRUMS AND IBCS RECONDITIONED* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Recycled 780,500 1,045,093 904,883 849,498 Steel Drums 553,300 689,513 534,369 571,355 Poly Drums 196,300 277,672 212,272 161,447 IBCs 30,900 77,908 158,242 116,696 Reconditioned 4,076,700 3,808,242 3,218,885 3,258,848 Steel Drums 3,356,200 3,072,348 2,565,052 2,713,025 Poly Drums 374,100 375,307 321,188 244,497 IBCs 346,400 360,587 332,645 301,326 Total Collected 4,857,200 4,853,335 4,136,828 4,105,936 Steel Drums 3,909,500 3,761,861 3,099,633 3,284,380 Poly Drums 570,400 652,979 535,460 405,944 IBCs 377,300 438,495 501,735 415,612 Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** 77,773 71,573 63,111 63,587 Steel 70,198 65,743 56,200 57,664 High-Density Polyethylene 5,742 5,830 5,150 4,243 Wood 1,833 1,761 1,680 Virgin Materials Saved by Recycling (Metric Tons)** 12,076 17,402 18,755 16,644 Steel 9,657 13,288 13,463 12,697 High-Density Polyethylene 2,297 3,817 4,580 3,385 Wood 122 297 712 562 Notes: 1. Virgin Materials Saved by Reconditioning and Reuse data has been restated to standardize units across regions *Estimated Drums and Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (North America and Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (North America and Europe) REBU – ESTIMATED FIBCS RECONDITIONED (EMEA)* FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Total FIBCs Collected 316,324 Reconditioned 224,418 Recycled 91,906 Virgin Polyethylene Saved 516.2 by Reconditioning and Reuse (Metric Tons)** Virgin Polyethylene Saved 211.4 by Recycling (Metric Tons)*** *Estimated Flexible Intermediate Bulk Containers (FIBCs) Recycled and Reconditioned (Europe, Middle East and Africa) **Estimates based on the quantity of reconditioned packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) ***Estimates based on the quantity of recycled packaging and average packaging speci cations (Europe) ENVIRONMENTAL OPERATIONAL POLICIES Climate Change Policy Climate Strategy, Energy, & Emissions Climate Change Risks Discussed 2018 10-K, page 16 Energy Eﬃciency Policy Climate Strategy, Energy, & Emissions Emissions Reduction Initiatives Climate Strategy, Energy, & Emissions Waste Reduction Policy Waste Water Policy Water Sustainable Packaging Innovation, Supply Chain Management Environmental Quality Management Policy Environmental Management Systems Environmental Supply Chain Management Environmental Management Systems, Supply Chain Management GRI Criteria Compliance About Our Report Biodiversity Policy Biodiversity Social Data GRI 401-1, 404-1, 404-3 EMPLOYMENT FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Total Employees 13,171 13,066 Full Time 11,799 12,473 Part Time 175 151 Temporary 1,197 442 % Women in Management 22.0% 17.0% 16% % Women in Workforce 24.0% 25.0% 24% % Employees Unionized 65.3% 49.7% 52.0% New Employee Hires (Total) 3,917 2,467 2,925 2,941 Region APAC 647 560 EMEA 991 1,279 LATAM 240 170 NA 1,047 932 Gender FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Female 782 754 Male 2,143 2,187 Age 16–20 202 163 21–30 1,198 1,102 31–40 798 865 41–50 507 568 51–60 208 202 60+ 12 31 Employee Attrition* 27.9% 21.8% 21.3% 24.3% Region APAC 20.2% 19.7% EMEA 39.6% 40.0% LATAM 8.0% 10.5% NA 32.3% 29.8% Length of Service Less than 12 Months 50.2% 48.0% More than 12 Months 49.8% 52.0% Training Hours per employee** Skillport (Greif Learning Network) 2 2.55 Leadership, Professional, Production 9.6 6 Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance 90% 92% 85% Reviews^ *Attrition by region and length of service given as percent of attrition for scal year. **Average hours of training per unique participant. Data excludes safety training and local functional training. FY2017 data has been restated from the 2018 Sustainability Report to exclude this data. For more information on safety training, please see Health & Safety. ^Includes eligible professional, clerical and administrative employees. FY2016 data has been restated to re ect completion, not participation. GRI 403-2 EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 MCR* 1.86 1.59 1.49 1.45 1.2 0.96 0.95 0.98 LWCR** 1.3 1.12 0.97 0.97 0.78 0.57 0.55 0.57 *MCR, or Medical Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries per 100 full-time employees in a 12-month period. **LWCR, or Lost Workday Case Rate, measures the number of recordable injuries resulting in lost workdays per 100 full-time employees in a 12-month period. SOCIAL OPERATIONAL POLICIES Health and Safety Policy Environmental Health and Safety Policy Equal Opportunity Policy Equal Employment Opportunity & Diversity Policy Human Rights Policy Human Rights Policy Training Policy Talent Management Policy Business Ethics Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Equal Employment Opportunity & Diversity Policy Fair Remuneration Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Employee Protection/Whistle Blower Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Anti-Bribery Ethics Policy Anti-Bribery and Sanctions Policy Policy Against Child Labor Child Labor Policy SUPPLY CHAIN Social Supply Chain Management Supplier Code of Conduct, Con ict Minerals Policy, Con ict Minerals Report Supplier Guidelines Encompass ESG Areas; Publicly Disclosed Supplier Code of Conduct Product Data GRI 416-2 PRODUCT QUALITY FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Corrective Action Rate (CAR)* 1.9 1.6 1.3 1.0 Order Reliability Rate** 99.6% 99.7% 99.8% 99.8% Number of Customer Complaints*** 672 593 433 389 350 *CAR measures customer complaints per 100,000 units produced **Order Reliability Rate de nes the rate of failure between orders produced and estimates non-compliance with voluntary codes. No regulatory failures or resultant nes have been identi ed. ***Data is for RIPS NA only 4.2% Energy Intensity 0.98 Medical Case Rate 79.6% Reduction in Reduction Biochemical Oxygen Down 72 percent since 2007. Demand Against our 2014 baseline in support of our 2020 goal. Our e orts in water quality have allowed us to already meet our 10% reduction by 2025 goal. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. Internal Awards Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award In 2010, we introduced the Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award to encourage all Greif employees to consider the sustainability of their decisions at work. The award recognizes the environmentally-focused activities of Greif employees and superior e ort in creating sustainable value across our supply chain. 2018 – RIPS EMEA In 2018, we awarded the Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award to a regional team consisting of HR and GSSC representatives from Greif’s Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) business in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region for their successful e orts in reducing total fuel costs and overall CO2 emissions. RIPS EMEA modi ed the company car policy to standardize the types of cars available for use in the region. The updated policy applies to all colleagues in EMEA who renewed their company car. In total, the policy impacted 296 users during the project. The program achieved: A $228,000 reduction in fuel costs 35 percent reduction in total CO2 emissions The RIPS EMEA project truly demonstrates the wide array of possibilities that exist across the business, beyond the operational arena. This year’s project helps Greif work towards its sustainability goals. 2017 – Greif RIPS and Tri-Sure Businesses in Brazil Greif’s Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) and Tri-Sure businesses in Brazil were awarded the 2017 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award for their successful e orts to reduce energy costs and environmental impact by migrating to renewable energy. In 2016, a multifunctional team representing engineering, supply chain and operations from multiple plants collaborated with the objective to transition the plants’ energy contracts from a captive to free market energy platform, improve the e ciency and pro tability of operations and reduce their environmental footprint. The team leveraged new legislation encouraging renewable energy sources, o ering lower energy transmission costs and lower tax rates. By implementing biomass, hydroelectric, wind and solar energy sources, the team far surpassed their goal to reduce energy costs by 10 percent annually. After one year, the team achieved: A 30 percent reduction of energy costs A cost savings of more than $1.4 million USD A 70 percent reduction in CO2 emissions In addition to the environmental and nancial bene ts for Greif, the changes help us create shared value with our customers. We congratulate our employees in Brazil for their success in demonstrating how we can take care of our facilities, bene t the environment, realize costs savings and improve operating results at the same time. 2016 – Greif RIPS Castenedolo Plant in Italy The Greif Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) division's Castenedolo plant employees in Italy won the 2016 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award by fully embracing sustainable innovation principles to manufacture products that utilize methods, such as the use of recycled materials and dematerialization, that have a reduced negative impact on the environment while maintaining Greif’s commitment to only produce products of the highest quality. The Castenedolo plant employees worked on two separate sustainable innovation projects. The rst project involved the reduction of the weight of our GCube bottles from 14kg to 13kg while maintaining product integrity. This resulted in a seven percent reduction in natural resources consumed to manufacture the product in addition to a reduction of 312 tons of carbon emissions and 432 MWh of electricity consumption per year. The second project was the development of new manufacturing techniques over a six-month period to increase the percentage of Post-Consumer Resin (PCR) content in the production of plastic drums that can now be made with 75 percent PCR. PCR is produced from recollected plastics packaging products through a process of crashing, aking, washing, melting and granulation. Through this development, the Castenedolo team replaced 500 tons of virgin raw materials with recycled plastic and reduced their carbon emissions by 750 tons per year. The RIPS Italy employees from di erent departments came together and worked as one team to utilize sustainability as a catalyst to drive and inspire innovation beyond the usual parameters and boundaries. In doing so, they saved precious natural resources that not only improve Greif’s overall environmental performance but also create value for our customers. 2015 – Greif Tri-Sure Business Unit Greif’s global packaging accessories business unit, Tri-Sure, won the 2015 Michael Gasser Sustainability Award. Tri-Sure has been investing in many aspects of sustainability including resource consumption reduction, employee health and safety, waste reduction and innovation for the last ve years. Tri-Sure led all the Greif business units by reducing their energy consumption by 37 percent, saving over four million dollars over the past ve years and far exceeding the global corporate target of a 15 percent reduction in energy consumption. Tri-Sure also invested in innovation to create a safer work environment, ahead of government regulations, by developing a passivation method called Chromium-3 Passivation that eliminated the risk of employee exposure to toxic materials while also decreasing toxicity of wastewater. This innovation made Tri-Sure the rst in the market with such a product. Moreover, Tri-Sure invested in sustainable product development to create a new venting screw cap system, Plasticap 60™ MPV3 Screwcap, that not only meets customer requirements but also requires fewer raw materials to make and reduces production waste. With this innovation, Tri-Sure grew the business of the screw caps market by 220 percent. By collaborating with their customers and integrating sustainability criteria to their innovation process, Tri-Sure grew their business, pro tability and market reach. The total economic bene t achieved from all 2015 nominations, including cost savings and increases in revenue, was approximately $21 million. The total energy saved was close to two million kilowatt-hours, equivalent to carbon sequestered from 1,038 acres of U.S. forests in one year. Carbon emissions reduction equaled 20,501 tons, equivalent to 4,316 passenger vehicles driven for one year and the total reduction in waste equaled 6,067 tons. 2014 – President of RIPS EMEA and APAC; Green Tool Team Ivan Signorelli, Group President for Greif Rigid Industrial Packaging and Services (RIPS) in EMEA and APAC, and the Green Tool team received the 2014 Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award for their visionary work with life cycle assessments (LCA) and the practical application of this science at Greif with The Greif Green Tool. Under the leadership of Ivan Signorelli, a team of Greif employees and Prof. Dr. Holger Buxel from the University of Applied Sciences Münster, worked with independent life cycle assessment specialists from the IFEU institute, located in Germany, to conduct life cycle assessments on Greif’s industrial packaging products with the aim of discovering sustainability-related opportunities and threats in the market. This information was used to develop the proprietary “Greif Green Tool”, which helps companies of all sizes to reduce their carbon footprint by understanding the environmental impact of di erent containers and shipping solutions. The Greif Green Tool is a exible calculator that uses independent life cycle data of Greif products. It allows Greif’s customers to see their carbon footprint data, review and compare the e ects of di erent packaging application decisions and see possible reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. This enables them to choose the right packaging products that will keep their products safe while helping them meet their sustainability goals. The team members were also recognized for their commercial leadership in utilizing this powerful tool with Greif’s customers. More than 50 Greif customers have requested Green Tool demonstrations and analysis since the tool’s development. The Green Tool has been recognized by the Harvard Business Review in the article Making the Consensus Sale. The article highlights Greif's Green Tool as a method for building consensus across an organization while showing the sustainability bene ts of Greif products. The Greif Green Tool was also featured in other publications such as the MITSloan Management Review and case studies published by the WBCSD and The Corporate Executive Board Company. 2013 – Greif PPS Riverville Mill Team The Paper Packaging and Services (PPS) Riverville Mill team won the 2013 Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award for their energy reduction project that began approximately ve years ago. The team succeeded in reducing Riverville Mill’s energy consumption by more than 7 percent while increasing throughput by almost 5 percent compared to FY 2008. They accomplished this through continuous improvement projects to modify operating strategies through process optimization and employee education and engagement; through a series of capital investments to utilize technology to improve controls; and through the involvement of all employees. In addition to reducing the plant’s speci c energy consumption and cost, the team’s work has also directly resulted in a reduction in carbon emissions through their e orts to reducing reliance on fossil fuel. The team has applied technologies including Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) in 40 applications since 2009 and seven in 2013 that were identi ed by internal auditing to be candidates for signi cant energy reduction. The team’s work has reduced site energy consumption by 300 million KWh/year since 2009. 2012 – Greif Subsidiary CorrChoice Greif subsidiary CorrChoice won the 2012 Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award for developing the game-changing product LeaderCorr™. LeaderCorr replaces foam board used by the retail industry and others for printed signs and in-store displays. LeaderCorr is a double-walled corrugated sheet that, unlike foam board, is completely recyclable. This means it can be put into the OCC (old corrugated containers, i.e., used cardboard) waste stream, which is an income source for the retailer. The production of LeaderCorr is also environmentally responsible and, because it is an income source, sustainable. In its manufacture, the product uses less energy, less water and less starch than traditional paper-based corrugated materials. Because of the technology that uses less water, the LeaderCorr sheets are atter than other corrugated sheets, and when overlaid with a high quality white liner, provide an ideal surface for high-impact printing. Its thickness can also be tailored for speci c applications. In 2012, the total energy saved from all nominations of the Michael J. Gasser Sustainability Award equaled to 66 million KWH and a carbon emissions reduction of 12,000 metric tons, which is equivalent to greenhouse gas emissions from 9,595 passenger vehicles or the electricity use of 6,967 homes for one year. 2011 – Greif Subsidiary Delta Companies Group For their work in developing more sustainable engine lubricants and automotive uids for the future, Greif subsidiary Delta Companies Group won Greif's 2011 Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award. The team collaborated to create high performing yet sustainable oil, lube and automotive uid products for consumers. By using alternative renewable resources, packaging and recycled materials, and then conducting a life cycle assessment on the products, Delta was able to: Achieve a carbon footprint reduction of 29 to 50 percent in improved bar and chain, automotive and small engine oils, and a 38 to 51 percent lower abiotic resource depletion than conventional alternatives. The cumulative environmental impact demonstrated a 10 to 28 percent improvement over conventional products Realize a 71 percent reduction in land ll waste with alternative packaging Reduce land ll waste by 977,000 gallons, energy consumption of oil products by 90 percent and CO2 emissions by 64 percent with the use of re-re ned base oils, methanol and glycols The total economic bene t achieved from all nominations in 2011, including cost savings and increases in revenue, was over $14 million dollars. 2010 – Greif’s Latin America Business Unit The rst recipient of the Michael J. Gasser Global Sustainability Award was Greif's entire Latin America strategic business unit. The organization tackled the reduction of their energy use, embracing energy excellence to the extent of taking their commitment home with them. They developed training and delivered it to all workers, and in the process e ected a cultural change and generated a passion for conservation. Consistent with their commitment, this award is not the capstone of their e orts. They have continued to reduce their energy consumption, began to work on reducing their water consumption and institutionalized Greif's zero waste initiative. The total economic bene t achieved from all nominations in 2010, including cost savings and increases in revenue, was over $17 million. We also documented an environmental impact of: 118 million pounds of CO2 averted 6 million pounds of waste eliminated 5 million gallons of water saved AGreif’s 2018 CDP Score Gold Recognition from 91% Average Together for EcoVadis Sustainability Score Demonstrating excellence in carbon management, governance, strategy and best Received for our commitment to Corporate Our audited facilities are contributing to practices, and outperforming the overall Social Responsibility, placing us in the top ve developing industry-wide sustainability average CDP score of a Band the North percent of all assessed suppliers. standards for suppliers to chemical American average score of a C. manufacturers. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION Organizational Pro le GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Greif Inc. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Products, Services, and Markets 2018 10-K, Item 1, pp. 4-6 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters Delaware, OH GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-4 Location of operations Countries of Operation Global Footprint GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 10-K, Item 1, p. 1 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-6 Markets served Countries of Operation Global Footprint Products, Services, and Markets GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-7 Scale of the organization Organizational Overview 2018 10-K, Item 1, p. 6, Item 8, pp 49 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our Workforce GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-9 Supply chain Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-10 Signi cant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2018 10-K, Item 1(g) p. 6, Item 7 p. 38, Note 6 pp. 69-70, Note 7 pp. 70-73 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Addressing Risk 2018 Proxy, p. 10 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-12 External initiatives About Our Report; Governance, Policies & Partnerships GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-13 Memberships of associations Trade Associations Strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Executive Letter 2018 Proxy, p 8-11 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Governance, Policies & Partnerships; Ethics & Compliance The Greif Way Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-18 Governance structure Executive Letter 2018 Proxy, p 8-11 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Governance, Policies & Partnerships GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Michael Gasser serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors; Peter Watson serves as President and Chief Executive O cer Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices; Performance Dashboard Our Workforce GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Reporting Practices GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated nancial statements Greif's Signi cant Subsidiaries 2018 10-K, Exhibit 21 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-46 De ning report content and topic Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-47 List of material topics Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-48 Restatements of information Performance Dashboard GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting Report topics based on 2017 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-50 Reporting period About Our Report GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 Sustainability Report GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About Our Report GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-56 External assurance Emission data assured through Bureau Veritas Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures GRI INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION OMISSIONS Economic Topics ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2018 10-K GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components 2018 10-K GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Financial Performance & Pro table Growth 2018 10-K GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2018 10-K GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 2018 10-K, Item 1A, p. 16 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-3 De ned bene t plan obligations and other retirement plans 2018 10-K, Note 12, pp. 83-92 ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Governance Guidelines Insider Trading Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Governance Guidelines Insider Trading Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Corporate Governance Guidelines Insider Trading Policy GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethics & Compliance Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Con rmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Greif is not aware of con rmed incidents of corruption ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethics & Compliance Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Ethics & Compliance Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Ethics & Compliance Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Zero CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Customer Service Excellence GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Customer Service Excellence GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Customer Service Excellence Customer Satisfaction Index Customer Service Excellence Net Promoter Score Customer Service Excellence INNOVATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Innovation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Innovation Percentage of revenue from sustainability-tagged products 11% RISK MANAGEMENT & BUSINESS CONTINUITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Risk Management & Business Continuity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Risk Management & Business Continuity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Risk Management & Business Continuity Signi cant business continuity issues in 2018 Greif did not experience any business continuity issues that resulted in missed customer orders in 2018. Environmental Topics MATERIALS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Waste; Innovation; Supply Chain Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Waste; Innovation; Supply Chain Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Waste; Innovation; Supply Chain Management GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Waste; Performance Dashboard ENERGY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard; UNGC COP GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard WATER GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance Dashboard GRI 303: Water 2016 303-2 Water sources signi cantly a ected by withdrawal of water Performance Dashboard; Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused Performance Dashboard BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Biodiversity GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1.2 Explain whether o sets were used UNGC COP GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard; UNGC COP GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard; UNGC COP GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard; UNGC COP GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard; UNGC COP GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions; Performance Dashboard; UNGC COP EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water; Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Water; Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Water; Waste GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water; Performance Dashboard GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Water; Performance Dashboard GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste 2016 306-3 Signi cant spills Performance Dashboard; Water Zero GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste 2016 306-5 Water bodies a ected by water discharges and/or runo Water; Performance Dashboard ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Management Systems GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Environmental Management Systems GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Environmental Management Systems GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Container Life Cycle Management SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Supply Chain Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Supply Chain Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Supply Chain Management Annual EcoVadis score Supply Chain Management END-OF-LIFE RECONDITIONING, REUSE & RECYCLING GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling Drums and IBCs Reconditioned Performance Dashboard; Waste Social Topics EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Talent Management Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Talent Management Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Talent Management Policy GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Talent Attraction, Development & Retention; Performance Dashboard GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-2 Bene ts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave Talent Attraction, Development & Retention OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Health & Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Health & Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Health & Safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety Health & Safety committees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Health & Safety; absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Performance Dashboard GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health & Safety TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Talent Management Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Talent Management Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Talent Management Policy GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent Attraction, Development & Retention; Performance Dashboard GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Talent Attraction, Development & Retention Outplacement support may be provided when appropriate to support career endings and facility closures, determined by local management discretion. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Talent Attraction, Development & Retention development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Performance Dashboard NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Policy GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents reported FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collectiv 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices collective bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Child Labor Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Child Labor Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Child Labor Policy GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant risk for incidents of child labor No signi cant risks have been identi ed FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 409: Forced of Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at signi cant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory No signi cant risks have been identi ed labor HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Human Rights Policy GRI: 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Ethics & Compliance CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Product Quality GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Product Quality GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Product Quality GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of Product Quality; products and services Performance Dashboard CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Security 2018 10-K, p. 14 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 Explain management approach components Security 2018 10-K, p. 14 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluate management approach Security 2018 10-K, p. 14 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Security customer data 99% Orders Between Failure 63,587 Metric Tons of Virgin 16 ISO14001 Certiﬁed Materials Saved Facilities More than ever before, our customers can count on our products to arrive on-time and Our reconditioning and reuse operations We take our responsibility towards free of defects. helped us remove over 60,000 metric tons of environmental standards and regulations virgin steel, high-density polyethylene and seriously and implement systems to manage wood from our supply chain in 2018. our obligations. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. UNGC COP PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION LOCATION 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Policies Environmental Health & Safety Policy Fair Treatment of Others Policy Human Rights Policy Implementation Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Supply Chain Management 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policies Con ict Minerals Policy Con ict Minerals Report Human Rights Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Implementation Employee Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Supply Chain Management 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the e ective recognition of the right to Policies collective bargaining Human Rights Policy Implementation Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Our Workforce Risk Management & Business Continuity Supply Chain Management 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Policies Child Labor Policy Human Rights Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Transparency in Supply Chain Disclosure Implementation Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices 5 Businesses should uphold the e ective abolition of child labor Policies Child Labor Policy Human Rights Policy Implementation Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policies Human Rights Policy Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity Fair Treatment of Others Policy Talent Management Policy Implementation Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Talent Attraction, Development & Retention 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Policies Environmental Health and Safety Policy Greif Code of Business Conduct Implementation Executive Letter Innovation Reducing our Footprint Risk Management & Business Continuity Governance, Policies & Partnerships PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION LOCATION 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Policies Environmental Health & Safety Policy Greif Code of Business Conduct Implementation Advancing Circular Economy Executive Letter Governance, Policies & Partnerships Reducing our Footprint Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Sustainability Goals 9 Businesses should encourage the development and di usion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies Environmental Health & Safety Policy Implementation Advancing Circular Economy Reducing our Footprint 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policies Anti-Bribery & Sanctions Policy Antitrust/Competition Compliance Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Economic and Trade Sanctions Policy Insider Trading Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Implementation About This Report Ethics & Compliance Governance, Policies & Partnerships Supplier Code of Conduct 10.3% Emissions Intensity 35 Facilities Achieving Zero 4.2% Energy Intensity Reduction Waste to Landﬁll Reduction Against our 2014 baseline in support of our Our e orts to reduce waste are global, with Against our 2014 baseline in support of our 2020 goal. each facility working towards our 2025 goal. 2020 goal. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved. UN SDG Content Index SDG RELEVANT INDICATORS SUPPORTING METRICS MATERIAL TOPIC ALIGNMENT Good Health and Well-being Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 3.7: By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive Providing maternity or paternity leave Talent Attraction, Development & Retention health-care services, including for family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes 3.9: By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and Performance Dashboard: GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Waste illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil Supply Chain Management pollution and contamination Biodiversity Health & Safety Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices Quality Education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. 4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, Enforcing zero-tolerance child labor policies within Human Rights and Fair Labor Practices equitable and quality primary and secondary education leading own operations, and in uencing child labor policies to relevant and e ective learning outcomes within the supply chain 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to Performance Dashboard: GRI 404-1 Talent Attraction, Development & Retention a ordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and Including information on human rights, gender Supply Chain Management skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, equality and sustainable development in internal Health & Safety among others, through education for sustainable development policies, such as employee and supplier codes of and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, conduct, and increasing awareness and practice by promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global ensuring that these policies are thoroughly shared citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s and understood by all employees including those in contribution to sustainable development the supply chain Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls Including non-discrimination clauses in supplier code Human Rights and Fair Labor Practices everywhere of conduct policies and supporting suppliers in Supply Chain Management advancing gender equality and women’s empowerment. 5.5 Ensure women’s full and e ective participation and equal Performance Dashboard: GRI 406-1 Talent Attraction, Development & Retention opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life Clean Water and Sanitation Ensure access to water and sanitation for all 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, Performance Dashboard: GRI 303-3, 306-1 Environmental Management Systems eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous Water chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe Waste reuse globally 6.6 By 2020, protect and restore water-related ecosystems, Performance Dashboard: GRI 304-3 Biodiversity including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes Decent Work and Economic Growth Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 8.2: Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through Improving the e ciency of use of energy, water, Innovation diversi cation, technological upgrading and innovation, (raw) materials and other resources. including through a focus on high-value added and labourintensive sectors 8.4: Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource Performance Dashboard: GRI 302-1 Product Quality e ciency in consumption and production and endeavour to Innovation decouple economic growth from environmental degradation End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling 8.7: Take immediate and e ective measures to eradicate forced Performance Dashboard: GRI 408-1 Human Rights & Fair Labor Practices labour, end modern slavery and human tra cking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms 8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working Performance Dashboard: GRI 403-2 Health & Safety environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 9.2: Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and, by Embedding policies which promote diversity and Talent Attraction, Development & Retention 2030, signi cantly raise industry’s share of employment and inclusion throughout own operations, and gross domestic product, in line with national circumstances, and encouraging suppliers and other business partners double its share in least developed countries to do the same. 9.4: By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retro t industries to Performance Dashboard: GRI 305-4 Product Quality make them sustainable, with increased resource-use e ciency Customer Service Excellence and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking Environmental Management Systems action in accordance with their respective capabilities Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions Innovation End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse, & Recycling Reduced Inequalities Reduce inequality within and among countries 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and Embedding policies which promote diversity and Talent Attraction, Development & Retention political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, inclusion throughout own operations, and ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status encouraging suppliers and other business partners to do the same. 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of Ensuring non-discrimination across business Ethics & Compliance outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies operations including remuneration and bene ts, and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies product impact (for example the impact of product and action in this regard design on harmful gender stereotypes), and the inclusion of the supply chain 10.4 Adopt policies, especially scal, wage and social protection Paying at a minimum the living wage and providing Risk Management & Business Continuity policies, and progressively achieve greater equality insurance for employees, such as income protection, life or accident insurance and social security Responsible Consumption and Production Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and Performance Dashboard: 302-1, 302-4 Environmental Management Systems e cient use of natural resources 12.4: By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management Performance Dashboard: GRI 306-2 Environmental Management Systems of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in Innovation accordance with agreed international frameworks, and signi cantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through Performance Dashboard: GRI 306-2 Waste prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse Supply Chain Management End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse, & Recycling 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational Reporting economic, social and environmental Biodiversity companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability using a common international sustainability information into their reporting cycle reporting standard/framework Climate Action Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climateGRI Content Index; GRI 201-2 Climate Strategy, Energy & Emissions related hazards and natural disasters in all countries Risk Management & Business Continuity Innovation End-of-Life Reconditioning, Reuse & Recycling 0.98 Medical Case Rate 266 LEAP Participants 13,000+ Employees in 2018 Down 72 percent since 2007. Since 2014, 266 employees have participated Our people—principled, intelligent and in LEAP, our three-week leadership reliable—rea rm our reputation for integrity development program. every day with their every action. © Copyright 2019 Greif. All Rights Reserved.
