Communication on Progress Period 2018-2019 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Renell A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During this last period, Renell has evaluated the various environmental, social and ethical initiatives undertaken and we are very pleased with our progress and especially with optimising our performance in the above areas through our Nordic Swan licence. We are also more aware of the link to the UN sustainable Development Goals and are actively engaged with Goals 3, 4, 5, 8 and 12 In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations and with the UN sustainable development goals. Yours sincerely Simon Elleskov Director Renell’s goal is to advance sustainable development through our business practices and the solutions we develop. As such we aim provide a pleasant physical and psychological work environment with very good and safe work conditions for our employees. Achieving the above goal is good for business Healthy, non-stressed employees are not only more efficient but because of their near contact to customers, they are also better representatives for the company and can therefore strengthen customer and stakeholder relations. The result of our 2018 evaluation in conjunction with key staff attending local SDG seminars organised by the Employees association showed that there is room for improvement in the quality of education. We will therefore focus on SDG 4 for this next period Our employees are trained on working procedures that take into consideration safety, ergonomics and health. Furthermore, a yearly work environment evaluation acts as a guideline to improve both the physical and psychological well-being of our employees. Over 95% of our cleaning products are Nordic Swan certified products which prohibit harmful/hazardous substances Apart from the training which all new employees must undergo, employees are also educated periodically about work-related issues and informed about the company’s CSR work We are developing a new education course to support our existing start up program and the first sessions are expected to be held during the second part of 2019 This goal is our main focus The goal for 2020 is that 20% of all employees will have completed for this next period this education course. Achieving gender balance has been a part of our Code of Conduct and our general employment policy. Presently the ratio of Male/Female stands at 47% Male and 53% Female Decent work for our employees means that they receive proper payment, working conditions as required by law. We are working closely together with communities for the purpose of getting people off social benefits and on to permanent jobs. Over 60% of the unemployed people we have coming through our business end up with a permanent job. We are also cooperating with the local community to provide Danish language courses for refugees and thereby securing job qualifications. Sustainable consumption and production relate to our business practices of sourcing the products we use and the products or services we offer. We have a responsible Sourcing guide where the core essence is to source Eco-labelled products and services that are less harmful to the environment. We also offer cleaning and window services that are Nordic Swan certified to reduce environmental impacts in our daily operations. In order to achieve priorities above, Renell works with concrete policies and tools within the guidelines of the Global Compact 10 principles. Human Rights and Labour Relevant Global Compact principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policies and goals Our goal is to provide a pleasant workplace with good working conditions that address the physical and psychological needs of our employees Our human rights and labour policies support the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact. Furthermore, we support the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in ILOsInternational Labour Organisation core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. Renell will not engage in businesses with any stakeholders where human rights abuses occur. In the coming year, our aim is to continue to work with human rights and labour issues to ensure that all employees are treated fairly, with respect and according to the applicable laws covering our industry and to ensure that our influence on our surroundings is positively contributing to human rights support. Assessment, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through: The annual work The APV is both compulsory and a good tool that enables us to look at the work environment environment, the ergonomics and the psychological aspects associated to our evaluation (APV) daily operations. A group (AMU) was elected to work with APV issues. The group members received competence building courses regarding APV work and they meet quarterly to discuss complaints, possible improvements and so on The Nordic Ecolabel A part of the criteria in the Nordic Ecolabel concerns the rights of the workers certification process such as minimum wage assurance, third party insurance, training and education of employees. The Nordic Swan has become a very useful tool when assessing, implementing and measuring our performance regarding human rights, Labour, anti-corruption and environment. The regular internal The well being of our employees is a regular item on theses meetings and we meetings are constantly looking for ways to improve the working conditions in order to reduce the high rate of employee change which is very common in our line of business The use of an external We have a CSR consultant that we meet with a minimum of twice a year who CSR consultant both audits our Nordic Swan licence and challenges us in respect to goals, targets and implementation procedures Implementation All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms Initiatives and conditions including salary rates and overtime arrangements. All employees are furthermore issued with a company handbook and instruction manual which includes: o The company’s training and education programs o Information on the company such as the company’s philosophy, the company structure and what the company provides in terms of social activities and facilities such as bathing and massage option, provision of computer access, fruit and drinks o The company’s standard terms of employment such as salary, sickness leave, holidays etc. o The company’s policies, rules and expectations regarding ethical and social issues such as, smoking, alcohol and mobbing policies etc. o Work and machine instructions and education activities o Minimum wage policy for both Danish and foreign workers All employees are now able to train in a recently established fitness room in the cellar and Renell has organised free entrance to all employees who wish to swim at the local swimming hall. Renell organises various occasions where employees have the opportunity to get together, have fun and socialise. Renell supports the local community through sponsor programs such as “Børnevilkår”, cancer foundation, Denmark against injustice and a number of local sports clubs. Regarding gender equality, we are a member of a an industry organisation which requires that all employees receive equal payment regardless of gender. Renell prepares an action plan and implements the actions that are a result of the APV evaluation and of employee input. Measurement Renell has been nominated for the CSR people prize which is organised by a network of outcomes promoting social responsibility in businesses “Virksomhedsforum for socialt ansvar” Renell holds a cleaning services licence under the Nordic Swan Ecolabel scheme which is an ISO type I label and we are in the process of applying for a licence covering our window cleaning Renell has an excellent reputation both within the industry, with customers and the local society No complaints from employees regarding Human rights and working conditions Renell has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations A team of two employees have been appointed as CSR responsible and they work closely with the external consultants, management and other elected internal groups to ensure continuous improvement in human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Environment Relevant Global Compact principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies and goals Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures We have set specific goals regarding chemical use, transport, waste and sourcing of related products we use both in the cleaning and our offices. Renell’s environmental policy requires reduction of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Assessment, Implementation and Measurement of outcomes Assessment and Renell uses external consultants that work closely with the CSR team to assess our Implementation environmental impacts that include chemical use, transport, waste, sourcing and product use Priority actions for minimising impacts are planned and implemented after which and evaluation is conducted to determine the effectiveness and whether adjustments are needed After the suggested action have been formulated, the CSR team reports to the management for determining the priorities, approval and resource allocation Measurement Renell continues to hold a Nordic Ecolabel licence and complies with the criteria, of Outcomes which surpasses environmental laws and regulations The licence has now been extended to include our window cleaning service which means that all window activities are also compliant to the chemicals, transport, waste and product use environmental criteria We are using more that 95% Nordic Swan certified chemicals in our daily cleaning and we are using 0,63 ml/m2 and an average of 5,36 L/100 km. All paper products used at our facilities are now Nordic Swan/EU Ecolabel certified and we are working with our customers to replace conventional paper products we dispense to them with 100% Certified. All printing of information and marketing materials is also done at a Nordic certified printer Using Goods and services that are Nordic Swan certified is an assurance that we are ethically compliant to National legislation, using the best available products in terms of minimal environmental impact and better for health . Anti-Corruption Relevant Global Compact principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policies and goals Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited. Business partners must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Renell’s anti-bribery policy requirements. Business partners must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. The policy shall be effectively communicated to all workers. Gifts are only acceptable if they are approved by Renell’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Otherwise, it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts. Facilitation payments are not allowed. It is not allowed to select a supplier based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment. It is not allowed to make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Renell management and made in good faith. . Assessment The managing director is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or Implementation and bribery issues. Measurement of outcomes All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded As licence holders of for the Nordic Ecolabel, we follow and comply with ethical criteria built into the scheme regarding compliance with laws such as compliance with all applicable laws. Renell has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery External accountants used by Renell have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery
