1 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD thaiunion.com 2018seachangesustainability.org SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD CONTENTS About This Report 4 CEO Message 6 Business Overview 8 Sustainability at Thai Union 11 Our Material Issues and Stakeholder 15 Engagement 2018 in Brief 22 Safe and Legal Labor 23 Responsible Sourcing 25 Responsible Operations 30 People and Communities 36 Performance Summary 40 GRI Content Index and UNGC COP 46 Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Statement 52 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT for an online audience. Further, we rely upon our SeaChange® website (seachangesustainability.org) to deliver the most up-to-date information about Thai Union’s sustainability program. This report was prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Report. This is the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core sixth annual sustainability report Option and its Food Processing Sector Supplement we have made publicly available. This report (FPSS). In keeping with the intent of the GRI details our annual performance (JanuaryGuidelines, we have focused on the GRI Standards, December 2018) with key performance indicators as described below. This report has been assured and targets outlined in our sustainability strategy, by Lloyd’s Register at a limited level. The scope of SeaChange®. To make our report more sustainable this report covers companies under Thai Union Group and accessible for readers, we have transitioned and subsidiaries with holding above 50 percent and to a digital-exclusive approach, with the report companies under Thai Union operational control. designed and tailored in a PDF format specifically 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 5 PRINCIPLES FOR DEFINING •• We value the opinion of our stakeholders, REPORT CONTENT including employees, local communities and interest groups, non-governmental organizaDetermining the content of this report began by tions, customers, suppliers and contractors. understanding the impacts of our value chain In preparing our report, we listen and respond on different stakeholders, including suppliers, to stakeholder feedback to help ensure the customers, governments, local communities and information we report is balanced and reliable. civil society. Next, we engaged external experts and our global leadership team for their insights. •• We are moving toward more efficient and The report addresses items of significant interest effective operations with minimum adverse to stakeholders important to Thai Union’s business social and environmental impacts along the strategy. entire value chain. In conducting the analysis of internal and external •• We have developed ongoing reporting on key environments, we abided by the GRI Standards: topics throughout the year, including our Tuna sustainability context, materiality, completeness Commitment Progress Report, our first Safe and stakeholder inclusiveness. To find out more and Legal Labor update, an annual progress about our materiality assessments, see our report on our European partnership with materiality issues section on page 15. WWF, and a progress update on our landmark agreement with Greenpeace. DEFINING REPORTING QUALITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The GRI Standards define reporting quality through a set of quality aspects: balance, comparability, As a participant in the United Nations (UN) accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. Global Compact, this report also serves as our annual Communication on Progress (COP) to We have taken numerous actions to meet these: stakeholders. The COP reports our progress in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global •• We continue to improve the quality of informaCompact within our sphere of influence as well tion in our sustainability reports and we publish as our progress in supporting the environmental them in a timely manner, so our stakeholders and social responsibilities of the broader UN can effectively integrate the information in their Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). decision making. The report’s content has been reviewed and approved by the leadership of relevant business units at Thai Union and our Sustainability Committee. There has been no significant change in the materiality reported compared to the previous year. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 6 CEO MESSAGE Sustainability is a never-ending challenge. In the seafood industry those challenges can be vast in their scope. From the health of the oceans on which our business depends, to other environmental issues, worker safety, and building better communities. But with every challenge comes opportunity, and Thai Union works tirelessly to be at the forefront of positive change. commitments and measures we take are ensuring As a global seafood industry leader, we embrace we fulfil our vision to be the world’s most trusted these challenges. Sustainability is at the heart of seafood leader. our business strategy and we are driving meaningful improvements across the entire industry. I am very proud of our continued progress in 2018. Thai Union was ranked number one globally in the With consumers increasingly conscious of where Food Products Industry Index of the Dow Jones and how their food is sourced, it is our responsiSustainability Index (DJSI). This is the fifth conbility to ensure that fish stocks remain sustainable, secutive year that we have been listed in the DJSI, that our oceans are healthy, and that workers one of the oldest and most respected sustainability across our entire supply chain are safely and indices, and I am very proud of our continued legally employed. progress. Our SeaChange® strategy helped drive our score with industry best-in-class 100th Through our actions, Thai Union is setting new percentile ranking for total sustainability score. We benchmarks for others to follow. As we constantly also achieved best-in-class 100th percentile ranksearch for solutions to the industry’s challenges, ings for Codes of Business Conduct, Materiality, we continue to focus on four key programs through Health and Nutrition, Human Rights, Supply Chain our sustainability strategy, SeaChange®: Management, Risk and Crisis Management, Packaging, Water-Related Risks, Genetically-Modified • Safe and Legal Labor Organisms, and Talent Attraction and Retention. • Responsible Sourcing • Responsible Operations A major initiative last year was Thai Union’s • People and Communities decision to join forces with the Global Ghost Gear Initiative (GGGI), working together to reduce I take great pride in the leadership Thai Union the increasing problem of abandoned, lost and continues to take in sustainability. In our 2018 discarded fishing gear (ALDFG) worldwide, in line Sustainability Report, we demonstrate how our with our commitment to combat marine plastic 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 7 pollution. As such fishing gear is estimated to These are just some examples of the success make up to 70 percent by weight of macro plastics Thai Union achieved in sustainability last year. in the ocean, this represents a decision to work on Of course, we do not rest on our laurels, and our what is most material to our industry as well as on team continues to focus on ensuring Thai Union a global issue. remains a leader in driving meaningful change. As part of our 2017 landmark agreement with Pursuing such change is not only positive for the Greenpeace, Thai Union also made substantial, entire industry, but allows Thai Union to deliver positive progress last year on our commitment to against three of the United Nations Sustainable implement measures to tackle illegal fishing and Development Goals (SDGs) we have identified overfishing, while also improving the livelihoods where we can have the biggest impact: zero hunger, of hundreds of thousands of workers across decent work and economic growth, and life below our supply chains. We reported publicly on our water, as well as the broader set of goals. progress in 2018. As a participant in the United Nations Global We also released our first annual Tuna CommitCompact (UNGC), this report also serves as Thai ment Progress Report, providing a public update Union’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) on our ambitious strategy to ensure 100 percent to stakeholders. The COP reports our progress of our branded tuna is sustainably sourced, with in implementing the Ten Principles of the UNGC a target of achieving a minimum of 75 percent within Thai Union’s sphere of influence. by 2020, as well as our first Safe and Legal Labor update. I encourage you to read this report and see how the Thai Union team is working hard to bring Our sustainability efforts last year did not go positive change to the seafood industry. unnoticed. Our Global Director of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Dr. Darian McBain, was named Sustainability Leader of the Year at the prestigious edie Sustainability Leaders Awards 2018. Dr. McBain also received the Business Leader of the Year Award at the Ethical Corporation’s 8th Annual Responsible Business Awards for sustainability leadership. I am also very proud that we were Highly Commended in the Thomson Reuters Foundation Stop Slavery Awards. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 8 BUSINESS OVERVIEW THAI UNION’S SIX CORE VALUES PASSIONATE RESPONSIBLE HUMBLE COLLABORATIVE RESPECTFUL INNOVATIVE OUR MISSION To be the seafood industry’s leading agent of change, making a real positive difference to Thai Union is a global seafood leader bringing our consumers, our customers and the way the high quality, healthy, tasty and innovative seafood category is managed. products to customers across the world for more than 40 years. We are the world’s largest producer of shelf-stable tuna products with annual sales COMPANY PORTFOLIO exceeding US $4.1 billion and a global workforce of over 47,000 people dedicated to pioneering Thai Union portfolio brands include global market sustainable, innovative seafood products. leaders Chicken of the Sea, John West, Petit Navire, Parmentier, Mareblu, King Oscar, and Thai Union is proud to be have been rated number Rügen Fisch, along with Thai-leading brands one in the world in the food products industry in SEALECT, Fisho, Qfresh, Monori, Bellotta and the 2018 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). Marvo. Learn more in our 2018 Corporate Annual SeaChange®, the company’s sustainability Report, including consolidated financial statestrategy, successfully drove the score with an ments. View our maps detailing our operations and industry best-in-class 100th percentile ranking for footprint on the SeaChange® website. total sustainability score. OUR VISION To be the world’s most trusted seafood leader, caring for our resources to nurture generations to come. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD THAI UNION 9 SEAFOOD SOURCING LOCATIONS 67 61 TUNA 31 34 77 71 87 41 47 51 57 81 81 *FAO AREA 18 27 61 67 SARDINE AND MACKEREL 61 21 FISHERY SALMON 34 AQUACULTURE 71 57 87 *FAO AREA 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD THAI UNION 10 SEAFOOD SOURCING LOCATIONS 27 SHRIMP AMERICAN LOBSTER 21 • Gulf of Maine, U.S. JUMBO FLYING • Gulf of St. Lawrence, SQUID Canada • Prince Edward Island, Canada QUEEN SCALLOPS 87 *FAO AREA SNOW CRAB WARTY/RED SWIMMING CRAB NAUTILUS CRAB SHETLAND/ 71 BROWN CRAB BLUE SWIMMING CRAB • Nova Scotia, Canada • Newfoundland, Canada • Gulf of St. Lawrence, Canada *FAO AREA To improve transparency, Thai Union has produced a Transparency Report for our European operations, including all species sourced and locations. This is in line with the Ocean Disclosure Project. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 11 SUSTAINABILITY AT THAI UNION Sustainable development is essential to the future CHANGING SEAFOOD of Thai Union’s business and our growth; it is fundamental to being a responsible corporate FOR GOOD citizen and it is how we will achieve our vision of We think of SeaChange® as a journey that covers being the world’s most trusted seafood leader. every aspect of the seafood business: from how we look after the oceans to how we manage As a global seafood leader, we have a responsiour waste; from the responsibility we take for bility to set the standard for social, environmental our workers to building brighter futures for the and economic performance across our operations communities around our key sites. and into our supply chains. Recognizing this responsibility to show leadership, we heeded the The backbone of our sustainability strategy is the calls of our stakeholders with SeaChange®, ability to fully trace our seafood—from catch to Thai Union’s sustainability strategy with measconsumption. With full traceability in place, we urable commitments to delivering real, lasting will be able to identify, investigate and improve changes in the way we operate. SeaChange® aims performance on key issues such as labor and to drive a positive transformation throughout the responsible sourcing. global seafood industry. ©ISSF (2014) ©ISSF (2014) Photo by David Itano 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 12 OUR OVERARCHING OBJECTIVES Sustainable seas, Workers are safe, Legal and licenced now and for future legally employed vessels, operating generations and empowered responsibly OUR PROGRAMS SAFE AND LEGAL LABOR RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Providing safe, legal and freely-chosen employTraceability is the key to improving ment in our own facilities and in supply chains is the transparency and operational practices of critically important to Thai Union. the entire seafood supply chain. Fair Labor Goals and Roadmap Responsible Sourcing Goals and Roadmap RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES The way we operate must be environmentally At Thai Union we take responsibility for improving responsible and show a duty of care for the lives of those living and working in the regions in our workers. which we operate. Responsible Operations Goals and Roadmap People and Communities Goals and Roadmap SeaChange® is an integrated plan of initiatives, organized into four programs, to drive meaningful improvements across the entire global seafood industry. OUR OPERATING PRINCIPLES Good Partnerships Governance Transparency and Collaboration Robust leadership, policies and We will remain transparent in We have and will continue to processes ensure our business all communications with actively seek out NGOs, is focused on delivering our stakeholders, customers and governments and industry partners sustainability objectives and the industry, sharing our learnings to work with us on initiatives is ethical across all our operations. and providing regular updates on designed to deliver against our our progress. overarching objectives. We will continue to share our findings so the entire industry can benefit from our experience and findings. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 13 and production from the farm to the processor. The information will be secure, visible to all participants, and aids transparency and traceability, enhancing confidence. Working with partners, Thai Union has focused on initiatives which incentivize data sharing and ensure accurate reporting. The technology will facilitate marketbased pricing of data and create a user-pay, whole-chain traceability system which enables accurate, transparent reporting, providing direct incentives to meet sustainability standards. The need to combat hunger and produce seafood ethically is ongoing. Technology advances mean we have many more tools at our disposal to ensure SUSTAINABILITY all our food is produced sustainably and that we COMMITTEE are continuously working to maintain fish stocks for generations to come. The Sustainability Committee meets twice per year and is chaired by the Global Director of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability. It brings together team UN SUSTAINABLE  members across functions and locations throughout the world. The Global Director of Corporate DEVELOPMENT GOALS Affairs and Sustainability also sits on the Global AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT Leadership Team and the Risk Management Committee to ensure there is a direct link between While this work is designed to have a positive sustainability and the Board. impact on the seafood industry, the milestones we achieve under our programs will also deliver against the United Nations (UN) Sustainable TECHNOLOGY FOR SOCIAL Development Goals (SDGs) and is guided by our INNOVATION commitment to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Technology is a key enabler to producing In line with SeaChange®, Thai Union is focused on sustainable seafood, which, in many regions is the delivering across all the SDGs but is focused on most readily-available source of protein. Often, the three contributing to broad societal change. technology isn’t new, such as providing workers onboard fishing vessels with adequate connectivity to contact shore regularly. However, there are also revolutionary innovations being made. Blockchain and cryptocurrencies are two of the most exciting recent tech advances, with applications in combating hunger and ensuring ethical seafood. In particular, Thai Union is trialing the use of blockchain to input key data elements relating to catch 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 14 Thai Union is a member of the UNGC and has worked to implement the commitments in its Ten Principles since 2013. Human Rights Human Rights Environment Enviro Thai Union will support and respect the Union will Thai Union Thai will support supportand respect the a precautionary Thai Unio protection of internationally proclaimed protectionto approach ofenvironmental proclaimed internationallychallenges; 7 approac 1 human rights; and 1 human rights; and Make sure that Undertake they are initiatives not to promote Undertak 82 Make sure that they are not 2 complicit in human rights abuses. complicit greater in human rights environmental abuses. responsibility; and greater e Encourag Labor Standards Labor Standards Encourage the development friendly technologies. 9 Thai Union will uphold the freedom Thai Union will uphold the freedom recognition of the right recognition of the right 3 Anti-Corruption to collective bargaining; 3 Anti-C to collective bargaining; The elimination of all forms of forced and The elimination Thai of allagainst Union will work forced and forms ofcorruption in all Thai Unio compulsory its labor; extortion and bribery. forms, including 104 its forms compulsory labor; 4 labor; and 5 labor; and 5 The elimination of discrimination in The elimination of discrimination in 6 6 respect of employment and occupation. respect of employment and occupation. The launch of the UN Global Compact Network Thailand, December 2018. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD OUR MATERIAL 15 ISSUES AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT monitors the materiality of issues and the impact they have on our internal risk profile. These risks are presented quarterly to the Risk Management Committee, and action is taken as required. EMERGENT MATERIAL ISSUES Stakeholder concern regarding oceans plastic increased and became a significant material issue. As a user of primarily recyclable packaging, in In 2018, we continued to address our most the form of steel and aluminum cans and paper material issues through SeaChange®. We outer cardboard, we assessed that our greatest continued to conduct face-to-face meetings with our key stakeholders, including governments, customers, consumers, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and civil society, as well as staff and research institutions, to constantly assess and address our material issues and those of most concern to our stakeholders. MATERIALITY IN RISK ASSESSMENT One way we assess our materiality is through our risk management procedure. Through reviewing activities and partnerships, assessing forthcoming legislation and the implementation of regulations, customer preference and feedback, as well as A delegation from the European Union visits Thai Union media profile and risk, Thai Union continuously Manufacturing in 2018. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 16 impact beyond our packing commitment is through (GGGI) to actively promote solutions for reducing supporting work to reduce marine litter and abanthis waste. doned, lost and discarded fishing gear (ALDFG). You can see an assessment of our progress in Every year around 8 million tons of plastic enter 2018 here. into the ocean, mostly urban waste, particularly plastic litter and microplastics. ALDFG makes up MATERIALITY MATRIX to 70 percent by weight of macro plastics in the ocean. It washes up on beaches, tangles on coral All of Thai Union’s key materiality issues remained reefs, threatens navigation and ensnares marine life. the same for 2018. However, sub-issues became It has obvious impacts on global food security and more prominent. For example, under the category the seafood supply chain, as well as an impact on of Human Rights and Ethical Labor Practices, the the livelihoods of coastal communities. In this issue of ethical recruitment became more salient. way, the issue of ocean plastic and marine litter Thai Union has worked on ethical recruitment for impacts all three of the SDGs we have chosen to numerous years, and in 2018 we strengthened focus on and is therefore a material issue not only our efforts both locally and at an international to our stakeholders but also to Thai Union. So, in level. For our Ethical Migrant Recruitment Policy, 2018, we joined the Global Ghost Gear Initiative we opted to have an independent review funded Materiality Matrix Ocean Human Rights and Plastic Ethical Labor Practices IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Climate Change and Environmental Protection Responsible Sourcing Transparency and Governance Communities Long-Term Innovation and Product Commitments Responsibility (Quality, Food Safety) Human Capital Development IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS SUCCESS 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 17 by Humanity United and Freedom Fund to share Act and Advance (AAA) Recommendations as a our experiences and lessons learned to help pathway for action to achieve Target 8.7 of the develop a business case for ethical recruitment. UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Thai Union also continued to support the eliminate transnational crimes currently afflicting Bali Process Business and Government Forum, people throughout the Indo-Pacific region. including an endorsement of its Acknowledge, It is time we all demand liberty, equality and security for everyone, so that no one is sentenced to an existence of oppression, servitude or other exploitation. The poor—the most vulnerable among us—cannot afford to subsidize the lives of the rich at the expense of their basic human rights. It is incumbent upon all of us, particularly the governments and businesses involved in the Bali Process, to lead in this fight. We do this, in part, through genuine political will, multi-party collaboration, and resolute, uncompromising determination. If we work together, we can create the future we all envision, for every man, woman and child; a future where no one profits off another’s misery; and a future where no one is suppressed by the scourge of slavery. – Dr. Darian McBain, Thai Union Global Director of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Attendees at the 7th Bali Process Business and Government Forum. Photo by Caitlin Di Stefano, Minderoo Foundation 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 18 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Thai Union regularly engages with our key stakeholders, allowing us to understand and prioritize our sustainability risks and define appropriate responses to emerging corporate challenges. Given our global scale of operations, our material issues and impacts are complex and transcontinental. Thai Union carried out a materiality assessment, which analyzed our worldwide operations, to identify and prioritize the most important issues to our stakeholders and the business as a whole—our material issues—including those related to environmental, social and governance risks. Building on the stakeholder feedback from the December 2015 materiality assessment, we developed our SeaChange® sustainability strategy, which launched in 2016. In 2019, we will conduct Thai Union’s Human rights manager, Prad Kerdpairoj (far right), a structured stakeholder engagement process to participates in the Humans of Seafood public seminar in June 2018 in Thailand. review and input on our 2025 SeaChange® goals. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 19 FEEDBACK FROM THAI UNION’S STAKEHOLDERS OUR STAKEHOLDERS ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES • Improvement of business • Transparency and governance performance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, • Good governance tax policy and reporting) • Transparency of information • Investor Relations Communications INVESTORS team, quarterly face–to-face investor updates with a sustainability briefing • Social and environmental • Climate change and environmental responsibilities protection • Fair trade • Responsible sourcing (traceability, • Consistency expectation viability) SUPPLIERS • Increasing orders • Code of Conduct • Supplier audits and capacity building • Product quality (health and • Innovation and product responsibility nutrition) (quality food safety) • Food safety • Increased customer communication • Service quality and face-to-face meetings on • Competitive price sustainability held globally • Offering more sustainable alternatives to meet customer demands CUSTOMERS • Social and environmental • Responsible sourcing responsibilities • Climate change and environmental • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, protection dolphin safe, ASC, BAP, carbon • Updates on Safe and Legal Labor, footprint of products) our Tuna Commitment, our Greenpeace agreement and our European partnership with WWF 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 20 OUR STAKEHOLDERS ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES • Eco-labelling • Innovation and product responsibility • Competitive price (quality, food safety) • Food safety • Product quality (health and nutrition) END-CONSUMERS • Social and environmental • Responsible sourcing responsibilities • Can trackers and traceability data • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, as well as product information dolphin safe, ASC, BAP, carbon footprint of products) • Fair compensation and • Human rights and fair labor benefits practices • Fair labor practices • Human capital development EMPLOYEES • Safety and wellness • Management program • Career development and • Global program of harmonization opportunity of work standards • Career security • Brand ambassador program and • Work-life balance Thai Union Global rollout • Fair compensation and • Human rights and fair labor practices DAILY/ MIGRANT benefits • Human capital development WORKERS • Fair labor practices • Safety and wellness • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax COMMUNITIES policy and reporting) • Social and environmental • Nutritional information responsibilities • Communities • Partnership in community development • Socioeconomic development • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance • Participation in government (anti-corruption, data disclosure, GOVERNMENT programs tax policy and reporting) 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 21 OUR STAKEHOLDERS ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES • Social and environmental • Climate change and responsibilities environmental protection • Marine conservation • Communities • Participation in social and • WWF partnership report, NGOS environmental programs Greenpeace agreement update • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • TUE transparency report • Regulatory compliance • Transparency and governance • Transparency of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS • Social and environmental • Joint workshops such as with the ILO responsibilities • Communities • Participation in social and environmental programs • Social and environmental • Climate change and environmental responsibilities protection ACADEMIA • Marine conservation • Communities • Participation in social and • Collaboration with Stockholm environmental programs Resilience Center through Seabos. • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance • Timeliness of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, MEDIA tax policy and reporting) • Engagement on material issues 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 22 2018 IN BRIEF We have embraced our role as a leader for positive change as one of the largest seafood companies in the world. This means putting sustainability at the heart of our business with our 1 No. 1 Company in SeaChange® sustainability strategy. We worked every day in 2018 to ensure the company values World in Food we embrace are being translated into real and demonstrable change for good, and it is an honor Products Industry to be recognized as sustainable development by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index leaders. Here are some of the year’s highlights. (DJSI)—SeaChange® paved the way with a best-in-class 100th percentile ranking for total sustainability score Edie Sustainability Leader of the Year and Ethical Corporation Business Leader of the Year Received Thomson Reuters Foundation’s Stop Along with our Chicken of the Sea brand and Slavery Award Monterey Bay Aquarium, launched Honorable Mention SeaChange®IGNITE to advance new sustainability initiatives and improvements throughout our supply chain Addressed Joined the world leaders Global Ghost on combating modern slavery at UN General Assembly Gear Initiative to help combat marine plastics 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 23 SAFE AND LEGAL LABOR Providing safe, legal and freely-chosen employlearn about our supplier engagement with our ment in our own facilities and in supply chains codes, see here. is critically important to Thai Union. While we have significant programs in place for our own In 2018, we created a specific Supplier Business employees, we are also partnering with specialist Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct to focus in organizations and NGOs to ensure that those more detail on supplier requirements, particularly working in the wider industry are protected. with respect to ethical recruitment. Thai Union owns no vessels, but we are using Thai Union supports safe and legal migration, our market position to improve labor conditions as it provides a good opportunity for workers to throughout the seafood supply chain. We know access a better income than available in their that full traceability of all our seafood products, home countries. In 2018, we worked with partners from catch to consumption, will help accurately to assess the efficiency and efficacy of the Ethical identify gaps in safe and legal labor and, critically, Migrant Recruitment Policy. An ethical migrant give workers a voice. recruitment policy review was undertaken in 2018 and key findings will be shared in 2019. The Ethical We are committed to this work and to helping Migrant Recruitment Policy Review Report will the industry deliver against the UN SDG 8 aim to be shared widely so that the broader community provide decent work and economic growth for working on ethical recruitment can learn from our communities and individuals throughout the world. experiences. Since implementation in 2016, 9,407 migrant workers have been brought into Thailand Thai Union continues to adhere to our revised under this policy to work with Thai Union. Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, which was released in 2015 to promote a higher level To strengthen our existing programs on gender of accountability and transparency throughout and diversity, in 2018 Thai Union published our our supply chain. Thai Union published our first Diversity Policy. And we maintained our support Vessel Code of Conduct in December 2017, which is applicable to vessels from which Thai Union sources around the world. Guidance for specific fleets was developed in 2018. The program started rollout in 2018, in accordance with an agreement reached between Thai Union and Greenpeace. Learn more about our codes of conduct here. To Thai Union presents on its Worker Welfare Committee at a Seafood Taskforce meeting in Bangkok with Committee representatives from Thailand and Myanmar. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 24 for freedom of association as per our commitment to the UN Global Compact. For example, we continued to develop worker welfare committees at our factories and supported the Fishers’ Rights Network establishment in Thailand. Further, in 2018, we released a Safe and Legal Labor Update Report, outlining our progress on this important pillar of SeaChange®. To find our more about our approach to human capital development, see here. Thai Union is determined to promote safe and legal labor practices in the global seafood industry. We have strengthened Thai Union Makes Positive Progress on Agreement with Greenpeace for More enforcement of our Business Sustainable, Socially-Responsible Seafood Ethics and Labor Code of Thai Union announced in June 2018 that we Conduct for both our own made substantial, positive progress on our facilities and direct suppliers commitment to implement measures that tackle illegal fishing and overfishing, as well as improve though regular audits, supplier the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of training, and the launch of workers throughout its supply chains, as outlined in our landmark agreement with Greenpeace. our Vessel Code of Conduct— and we have continued to The agreement between Thai Union and implement our Ethical Migrant Greenpeace was originally announced in July 2017. Thai Union committed to build upon our Recruitment Policy. SeaChange® sustainability strategy, including efforts to support best practice fisheries, improve other fisheries, reduce illegal and unethical — Vorarat Lertanantrakool, practices in its global supply chains, and bring Thai Union’s Director of more responsibly-caught tuna to key markets. Human Resources Additionally, Thai Union and Greenpeace will continue to maintain an ongoing dialogue on how both organizations can coordinate to address the sustainability of the ocean and marine life, as well as protect human rights. In 2019, an independent third party will review and publicly report on progress-to-date on the commitments. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 25 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING The seafood industry is complex, whether looking at wild-caught or aquaculture fisheries. Given the complexities of the seafood industry, we recognize the importance of proactively addressing both emerging and ongoing issues in our dynamic business environment. Supply chain management, part of the Responsible Sourcing program within SeaChange®—is vital to the effective and successA participant in a health and safety training workshop co-hosted by ful management of our business. Thai Union and the International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF) receives a safety kit with basic first aid supplies. Traceability is the key to improving the transparency and operational practices of the entire seafood industry. With traceability in place, we boat owners and fishers on health and safety at can track every product from catch to consumpsea. Similar to most sectors, the seafood industry tion—and we can ensure our suppliers abide by has inherent risks that Thai Union actively works to the same sustainability commitments as Thai mitigate. These risks include: Union. Without full traceability of our supply chain, we cannot begin to understand its risks. •• Illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) As such, we refer to traceability as the backbone fishing, a legal compliance risk. of SeaChange®. •• Labor and human rights violations, a social risk. Our Responsible Sourcing program focuses not only on traceability, but also engagement. We •• Fish population depletion, an environmental risk. view our suppliers as partners, and we support and encourage them to meet our high standards Our supply chain management approach primarily our customers and other stakeholders expect. focuses on the sourcing of raw fishery and This includes training for 204 individuals from aquaculture materials as these processes have 125 suppliers of food ingredients, packaging and the highest potential to carry risk. But we also logistics on our Business Ethics and Labor Code recognize the need to manage our supply chains of Conduct, as well as training for 300 captains, for a range of other categories—from packaging to 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 26 non-seafood ingredients to logistics. Learn more •• Announced our partnership with the Global about supplying to Thai Union. Ghost Gear Initiative (GGGI) to develop our approach on abandoned, lost and discarded Thai Union continued to work with our partners fishing gear (ALDFG); to deepen our understanding and approach to responsible sourcing. In 2018, we: •• And announced a partnership at the Our Oceans Conferences with Monterey Bay •• Completed our four-year partnership with Aquarium and the Carnegie Endowment for WWF International Peace on SeaChange® IGNITE. Tuna sourced from ISSF PVR vessels 100% 79% 92% 95% 2018 2018 2017 2016 Percentage of PVR Percentage of PVR Percentage of PVR Percentage of PVR listed large scale listed vessels for all listed vessels for listed vessels for all purse seine vessels fishing gear types all fishing gear types fishing gear types *Decrease from 2017 to 2018 is due to larger purchase volume in 2018 from vessels not PVR listed, primarily pole and line. Global Fishery responsible sourcing performance 2018 90% 62% 19% 9.5% Share of tuna soured Share of non-tuna sourced Share of tuna sourced Share of from MSC fishery or FIP from MSC fishery or FIP from MSC fishery or pole-and-line tuna for Thai Union markets FIP globally in Europe Note: Entire TU purchases in the year 2018. Non-tuna species include crab, wild salmon, sardines, mackerel, lobster, Pollock, sole, herring and cod. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 27 Share of shrimp raw materials sourced from internationally certified farms Internationally Certified Others Thai Union Frozen Thai Union Seafood Okeanos Food Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods 82% 79% 69% 18% 21% 31% of total shrimp of total shrimp of total shrimp procurement procurement procurement volume volume volume DIGITAL TRACEABILITY Share of internationally certified Digital traceability continues to be an important part farmed salmon sales revenue of our supply chain management. Our custom-built traceability system, Trax, provides us with digital Thai Union Europe Chilled data management tools to not only run our global operations efficiently, but also to facilitate the functionality of can trackers, which are found on our brands’ products around the world. In recent years, Other Trax has been expanded to cover more of our facilities and supply chains. 72.5% The Trax digital mapping system provides better visibility into our supply chain, which helps us conduct an effective risk analysis. For our wild-caught species, we also started conducting thorough stock 3.4% 5.8% 18.3% and market analysis on a monthly basis, enabling us to more accurately forecast fish availability. The analysis takes into consideration a number of conditions, including stock status, fishery regulations and closure periods, climatic conditions, ocean currents and more. In 2018, we continued to support the Global Dialogue on Seafood Traceability (GDST) to develop key data elements and interoperability for the seafood industry. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 28 MAKING PROGRESS ON OUR In conjunction with other major regional actors, TUNA COMMITMENT such as fleets, processors, governments and nongovernmental organizations, we have successfully launched five large-scale tuna fishery improvement At Thai Union, we have committed to source 100 projects (FIPs) worldwide. percent of our branded tuna from fisheries that are either Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) In addition to Thai Union’s tuna FIPs, we have certified or engaged in FIPs to move them toward also engaged in FIPs targeting species such as MSC certification. Thai Union has fully embraced mackerel and sardine. Presently, Thai Union is an MSC certification, now globally recognized as the active partner in a sardine FIP in Morocco; the most robust sustainability standard for sustainable FIP has been running for over three years and the fisheries. We use MSC principles as a standardized fishery will potentially receive MSC certification tool to measure the sustainability performance of assessment in 2019. the various fisheries from which we source. Learn more about our Tuna Commitment. We will achieve our Tuna Commitment by initiating 11 tuna Fishery Improvement Projects (FIPs) across a wide range of geographies. Once launched, each of our FIPs is listed on fisheryprogress.org, which serves as an independent validation of progress and will provide our stakeholders with information. Today, more than ever, Thai Union has fully embraced our role at the forefront of driving positive change. We invest substantially with an aim to transform tuna sourcing for the entire industry and demonstrate our strong commitment to the sustainability of our oceans. We are proud of the progress we have made on our commitment to source 100 percent sustainable tuna and look forward to continuing our work with civil society, business and governments to support sustainable fishing practices. – Kevin Bixler, Thai Union Group Director of Fish Procurement Photo by Fabien Forget 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 29 fishing vessels in our supply chain and aim to FISHING VESSEL engage suppliers on a journey to improve the IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM seafood sector. AND VESSEL CODE OF Thai Union’s existing and new suppliers are CONDUCT required to sign the VCoC in order to conduct business with the company, ensuring the VCoC is applicable to all fishing vessels in our supply chain. Thai Union started to implement our Fishing Furthermore, the VCoC includes a commitment by Vessel Improvement Program and Vessel Code suppliers to develop a Vessel Improvement Proof Conduct (VCoC) to provide clear guidance to gram (VIP) to meet the clauses and address any the fishing vessels from which we source as well non-compliance issues identified to be of a major as improve labor and ethical performance in the or critical concern. This provides suppliers with fishing industry. The VCoC is an extension of the the ability to increase transparency, demonstrate Thai Union Business Labor and Ethics Code of accountability as well as to remedy any issues. Conduct, which is built on 12 fundamental principles designed to reinforce a culture of integrity and In one instance, with the support of several of our is aligned with the United Nations Global Compact customers, in 2018 we published results from our principles of basic responsibilities to people and first industry collaborative third-party audit, conupholding their basic rights. ducted by global safety consulting and certification company UL, on some Thai commercial fishing The Fishing Vessel Improvement Program and vessels supplying the company’s business. The VCoC help shape company expectations relating third-party audit was conducted in line with our to labor and the ethical conditions on board the SeaChange® sustainability strategy. Photo By Fabien Forget 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 30 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Thai Union has many initiatives in place to help We have initiatives in place that contribute to water ensure we operate responsibly and manage some reduction, energy consumption, waste to landfill of our most material issues. In line with the UN reduction, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and Sustainability Goals, we also focused on responsible accident reduction. We want everyone who works production and consumption. for Thai Union to play an active role in delivering our environmental and safety goals—we see safety Global environmental risks such as climate change, and environmental protection as everyone’s resource consumption and waste management business. We also strive to make advances in our have an increasingly negative impact on our occupational health and safety policies, continually oceans which in turn threatens marine species on strengthening our safety standards, procedures which we depend. The way we operate has to be and processes. To see details about Thai Union’s environmentally responsible and also show a duty environmental performance see here. of care for our workers in how we operate. Committee structure CEO involvement Assess GHG for BOD Support Topic Scope 1, Scope 2 Champions Incentives and Scope 3 for success Ensure GHG Accountability Accounting DJSI and CDP Estabish disclosure corporate GHG reduction goal Engage with industry peers Engage Vision and Create alignment and Mission GHG with corporate Engage with Reduction goal by policy makers Disclose Statement establishing BU and product Engage with specific GHG academic reduction goals institutions Opportunities Risk Mitigation Thoroughly identify Focus on low-carbon climate change risks product innovation to company operations and create mitigation plans 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 31 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND SAFETY Thai Union has established emissions mitigation In recent years, we have prioritized the developprograms in various countries as we recognize ment of Thai Union’s Environmental, Occupational the serious impact of greenhouse gases (GHG) Health and Safety (EHS) Management System. By on climate change and global warming, especially implementing our EHS protocols across all Thai to marine and coastal biological diversity. Thai Union workplaces, we ensure that each facility Union supports the Paris Agreement’s global goal operates to the same minimum EHS requirements. to reduce GHG emissions, which was established We systematically integrate EHS and energy conat the 21st Conference of the Parties of the version considerations into our business processes United Nations Framework Convention on Climate to build a safe workplace and mitigate injury Change. We are also targeting a reduction in GHG and fatality risks. For more details about how emissions by at least 30 percent of our 2016 we address our water, energy and waste targets, base year levels by 2020. With these efforts, Thai see here. Union is moving toward becoming a low-carbon organization and reducing the impact of GHG on the environment and society. Thai Union has many initiatives in place to ensure we operate responsibly. We also strive to make advances in our occupational health and safety policies, continually strengthening our safety standards, procedures and processes. We see safety and environmental protection as everyone’s business. — Comgrit Sorchom, Thai Union’s Group Director of Environmental, Health and Safety 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 32 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING Packaging is an important component of any product research, we ensure a continuous pipeline of and contributes significantly to a company’s improvements, which will help achieve Thai Union’s overall environmental impact. By developing and goals for carbon footprint reduction and implementing sustainable packaging initiatives, environmentally-friendly packaging. In 2018 our environmental footprint is reduced. By we announced our packaging goal. exploring sustainable packaging in our innovation Spend by category: Packaging – Primary 94% of Primary Packaging 1% 0% 0% 1% 1% 3% 6% 88% Can & Lid Pouch Cup Tray & Plastic & Other Glass Jar Tub & Lid Total Cover Polybag Containers & Lids 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 33 PRIMARY PLASTIC PACKAGING SECONDARY PLASTIC PACKAGING Total primary plastic packaging Total secondary plastic packaging 3% 3% 6% 11% 2% 3% PP 7% PE Mix LDPE PS Mix 13% 43% 50% PVC PVC LDPE 31% PP Others Others 28% PLASTIC CONSUMPTION VOLUME BY PLASTIC Mostly Primary Plastic Packaging Mostly Secondary Plastic Packaging PACKAGING TYPE 70% of Total Plastic Packaging 13% 14% 17% 6% 4% 3% 4% 100% 18% 21% Shrink Tray Cup Pouch & Bag Lids & Plastic Top/ Others Total Wrap Sachet Caps Sheet Bottom film Note: Primary packaging is mostly trays, cups and pouches, while secondary packaging is predominantly shrink wrap. Other packaging types include palette, sleeve, tape and band, spoon and spork, bin, sack, label, air bubble, absorber, box and base web. Plastic packaging type assessement conducted in 2018 based on 2017 data. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 34 Our Five-Year Packaging Innovation Roadmap Working to develop a paper lid solution to replace our existing plastic lids used in Researching ways to reduce product packaging. We intend the thickness and weight of to have a commercially viable cans to decrease the quantity paper lid option by 2019. of material used. Exploring technologies to reduce the thickness of the Conducting ongoing research to pouches we currently use for identify more environmentallymany of our seafood products, friendly plastics, through while maintaining the same implementing and utilizing appearance and quality our bio-based material or putting customers enjoy. recycled content into polymers, as we aim to decrease global plastic pollution and improve the carbon footprint of our product Investigating ways to utilize shrimp shells in packaging. our plastic packaging. This would yield many benefits, including the reuse of factory waste, the development of bio-based packaging and improved shelf life for products. Optimizing for transportation through more space-efficient packaging, for instance in the form of square packaging. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 35 HEALTH AND SAFETY In addition to partnering with ITF to co-host health TRAINING WORKSHOP and safety training workshops, Thai Union also works with the International Labour Organization (ILO) related to select information that is being promoted among fisher communities, along with other important partners within the seafood and fishing industry. This program is all about putting what we found in our vessel audits in our Thai Union and the International Transport Workers’ supply chain into practical, useful Federation (ITF) co-hosted a series of health and advice for fishers, captains and vessel safety training workshops for hundreds of vessel owners. We know that auditing alone owners, captains and crew in Thailand in 2018. does nothing to improve the industry, Participants received a range of guidance, includand we really want to help the fishing first aid and basic medical training techniques ers understand basic, safe practices. such as CPR, how to effectively respond to a potential life-threatening situation while at sea. We also found that most vessels do One medical kit was issued per vessel. not have basic first aid kits, and the kits distributed at the workshops can “I found the health and safety training workshop very useful—especially the medical training,” said potentially save lives. When you teach Kyaw Kyaw Myint, a migrant fisher in Thailand people very practical skills that they originally from Myanmar, after a training workshop can put into practice in every-day life, in Chumphon. “We learned things no one had ever really told us before now which are very important that is when they see the value. to know.” — Dr. Darian McBain, Thai Union’s Global The workshop also covered basic instruction on Director of Corporate Affairs and fire safety, good health practices as well as how to use bank accounts in Thailand. Sustainability. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD PEOPLE 36 AND COMMUNITIES Thai Union takes responsibility for improving the lives of those living and working in the regions where we operate through our People and Communities pillar in SeaChange®. This includes cleaning marine environments and working to end hunger through food donations to educating children and providing nutritional information to consumers and local communities. Thai Union has implemented a range of initiatives and programs where we operate, in line with our sustainability strategy, the SDGs and anticorruption. These programs respond to stakeholder and community needs. Project outcomes are measurable, for example accounting for the number of people who benefited, amount of income generated, or the amount of waste reduced. In addition, the impact of the programs is assessable, including the impact and benefit to the Describing body fat at a nutrition workshop for children. local community, stakeholders or environment, as well as the impact to Thai Union Group. There is a global challenge of how to feed an HUMAN CAPITAL estimated world population of 9 billion people by 2030. Without sustainable seafood production, INVESTMENT both from aquaculture and wild capture, the world We believe learning and development is an cannot achieve SDG 2 Zero Hunger. important, ongoing initiative to enhance our employees’ skills and capabilities. At Thai Union, we are committed to continuously developing our workforce based on individuals’ needs, readiness and vocational requirements. We do this by providing high quality capacity building programs that support employees’ career aspirations and help them become effective contributors and leaders. Thai Union’s leadership development programs are guided by our Capability Framework and Leadership Expectations are defined internally 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 37 and emphasize the links between our core values, goals and business context. The framework and leadership model help ensure we continue and enhance our track record as a high performing organization that achieves business results, engages and retains our employees, and serves as an industry role model. From cleaning beaches and protecting endangered species to educating children of migrant workers and providing nutritional inCORPORATE SOCIAL formation to local communities—Thai Union is RESPONSIBILITY AND committed to being a good corporate citizen. COMMUNITY INVESTMENT — Tracy Cambridge, Thai Union’s Responsible Sourcing Director, Europe Thai Union has worked together with private sector peers, local government, international organizations and civil society bodies to address many initiatives underway to help protect the social and environmental problems. From cleaning rights of migrant workers in Thailand and beyond, beaches and protecting endangered species including collaborations with nongovernmental to educating children of migrant workers and (NGO) partners to facilitate social dialog and nutritional workshops for local communities— capacity building through training, workshops and Thai Union is committed to good corporate practical demonstrations. citizenship. Review our progress updates for our people and communities here. We aim to prevent instances of child labor and trafficking by ensuring our migrant workers in Some of this work is undertaken at a group level. Thailand understand their rights. Migrant workers Thai Union is a major donor to famine and disaster with children in Thailand often lack access to relief programs every year. However, much of the education due to insufficient knowledge about the work is delivered at a domestic level through our Thai school system. brands; some of these initiatives are significant and others are much more modest, but big or small, when combined, they tell a very compelling story about our business and the things that matter to our company. RIGHTS AWARENESS The seafood industry continues to face challenges in achieving equal and fair treatment of migrant workers, stemming from informal and illegal labor practices such as human trafficking, forced labor, child labor and debt bondage. Thai Union has 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 38 INVESTING IN CHILDHOOD EDUCATION IN OUR COMMUNITIES We recognize education is an important foundation for a better life. In 2018, we officially broke ground on our fourth preschool in Samut Sakhon for children of migrant and local workers in the community. These schools help the children prepare to enter the Thai education system, so they can progress to primary school. They also ensure the Thiraphong Chansiri, Thai Union’s CEO, speaks with children are safe during the day, providing their principals and teachers during school visits in Petchaburi working parents with real peace of mind. and Prachuab Kirikhun in Thailand. Thai Union also organized key education initiatives edge sharing and strategic planning in academic for children at our three already-established development with school principals, teachers, preschools in Samut Sakhon throughout the year, local community leaders and students. This helps including a photography workshop, nutritional develop Thai students to be “good and smart workshops and a series of football clinics to students,” according to the program’s objective. promote physical education. Thai Union—which is one of 12 companies Another example of our community involvement providing advice and financial support for the is the Pracharat Project—a project coordinated by program—has appointed 10 company volunteers the Thai Government. For the past year, Thai Union with leadership potential to be “School Partners” has been actively involved in two programs with responsible for supporting the 30 schools. This the project which aim to improve the lives of the includes: local community, as well as boost the education standards of children from 30 schools across •• Providing training development programs for Samut Sakhon, Samut Songkhram, Phetchaburi school teachers across several topics, such and Prachuap Khiri Khan provinces where the as development programs for STEM (Science, company operates in Thailand. Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) teachers, English capability building for English Thai Union has invested THB 6 million in CONNEXT teachers and Project Based Learning (PBL) ED, which aims to minimize inequality in society, curriculum design. develop people’s potential, and increase competitiveness to students in public schools under the •• Career enhancement activities to inspire Office of the Basic Education Commission. The students to continue studying through to program develops a network of next-generation higher levels. leaders from private companies who will learn and develop leadership skills through what is called the •• Enhancing the English language capabilities of Action Learning Project, which includes knowlstudents through online learning packages. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 39 •• Providing learning kits, and school materials “The people in the communities where Thai Union such as math kits, science kits, Montessori operates are an integral part of our success,” learning materials, musical instruments and Chansiri said. “It’s about being good citizens and occupational equipment. doing what we can to enhance the livelihoods of those around us.” •• In 2018, Thai Union and the company’s volunteers will continue to support these 30 Separately, Thai Union has been actively involved in schools as well as add 10 more schools. other project initiatives in Samut Sakhon, specifically one called the Pracharat Raksamakkee Samut Thiraphong Chansiri, Thai Union’s CEO, has had a Sakhon, which supports local businesses and helps hands-on role, which included visits to several of put them on a better commercial footing. the schools involved to monitor their progress. study to model the impact of a planned universal COMMITMENT TO national school meals program on the economy in NUTRITIONAL EDUCATION Kenya. The study, conducted by the University of California, Davis (UC Davis) in collaboration with AND COMMUNICATION Kenya’s ministries of Education and Agriculture, aspires to demonstrate the potential local and At Thai Union, we understand the importance of national economic impact of a national program eating nutritionally-rich food to stimulate mental providing daily lunch to over 1.5 million children and physical health. in public primary schools from arid and semi-arid counties of Kenya. Final results will be announced As part of our commitment to educating people in 2019. in the communities where we operate, Thai Union hosted a series of nutritional workshops in Photo caption: A student reading the nutrition label Thailand in 2018 for hundreds of school students, during a Thai Union nutritional workshop. who also learned how a nutritionally healthy diet can build muscles and strengthen bones. The workshops also provided the children with information on how to read nutritional facts on food labels to understand how much energy, calories, sodium, fat, carbohydrates, sugar and protein are contained in foods by serving size. Thai Union provides nutritional labeling on almost 100 percent of its products around the world. As part of our efforts to provide nutritional food to children, Thai Union has also provided financial support for a UN World Food Programme (WFP) 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD PERFORMANCE 40 SUMMARY ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2016 2017 2018 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Total revenue (Net sales per audited statement Million Baht 134,375.11 *134,973.27 133,284.64 of income) Total cost Operating cost Million Baht 127,569.85 131,823.68 130,041.82 Employee wages and benefits Million Baht 10,795.08 12,540.22 12,492.17 Cash paid for interest expenses Million Baht 1,009.31 2,182.09 1,925.34 Dividend paid Million Baht 2,982.06 3,006.20 2,819.53 Cash paid for corporate income tax Million Baht 1,706.59 877.29 433.25 Asia Million Baht 117.47 205.31 237.38 EU & Africa Million Baht 1,103.80 433.91 172.23 North America Million Baht 485.32 238.07 23.63 Corporate responsibility & community investment Million Baht 117.72 135.16 108.76 INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Percentage of marketed new products with % 100 97 94 nutritional labels R&D spending as percentage of sales % 0.22 0.22 0.27 *GRI 102-48 Reclassification of a business to discontinued operations and a change in the presentation of certain expenditures between cost of sales, selling expenses and administrative expenses. GLOBAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2016 2017 2018 1. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Cases per 200,000 0.89 0.74 0.59 Employees hours worked 2. Lost Time Injury Severity Rate (LTISR) Cases per 200,000 7.48 5.82 8.91 Employees hours worked 3. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Cases per 200,000 0.37 0.14 0 Contractor hours worked 4. Working Hour Hours worked 138,562,813 139,855,687 119,279,654 -Employee 5. Working Hour Hours worked 2,430,099 2,814,596 3,744,761 Contractor 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 41 PEOPLE PERFORMANCE HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT 2016 2017 2018 Total workforce People 49,177.00 51,143.00 47,314 Full time employee (FTE) People 13,381.00 12,803.00 13,582 Daily staff People 35,796.00 38,340.00 33,422 Average hours of training & development Hour/employee 18 15 16 per year Average amount spent on training & Thai Baht 4,279 7,544 3,505 development per FTE *Human capital return on investment Thai Baht 1.63 1.38 1.26 ATTRACT AND RETAIN TALENT % of employee Employee satisfaction survey 66.04 82.92 82 engage Total employee turn-over per FTE % 14.43 14.98 17.10 Asia % 14.33 13.50 14.98 US Region % 10.50 30.74 26.00 EU Region % 6.93 16.16 10.27 DIVERSITY Gender distribution by level Total management People 1,148 967 1,140 Total management female ratio % 37.80 43.12 43.33 Total management male People 714 550 646 Total management female People 434 417 494 Total Management male Total People 714 550 646 Top management People 17 19 23 Middle management People 161 119 143 Junior management People 536 412 480 *GRI 102-48 This is the first year which Thai Union has engaged a third party to conduct data assurance. Thai Union reviewed the scope of data consolidation methodology to be consistent in order to prepare for future assurance. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 42 Total Management female Total People 434 417 494 Top management People 3 3 3 Middle management People 47 43 49 Junior management People 384 371 442 Total non-management People 11,892 10,516 12,442 Total non-management female ratio % 55.61 59.48 61.20 Total non-management male People 5,279 4,261 4,827 Total non-management female People 6,613 6,255 7,615 Proportion of local hiring of senior management % 80 59.82 50 (for HQ only) People 626 877 586 Freedom of association number of employees represented by trade union % 7.91 10.16 7.08 NUMBER OF CONSULTANTS/ NUMBER OF 26.00 9.00 10 NEGOTIATIONS WITH TRADE UNION SESSIONS 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 43 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE FACTORY PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2016 2017 2018 Production Ton 685,987 700,856 690,219 GHG EMISSION Total GHG Intensity TonCO2/ton FG *0.87 *0.78 0.78 Total Emission tCO2 *594,453 *544,639 536,494 GHG Scope1 tCO2 *422,695 *366,642 369,540 GHG Scope 2 tCO2 *171,758 *177,997 166,954 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG *6.92 *6.39 6.21 Total Energy Consumption GJ *4,743,738 *4,477,417 4,283,160 Total Direct Energy GJ *3,465,181 *3,161,286 3,043,495 Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ *807,813 *887,411 731,721 Natural Gas GJ *309,133 *296,547 263,269 Diesel GJ *579,392 *200,414 133,767 LPG GJ *469,180 *396,040 427,493 Coal GJ *1,100,035 *1,203,587 1,341,402 Gasoline/Petrol GJ *4,188 *2,907 2,048 Bio-gas GJ *66,966 *59,307 50,700 Biogasoline GJ 1,550 Wood Pallet GJ 128,474 115,071 88,317 Solar Panel GJ 3,228 Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ *1,264,778 *1,305,374 1,239,665 WATER Water Withdrawal Intensity m3/ton FG *15.11 *14.94 13.65 Water Withdrawal m3 *10,363,474 *10,471,711 9,421,412 Municipal Water m3 *7,730,992 *7,735,211 6,435,806 Surface Water m3 *1,553,552 *1,428,179 1,537,961 Ground Water m3 1,011,892 *1,242,813 1,405,195 Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 *67,038 65,508 42,451 Recycled and Reused Water m3 *1,035,902 *813,250 934,366 Recycled and Reused Water m3 1,105,093 WASTE waste to landfill intensity kg/tonFG *59.10 *38.75 31.34 waste to landfill kg *40,540,146 *27,155,495 21,628,046 *GRI 102-48 Emission factors of electricity have been changed when we filled data in the Enablon Program. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE FARM & HATCHERY PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2016 2017 2018 Production Ton 903 199 235 GHG EMISSION Total GHG Intensity TonCO2/ton FG Total Emission tCO2 4,294.00 2,903.00 2,504 GHG Scope1 tCO2 487 342 307 GHG Scope 2 tCO2 3,807 2,561 2,197 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG Total Energy Consumption GJ 33,097 22,468 19,592 Total Direct Energy GJ 6,585 4,634 4,388 Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ Natural Gas GJ Diesel GJ 6,474 4,445 4,231 LPG GJ Coal GJ Gasoline/Petrol GJ 111 189 157 Bio-gas GJ Biogasoline GJ Wood Pallet GJ Solar Panel GJ Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ 26,512 17,834 15,204 WATER Water Withdrawal Intensity m3/ton FG Water Withdrawal m3 1,555,953 1,492,820 1,715,316 Municipal Water m3 14,576 13,791 11,206 Surface Water m3 1,448,571 1,437,854 1,687,986 Ground Water m3 92,806 41,175 15,380 Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 744 Recycled and Reused Water m3 10,192 WASTE waste to landfill intensity kg/tonFG waste to landfill kg 83,170 99,670 93,637 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 45 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE OFFICE PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2016 2017 2018 Production Ton GHG EMISSION Total GHG Intensity TonCO2/ton FG Total Emission tCO2 604 559 GHG Scope1 tCO2 86 20 GHG Scope 2 tCO2 518 539 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG Total Energy Consumption GJ 4,883 3,880 Total Direct Energy GJ 1,233 291 Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ Natural Gas GJ Diesel GJ LPG GJ 16 10 Coal GJ Gasoline/Petrol GJ Bio-gas GJ 1,217 281 Biogasoline GJ Wood Pallet GJ Solar Panel GJ Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ 3,650 3,589 1,897 WATER Water Withdrawal Intensity m3/ton FG 10,586 Water Withdrawal m3 15,927 15,950 10,586 Municipal Water m3 15,927 15,950 Surface Water m3 Ground Water m3 Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 Recycled and Reused Water m3 WASTE waste to landfill intensity kg/tonFG waste to landfill kg 63,000 66,700 885 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD GRI CONTENT 46 INDEX AND UNGC COP GENERAL EXTERNAL STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATION PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Back cover GRI 102-2 Activities, brand, products P.8 and Operations and services GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover GRI 102-4 Location of operations P.8 and Operations GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 Annual Report P. 64-73 GRI 102-6 Markets served P.8 and Footprint GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization P.8, 39 and Footprint GRI 102-8 Information on employees P. 39-40 and other workers GRI 102-9 Supply chain p. 9-10 and Suppliers GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the No significant change organization and its supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or P. 30 and Responsible Operations approach GRI 102-12 Externally developed P.13-14 economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses GRI 102-13 Membership of P.13-14 Associations STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior P.6-7 decision-maker 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 47 GENERAL EXTERNAL STANDARD DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102-16 Values, principles, P.8 and P.12 standards, and norm of behavior GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure Global Leadership Team and Annual Report, pages 30-42 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups P.18 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining P. 42 agreement GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting P.15 and P.18 stakeholders GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder P.19-21 engagement GRI 102-44 Key topics and concern P.16 and 18 raised REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102-45 Entities included in the Annual Report, pages 60-63 consolidated financial statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and P.4-5 topic boundaries GRI 102-47 List of material topics P.15-16 GRI 102-48 Restatements of P.40-41 and P.43 information GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting P.4 GRI 102-50 Reporting period P.4 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report P.4 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle P.4 GRI 102-53 Contact point of questions Back cover regarding the report GRI 102-54 Claim of reporting in P.4 accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index P.46-51 GRI 102-56 External assurance P.52-53 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 48 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION EXTERNAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS /NOTES ASSURANCE ECONOMIC (COMMUNITIES, TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE) Economic GRI 103 Management Annual Report, pages 13-15 Performance Approach and Corporate Governance GRI 201-1 Direct Economic P. 40 value generated and distributed AntiGRI 103 Management P.14 and Anti-Corruption Policy corruption Approach GRI 205-2 Communication and Anti-Corruption Policy training about and Suppliers anti-corruption policies ENVIRONMENTAL (CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION) Energy GRI 103 Management Environment, Health and Safety Approach GRI 302-1 Energy consumption P. 43-45 within organization GRI 302-3 Energy intensity P. 43-45 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy P. 43-45 consumption Water GRI 103 Management Our Progress Approach GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by P. 43-45 X source GRI 303-2 Water sources P.43-45 X significantly affected by withdrawal of water GRI 303-3 Water recycled and P.43-45 X reused Emissions GRI 103 Management P.30 Approach GRI 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG P. 43-45 X emissions GRI 305-2 Energy indirect P.43-45 X (scope2) GHG emissions 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 49 MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION EXTERNAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS /NOTES ASSURANCE ECONOMIC (COMMUNITIES, TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE) GRI 305-4 GHG emissions P.43-45 X intensity GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG P.43-45 emissions Effluents and GRI 103 Management Responsible Operations waste Approach GRI 306-2 Waste by type and P.43-45 X disposal method SOCIAL (HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES, RESPONSIBLE SOURCING, LONG-TERM COMMITMENT, AND HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT) LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment GRI 103 Management P.23-24 and Approach Safe and Legal Labor Update GRI 401-1 Total number and P. 41-42 rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age, gender, and region Occupational GRI 103 Management P. 31 and health and Approach Responsible Operations safety GRI 403-2 Types of injury and P. 40 X rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated facilities SOCIAL (CONTINUE) Training and GRI 103 Management P. 36-39 education Approach GRI 404-1 Average hours of P. 41 training per year, per employee by gender, and by employee category HUMAN RIGHTS Freedom of GRI 103 Management P 23-24 and Association Approach Safe & Legal Labor and Collective Bargaining 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 50 MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION EXTERNAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS /NOTES ASSURANCE GRI 407-1 Operations and P. 40 and suppliers in which Human Rights Risk Assessment the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Forced or GRI 103 Management P. 23 and Modern Slavery Act compulsory Approach Statement labor GRI 409-1 Operations and Modern Slavery Act Statement suppliers at significant and Safe and Legal Labor risk for incidents of Update forced or compulsory labor Investment GRI 103 Management P. 17 and 23 Approach GRI 412-3 Significant P. 24, investment Progress On Greenpeace agreements and Agreement and contracts that include SeaChange® IGNITE human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening SOCIAL (CONTINUE) SOCIETY Supplier GRI 103 Management P 25 and Suppliers assessment Approach for labor practices GRI 414-1 New suppliers that P.29 and Suppliers were screened using social criteria GRI 414-2 Negative social P.29, Suppliers impacts in the supply and Third-Party Audits chain and action taken Product GRI 103 Management P. 36 and service Approach labelling GRI 417-1 Requirements for P. 40 product and service information and labeling Procurement GRI 103 Management P. 25-26 /Sourcing Approach Practice 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 51 MATERIAL DMA AND OMISSION EXTERNAL DESCRIPTION PAGE OR LINK ASPECT INDICATORS /NOTES ASSURANCE FP 1 Percentage of Suppliers purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy FP 2 Percentage of P. 26-27 purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standards UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of P.7,14, and 17 internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in P.23,24 and 29 human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the P.23-24 and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. P.40 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. P.23,24 29, and 37 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor. P.37 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment P.23-24 and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to P.30-34 environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental P.30-34 responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally P.32-34 friendly technology. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, P.14 including extortion and bribery. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 52 LRQA Assurance Statement Relating to Thai Union Group Plc.’s Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2018 This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Thai Union Group Plc.in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Thai Union Group Plc. (TU) to provide independent assurance on its Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2018 (“the Report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier using LRQA’s verification approach. LRQA’s verification approach is based on current best practice and uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) Inclusivity, Materiality, Responsiveness and Reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000. Our assurance engagement covered TU’s operations and activities in Thailand, including its subsidiary companies and specifically the following requirements: • Confirming that the Report is in accordance with GRI standards, Food Processing supplement Sector and Core option • Evaluating the reliability of data and information for selected specific standard disclosures: Total water withdrawal by source (GRI 303-1); Direct GHG emissions (GRI 305-1); Energy indirect greenhouse gas emission (GRI 305-2), Waste by type and disposal method (GRI 306-2) and Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities (GRI 403-2) only. Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information of TU’s operations and activities outside of Thailand. LRQA’s responsibility is only to TU. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. TU’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of TU. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that TU has not: • Met the requirements above • Disclosed reliable performance data and information for the selected specific standard disclosures • Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this Report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the Verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with LRQA’s Report Verification procedure. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: • Assessing TU’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this by reviewing documents and associated records. • Reviewing TU’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report and updated overtime. We did this by benchmarking reports written by TU and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. • Auditing TU’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or mis-statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling processes and systems. We also spoke with key people in various facilities responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. This document is subject to the provision on page 2. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD 53 • Sampling of evidences presented at TUF and Okeanos Food processing plants at Samutsakorn, TFM Farm at Satul, SCC processing plant and Feed Mill at Song-kla, to confirm the reliability of the selected specific standard disclosures. Note: LRQA did not verify the data back to its original sources, nor did it assess the accuracy and completeness of the data reported by individual locations. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: • Stakeholder Inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from TU’s stakeholder engagement process. However, we believe that TU should improve their practices for engaging directly with the local communities and supply chain. • Materiality: We are not aware of any material aspects concerning TU’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the Report. TU has processes for identifying and determining their material aspects; the evaluation process considers factors such as stakeholder concerns, business risks and legal compliance. • Responsiveness: TU and its subsidiaries have processes for responding to the various stakeholder groups. We believe that future Reports should further explain the actions being taken by TU to address the concerns raised during its engagement with the supply chain, communities and NGOs. These concerns typically relate to ocean plastic and product responsibility. • Reliability: TU use spreadsheets to collect data from sites; this is then consolidated using a new corporate reporting tool. TU should consider periodically reviewing data and information from its subsidiary companies. This would promote awareness of the data systems and check accuracy of data sources and transposed information. LRQA’s competence and independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification is the only work undertaken by LRQA for TU and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Signed Dated: 22 February 2019 Opart Charuratana LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. Lloyd’s Register International (Thailand) Limited 22th Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/76 Rama IV Road Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND LRQA Reference: BGK00000243 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2019. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD thaiunion.com | seachangesustainability.org Thai Union Group Public Company Limited Contact HEAD OFFICE Mr. Patarachai Sonthikhant 72/1 Moo 7, Sethakit 1 Road, Tarsrai Sub-district, Manager: People and Community Muang Samut Sakhon District, Samut Sakhon Province Development for Sustainability 74000 Thailand Tel: +66 (0) 3481-6500 (Automatic 7 Lines) Patarachai.Sonthikhant@thaiunion.com Fax: +66 (0) 3481-6886 BANGKOK OFFICE 979/12 M Floor, S.M. Tower, Phaholyothin Road, Phaya Thai, Phaya Thai, Bangkok 10400 Thailand Tel: +66 (0) 2298-0024, +66 (0) 2298-0537 Fax: +66 (0) 2298-0548, +66 (0) 2298-0550
