Sustainability Report 2018 www.elawan.com Letter from the Chairman 102-14 Dear readers, It is a pleasure for me to present the 2018 Elawan Energy S.L Sustainability Report, in which we compile the most relevant information and our main developments, with the aim of combining economic, social and environmental performance with the creation of long-term sustainable value. The report has been drawn up under the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard and has been verified by the independent body EY. In addition, we have renewed our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. 2018 has been a favourable year for our business, which presented a positive balance with a turnover in excess of 93 million euros, an EBITDA of 67 million euros and pre-tax profits of 23 million euros. With regard to our activity, a total of 657 MW are currently operational, distributed throughout Spain, USA, Brazil, Poland, Belgium, Mexico and Turkey. Furthermore, the new Persimmon Creek 1 park in Oklahoma, with 200MW capacity, began operations, thus strengthening our presence in the USA. Similarly, construction of different wind parks has begun in Belgium: Hannut, the extension of Beaumont and Salazine/ Ciney; the extension of Adares in Turkey. The construction of the solar parks of Szerzawy in Poland and Torrijos in Spain has also begun, all of which plan to begin operating in 2019. The Pedra do Reino V wind park is expected to be completed in 2020 and the wind parks of Copperton in South Africa and Yaris in Turkey in 2021. 4 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Looking at the future, the 7.8 GW that are in promotion in I do not want to miss the opportunity to talk about a Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil, France, Belgium, Spain, fundamental aspect: Health and Safety. I am pleased South Africa, Turkey, Romania, Poland and Russia should be to point out that for the last 7 years, Elawan has been noted. recognized by the Ministry of Labour for Companies for its contribution to the reduction and prevention of occupational Beyond financial results, we are committed to pushing accidents by virtue of “Royal Decree 404/2010 of 31 the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), and integrate March regulating the establishment of a system of those into our business strategy. Our strong commitment reduction of contributions for professional contingencies to the environment stands out through Goal 7.2: “increase for companies that have made a special contribution to the substantially the share of renewable energy in the global reduction and prevention of occupational accidents”. energy mix by 2030” and Goal 13.2: “integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies, and This drives us to keep working in this direction and is a clear planning”. reflection of our commitment to accident prevention, and these figures place our company´s occupational safety way As a result of these two goals, we have generated above the sector´s average. 4,778,486 GJ of renewable energy, therefore avoiding the emission of 421,750 tons of CO2. Finally, we are working to adapt to these truly transformative times, in which new technologies, In addition to the environment, quality management and digitalization, connected devices, among others, present us health and safety is key to our development, which is with an important future challenge. For this reason, via the why we have a well-estabilished integrated Management “Digital Workplace” project, we are advancing in the digital System, duly implemented in accordance with the transformation of the workplace. This project represents a international standards ISO 14001:2015, ISO 9001:2015 cultural change to increase our digital competences, define and OHSAS 18001 for “the international promotion, new technologies to improve work and digital agility. development, operation and sale of installations for the production of renewable energy”. The system has been I would like to invite you to read and learn about the main recertified in 2018 without any minor nor major nonmilestones in our performance through this Report, I hope conformities. that they are to your liking. We have a team or 72 employees whose professional development is important to the company. Therefore, we develop initiatives aimed at improving their qualifications, Jon Riberas development and the retention of talent, among others. In Chairman 2018, 1,942 training hours were given. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 5 Letter from the CEO 102-14 For another year we present our Sustainability report. This It is important to highlight that energy storage technologies Report, for the year 2018, is already the sixth. This document continue to advance in leaps and bounds. The significant contains the company’s results in the economic, social and evolution of batteries and storage systems, paired with environmental areas. The report has been drawn up under the their substantial cost reduction, will lead to a revolution not guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard, and only for renewable energies, but for the energy sector as a has been verified by an independent body. whole. Through these systems, renewable energies will no longer need the support from conventional energies to cover As was laid out in previous years, the progression of the production gaps, the distributed energy will become widely decarbonization of the global production of electric energy available, much more efficient and more cost-efficient and we cannot be stopped. This is no longer only due to pressure will see the traditional systems in the electric sector change. from public opinion, social demand and climate change, but now costs too have become another reason. Today, there The points mentioned above provide Elawan Energy with the is no competition in costs for solar or wind energy. No other proper environment to continue developing the projects that current technology can compete with our costs nor with the will bring us energy in a near future. long duration which we can guarantee them for. We are only Throughout 2018, as a part of the Group´s corporate strategy, limited by the lack of “manageability” in our production, and the sales operations were agreed for some assets in Brazil and solution to this problem is advancing steadily. Batteries, their Spain, which generated substantial capital gains for the Group different applications and technologies, their reduction in costs, and served to reduce the company´s debt as well as handle the the massification of their use, with the electric vehicle being promotion and construction of new projects. the main exponent and the intelligent distribution networks, will lead us to the solution to this inconvenience in a relatively With regard to the economic results, we have surpassed the short time. target budget, with a turnover of €93 million, an EBITDA of €67 million and €23 million in profits before taxes. Within this framework and with this perspective, renewable energies account for most of the new electricity generation This year we have begun the construction of new projects in installed worldwide. Belgium (Hannut Wind Park), South Africa (Copperton Wind Park), Spain (Torrijos Solar Plant), Brazil (Pedra do Reino V Wind Information on installed capacity, percentage of demand Park) and Poland (Szerzawy Solar Plant) which, together, total coverage, etc. are detailed in this report and in the annual 190 MW. reports of the main associations and specialized companies that issue these. The 200-MW wind park Persimmon Creek I in Oklahoma began operations in 2018. Over the years, Elawan has put a total of 1,232 MW into operation. In addition, the Group has 7.8 GW in promotion in Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil, France, Belgium, Spain, South Africa, Romania, Poland and Russia. 6 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 The approval of the European target to produce 32% of energy from renewable sources will lead to a significant opportunity for our development in the European Union, especially in Spain, a country in which the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan augments these targets to 52%. Over 3,000 MW are being developed by Elawan in Spain, of which, projects totalling 782 MW, both in photovoltaic and wind energy, already have Access and Connection, are processing the permits and authorizations with the different Autonomous Communities and have a large part of the land already contracted. France, Belgium and Poland are other countries which should provide good opportunities in 2019. Another important challenge for the company is the reconstruction of the Punta Lima Wind Park in Puerto Rico, which was devastated by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. We continue working on this project, which Puerto Rico and its inhabitants need to have operational, and we count on the support of the insurance company and the park´s financing entities to restore it and restart energy production in 2020. To meet all these goals, we will continue to be a highly-efficient company, with comprehensive cost-control and with our exceptional team, with their vast experience and excellent abilities. Moreover, we have our sound and sustainable management model to face the future successfully. I cannot let the opportunity pass to thank all our staff for their effort and commitment, and our customers, suppliers and investors for the trust they placed in Elawan. Dionisio Fernández Auray CEO Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 7 Sustainability Report 2018 General disclosures Our company 10 Main effects, risk and opportunities 16 Governance 21 Materiality 24 Our company Elawan Energy, S.L. 102-2 The company was founded in 2007, and it operated under the Business Model brand “Gestamp Wind” until October 28th 2017, when the The main activity is the promotion, operation and construction company name was changed to “ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L.” of renewable energy plants, as the sell of electric energy produELAWAN ENERGY, S.L. is dedicated to investing in assets and ced by them, in those countries where we are present. projects aimed at the generation of energy through renewable Our strategy is based on developing projects from zero, and on sources and their management. The company operates interseizing opportunities to acquire more advanced projects, prinationally under the brand “Elawan” (102-1). marily in countries that stand out for their attractive renewable Its headquarters are located at (102-3): energy markets, having the capacity to build and operate the C/ Ombu 3, floor 10 projects without discarding the sale of some operational assets. 28045 Madrid New technologies Early Late Stage Start of Long term development development Financing Construction operations operations Capital rotation Elawan has a global corporate culture that has maintained the same values since its foundation, but which is adjusted to the local necessities of each country, the current market conditions and the stakeholder demands (102-16). This year, several parks were sold in Spain and Brazil, which allowed us to reinvest in new assets. Similarly, the new park of Persimmon Creek in Oklahoma (USA), with 200 MW, began its operations, bringing our operational capacity to 657 MW at the closing of the year. In addition, we have different projects under construction in Brazil, Poland, Belgium, Turkey, Spain and South Africa totalling 248 MW, and 7.8 GW in promotion distributed across Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil, France, Belgium, Spain, South Africa, Turkey, Romania, Poland and Russia (102-6). 10 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Mission Technology Values Our mission is to satisfy our customers’ needs Wind Honestity Humility Solar globally, considering their Hydraulics Tenacity activity, the safety of our employees and respect for the environment. Work Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 11 0.9 1.2 GW GW Assets Sold Assets Built 2008 57MW 138MW 2009 25MW 2010 110MW 24MW 2011 64MW 88MW 2012 2013 74MW 2014 10MW 10MW 128MW 84MW 98MW 2015 14MW 14MW 82MW 106MW 2016 12MW 2MW 82MW 2017 346MW 74MW 200MW 22MW 2018 102MW 36MW 253MW 132MW 2019 2024 8.2GW 12 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Elawan in figures 2018 457 657MW 102-7 Capitalization Million euros in operation Economic Contribution 536CAPEX 248MW under construction Through our activity we generate numerous benefits in the community around us. We dynamize local development improving access to the energy by Million euros promoting employment in the area, the growth of new suppliers, businesses, as well as infrastructures. 13 Countries 7.8GW promotion Presence 0 Accidents by 72 own personnel Professionals 18.7 1,942 Social Local suppliers Hours of Contribution Million euros training Our activity requires the hiring of numerous local workers for all the construction and maintenance 18001 90% operations to whom we offer a stable employment, which increases the OHSAS Permanent economy of the area and the purchasing Certification contracts power of families. In addition, we carry out numerous social action activities to improve the environment and to facilitate the access to energy in remote Emissions places. avoided 421,750 ISO14001 tonCO2/year :2015 Certification Environmental Emissions produced Contribution 668 5,772GJ Our activity is directly related to the generation of renewable energy, so tonCO2/year Energy we contribute to mitigating the carbon consumption footprint and the effects of climate change. 4,778,486GJ Energy production Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 13 Presence 102-4 and 102-6 13 Countries 72 Professionals USA + PR 351MW 4 wind farms in operation 167 wind turbines 165MW in promotion Mexico 14 MW 2 mini hydros 671 MW in promotion Colombia 30 MW in promotion Brazil 131 MW Power Argentina 10 wind farms in operation Wind business 335 MW in promotion 68 wind turbines Wind turbines 1 wind farm in construction Mini hydro 793 MW in promotion Solar business 14 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Spain 8 MW Belgium 2 wind farms in operation 26 MW 4 wind turbines 2 wind farms in operation 1 solar farm in construction 3 wind farms in construction 3,389 MW in promotion 13 wind turbines France 348 MW in promotion 319 MW in promotion Poland 10 MW 1 wind farm in operation 5 wind turbines 1 solar farm in construction 310 MW Romania Russia 243 MW in promotion 176 MW in promotion Turkey South Africa 117 MW 1 wind farm in construction 3 wind farms in operation 222 MW in promotion 42 wind turbines 1 wind farm in construction 744 MW in promotion Main effects, risks and opportunities 102-15, 103-1, 103-2 and 103-2 In developing its activity, the company is subject to different If any unforeseen circumstances arise, the regional managers risks inherent to the different countries it operates in and to the and/or the area directors immediately inform the CEO, these wind energy sector. risks are analyzed and the appropriate measures are taken. The CEO is responsible for informing the Board of Directors. Therefore, prior to developing any project, a comprehensive analysis is done, and various mechanisms are established to The main risks identified are outlined below: minimize these risks as far as possible. Operational risks Reputational Risk Risks derived from the activity Reputational risks are those derived from potential conRisks that derive from our activity may be of two types: duct in violation of the guidelines established in the poli• Internal: derived from misuse of technology, supply faicies and codes regarding human rights, ethics and anti-colures and outages, inadequate management, etc. rruption, among others. • External: inadequate park performance. These risks deMitigation pend on the climate of the area as well as on the quality • Policies and initiatives such as the Code of Ethics and of the wind, the hours of solar radiation, etc., aspects that Conduct, the Behavioral Guide in Response to the Offecannot be influenced. ring of Incentives, Gifts and Invitations, the Harassment Mitigation Prevention Guide and the Integrated Environment, Quality and Health and Safety Policy. • The technological advance of the new turbines and the increase in their individual power allows us to genera• Compliance with the Equator Principles and the envite more energy with less turbines and, as a result, with ronment impact statements less impact. • Consultation channels and complaint mechanisms • The reduction of costs related to renewable energies Opportunities increases their competitiveness. The monitoring and implementation of the requirements • The increasingly accurate viability analysis of the proderived from the ethical code, the environmental impact jects and the best orientation of the parks. studies and the Equator Principles contribute to increasing • Being capable of installation in remote areas. and improving relations with the authorities and local community. Opportunities Innovation and technological advances mean that renewable energy installations are increasingly better adapted to any type of environment and weather, with fewer failures and better remote controlling, improving their efficiency and profitability. 16 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Business risks Financial risk Risks derived from investments in new Market risk projects Risks associated with exposure of results and assets to Derived from an inadequate financing, low performance of a possible loss caused by variations in the fair value or the parks compared to what expected or changes in enerfuture cash flows of financial instruments, resulting from gy rates. changes in market prices, interest rates or exchange rates. Mitigation • Analysis of the environment and the risks arising from Credit risks each site, such as: the political stability of the country, These risks stem from of the possibility of not being able energy policies, climate and wind conditions, availabito recover financial assets in conformity with the establility of land and proximity of evacuation lines, among shed amount and term. others. • The availability of favourable financing in the regions where Elawan would like to develop. Liquidity risks • Definition of preventive measures against potential risks. Liquidity risks arise when liquid funds are not available or • Insurance policies. accessible in a sufficient amount and at appropriate cost in order to meet payment obligations at all times. Opportunities Mitigation To provide a global and complete information allow us to anticipate from potentials risk identified for each project, • Long-term energy price purchase agreements with avoiding possible contingencies. fixed prices and agreed price updates. • Hedging derivatives associated with debt and financing in foreign currency when deemed appropriate. Regulatory risks • Operating in markets that offer a stable and safe regulatory framework. Other risks faced by companies include those associated • Analyses of cash flows generated by projects and powith regulatory changes, such as, for example: the remutential purchase operations of assets. neration of regulated activities, the required supply condi• Guarantee liquidity needs at all times through loans tions, environmental and taxation regulations, etc. and credit lines maintained with the parent company. Mitigation Opportunities • Search for locations in regions where there is a high deFinancial risk prevention mechanisms allow us to have bemand for energy. tter control over growth and investments, diversifying in other countries and compensating for any risks or incidents • Development in stable countries, in which significant that may arise, for profitable and sustainable growth. regulatory stability is expected. • Define the long-term supply conditions. Opportunities On one hand, the unstoppable surge in renewable energies compared to conventional energies and the global commitments concerning CO2 mark a growing global trend in this sector. On the other hand, both the companies that diversify from different markets and improvements in the financing and the system for auctions, in which the medium/long-term sales price is regulated, are an opportunity to ensure the profitability of the projects. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 17 Risks: confidentiality and privacy Cyberthreats continue to grow, online fraud keeps evol• Diagnostic on information security and its risks (ISO ving and is responsible for millions in losses in companies 27001). around the world. • Communication and awareness campaigns alerting and The rapid proliferation of intelligent devices, equipment raising awareness of risk and threats. hijacking by hackers, the impersonation fraud and the connectivity, in addition to the lack of global security stanOpportunities dards, increases the vulnerability of these devices. Through the diagnostic and the established control and tracking mechanisms, numerous opportunities for improMitigation vement have been detected, which are gradually being • Periodic scan through systems to identify external and implemented and reinforced through training and cominternal vulnerabilities and correction in its function of munication, thus mitigating these economic, personal and the criticality level. reputational risks. Environmental risk Health and safety risks Climate change is one of the main challenges we face and Health and safety is a primary objective for the company, the big environmental challenge that humanity will have although the probability of accident is low in the sector are to deal with in the 21st century. For this reason, there is extreme safety measures. a growing need to establish strategies and objectives to contribute to curb global warming, where renewable enerMitigation gies play and important role. • Integrated Management System and Policy in accordance with international standards ISO 14001:2015, Mitigation ISO 9001:2015 y OHSAS 18001 for the promotion, • The innovation and availability of turbines with higher development, operation and sale of renewable energy output allow for the reduction of the number of towers production facilities at an international level. and, as a result, their impact. • Health and Safety culture based at the goal “0” acci• Advances in solar energy technology and cost reducdents and lessons learned. tion, contribute to its development. • Training and a quality awareness, adjusted and periodic. • Environmental impact and birdlife protection studies • Internal and external communication though clear and serve to control and manage potential environmental defined channels. risks. • Proactive monitoring and analysis of monitoring indica• The Environmental Management System helps to estors and control points (KPI). tablish objectives for improvement, to minimize impacts derived from our activity, and to include the principle of Opportunities precaution (102-11). The preventive measures defined and implemented inOpportunities crease safety and minimise accidents, improving the environment and working conditions. The absence of acciRenewable energy helps to mitigate the effects of climadents is key to improving the reputation and image of the te change and to achieve the Sustainable Development company. Goals. 18 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Information security Cyberthreats continue to grow in ingenuity and frequency, onOver the course of 2017, we have developed the required meline fraud continues to evolve thanks to new social engineering asures to adapt to the new European Data Privacy Regulation techniques and these are responsible for million-dollar losses in (GDPR) that will come into force in May 2018. This will imply companies worldwide. a more transversal level of supervision over the protection of personal data information. The rapid proliferation of intelligent devices and the connectivity given by the Internet of Things (IoT), coupled with the lack To strengthen our employee’s awareness and training, diffeof global security standards makes many of these devices very rent campaigns and training activities were carried out. The vulnerable and exposes personal and business information. “Anti-Phishing” campaign stands out, which was launched with the aims of identifying the level of risk and making employees Proof of this trend is the increase in kidnappings of corporate aware of this type of attack. computer equipment by hackers, mainly in order to “mine” crypto currencies or to request “ransoms”, through modern malware Subsequently, training sessions on prevention and protection designed to go after corporate networks. techniques were held due to the risks this new type of crime poses to the people and to assets (workshops on public WIFI Attempts at phishing fraud are also on the rise, making the connections and protection of personal data). adaptation of information and device security policies more relevant every day in order to protect both assets and people’s security. Business Process Support Elawan is convinced that information has become a strategic asset for business and people. The Information Systems are a fundamental component for the execution of the business processes. With this objective, the IT For this reason, the necessary mechanisms have been establidepartment keeps the ERP SAP, the PLM tool and the Group´s shed to safeguard information privacy and to protect the data infrastructure and communication services centralized. of customers and suppliers, as well as to manage and treat documentation adequately according to its level of relevance, At the same time, the department carries out transformation and to enhance security. Information security procedures are projects to align the systems with the growth of the company periodically reviewed, and systems are continuously tested to and to the new processes, focusing on business support, effiensure their tightness. ciency and profitable and sustainable growth. In the year 2018, the following measures, among others, have In some cases, the collaboration of third parties may be necesbeen taken to improve security policies: sary for which an impartial selection process is followed, consisting of the publication of the needs, reception and appraisal • Periodical system scans to detect external and internal vulof offers and the final selection based on criteria related to bunerabilities and their correction based on their level of critisiness support and IT systems efficiency. cality. As example, and following the necessity to comply with the • Diagnosis of information security and its risks based on the standard, doing the rollout of the new Immediate Provision of ISO 27000 standard. Information system (SII) which allows for the daily and auto• Communication and awareness campaigns alerting and raimatic sending of information required by the Spanish tax ausing awareness of risk and threats. thorities. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 19 Cultural change & Collaboration Foster Cloud Work Collaboration Anytime, Culture Anywhere Efficiency Boost Personal Performance Engagement Increase Innovation Company Employee Intelligence Engagement Powered We started the “Digital workplace” project in 2018 in order The result is a collaborative work environment; where the emploto take a step forward in the digital transformation of the yee takes part in the business processes, in the communication workstation, which is not just a technological transformation, and in the contents (improving the location of useful contents but another piece of an ambitious project for a cultural change and knowledge), to finally bring together the management of throughout the company in these 3 areas: documents, projects, processes, etc. in one single place, allowing them to access this at any moment and in any place and with • Digital Competences: increase our digital competences, the assistance of artificial intelligence for some activities. knowledge and skills to adapt ourselves to a constantly changing market and environment. This development will have a significant impact; it will increase productivity (improving mobility at work), employee satisfaction, • Digital Workplace: define how new technologies may imtalent attraction and retention, information security and our caprove our way of working in all aspects. pacity for innovation. • Digital Experience: iboost our digital agility in all work To this effect, we have defined a roadmap that allows us to aspects. achieve the planned results in 2019, and which will be summarized in the next Report. 20 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Governance Ownership structure and legal form Structure of governance. 102-05 Composition and committees The parent company structure of Elawan comprises: 102-18 • 82,70 % Acek Energias Renovables, S.L. The governing bodies of the company are the General Shareholders’ Meeting and the Board of Directors, the most senior • 17,30 % Clear Wind Eolica, S.L. body of governance, supervision, decision-making and control The subscribed capital stock at 31 December 2018 amounts at Elawan, subject to no substantive limits other than those to €80,880,000.00, represented by 1,617,600 shares of a par established in the legal regulations and the Articles of Associavalue of €50 each, all of them subscribed and paid up. The comtion, and in particular the corporate purpose. The President at pany is not listed on the Stock Market. Elawan does not hold an executive position (102-23). One of the missions of the Board of Directors is to promote The Board of Directors comprises four members and is, corporate interests, representing the entity and its partners in at 31 December 2018, made up of: the administration of assets, management of businesses and in setting the course for business administration. The members of the Board of Directors participate in the discussion and adoption of economic, social and environmental decisions; and are responsible for approving the Code of Ethics. The Board of Directors reaches relevant decisions at its plenary sessions, and delegates, where relevant, the execution of these President decisions (102-19). Mr. Juan María Riberas Mera Position held since 14/11/2007 In addition, the Board of Directors may agree special powers of attorney to be vested in company employees to address specific aspects of operations previously approved by this body. Member Secretary Windwealth, S.L. Elawan is and non-listed company, the members of the Board (non member) Mr. Dionisio Fernández of Directors represent the total of shareholders (2 alternative Mr. David Vázquez Auray options): as natural person Pascual Position held since representative. a) and it has no representatives of other stakeholders. 14/11/2007 Position held since 30/06/2008 Member b) and, therefore, there is no legal requirement to have repreMember sentatives of other stakeholders in place. Mr. Francisco José Riberas Mera The Board of Directors does not have a Delegated Executive Position held since Committee with general decision-making powers, all decisions 14/11/2007 being adopted by the Board itself. Mr. Javier Mateache, representative of the company Yoyo2003, SL (Director), resigned on July 30, 2018. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 21 Economic, environmental and social Processes of appointment and selection responsibilities to the senior body of governance. 102-20 Conflict of interests Elawan integrates its economic, social and environmental resPowers for the appointment of Directors lie solely with the Geponsibilities in the Technical Department and the Financial and neral Shareholders’ Meeting, which represents the interests of Control Department, the most senior managers of which refer all the company’s shareholders. any decisions to be taken to the Board of Directors, as is summarized below: The Articles of Association of Elawan set out the functioning of the Board of Directors, the requirements and deadlines esta• Environmental and social issues are coordinated and execublished for the General Meeting to be called, and the functions ted by the Technical Department, with the Chief Technical of the Chairman. They likewise set out the grounds for incomOfficer (CTO) holding responsibility and accountability before patibility among members, subject at all times to the relevant the Board of Directors. legislation governing companies. The delegation of executive • Economic issues are managed through the Financial and powers by the Board of Directors is performed by means of reControl Department, with the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) solutions passed by the Board itself (102-24). being responsible for accountability before the Board of DiElawan is a non-listed company at which the members of the rectors. Board of Directors are the shareholders and owners of the comIn addition to the above, the most senior managers at these pany, and so no consideration is given to other aspects regartwo departments appear before the Board of Directors wheneding diversity, minorities, etc (102-22). ver it requires them to. Shareholders may not exercise the voting rights corresponding Among other issues, the Board of Directors holds the final deto their shares if they are subject to any case of conflict of incision for the approval of the Business Plan, the annual budterest as established in Article 190 of Royal Legislative Decree gets and targets, the Investment and Financing Policy, the risk 1/2010, of 2 July 2010, approving the Consolidated Text of the analysis and, in general, all policies affecting the company. Capital Companies Act (102-25). On a supplementary basis, the possibility that different local cultures and customs could condition the understanding of cerProcesses for consultation and tain subsections of the Code of Ethics and Conduct has been communications between stakeholders and detected (including conflicts of interest). the senior body of governance 102-21 Functions and knowledge of the body The managers of the different departments maintain a permaof governance regarding sustainability. nent and smooth communication with the CEO of the company. Any important concern is immediately conveyed by the manaRevision and approval of the Sustainability gers of the different areas to the CEO, who forms part of the Report Board of Directors (102-33). 102-26 The Technical Department, the Financial and Control DepartThe functions of the Board of Directors include the approval of ment and the Human Resources Department at the central leand commitment to comply with the standards of the Code of vel, and the Business Managers of the various countries where Ethics and Conduct, which include the Principles governing the the company has a presence, exchange information with stakecompany, covering economic, environmental and social matters. holders (suppliers, governments, employees, society, etc.). The The members of the Board are permanently informed regarding different departments are responsible for taking especially releeconomic, social and environmental aspects, through the various vant matters to the Board of Directors. internal communication mechanisms, such as: the periodic meeMeetings are periodically held in which all the staff of Elawan tings with the directors of the different areas, the generation and and the CEO participate. These meeting are bidirectional, with approval of the Sustainability Report and the various actions and on one side the CEO, who informs all the staff on matters releinitiatives by Elawan, the Leading the Change corporate Intranet vant to the company´s management and state of affairs, while and the other communications. also receiving, from the staff, feedback on these issues and on Sustainability organization is coordinated by the sustainability other matters of interest. team, which is part of the Corporate Communication, Marketing and Sustainability Department (102-32). 22 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 The Report and the Materiality Analysis are drawn up biennial Similarly, in order to improve the performance of the wind farms, by this team, in collaboration with the various areas and departpredictive and preventive maintenance are conducted, with coments involved at Elawan. After its development, it undergoes a rrective maintenance being applied only where necessary. supervision and review process on the part of the CommunicaAll these actions and the possible risks that may emerge are tion Department, before ultimately being approved by the CEO continuously analyzed by Elawan’s management and teams, (102-27). serving to detect risks and to implement the required corrective Similarly, in order to guarantee the reliability of the information, measures in a swift and agile manner. the Report is externally verified by an independent body. Where necessary, the CEO and the various company departments provide the Board of Directors with periodic information. The Board of Directors has responsibility for approving the deFunctions of the senior body of governance velopment of new installations and the measures established in risk management to mitigate any kind of risk. 102-29, 102-30 and 102-31 At Elawan, in order to develop and execute new projects, a detailed study is performed, evaluating and analyzing the potenPerformance. Nature and number of issues tial risks in each project, this study is conducted by the different raised at the Board of Directors company departments, prior to the adoption of any decision. The performance of the Board of Directors is not evaluated, as At the initial project analysis and definition stage, information is the members are, through their shares, the owners the comcompiled regarding the energy policies in the company, its expany, and represent all the shareholders (102-28). pected profitability, regulatory stability and local government. At the General Shareholders’ Meeting, corporate resolutions Meanwhile, research and analysis are conducted into climate are passed by a majority of the votes validly cast, provided that conditions (wind), environmental, landscaping, urban planning they represent at least a third of the votes corresponding to the and archaeological restrictions, and property administration. shares into which the capital stock is divided, with blank ballots Once these aspects have been analyzed, a decision is taken being excluded from the calculation. There have been no chanwhether to suspend the project or move on to the next stage. ges to the members or organizational practices. The process continues with all aspects prior to the implemenIn accordance with the applicable legislation, the Board of Ditation and financing of the projects. A review is first done of rectors meets during the first quarter to draw up the annual aspects connected with the leasing of the space required for accounts for the previous financial year. its implementation, along with the processing for the issuing of In addition to this meeting, the body meets in accordance with all permits, licenses and authorizations that will allow for the operational, business and project approval needs. In specific terconstruction and commissioning of the wind farm and its power ms, during 2018 it met on 56 occasions, addressing more than output infrastructure. 40 different subjects connected with the projects that Elawan At this stage the Environmental Impact Study is performed in endorses, constructs and operates in various countries around order to receive the approval of local authorities and communithe world through its direct and indirect stake in local compaties, and to comply with the environmental requirements estanies. blished in said statements. The Feasibility Plan and the approval The main types of subjects dealt with are shown in the encloof investment and financing are likewise included. sed table (102-34). Subsequently, the company hired to construct the facility, which includes civil and electrical engineering, electromechanical assembly, and the commissioning, is selected and assigned. Corporate Annual Investments operations General Construction is performed by means of EPC (Engineering, ProAccounts and financing and aspects management 4 29 17 6 curement and Construction) contracts, using specialist firms that comply with the established requirements and the applicable legal standards, up to commissioning of the facility. Lastly, during the useful life of the wind farm, the relevant operation and maintenance tasks are performed. The facilities are Remuneration of the Board of Directors monitored in real time, which signifies that any incident is detec102-35, 102-36 and 102-37 ted and managed immediately. The members of the Board of Directors do not receive any remuneration for their work as Directors, and so indicators 10238 and 102-39 do not apply. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 23 102-40, 102-42 and 102-43 Materiality The relation with our stakeholders is a primary matter for tions and to orientate the content of the Report in the relevant Elawan. In this context, we consider any collective that may economic, social and environmental areas. hold a substantial influence, and that is or could be affected by The company provides various specific communication chanour activity. nels for each of the identified stakeholders. This allows us to Thus, since the publishing of the first Sustainability Report in have an active dialogue, allowing for a faster and more efficient 2013 we analyze and update our stakeholders, to improve response to trends and stakeholders´ needs, as summarized communication and feedback channels true to their expectabelow: • Corporate intranet: Leading the Change • Breakfasts (meetings with the CEO) • Interdepartmental meetings, meetings with wind farm supervisors • Meetings • Grievance reporting channels • Subcontractor selection • Financing contracts • Sustainability report criteria: • Periodic reports • Email Regular wind farm supervisor oversight • Social media and website Monitoring and measurement Employees Banks and financial Suppliers entities Electric Local communities companies and tenants • Regulations in each country • Reporting and communication requirements • Consultation periods in Media the Environmental Impact Assessments of the Shareholders facilities • Environmental and social • Periodic meetings of • Press room (available Local authorities the Board of Directors diagnoses • Involvement of Elawan in on the website) and regulatory • Communications with social action • Issuance of press releases bodies the CEO • Agreements and • Periodic meetings partnerships with local • Announcements via authorities social media • Licences, permits and authorisations 24 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Materiality Study 102-44 Elawan has been carrying out annual materiality studies since This allowed us to group the relevant information into 19 to2014. After the analysis of the results in recent years, it conclupics, which were surveyed before internal and external stakeded that these material factors only show minimal variations, holders (management and employees) via a survey. The averawhich is why it was decided to carry out said analysis biannuage participation of the surveyed stakeholders was around 73% lly, thereby postponing the next study until 2019. for management and 43% for the employees. As was summarized in the 2017 Report, the material topics were identified through a benchmark on the companies in the PARTICIPATION sector, analysis and appraisal of the appearances in the media, Directors Employees reports from analysts regarding topics relevant to the sector and internal matters concerning plans, programs and policies. 73% answer 43%answer External and internal coverage 102-46 Sectorial Press Analysts´ Employees´ External benchmark analysis reports opinion Internal CEO Management Press Key opinion opinion analysis aspects After this analysis, weighing and revision, a total of 10 global material matters were defined, taking into account the answers of all stakeholders in all countries, as is summarized in the enclosed table: Material matters at Elawan (102-47) Reference information 1 Growth and development in different countries General information and Economic dimension 2 Risk control General information and Economic dimension 3 Ethical and anticorruption framework Economic dimension 4 Attraction and retention of talent Social dimension 5 Performance assessment Social dimension 6 Health and Safety Social dimension 7 Social action and local community Social dimension 8 Environmental management Environmental dimension 9 Waste management and circular economy Environmental dimension 10 Biodiversity Environmental dimension Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 25 Sustainability Report 2018 Specific Disclosures Economic dimension 28 Social dimension 38 Environmental dimension 48 Economic Dimension 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 The renewable energy sector Renewable energies have gone through significant changes in The most outstanding information per type of energy in 2018 is recent years which have derived from the significant investsummarised below (Source: IRENA): ments made in innovation, improvements in efficiency and cost • Hydropower: The increase in capacity in China stands out reduction. All of this is accompanied with the political frameworwith 8.5 GW in new installed capacity. The installed capacity ks which favour their development, their contribution to dealing in the rest of the world continues to decrease. with climate change and their contribution to the development of 2030 Agenda. • Wind energy: Global capacity increased by 49 GW. China and the USA account for the main part of its growth, with increaRecent auctions show a drop in renewable energy prices. Sinses of 20 GW and 7 GW respectively. ce 2010, the reference price of solar energy has decreased by more than 80%, that of onshore and offshore wind energy by • Bioenergy: three countries accounted for more than half of around half. Moreover, storage prices for lithium-ion batteries the relatively low level of capacity expansion: China increahave fallen by more than three quarters since 2012 (source: sed its capacity by 2 GW, India by 700 MW and the United BloombergNEF). Kingdom by 900 MW. The improvements achieved in storage with batteries serve to • Solar Energy: The installed capacity for solar energy grew by cover peaks in demand and compensate for periods of lower 94 GW. Asia increased its capacity by 64 GW (about 70% of performance, and so stabilize and maintain supply, which reprethe global increase). Other countries that showed significant sents a significant step forward to making energy more accesgrowth were the USA (+8.4 GW), Australia (+3.8 GW) and sible in remote areas. Germany (+3.6 GW). Global energy demand increased by 2.3% in 2018, mainly in The future shows very favourable growth and development the USA and China. As a result, global energy-related CO2 emisexpectations, with the world’s large-scale solar energy casions reached a new record, increasing by 1.7% (Source: Interpacity expected to increase in double digits between 2019 national Energy Agency). and 2020, driven by its expansion into the United States, Europe, the Middle East and China (Source: Goldman Sachs). Within this framework, the total capacity for the generation of renewable energy reached 2,351 GW by the end of last year, • Geothermal energy: Geothermal energy increased by 539 which is about a third of total installed electrical capacity. MW. Most in Turkey (+219 MW) and Indonesia (+137 MW), followed by the USA, Mexico and New Zealand. The largest part is represented by hydropower, which has an installed capacity of 1,172 GW, approximately half of the total, followed by wind and solar energy with capacities of 564 GW and 480 GW respectively. To a lesser extent, bioenergy accounted for 121 GW of installed capacity, geothermal energy for 13 GW and marine energy for 55 MW (Source: IRENA). 28 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Balance 201-1 and 201-4 At year-end the pre-tax profit was €22,856 thousand, with a Elawan works to continue its international expansion by creanet financial debt of €358,533 thousand, €98,232 thousand ting value in the communities where it is present. This is possinet equity and capitalization of 27%. ble thanks to a positive balance and proper financing. Elawan received financial aid corresponding to capital grants 2018 has been a very important year for Elawan with 657 MW amounting to €92 million (105 million USD). These grants reof wind energy in operation, a turnover exceeding €93 million, late to the construction of wind parks in the USA. No additional an EBITDA of €67 million and a pre-tax result of €23 million. grants were received in 2018. In 2018, construction began on new projects in Belgium, South On the other hand, the places where Elawan is present receiAfrica, Spain, Brazil and Poland, totalling 190 MW. Furthermoved amounts totalling €14,557 thousand in the form of taxes, re, the Group has 7.8 GW under promotion in Mexico, Colombia, duties and charges, which contribute to improving the quality of Argentina, Brazil, France, Belgium, Spain, South Africa, Turkey, life and services of the inhabitants of the area. The distribution Romania, Poland and Russia. is detailed below: During this year, as part of the corporate strategy of the Group, sales of part of the assets in Brazil and Spain were closed, thus Country Local Tax generating substantial capital gains for the Group. Thousand of Euros 2017 2018 Spain 10,646 7,387 The main aggregates are summarized below: Brazil 4,039 4,606 The Economic Value Created amounts to a total of €96,002 USA and Puerto Rico 1,531 2,077 thousand, and is distributed as follows: Poland 479 89 Economic Value Created Mexico 7 8 Thousand of Euros 2017 2018 Romania 4 4 Reveunes 171,013 93,038 Belgium 18 386 Financial Incomes 2,332 2,964 South Africa 160 0 Economic Value Created 173,345 96,002 Turkey 0 0 TOTAL 16,884 14,557 The Economic Value Distributed is €603,190 thousand. Economic Value Distributed Financing and human rights Thousand of Euros 2017 2018 In 2018, two new financings were closed for the parks of CAPEX 493,564 535,978 Hannut (Belgium) and Copperton (South Africa). In both caStaff retribution 5,439 5,113 ses, compliance with the Equator Principles and the subPayment to providers of capital 64,707 28,824 mission of an independent report verifying this compliance Operational Cost 30,089 18,718 are required (412-3). Payment to Public Administration 16,884 14,557 We will report back next year. Elawan is also a signatory of Investment in benefit of the community ND ND the Global Compact and complies with its 10 established Economic Value Distributed 610,683 603,190 Principles. The Economic Value Retained in 2018 amounted to €37,118 thousand, as in the previous year. Economic Value Retained Thousand of Euros 2017 2018 Economic Value Retained 37,721 37,118 Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 29 Our growth The new park of Persimmon Creek 1 in Oklahoma (USA) began Likewise, the Pedra do Reino V park (Brazil) is expected to come its operations in 2018, with 200MW of capacity. Additionally, into operation in 2020 and the Copperton (South Africa) and we have a portfolio under construction which includes three Yaris (Turkey) parks in 2121. wind parks in Belgium: Hannut, Beaumont Extension and SalaziWe also have an advanced promotion portfolio of around ne/Ciney; one in Turkey: Adares Extension, and two solar parks: 7.8GW. Szerzawy (Poland) and Torrijos (Spain), which are expected to come into operation in 2019. New parks in operation (200MW) Persimmon Creek Wind farm (Oklahoma) The Persimmon Creek 1 Project is located in the state of OklahoThe total cost of the project was around 300 million USD. Alma (USA), near to the town of Woodward. though the project was developed by Elawan at 100%, Quinbrook acquired a 75% stake and Elawan remains in the shareIt began operating in August 2019, with a capacity of 200 MW holding with the remaining 25%. Elawan is responsible for the and is made up of 80 GE turbines. 73 GE116 2.5 and 7 GE116 management of the park. The sale of the energy produced will with a hub height of 90 metres. be done through a 13-year Hedge. Parks under construction (248MW) In 2018, construction began on new projects in Belgium, South Africa, Spain, Brazil, Poland and Turkey, totalling 248 MW. WIND PROJECTS Copperton Wind farm (South Africa) Beaumont wind farm Extension (Belgium) Elawan Energy signed a 20-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) The extension project for Beaumont consists of a V110 2.0 Mw for the construction and operation of the Copperton wind farm in turbine. Work is scheduled to begin in August 2019. the South African province of Northern Cape, which originated from the auction of the fourth round of the South Africa Energy Plan. Salazine / Ciney wind farm (Belgium) Elawan Energy is the majority partner in the promotion along with its local associates. The park will have 102 MW capacity, with an This project is for a wind park with 5 v110 2.2 Mw turbines with investment of over €145 million and an estimated annual produca total capacity of 11Mw. It is currently in the process of signing tion of 360 GWh per year. contracts to begin construction at the end of 2019. Construction work is planned for the second half of 2018 and the park is expected to start operating in 2020. 30 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Hannut wind farm, Liege (Belgium) PHOTOVOLTAIC PROJECTS Torrijos solar park (Toledo) The Torrijos Solar Park project is located near the towns of Novés and Torrijos (Toledo province), and its capacity was awarded in the tender of the Order ETU/615/2017, according to the Resolution issued in the BOE of 13 October 2017. Its expected capacity is 35 MWp, with an estimated investment of €25 million. It is expected to come into operation in the second half of 2019. Elawan Energy is building a new wind farm in Liege, Hannut This plant will be the first solar plant built by Elawan Energy. (Belgium), with a capacity of 21.6 MW, distributed in 9 wind turbines. The investment is estimated to be around €32 million. The power purchase agreement for the next 15 years and the Szerzawy Solar park (Poland) sale of the “green certificates” for the next 10 years have been signed. It is expected to come into operation in June 2019. Adares wind farm extension (Turkey) Elawan Energy, through its Turkish subsidiary YGT, will start the construction of the expansion of the Adares wind farm this year. The expansion has a capacity of 10.5 MW, which is added to the 10 MW already installed. The investment is estimated at around 13 million dollars and is expected to come into operation in the first quarter of 2020. Pedra do Reino V wind farm (Brazil) Elawan Energy is building its first solar plant in Poland, in the The project located in Sobradinho (Bahia) is for a new wind park town of Szerzawy, Rzepin. It has a capacity of 0.5 MWp and an with 4 VESTAS V150-4.0 MW turbines with a hub height of 90 estimated investment of around €350,000. It is located next to metres and a total capacity of 16 Mw. the substation of the 10 MW Szerzawy Wind Park which started operating in 2016. After being awarded the auction held in June 2018, the produced energy will be sold through a 20-year PPA with the BraziElawan won the tender for the plant held by the Polish governlian power company CEMIG. ment in November 2018, thereby securing the sale of the produced energy for 81€/MWh over the next 15 years. It is expecConstruction works will begin in 2020 and its start of operation ted to start operating in August 2019. is scheduled for June 2021. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 31 Parks in advanced promotion (7,8 GW) In addition, the Group has 7.8 GW under promotion in Mexico, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil, France, Belgium, Spain, South Africa, Romania, Poland and Russia. Chicxulub and Chicxulub II wind farms (Mexico) In 2016 it was decided to begin in the State of Yucatan the From the perspective of sustainability and local development, search for opportunities to develop wind projects, due to good both projects have always given priority to regional companies plant factors and growing energy demand throughout the peand to the Communities of the region, in addition, all the stuninsula. Within this framework, the 70.39 MW Chicxulub wind dies carried out during the development have generated local farm is being developed and is expected to be built in 2020. In employment. addition, the second phase of the project, Chicxulub II, with a caIt should be noted that the works associated with the archaeopacity of 87.77 MW and a construction forecast for 2021, has logical prospecting in the fields of the project were done under begun. Both projects have interconnection agreements signed the indications of the competent organism Institute of Natiowith the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE), and have been nal Anthropology and History (INAH). These works include the backed by financial guarantees in excess of USD 11 million. creation of paths for archaeological exploration, support to arThe interconnection works to be carried out for the projects will chaeologists in their surveys and the transport of staff, among substantially contribute to improving the current transmission others. This study generates around 20 local jobs. network of the City of Merida, as adjustments will be made to The works done with the environmental impact study also the substations of San Ignacio and Merida Norte as well as the stand out, these were done to meet the requirements of the recalibration of 20 km of the 115kV high voltage line that conSecretary of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) nects them. that have generated both highly qualified and low-skilled jobs, This electric infrastructure, valued at 207 million MXN, will be to complete flora and fauna monitoring (with emphasis on birds, turned over to CFE without any cost whatsoever and therefobats, and felines), geotechnical studies, or surface and groundre represents an important contribution for the Yucatan region, water studies. Together they have generated around 24 direct which has been suffering severe blackouts derived from an inlocal jobs in addition to indirect jobs associated to more than 12 crease in consumption that could not be met by the necessary months of studies that implied local accommodation, transport growth in the electricity transmission network. and/or food, among others. 32 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Our product Maintenance and management In our business, the aero generators in the parks are in moveCorrective maintenance is done for non-scheduled stops. These ment most of the time operating in an efficiency way to produoccur when a malfunction is detected, their duration depends ce and sell energy. However, there are pauses at certain times on the severity of the malfunction. These may be scheduled on non-scheduled. Quality is a key element, and for this reason, all our wind farms Scheduled stops are established to perform preventive and prehave an Integrated Management System implemented, which dictive maintenance at the wind farms. The goal is to extend the includes the quality system certified under the ISO 9001 norm. generator´s useful life and to avoid non-programmed stops/inciDue to the specific characteristics of our product, energy, there dents. For this reason, two types of maintenance are carried out: aren´t any chemical or environmental risks (417-1). Similarly, • Preventive maintenance: These are activities planned acthere have been no registered incidents concerning Health cording to the intervals defined by the manufacturer of the & Safety because of impacts from our products and services turbine. This type of maintenance is programmed annually and (416-2), nor any resulting from the sale or trade of prohibited or aims to have the least impact possible. For this reason, prevendisputed products (102-2), nor for legal violations related to the tive maintenance is done at times when there is less wind and supply and use of the products (419-1). when there is as little impact on production as possible. • Predictive maintenance: This is the most complex type of maintenance. Its objective is the early diagnosis of possible failures or breakdowns, and so increase the uptime of the aero generators. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 33 Control Center for Renewable Energies (CCER) For the monitoring and measuring of the energy production, as This allows for the comprehensive monitoring of all aero genewell as the incidences and stops that may arise in all our wind rators and provides information regarding their performance, in farms, the company has a Control Center for Renewable Enerorder to be able to take immediate action if necessary. gies (CCER) in place, the purpose of which is to optimize the In these cases, the operation is handled locally by the O&M operation of the wind farms. supervision team and remotely through an automatic remote Via the CCER, it is available in real-time information about the system (CCER). If through these measures it is not possible to production of the aero generators, electrical lines and substaput the aero generator back into operation, the maintenance tions. This allows for the constant supervision and control of team is informed so that they can intervene ¨in situ¨ at the wind each element, 24 hours/ 365 days a year. It also serves to farm for its revision and start up. analyze their performance continuously, and to act immediateThe response time varies in these cases. A ¨checkpoint¨ is acly in case of any incident. tivated and, if the stop occurs outside working hours, the traAero generator efficiency is a key element for the generation of vel costs for the maintenance team are analyzed as well as energy and the profitability of the company, which is why it is the costs that result from the plant’s production losses for the made sure that stoppage time is reduced as much as possible. duration of the stop, to finally choose the most cost-effective For this reason, each time an incident occurs, it is measured and solution. registered, and the mechanisms necessary for its solution and The correct incident management at the farms is part of the closing are activated. annual objectives of the CCER experts at Elawan and their variable remuneration. According to the information and data compiled in 2018, average stoppage time was 8 minutes, which illustrates the high efficiency of its management. 34 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Supply chain All the critical suppliers evaluated were homologated during 2018, with not relevant incidents or breaches of the predefined 102-9 criteria. As a part of our Integrated Management System, Elawan has In order to ensure compliance with ISO 45001, for the 2019 adthe PS-02 procedure ¨Purchases and evaluation of suppliers¨, ditional criteria and controls in environmental and safety topics through which the correct management of the supply chain for the suppliers. Similarly, Elawan defines a series of criteria is guaranteed in collaboration with all the departments of the for the identification of hazards and control of risks associated company. The requirements for standardization, evaluation and with its contractors within the purchasing, selection and homore-evaluation of company suppliers are established in this prologation process of these. The controls for this process are set cedure. In addition, a conformity and compliance clause concerout below: ning the Elawan Code of Ethics and Conduct is included in the supplier contracts. • Establishment of the contractual specific clauses of Environment and SST additional to legal compliance Purchasing needs are covered through suppliers which are al• Procedure for Coordination of business Activities. ready included as ¨long-standing suppliers¨ (those which have already been registered in SAP). Within this group we find: ex• Manual of Management of MA and SST in work. clusive suppliers, which include suppliers defined by the limita• Visits informaition sheet. tions/requirements of each project or suppliers defined by equi• Environmental emergency plan and incident management. pment manufacturers/maintenance engineers, long-standing • Periodic inspections. suppliers and not formally approved suppliers. • Establishment of re-evaluation criteria for suppliers whose In case a not formally approved supplier is required, the suoperations or activities have an impact on their workers or ppliers are assessed through internal and/or external refereninterested parties. ces and at least 3 budgets are requested. Due to the nature of services and subcontracted companies, there were no risks identified in 2018 regarding child labor, Evaluation of suppliers threats to the freedom of association nor forced labor (407-1, Regarding the evaluation of suppliers, there are two levels es408-1 and 409-1). tablished: Critical suppliers Local purchases These are suppliers that are responsible for the supply of Elawan encourages hiring and purchasing from local suppliers, in machinery (aero generators), maintenance and operation of order to create value in the places we operate in. This is reinforthe installations, construction of the farms and any supplier ced in countries where the local government fosters this behaexceeding €30,000 in annual invoices. The invoices table vior through incentives. Most of the budget for outsourcing and is revised yearly, in order to include the possible variations suppliers for 2018 corresponds to local companies, that is to say, of suppliers in the ¨Control sheet for critical suppliers¨. For companies from the same country as where the installations are their tracking and control, compliance to the KPIs and the located. contract conditions are verified. In 2018 the expenditure for local suppliers totaled €18,738 thousand. Its distribution by country is summarized in the foNon-critical suppliers llowing table (204-1). These include the remaining suppliers. Their associated controls are coordinated by each Department manager Country through the Non-Conformities (NC) originating from Thousand of Euros 2017 2018 deviations in the product characteristics or defaults in the Brazil 12,965 5,220 services. In case these occur, RCMASST is informed for Spain 3,648 4,083 their registry, and the procedure established is followed. Poland 336 314 Mexico 387 239 At the end of the year, these NC are submitted to the manaRumania 31 31 gers of the affected departments where these are analyzed, Belgium 785 811 and their continuity is assessed. In the event there are no NC Turkey 42 54 registered, the supplier is automatically confirmed as approved. South Africa 2,708 218 Suppliers whose situation is deemed ¨critical¨ or those whose USA P.R. 9,697 7,768 services are terminated, are informed by Elawan via an email to 30,599 18,738 the business contact of that account. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 35 Sustainability, ethics and integrity 102-16, 102-17 and 205-1 Elawan, via our parent company, features a global corporate culture that has kept the same values since our beginning, but which have been adapted to the local necessities of each country, the current market conditions and our stakeholder demands. Sustainability has become another key element, given that sustainable growth is considered to be the best way to meet our Objectives and stakeholders´ expectations. Code of Ethics and Conduct Since 2014, the Code of Ethics and Conduct, which is approved by the Board of Directors, has been a reference at Elawan for all the decisions made by our employees. In addition, we have the following reference guides, which expand on the content of the Code, concerning anticorruption and harassment: • Harassment prevention guide and action protocol: This Integrated Management Policy guide incorporates the prevention and reporting measures In 2017, Elawan carried out an exhaustive revision of our for possible harassment situations, including the minimum management systems, with the aim of adapting them to the facets that must be respected in order to be able to act honew international standards and customizing their scope to nestly and responsibly in all the countries we operate in. the current necessities of the company. In this framework we • Behavioral Guide in Response to the Offering of Incentideveloped, approved and implemented a new ¨Integrated Maves, Gifts and Invitations: The goal of this guide is to abide nagement Policy¨, which is binding and represents the base doby all the laws and rules regulating bribes and corruption in cument of the system. This new policy has been disclosed to the countries we operate in, deeming these as illegal worldinternal staff as well as to stakeholders. wide. The Code of Ethics summarizes the guidelines to be followed United Nations Global Compact in the event that any employee or collaborator wishes to make any query or complaint via the available reporting channels: by Since 2014, Elawan has signed and participated with the Gloemail, telephone or in writing (complaint form). All issues are bal Compact through our parent company. However, after chananalyzed, managed and settled by the Ethics Committee. ging our company name and after the Global Compact´s change in strategy concerning its partners and signatories, Elawan beThe Ethics Committee is an internal consulting body, responsicomes a direct partner in 2018, renewing our commitment to ble for advocating the company´s values and conduct, as well promote and implement the 10 universally accepted principles as for the monitoring, communication, disclosure and oversight for another year. of the Code of Ethics, for the processing and support regarding the settlement of doubts and the response to possible incidents or complaints that may arise, through the reporting channels. Complaints and ongoing disputes In 2018 the Ethics Committee did not receive any complaints regarding corruption (205-1 and 205-3), nor complaints from Regarding other procedures, ongoing litigations and sanctions third parties, nor any complaints concerning work practices, disinitiated against the company, there have not been any signicrimination (406-1), or human rights (102-34). ficant cases that have had a relevant economic impact on the Company regarding unfair competition, monopolistic practices and against free competition (206-1), complaints based on breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data (418-1), violations related to marketing communications (4173) nor violations of the laws and regulation in the social, environmental and economic areas (307-1). 36 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Elawan and the Sustainable Development Goals In Elawan from our commitment to Sustainability and the Climate Change we want to contribute to mitigate these impacts and the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SGD) mainly through the following goals: SDG 4.4 SDG 7.2 SDG 8.4 SDG 12.2 SDG 13.2 By 2030, substantially By 2030, increase Improve progressively, By 2030, achieve susIntegrate climate increase the number of substantially the share through 2030, global resourtainable management change measures youth and adults who of renewable energy in ce efficiency in consumption and efficient use of into national policies, have relevant skills, the global energy mix. and production and endeanatural resources. strategies and including technical and vour to decouple economic planning. vocational skills, for emgrowth from environmental ployment, decent jobs degradation, in accordance and entrepreneurship”. with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead. The Global Compact Principles Sustainable Development Goals Anticorruption Economic Human Rights and Labor Standards Social Environment Environmental Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 37 Social Dimension People Management focus 102-8, 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 The Human Resources department works as a change manaThe continuous internationalization process at Elawan brings ger and is responsible for managing quality job positions, in a certain challenges in terms of culture, human resource orgapositive work environment, with opportunities for growth and nization and management, adapting the staff to new national promotion for all professionals that make up Elawan. and international necessities management the talent and the corporate culture. The Elawan team: Internationalization and diversity Direct employees Indirect employees Elawan is formed of a total of 72 employees, 6% less than the Elawan as a result of his activity generates indirect employment, year before. Of the total number of employees, 68% are male mainly in maintenance and construction activities. and 32% are female. The largest age range being between 30 The volume of subcontracts in maintenance is similar every year, and 50 years old, accounting for 64%, followed by under 30 as works are programmed in advance. An average of 30 people is years, at 24%. estimated to be needed per park. In regard to the members of the governing body, they all are The number of subcontracted staff varies more significantly in the men; 67% are over 50 years old and 33% are between 30 and construction, depending on the number and size of the parks. This 50 years old. 100% of them are local nationals (405-1). activity is carried out through EPC agreements (Engineering, Procurement and Construction), in which the chosen company manages the personnel in the different phases of the project. Direct employees Men Women Country <30 >30 <50 >50 <30 >30 <50 >50 Total Spain 2 22 2 7 4 3 40 Brazil 2 1 0 1 4 0 8 USA 4 6 2 0 1 1 14 Mexico 1 1 0 0 0 0 2 Belgium 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 Poland 0 2 1 0 1 0 4 Romania 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 South Africa 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 TOTAL 9 35 5 8 11 4 72 38 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Attraction, development and talent 404-2 and 404-3 At Elawan we are aware that people are our main asset. Having motivated and qualified employees, in a pleasant work environment, is a key aspect to grow as a competitive, sustainable and sound company. 1 Hiring 2 Training and skills The search for the best fit for the development 5 Internal Promotion position. Training mechanisms adapted to the Career development and talent personnel. Continuous development recognition. Mobility opportunities plans. between countries. 3 Job stability 4 Performance Job security to show trust in the team review and in long-term relations. Objective assessment of their development and promotion. Recruitment At Elawan we look for professionals who meet the requirements 13 new employees were hired by the company in 2018, mainly for each position, avoiding any type of discrimination with rein Spain (36%), followed by Brazil (29%) and the USA (14%). On gard to race, gender, age, nationality, religion, political ideas, sethe other hand, 10 employees left the company during the year, xual orientation, civil status, disability, social background or any of whom 50% did so voluntarily and 50% through the end of other personal condition. contract, dismissal or retirement. Leaving Gender Age Spain Brazil USA Mexico South Africa Belgium Poland Less than 30 years 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 Men Between 30-50 years 3 0 0 1 0 1 0 More than 50 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Less than 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Women Between 30-50 years 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 More than 50 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hires Gender Age Spain Brazil USA Mexico South Africa Belgium Poland Less than 30 years 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 Men Between 30-50 years 0 2 1 1 0 1 0 More than 50 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Less than 30 years 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 Women Between 30-50 years 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 More than 50 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The average turnover rate in Elawan in 2018 (the number of people leaving against the total staff), is 14% (401-1). Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 39 SDG 4.4 Performance assessment By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, The objective of the performance assessment is to evaluate emincluding technical and vocational skills, for ployees periodically, qualitatively and quantitatively, with regard employment, decent Jobs and entrepreneuto their efficiency in the activities they carry out, the results obrship. tained through their work, and likewise, measuring their individual contribution to the corporate objectives. Training 404-1 Due to its dimensions and considering that most of the staff is located at the headquarters, a formal or structured procedure for Elawan’s priority is to have mechanisms and plans to meet and the performance assessment is not applicable. The directors of train all personel, adapted to the different levels and profiles of the various departments meet annually with the CEO and the the company. Elawan develops and implements an Annual Traperformance of all professionals (100%) is evaluated, assessing ining Plan. This plan sets out the training to be delivered on the the objectives and achievements reached, by both employees basis of employee needs, along with opportunities for improveand the company. ment detected among the various departments. The methodology is set out in the Integrated Management System. The training also aims to offer the employees possibilities of Internal promotion promotion and adaptation to job postings within the company, both locally and internationally. Elawan is aware that its employees need to grow and evolve professionally. We therefore believe that internal promotion is Newly recruited employees undertake an induction course in crucial in order to retain talent. In order to fill any specific job vawhich they are introduced to the company, informed of the cancy internally, the CEO and the head of the department/area applicable standards and codes, such as the Code of Ethics and conduct an analysis of the requirements applicable to the post, Conduct. In addition, this year we have reinforced training courestablish the appropriate group for the vacancy, and follow the ses concerning IT security and data protection, with different established processes until final approval. on-site sessions. In the event that the offer is for a very specific profile, or has In 2018, a total of 1,942 training hours were taught, 33% to wonot been filled in time, the process is outsourced via the various men and 67% to men. The average training time received per communication channels that the company has in place for employee was 27 hours (26 hours/man and 28 hours/woman). such cases, such as: digital tools, employment listings, job fairs Most of these courses took place in Spain (73%), followed by or headhunters. the US (16%) and Brazil (11%). It might be concluded that the Due to our presence in different countries and to the implementraining offered over the year has been 100% satisfactory and tation of new projects, employees may request a transfer and, efficient as planned. therefore, opt for greater professional development in other countries. Job stability Elawan is aware that in order to promote job stability, it needs to show trust in its team. As a result, 90% of the staff have a Remuneration permanent contract, whilst the remaining 10% are holding tem202-1 porary contracts all in Spain. Furthermore, all Elawan contracts Elawan is aware that remuneration is an important factor for are full-time. our professionals. As a result, given the typical profile of its employees, the minimum wage is always higher than the figure established in local legislation. Job stability Type of contract Permanent Temporary The most representative countries by number of employees are Country M W M W Spain, where 55.5% of the staff are located, followed by the US at 19.4%. Spain 24 11 2 3 Brazil 3 5 0 0 • In Spain, the ratio in 2018 for middle managers is higher than USA 12 2 0 0 50% of the minimum wage in the country established in the Mexico 2 0 0 0 agreement, with respect to the average wage of the comBelgium 2 0 0 0 pany. With respect to the minimum wage, this is 34% higher Poland 3 1 0 0 than the one established in the agreement for both genders. Romania 1 0 0 0 • For the USA, we cannot include this ratio since in many staSouth Africa 0 1 0 0 tes the minimum wage is established per day and makes this Total 45 20 4 3 calculation difficult. 40 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Employment conditions and human rights The company is aware that in order to retain our professionals, • Collective agreements: Used in Spain, Belgium, Poland, Rua series of positive provisions and conditions must be offered in mania, Mexico and Brazil, where 100% of the workers are order for them to develop within an appropriate environment. covered under these statutory provisions. This accounts for 79% of employees. In addition, we act under a model of ethics, sustainability and respect for human rights, as is reflected in the renewal of our com• Handbook: Used in the United States, this is the guide whemitment to the United Nations Global Compact. re employment conditions, behavioral standards and employee duties are specified. This represents 20% of employees. Elawan has not identified at any facility or office, nor at any su• The remaining 1% corresponds to an employee in South Afrippliers, any form of risk related to child and/or forced labor, or ca, to whom the local labour legislation applies. breaches of human rights, nor were our facilities examined or evaluated with regard to human rights, except for those facilities to which the Equator Principles apply (408-1, 409-1, 412-1 Social benefits and 412-3). In 2018, the Ethics Committee has not received any complaints (406-1). Social benefits at Elawan vary depending on the country where the company operates (401-2). Professional and personal life In Spain, all employees have medical, life and disability insurance. Furthermore, measures are adapted to the Flexible RemuneraThe balance between the professional and personal life of emtion Plan, in which employees can include a range of services ployees is important for their health and well-being. For several offering tax benefits within their remuneration package. The disyears, flexible working hours have been implemented, allowing tribution of the Flexible Remuneration Plan is summarized below: arrival and departure times to be adjusted in accordance with the personal circumstances of all employees in Spain. In the remaining countries, this is done individually depending on the re45.5% 27.3% 27.3% Restaurant Childcare Transport quirements of each wind farm, local legislation and the customs voucher voucher voucher of each country. As for the US, workers have an insurance policy in accordance with the legal requirements, which includes, among others, both Diversity dental and life insurance. In Mexico and Brazil workers have a private medical insurance. Elawan believes that the way of thinking of professionals from different origins helps us to achieve positive changes at the organization regarding our working methods, and increases our capacity for innovation, giving response to the current market. Communication The company considers that by promoting local employment, we Internal communication help to enhance the dialogue with the local communities, thereby Internal communication focuses on an international team, for allowing us more precisely to understand their culture, and so imemployees located in different countries, with periodic displaprove integration. 90% of the male employees and 100% of the cements. The most versatile channel is the Leading the Change female employees are therefore of local origin (405-1). corporate Intranet. In addition, this year we have improved the gender diversity ratio, In addition, the CEO periodically meets at least twice a year with from 28% women in 2017 to 32% women in 2018. all employees to discuss areas of interest to the company and to respond to their concerns directly. In addition, for communications on operational changes or relevant news, employees are Maternity / Paternity 401-3 informed by e-mail. In 2018 there have been no maternity or paternity leaves. With regard to the maternity leave produced in Spain in 2017, the emExternal communication ployee has already been reincorporated to the company (100%). External communication with the other company stakeholders is conducted by means of publications on the website, press releases, meetings, etc. For a more agile communication, social media chanCollective labor agreements 102-41 nels are used in order to provide a more direct insight into significant The rights and obligations of all employees are covered by events at the company on a day-to-day basis. collective agreements or similar structures, depending on the country they are working in, and on the local regulations and requirements. The situation in 2017 is summarized below: Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 41 Social Dimension Health and Safety Management focus 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Health and Safety represents a key factor to Elawan, playing The management model is based on the integration, on the a part in its mission and strategic objectives. It has therefore process map of the company, on the Safety issues and requirean integrated Management System duly implemented in accorments established; and it is underpinned by the principles defidance with international standards ISO 14001:2015, ISO 9001 ned in the new Integrated Management Policy of the company, and OHSAS 18001 for the promotion, development, operation of compulsory compliance and which serves as the baseline doand sale of installations for renewable energy worldwide. The cument for the system. This new policy has been disseminated system be recertified in 2018 with a result of zero major and both to internal staff as well as to the stakeholders. minor non-conformities. Within the master action lines that structure the management In 2018, we continue our change from OHSAS 18001 to ISO system the following should be noted: 45001 norm, in order to have a more practical and documented • Culture of Health and Safety based on the lessons learned system available for the processes that require this. and the ¨0¨ accidents goal. To this end, the base of the system will be maintained with a • Quality awareness raising and training, adjusted and periodic. more efficient integration. We are immersed in the adjustment process, integrating additional requirements (participation and • Internal and external communication through defined and inquiry, SWOT matrix, targets, etc.) demanded. Next year we clear channels. will be certified under this new standard. • Proactive control and analysis of tracking indicators and control points (KPIs). 42 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 New documentation associated to the Emergencies preventive management system Elawan has a control and preparation procedure for emergenThroughout this year, a significant effort was made in the imcies, which includes action guidelines that encompass all phaplementation of new formats and registers in order to consolises of the process; from the detection and definition of these date their use by the staff involved. Moreover, new documentasituations in the different plans to their communication and tion has been drawn up/optimized, among which the following analysis, with the updating of the incident investigation sheet. stand out: Periodic drills are held to ensure correct implementation. New Safety Alert protocol This system serves to enable the communication of health and safety alerts that may occur in any of the facilities, which then may be communicated to other installations to contribute to the improvement of health and safety. This is a way to improve participation and communication of the health and safety system and is a clear example of proactive incident management. New Manual on Environmental Management and Occupational Health and Safety on site The Manual aims to define action guidelines to ensure, by establishing operational criteria, that operations and activities that may create health and safety risks for the Responsibilities and functions employees at work are done under spe403-1 and 403-4 cific conditions, that these are controlled and periodically measured. The Manual At Elawan there is no legal obligation for Health and Safety covers situations which, in its absence, committees to be formed, although the QSHE area does receive could lead to deviations from safety and all questions and suggestions from employees worldwide. As a health policy and objectives. result, there is no union representation, nor unitary representation, nor any safety agreements are carried out. It also includes the main safety requirements and procedures defined by the company for implementation on construction Even so, the Health and Safety department is entrenched glosites. bally in all the centers of the company; they have formal procedures in place which compile the responsibilities and functions concerning prevention, and which are integrated in the ManaNew risk data sheets per job gement System. Moreover, in some country’s centers rely on These are made to inform and train workers on the general risks local advisory services with regards to Health and Safety to inherent to the company and the ones specific to their position, guarantee control and compliance to the specific requirements on protection and prevention measures that are to be adopted of each location. and on the emergency measures, all in accordance with art. 18, Within the new integrated management system, the proce19 and 20 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act, 31/1995, dures and channels for Consultation and worker participation as well as with the legislation applicable in each country. are defined and updated; aiming for the final objective of transparency and clarity in vertical and horizontal communications, both internally and externally. Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 43 Training and communication Training Participation and Inquiry Training and informing Elawan employees are basic priorities for Beyond the legal obligation, Elawan Energy considers particithe company and one of the axes that underpins the Managepation and inquiry a basic pillar within its mission and management System. ment system; as well as a lever for the continuous improvement of the health and safety conditions at work. The Training Plan is defined annually based on the identification of internal needs, as well as on the technical criteria and requireTo this effect, it has made a serious commitment to the right of ments of the sector; whilst always searching to provide periodic information, participation and inquiry of its workers, extending training which fits each individual job position. it to the rest of the company’s interested parties. In 2018, a total of 494 hours of health and safety training were This is materialised by seeking the elimination of barriers and given, representing an average of 7 hours per employee. guarantees simple, efficient and clearly defined horizontal and vertical lines of communication. Among the courses taken in 2018, we would like to highlight the following: Throughout this year, a new participation and inquiry procedure has been defined, which has been properly publicized and disclosed to all the workers involved. The objective is to contribute to the integration of occupational risk prevention in all decisions and hierarchical levels of the company, which is why the collaboration of all workers is essential. Elawan Energy pledges to include the result of such participation in the continuous improvement process of the company. All-encompassing SGI-PRL training A new course has been defined and implemented that encompasses the most relevant aspects of the Management System and which trains employees on the specific risks associated to office positions (PVD). Similarly, information is included on emergency management in the work centres and/or the handling of accidents in itinere. This training has been given to all staff and is available to employees in the common directory. Recycling under GWO standards in the USA, Brazil and Spain Throughout 2018, the Global Wind Organization (GWO) training of the staff of the parks in the USA, South Africa and Spain were recycled, thus guaranteeing the maintenance of the training and quality standards defined by the company, as well as their implementation at a global level. Protection equipment and training Elawan, aware of the importance that safety and health has on its workers, is concerned that they have the necessary and appropriate tools for the development of their activity. This is why, as a result of the change in the name of the company, the updating of the corporate clothing which was initiated the previous year is maintained, seeking to improve and adapt it without neglecting safety and compliance with the regulations applicable in each case and country. 44 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Communication and Awareness External communication During 2018, compliance with the communications matrix was For all accidents (minor, serious or fatal) that occur on company verified, including the disclosure of relevant aspects of the syspremises, the communication channels established for this purtem, as well as various sensitivities. Likewise, the annual trapose will be followed, as well as the obligations and deadlines ining plan for the detection of departmental needs has been defined by the competent authority according to each country. communicated, as well as the result of the management review As far as external parties are concerned, no environmental, healand an annex in order to complete the information. th and safety or any other communications have been received. The creation and implementation of the common directory has improved communication channels and accessibility to the documents, among which the following stand out. Awareness • Documentation derived from the application to the General Elawan promotes health and safety awareness through the Data Protection Regulation (RGPD) dissemination of periodic campaigns and/or data of interest; • Environmental dossier. coinciding with relevant dates, such as the World Day for Safety • Emergency plan of the Madrid office building and Health at Work. • Surveys of environmental incidents • Evaluation criteria for suppliers Similarly, this year, the following new documents were included: Tracking indicators 403-2 • Risk data sheets. • New SGI-PRL training In 2018, the staff of Elawan has not suffered any labor acci• Safety Alerts. dents nor incidents concerning Health & Safety. This fact indi• Environmental commitment. cates compliance to the Health & Safety protocols established, • Manual on Environmental Management and Occupational such as the preventive measures and the good performance Health and Safety on site. and awareness of our employees. This data puts the company´s absenteeism levels far below Finally, the new participation and inquiry procedure was defithose of the same industry. ned and disseminated, which aims to guarantee and broaden the knowledge of all workers and company stakeholders. Accident rates for external staff With regard to outsourced workers, in 2018 there is only one Internal communication incident at Flat Water involving the incorrect handling of cargo, For the internal reporting of accidents, the channels established resulting in the dislocation of one shoulder. This incident has for this purpose are used and are included in the Management been duly reported and was investigated by the subcontractor System. The communication is done bidirectionally, and follows in accordance with the established procedure; and the investithe guidelines set for the health and safety managers and for gation was concluded in a satisfactory manner. the rest of the staff. It is mandatory to comply with the established communication guidelines in order to carry out a comprehensive analysis of Absenteeism each accident and to be able to propose the necessary improThe absenteeism at Elawan is “0”, as there have been no acvement measures in order to avoid similar accidents. cidents, and as a result there was no absenteeism among our employees Regarding absenteeism for “other reasons”, this is also “0” in all Prevention of occupational accidents countries, except Spain, the result of which is 0,18, which mainFor the last 7 years, Elawan has received incentives ly corresponds to women. (Rate: number of days in the year x granted by the Ministry of Labour to companies for their 100 / Σ days per month x workers). contribution to the reduction and prevention of occupational accidents by virtue of “Royal Decree 404/2010, of 31 March, regulating the establishment of a system of reduction of contributions for professional contingencies Occupational diseases for companies that have made a special contribution to No cases of occupational diseases have been identified in the the reduction and prevention of occupational accidents”. company staff, so the overall rate is “0” (403-3). Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 45 Social Dimension Society Contribution to local development 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Elawan contributes to local economic development in the counIn addition to the benefits derived from its activity, Elawan betries it has a presence in by creating value through its products lieves that the initiatives at the local level help to strengthen and services. the bonds with the community. Some examples are as follows: The regions where Elawan is located receive incomes through taxes, levies and duties that contribute to the improvement of services and life of the inhabitants of the region. The amount Elawan in Poland paid in these concepts in 2018 was €14,557 thousand. Elawan participated in the Szerzawy Race in the town of Pawlow, in which there was participation in various categoIn addition, new business opportunities are generated for local ries of different ages (adults and children). The race took them suppliers and services, while creating employment in the region, through the outskirts of the town and through the park. contributing to the improvement of the local economy. In 2018 the expenses in local suppliers amounted to €18,738 thousand. Social action 413-1 Elawan aligns its business strategy with the SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) through social action, working with different associations and local administrations, through a constant and transparent dialogue. In addition, it has been collaborating with the Global Compact since 2014, to contribute to the dissemination and achievement of the 10 Principles and Objectives of Sustainable Development. Within this framework, Elawan collaborates with non-profit organisations for the development of corporate and local activities. This makes it possible to achieve greater and better development in rural or isolated areas by the generation of clean energy, since it is adapted to areas where the power grid does not reach, or its implementation is very costly and complex. Likewise, its average operational lifetime lasts for more than 30 years and technological costs have been reduced considerably. 46 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Elawan in Mexico Elawan has two operating mini-hydraulics in Mexico, in Tacotan and Trigomil. These do not only generate renewable and pollution-free energy, but also contribute to generate local employment giving priority to local businesses to benefit the communities in the region and to promote the benefits of this type of energy to young people. In 2018, they carried out various works related to the maintenance of the plants themselves, in addition to the transmission lines with pruning and post adjustment activities and the maintenance of access roads, which included paving, guardrails, etc. This created around 25 direct local jobs. In addition, they helped to train young people through guided tours of the plants to which the students of different professional schools such as the University of Guadalajara, ITESO and the National Technological Institute of Mexico attended Associations and organizations United Nations The most relevant are summarized next: Global Compact • Spain: Asociación Empresarial Eólica (AEE) y Unión EspañoThe aim of the company is to promote and implement the 10 la Fotovoltaica (UNEF) universal principles regarding human rights, labour standards, • Poland: Polish Wind Energy Association (PWEA) the environment and corporate business strategies, in addition to the Sustainable Development Goals. • Poland: Wind Energy Association (SEO) To this effect, Elawan joined the United Nations Global Compact • Belgium: Edora in 2014, and met all the requirements for renewing its commit• France: France Energie Eolienne (FEE) ment in 2018. • Romania: Asociatia Romana pentru Energie Eoliana (RWEA) Elawan participates in different industry associations in the • South Africa: South African Wind Energy Association countries it has a presence in, with the aim to contribute and (SAWEA) help development, investment and the integration of renewable energy in the energy mix of each country, as well as other acti• Turkey: Turkish Wind Energy Association (TWEA) vities concerning the promotion of the industry. As indicated in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, Elawan does not provide financial assistance to governments (415-1). Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 47 Environmental Dimension Management focus 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 The environment is key to Elawan throughout our entire busiNew Manual on Environmental Management ness cycle. Therefore, we have implemented a Management and Occupational Health and Safety on site System certified under ISO 14001 for the promotion, development, operation and sale of renewable energy production faciIts objective is to establish action guidelines to ensure that opelities internationally. rations and activities that may have a significant environmental impact or may generate a risk to the health and safety of After a year of adapting to the ISO 14001:2015 version, an workers during the performance of their work are carried out external audit of the management system was conducted in under specified conditions, are monitored and measured perio2018. The result was very satisfactory, verifying the impledically, establishing operational criteria and covering situations mentation and adaptation, obtaining certification with zero in which their absence could lead to deviations in policy and obmajor and minor non-conformities. This result corroborates the jectives, environmental and health and safety. Likewise, and in maturity of the system and shows its adequate integration in line with the company´s environmental policy, we extend our the company’s strategic processes. serious commitment to the care and protection of the environIn accordance with the commitments acquired with the manament to suppliers and subcontractors. gement system, in 2018 we oriented the lines of work in enviTo this end, through the environmental commitment letter, inronmental matters towards: cluded in the Manual, the supplier/contractor is informed of the • Certification of the system based on the 2015 version of the organisation’s environmental policy and its express commitstandard. ment is requested, which is linked through the receipt of the document. • Implementation of the new support and business processes with the collaboration of the departments involved. • Reduction of losses in relation to the production and recoOptimization of the Life Cycle Analysis very of the waste generated. and SWOT matrix • Minimisation of the environmental footprint (optimisation of The improvement of these formats allows a better understantravel, reduction of consumption based on energy produced ding, since it integrates the interested parties and the environor people, awareness-raising campaigns, etc.). mental aspects, guaranteeing a global reading of the manageThroughout the year, the implementation of new formats and ment system. registers has been strengthened in order to consolidate their use by the personnel involved and new documents have been developed: 48 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental aspects Emergency preparedness In 2017 we adjusted the evaluation procedure for environmenand response tal aspects and adapted it to the new version of the standard. The correct implementation of the Environmental Emergency Whether an aspect is relevant or not is determined based on the Plans has been verified in the company’s operational centres. To comparative calculation against the previous year, on whether this effect, the environmental surveys that were carried out by it is included in legal compliance, if there are measures for its the involved staff have been analysed, and there was a notable control and on the implications for stakeholders. improvement in the results obtained in the interannual compaAbove all we are working on significant aspects to improve, as rison, which demonstrates that staff awareness has increased. much as possible, the ratios and to reduce our impact. Likewise, 3 environmental emergency situations were detected in 2018 these are taken into account when defining the company’s stra(306-3): tegic management objectives. • Fire at the Control Centre (CCER). Once the evaluation has been carried out in accordance with the new criteria established, the following significant aspects • Fire in the transformer in the Cabeço Preto II substation. have been determined: • 0.0006 cubic metre oil spill in Petersburg. • Electrical consumption in the Madrid office. Indicate that in 2018 there have been no environmental claims • Generation of fluorescents in the centres in the O&M phase. or litigation (307-1). • Generation of batteries in the centres in the O&M phase. • Generation of used oil in the centres in the O&M phase. Communication, awareness and stakeholders The format of our matrix was modified this year to expand the analysis and explicitly include the needs and expectations of The following aspects were identified as significant in emergency each defined stakeholder. This fact is linked to the integration situations: of the stakeholders to the SWOT matrix, and aims to optimize • Fire the analysis and increase the consistency of the management system. • Transformer breakage with oil loss The results of the needs and expectations of the interested parties were reviewed based on the defined format; non-comOn a positive note, the reduction of CO2 has been re-evaluated pliance was not detected, and the fulfilment of the expectations after the 3% increase in production compared to last year. In was continuously guaranteed. After review by the interested addition, a specific target associated with the office’s energy parties, 3 new needs were included: mutual accident insurance, consumption was set for 2019. third party prevention service and waste managers and transporters. The rest of the significant aspects related to the generation of waste at the O&M centres are directly associated with the Among the internal communications and disclosures made, it is planning and scheduling of the maintenance ranges of the insworth highlighting those made on specific dates related to the tallations and turbines, so we do not have the capacity to act in environment, as well as documentary updates of the managethis respect and its significance is conditioned by the guidelines ment system. of the different manufacturers. In any case, over the next few years, the results and consumption obtained will be monitored and analysed with a view to the interannual study of the data, with historical series of maintenance (corrective and preventive). Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 49 Environmental performance Elawan is aware of the importance of respecting and caring for These wastes are associated with the corrective and preventive the environment, which is why we optimize natural resources maintenance required by the turbines and equipment that make and minimizes our impact by the detailed monitoring of certain up the facility, so that their generation is directly conditioned by indicators, as well as other relevant environmental vectors. the maintenance cycles and ranges. With regard to the transportation of wastes (306-4), 100% of the waste is transported In the parks we obtain data regarding the energy consumption by local certified management companies. and production through the CCER. However, maintenance work is often externalized, and no information is available to that regard. Noise In a similar way, there are other aspects that must be controlled Waste 306-2 in accordance with the region or country´s specific legislation. Sound emissions should be highlighted among those. All these The main indicators on hazardous and non-hazardous waste are within the limits established by the applicable legislation. are controlled via the management system, separating those produced in offices and those produced in parks, derived from maintenance work. Although it is a material aspect, our activity generates very little waste and all of it is managed in accordance with the legislation of each country. Highlights of the year For monitoring purposes, we consider the relative values accorAs stated in our management system, we periodically set tarding to the energy production in the parks and according to the gets for improvement. Their degree of compliance is summarinumber of employees in the offices in Madrid, in order to comsed below: pare the information at the different facilities. • 5% reduction of the tons of CO2 produced in business trips For the analysis of the data, the amount of waste generated and employee commutes compared to 2017. The target was in each facility is relative to the production of that site and the met after this indicator was reduced by 44% compared to overall result of the company is subsequently generated. the previous year. The recentralization of the job positions to the office in Madrid, optimizing the planification of business The results for 2018 are presented below: trips and movements and adjusting to new communication methods (Skype, videoconferences, etc.) have been determi+ Generation of contaminated absorbents (kg): ning factors to achieve these results (302-4). reduced by 73% • Reduction in the generation of batteries-accumulators in the + Generation of aerosols (kg): these were not generated. main centre by 50% with respect to the value obtained in 2017. The target was met after achieving a 600% reduction, + Generation of contaminated metal containers(kg): largely associated with the use of rechargeable batteries reduced by 37% and chargers and employee awareness. + Generation of contaminated plastic containers (kg): • It should be noted that there was a substantial reduction in reduced by 75%. water consumption in the parks in the O&M phase, which + Generation of oil filters (kg): reduced by 76% is an indicator of the great effort made with regard to the management policies and the good practices applied concerGeneration of used oil (kg): 20% increase. ning the consumption of this resource. + Generation of septic tank sludge (kg) (only applicable in some parks): reduced by 88%. This figure is relative since it is subject to the purchase and sale of projects and the change in the company’s portfolio. 50 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Biodiversity Environmental impacts 304-1 and 304-2 As part of the integrated management system, the identification and assessment of environmental aspects and associated impacts is a key factor throughout the development, construction and operation of the project. That is why this cataloguing is carried out annually, covering all the productive processes of the organisation and identifying direct and indirect aspects, both in the normal and emergency operating phases. In this way, homogeneous groups are established, distinguishing between offices and facilities and, in the case of the latter, according to the phase they are in (construction, maintenance and operation). During the dismantling phase of a facility, a new identification and assessment of specific environmental aspects will be carried out, including the applicable controls and legal requirements, such as those deriving from the Environmental Impact Statement. In addition, all projects are executed guaranteeing compliance with the requirements defined in the legislation and environmental permits according to the country of application, from the promotional and development phases by obtaining the permits and licenses and the development of environmental impact studies, to the meresponse is to paint the wind turbines white matt so that no asures associated with the future dismantling of the centres. reflections are created, and to paint the auxiliary structures in color tones consistent with the colors of the area to better inteThe most frequent negative impacts are summarized next:: grate them into the landscape. Land use and degradation Noise and dust impact This occurs with the lifting and moving of earth mainly in the Noise is produced by components of the wind turbine, mechaniconstruction phase. Corrective measures are established in orcally as well as aerodynamically. der to mitigate these impacts such as avoiding work in areas with high sensitivity to erosion, limiting the weight of transporWind farms are installed in areas sufficiently far away from poted loads, and natural water flows. pulation centers to avoid disturbances resulting from the noise. Additionally, the measures established in environmental monitoring programmers are also followed. Impacts on flora and fauna Mainly affecting birds and bats due to collisions with the blades of the wind turbines and/or the electrical output lines. MoreoProtection of flora and fauna ver, during the construction phase, special care is taken to limit 304-3 and 304-4 stress generated by noise, vibrations and movement. The monitoring and measurement of biodiversity is performed Examples of mitigating actions are the installation of anti-collibased on the contractual obligations and on the requirements sion elements in areas with high levels of bird-migration and the of the relevant environmental authorizations, in accordance tracking of birds, and regarding the preservation of vegetation, with the technical methodologies and standards stipulated in plague control, control of invasive species and replanting. each case. Furthermore, we have extensive monitoring studies of flora and fauna. It should be noted that the identified protected species Impact on landscape are located in the parks in Brazil, Spain and South Africa, which The implementation of wind farms tends to take place in natural are no longer property of Elawan Energy. mountainous or coastal areas, where the strength of the wind is best harnessed, but which increases their visual impact. This is one of the most complicated problems to mitigate; a common Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 51 Environmental controls Elawan establishes environmental monitoring and follow-up Torrijos (Spain) programmes for all centres to ensure compliance with the • Elaboration of a Dismantling and Restoration Plan associacompensatory measures and the requirements defined by the ted with compliance to the Environmental Impact Statement. competent administrations. These studies and programmes are carried out during all phases of the project, from the promotion • Monthly Environmental Monitoring program. stage to future dismantling, in order to maintain traceability and • Execution of compensacontinuity of the measures established. tory measures: PerimeComplementarily, these controls are based on the permanent ter shrub planting and supervision of the projects carried out in accordance with what installation of 50 nests is defined in the Environmental Management Manual. for the kestrel. As a non-exhaustive summary, the following is a list of some of the most significant controls carried out at the company’s centres: O&M Projects Projects under construction Spain Hannut (Belgium) • Annual environmental Tracking Reports officially presented to the authorities. • Monthly environmental reports in order to verify compliance with compensatory measures, as well as with the Equator • Analysis of avifauna accidents associated with the projects. Principles associated with the project. Copperton (South Africa) Brazil • Monthly reports on environmental compliance. • Maintenance of Operating Licenses based on compliance with the conditions defined therein and on permanent com• Permanent Environmental Supervision on site by an authorimunication with the competent environmental body (IDEMA). zed technician. USA • Annual waste reports and compliance to the Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plans. Circular economy Elawan Energy, in line with the Europe 2020 strategy aims to generate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and promotes and integrates the concept of the circular economy into its projects in order to support the shift to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy. To this effect, and within the integrated management system, it considers the following instruments: • Eco-conception based on the life cycle analysis of the company’s acti• “Functionality” economy associated with vities and processes, identifying the associated environmental aspects the concept of renewable energy and prioand impacts, control and evaluation criteria, stakeholders, monitoring and ritizing the generation of clean energies measurement for each stage of the cycle (purchase/design, transport, use, over the consumption of our plants. end of life). • Adequate waste management, prioritizing In this way, a series of environmental impacts are categorised for which the circular flow of materials: the appropriate control and minimisation measures are established: · Reuse of used oils. · Decrease/Consumption of natural resources: Awareness campaigns/ · Repairs: Corrective and preventive good practices; minimization of trips and international travel. maintenance based on the manufac· Generation of waste (hazardous and non-hazardous). Acquisition of turer´s range and prioritizing in situ rechargeable batteries; recycling of paper in offices, acquisition of paper reparations. from sustainable management (PEFC or FSC). · Recycling and valorisation of the waste · Impacts on fauna. Plans and controls for environmental surveillance, generated (fluorescent tubes, scrap monitoring and periodic follow-up. metal, paper, toner, etc.). 52 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Energy Elawan has a very low energy consumption level, mainly resulting from maintenance works at wind farms and from the company’s offices. Internal energy consumption 302-1 Internal energy consumption In 2018, Elawan consumed a total of 5,772 GJ of energy in Countries Energy consumption (GJ) its Spanish wind farms which did not derive from renewable sources. Belgium 288 Brazil 771 Spain 540 USA 1,927 Mexico 0 Poland 339 Turkey 1,808 Total 5,673 Energy intensity 302-3 Elawan considers that the measurement of our energy intensity Energy intensity is a good way to ascertain the efficiency and impact of its activity. For this reason, an annual ratio is calculated by dividing the Energy consumption Countries (GJ consumed / GJ produced) internal energy consumption by the total weight of energy sold Belgium 0.0013 in each country. The following table summarizes the results: Brazil 0.0004 Spain 0.0017 As for external consumption, no information is available regarUSA 0.0011 ding this indicator. Information is expected to be available by 2030 (203-2). Mexico 0.0000 Poland 0.0046 Turkey 0.0031 TOTAL 0.0012 Renewable energy production 302-1 At Elawan, we are aware that climate change is one of the main Renewable energy production environmental issues facing the planet, as well as a key point Countries Energy production (GJ) for its stakeholders. Therefore, our activity, the generation of renewable energy, contributes to this fight. Belgium 229,453 Brazil 1,722,823 In 2018, a total of 4,778,486 GJ of energy was generated from Spain 319,456 renewable sources, the distribution by country being summarized below: USA 1,782,160 Mexico 73,865 Poland 74,554 Turkey 576,173 TOTAL 4,778,486 Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 53 Emissions and climate change 201-2 The fight against climate change is a key aspect of business. For this reason, we are actively working towards achieving the objectives of sustainable development, mainly objective 7 (Affordable and non-polluting energy) and objective 13 (Climate action). Benefits of renewable energies Greenhouse gas emissions Renewable energies guarantee sustainability due to their By measuring our carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, Elawan helps non-polluting properties, they are inexhaustible sources, and to improve the communication of our impacts and to the collecthey are an increasingly competitive indigenous energy with tion of specific data with the aim of establishing possible impotential for use anywhere on the planet and, therefore, are acprovement objectives. For the calculation of CO2 emissions, the cessible throughout the planet. following standards have been considered: Green House Gas ProThey generate practically no waste, nor do they require water tocol (GHG Protocol), Emissions Factors from Cross-Sectors Tools for their operation, thus contributing to the maintenance of wa(GHG Protocol – 2014) to calculate fuel emission factors; the ter resources. They do not produce greenhouse gases or polluIPCC Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 to calcuting properties, contributing to combating climate change and late R-22; and for electricity consumption, the average emission generating wealth and local employment, so its development is factors of each country´s national electricity mix for the period essential to combat climate change. 2009-2011 according to the IEA (International Energy Agency). For every KWh produced, wind energy has 21 times less environmental impact than oil, 10 times less than nuclear energy and 5 times less than gas (Source: AEE). The prices of renewable energies, mainly solar and wind, have decreased notably. The main reasons for this decline are due to the reduction of solar panels and turbines. Thus, due to the lower cost of these parts of the facilities, building a wind farm now costs between 39 and 58% less than in 2007 and a solar farm around 68% less than in 2010 (Source: IRENA). Therefore, investment in renewable energies is a bet that allows for the development of deprived areas and rural areas, improving habitat, creating employment, favouring the estaDirect Emissions Scope 1 blishment of local suppliers and acting as a spearhead for the 305-1 service industry and local economy. With its development we contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goal 7 “afforThe company’s production process begins with wind, the main dable and non-polluting energy” to achieve universal access to raw material for Elawan. It must, therefore, be kept in mind that electricity by 2030. the company does not generate direct emissions from the consumption of other fossil fuels. Meanwhile, no refrigerant gas refills were performed during the period (305-6). 54 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Indirect Emissions Scope 2 CO2 emissions avoided through the production 305-2 of electrical energy These emissions correspond to those generated at electricity 305-5 power plants for consumption at our facilities and offices. In Given Elawan´s activities, we barely generate any atmospheric 2018, the total amounted to 655 tons of CO2. emissions. This represents a way of helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change. In 2018, the Scope 2 emission of 421,750 tons of CO2 was avoided. Countries Tonnes of CO2 Below is a breakdown of the tons of CO2 avoided per country Belgium 17 throughout the year: Brazil 15 Spain 44 CO2 emissions avoided USA 269 Countries Tonnes of CO2 Mexico 0 Belgium 13,448 Poland 73 Brazil 32,542 Turkey 237 Spain 25,823 TOTAL 655 USA 249,007 Mexico 9,233 Poland 16,153 Other Emissions Scope 3 Turkey 75,543 305-3 TOTAL 421,750 Other emissions include emissions from corporate travel by plane, train and rental cars, as well as those resulting from employees travelling to their workplace, which total 355 tonnes of CO2. Energy and emission intensity 305-4 Elawan likewise takes the intensity of emissions into account in order to measure the efficiency and impact of its processes. The resulting annual ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of direct and indirect emissions by the total weight of the production sold in each country. The following tables detail the obtained Train results: 0.70 tonnes of CO2 Emissions intensity Countries tonCO2 emited/GJ produced Belgium 0.059 Car rental 0.019 1.2 tonnes of CO2 Brazil Spain 0.081 USA 0.140 Mexico 0.000 Poland 0.000 Employee commutes Turkey 0.131 53 tonnes of CO2 TOTAL 0.429 Airplane 300 tonnes of CO2 Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 55 Sustainability Report 2018 Annexes Independent Review Report 58 Report Profile 59 GRI Content Index 59 Contents based on the Principles United of the Nations Global Compact 65 List of consolidated subsidiaries companies 66 Independent Review Report INDEPENDENT REVIEW REPORT ON ELAWAN ENERGY, S.L. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To the Management of Elawan Energy, S.L.: Scope We have reviewed the contents of Elawan Energy, S.L. • Checking, through review tests based on a selection of (hereinafter called Elawan) 2018 Sustainability Report and in both qualitative and quantitative information samples of the “GRI Content Index” included as an Annex. the indicators included in the “GRI Content Index” in The scope determined by Elawan for the preparation of this the Annex, and its adequate compilation from the data report is defined in Annex, inside Section List of consolidated provided from different information sources. The review subsidiaries compaies” of the 2018 Sustainability Report tests have been defined to provide assurance levels in (hereinafter, the Report). line with the criteria described in this report • Verification on the fact that the financial information The Report was prepared based on GRI Sustainability included in the Report has been audited by Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). independent third parties. The preparation of the Report, as well as the information These procedures were performed on information published contained therein, is the responsibility of the management of in Elawan´s 2018 Sustainability Report and in the GRI the Company, who is also responsible for defining, adapting, Content Index” in Appendices, with the above mentioned and maintaining the management and internal control perimeter and scope. systems from which the information is obtained. Our responsibility is to issue an independent report based on the The scope of this review is considerably lower than in a procedures applied in our review. reasonable assurance report. Therefore, the degree of assurance is also less extensive. Criteria This report in no case should be considered an audit report. Our review was carried out based on: • The Guidelines for reviewing Corporate Responsibility Independence & QA Reports, issued by the Official Register of Auditors of We have met the independence requirements and other Accounts (ICJCE). ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Accounting • Standard ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Practitioners issued by the International Ethics Standards Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Board for Accountants (IESBA). Historical Financial Information, issued by the Our firm applies the International Quality Control Standard 1 International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board (NICC 1) and maintains, therefore, a global quality control (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants system that includes documented policies and procedures (IFAC), with a limited level of assurance. regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory Applied Procedures provisions. Our review consisted in requesting information from Elawan´s corporate managers and the various managers of business Conclusions units involved in preparing the Report, and applying certain As a result of our review of Elawan’s 2018 Sustainability analytical procedures and sampling review tests, including: Report, within the previously described scope, we conclude • Interviews with the staff in charge of the preparation of that no matter came to our attention that would lead us to the sustainability information, in order to gain an believe that the Report was not prepared, in all its significant understanding of how the objectives and Sustainability aspects, according to GRI Sustainability Reporting policies are considered and put into practice and Standards (GRI Standards), as it is stated in the Report, integrated in Elawan group strategy. having reviewed the GRI Content Index included as an • Reviewing the processes for the compilation and Annex. validation of the sustainability information included in the attached Report. This report has been prepared solely for the Management of • Checking the processes held by Elawan in order to Elawan, in accordance with the terms set out in our define the material aspects and stakeholder engagement letter. participation. • Reviewing the adaptation of the structure and content of the sustainability information as indicated in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards), in ERNST & YOUNG, S.L. accordance with comprehensive option. (Free translation from the Original Report on Independent Review in Spanish dated July 10th, 2019. In case of any discrepancy, the Spanish version always prevails.) 58 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Report profile 102-46 and 102-49 The Sustainability Report was created in accordance with the inmelho, Cabeço Vermelho II, Boa Esperança I, Pedra do Reino formation and indicators established in the reference guide of the IV) and 5 wind farms in Spain (Les forques, Montargull, Ferracomprehensive option of the “GRI Standards”, (102-54) and the repa, Pena Revolta y Pousadoiro) were sold over the year. levant matters that arise from our Materiality Study, as an integral • Additionally, we have a portfolio under construction which part of our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals. includes three wind parks in Belgium: Hannut, Beaumont ExThe table of contents can be found in the Annex of this report, tension and Salazine/Ciney; one in Turkey: Adares Extension, together with the independent external verification report done and two solar parks: Szerzawy (Poland) and Torrijos (Spain), by the company EY (102-56). which are expected to come into operation in 2019. Likewise, the Pedra do Reino V park (Brazil) is expected to come The goal is to communicate the most relevant aspects and iniinto operation in 2020 and the Copperton (South Africa) and tiatives, with an approach that is aligned with our way to unYaris (Turkey) parks in 2121. derstand sustainability and its impact on the management of the company. There have not been any significant changes compared to the previous year. The minor changes are indicated in their corresThe Report has an annual periodicity (102-52), and encompasponding sections (102-49). ses the information covered between January 1st 2018 and December 31th 2018 (102-50), the last report being the one There has not been any restatement of information regarding corresponding to the year 2017 (102-51). the previous financial year (102-48), nor were there any changes in the supply chain (102-10). With respect to the previous year, the main changes in scope are summarised: For general issues regarding this report, information is available at (102-53): • The Persimmon Creek I in the USA came into operation at the end of the year. rsc@elawan.com +34 91 379 10 00 • Brazil, where 5 wind farms (Pedra do Reino IV, Cabeço VerOmbú 3 St. Floor 10. 28045 Madrid. Spain GRI Content Index 102-55 EXTERNAL VERIFICATION: The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity EY. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Information omissions are included as a note in italics on appropriate indicators. Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Content 102-1 Name of the organization 10 √ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 √ 102-4 Location of operations 14 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 21 √ 102-6 Markets served 14 √ Organizational profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 13 √ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 38 √ 102-9 Supply chain 35 √ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 59 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 16 √ 102-12 External initiatives 46 √ 102-13 Membership of associations 47 √ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-6 √ Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16 √ 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 36 √ Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 36 √ Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 59 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review 102-18 Governance structure 21 √ 102-19 Delegating authority 21 √ 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 22 √ 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 2 √ 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 22 √ 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 21 √ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 22 √ 102-25 Conflicts of interest 22 √ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 22 √ 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 23 √ 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 23 √ Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 23 √ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 23 √ 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 23 √ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 23 √ 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 22 √ 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 23, 36 √ 102-35 Remuneration policies 23 √ 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 23 √ 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 23 √ 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 23 √ 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 23 √ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 24 √ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41 √ Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 24 √ engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24 √ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 25 √ 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 66 √ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 59 √ 102-47 List of material topics 25 √ 102-48 Restatements of information 59 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting 59 √ 102-50 Reporting period 59 √ Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 59 √ 102-52 Reporting cycle 59 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 59 √ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 59 √ 102-55 GRI content index 59 √ 102-56 External assurance 58 √ 60 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 28 √ GRI 103:Management Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 28 √ indicators reported in this section Economic Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 28 √ Economic Performance √ 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 29 √ 201-2 Financial implications and other risk and opportunities 54 √ GRI 201: Economic due to climate change Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans NA √ 201-4 Financial assitance received from government 29 √ Market presence 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender GRI 202: Market presence 40 √ compared to local minimum wage Procurement Practices GRI 204: Procurement 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 35 √ Practices Anticorruption 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 36 √ GRI 205: Anti corruption 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 36 √ 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 36 √ Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 36 √ Behavior practices Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 61 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Management Approach GRI 103:Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48 √ Approach. It is applicable to all indicators 103-2 The management approach and its components 48 √ reported in this section Environmental Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48 √ Energy (no material) 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 53, 54 √ 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization 53 √ GRI 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity 53 √ 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 50 √ 302-5: Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Nota A √ Emissions (no material) 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 54 √ 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 55 √ 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 55 √ GRI 305: Emissions 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 55 √ 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 55 √ 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 55 √ Effluents and Waste 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination Nota B √ 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 50 √ GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-3: Significant spills 50 √ 306-4: Transport of hazardous waste 50 √ 306-5: Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Nota B √ Biodiversity 304-1: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 51, 52 √ areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 51 √ GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3: Habitats protected or restored 51 √ 304-4: IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 51 √ in areas affected by operations. Environmental Compliance GRI 307: Environmental 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 36 √ Compliance NOTE A: Not applicable. Our activity is the production of renewable energy. NOTE B: With respect to water collection and discharge, this is minimal as it only affects offices and is therefore not considered relevant. 62 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics SOCIAL PERFOMANCE Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38, 42, 46 √ GRI 103:Management Approach. It is applicable to all 103-2 The management approach and its components 38, 42, 46 √ indicators reported in this section Social Dimension. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 42, 46 √ Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 39 √ 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary GRI 401: Employment 39 √ or part-time employees 401-3: Parental leave 39 √ Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and 43 √ safety committees 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 45 √ GRI 403: Occupational absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Health and Safety 403-3: Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 45 √ 403-4: Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 43 √ Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 40 √ GRI 404: Training and 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 39 √ Education 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career develo39 √ pment reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity (not material) GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 38 √ Equal Opportunity Non discrimination GRI 406: Non 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 36 √ discrimination Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 63 Page/ GRI Standards Content Omission Review Materility topics SOCIAL PERFOMANCE Freedom of Association GRI 407: Freedom of 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 35 √ Association collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 35 √ Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compul35 √ Compulsory Labor sory labor Human Rights Assessment 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 41 √ GRI 412: Human Rights assessments Assessment 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 29 √ clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 46 √ GRI 413: Local development programs Communities 413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 46 √ communities Public Policy GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1: Political contributions 47 √ Customer Health and Safety 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and Nota C √ GRI 416: Customer service categories Health and Safety 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 33 √ products and services Marketing and Labeling 417-1: Requirements for product and service information and labeling 31 √ GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 36 √ Customer Privacy GRI 418: 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 36 √ Customer Privacy losses of customer data. Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 33 √ Compliance NOTE C: Not applicable due to the type of product of our company. 64 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate Elawan’s progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Part I. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. General Standard Disclosures Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Part I. rights abuses. General Standard Disclosures Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Part II. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Social Dimension bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Part II. compulsory labour. Social Dimension Labour Rights Part I. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. General Standard Disclosures Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Part I. employment and occupation. General Standard Disclosures Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Part II. approach to environmental challenges. Environmental Dimension Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Part II. Environment environmental responsibility. Environmental Dimension Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Part II. environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Dimension Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Part II. Anti corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. Economic Dimension Sustainability Report 2018 elawan energy 65 Scope considered of Elawan and subsidiaries 102-45 Scope consolidation.The group was composed by the following companies at the end of 2018 Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Elawan Energy Developments, S.L. (antes Gestamp Eólica Brazil, S.A. Brazil Spain Elincasiol, S.L.) Parques Eólicos Gestinver, S.L. (*) Spain Eólica Gravatá-Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil Parque Eólico Becerril, S.L. Spain Eólica Pirauá-Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil Elawan Energy Developments 1, S.L. Gestamp Eólica Jardins, S.A. Brazil Spain (antes Gestamp Eólica Promociones, S.L.) Gestamp Eólica Alvorada, S.A. Brazil Elawan Energy Developments 2, S.L. Gestamp Eólica Agreste S.A. Brazil Spain (antes Gestamp Eólica Promociones 2, S.L.) Macambiras Holdings, S.A. Brazil Elawan Energy Developments 3, S.L. ( Gestamp Eólica Macambira I, S.A. Brazil Spain antes Gestamp Eólica Promociones 3, S.L.) Gestamp Eólica Macambira II, S.A. Brazil Elawan Energy Developments 4, S.L. Spain Eólica Pedra do Reino V, S.A. Brazil (antes Gestamp Eólica Promociones 4, S.L.) Lagoa dos Ventos Geradora de Energía, S.A. Brazil Gestinver Gestión, S.L. (*) Spain Deltrade 67 Propiertary Limited South Africa KONESTICIAL, S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa ERGE Occidente, S.L. Spain Modderfontein Wind Energy Project (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Gestamp HC Eólica, S.L. Spain Copperton Wind Farm (Pty) Ltd. South Africa Gestamp Eólica Castilla La Mancha, S.L. Spain Beyçelik Gestamp Yenilenebir Enerji ERGE Aragón, S.L. Spain Turkey Uretim, A.S. Fotovoltaica Torrijos, S.L. Sabas Elektrik Uretim, A.S. Turkey Spain (antes Alternativas Eólicas, S.L.) BAK Enerji Üretimi A.Ş. Turkey ERGE Levante, S.L. Spain YGT Elektrik Üretim SAN. VE TİC. LTD. ŞTİ. Turkey Desarrollos Eólicos del Norte, S.L. Spain Gestamp Ruzgar Enerjisi, Ltd. Turkey P.E Rondavino S.L. Spain Gestamp Wallonie, S.A. Belgium P.E Salguero S.L. Spain Gestamp Wind Feluy, S.A. Belgium Gestamp Wind Energy North América, INC. USA Gestamp Wind Beaumont, S.A. Belgium Spring Creek Power Partners, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Wind Hannut, S.A. Belgium Nebraska Wind, I, LLC. USA New Wind S.P.R.L. Belgium Flat Water Holdings, L.L.C. USA Elawan Energy Polska sp z.o.o (antes Flat Water Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Poland Gestamp Eólica Polska sp z.o.o.) Flat Water Development Services, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Wind 10 sp zoo Poland Roth Rock Holdings, L.L.C. USA Farma Wiatrowa Kleby Sp. zoo Poland Roth Rock Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Farma Wiatrowa Bukówiec Górny Sp. zoo Poland Roth Rock Development Services, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Wind 13 sp zoo Poland Gestamp Wind Puerto Rico, INC. USA Gestamp Wind 14 sp zoo Poland Gestamp Wind San Juan, Inc. USA L.L.C. Elawan Power Rusia Punta Lima Holding Co., L.L.C. USA Elawan Energy France, S.A.S. France Punta Lima Wind Farm, L.L.C. USA Hidroeléctrica de Tacotan, S.A. de C.V. Mexico Punta Lima Development Services, LLC. USA Hidroeléctrica Trigomil, S.A. de C.V. Mexico TPW Petersburg, LLC USA Tacotán Trigomil Servicios SA de CV Mexico Gestamp Wind North América, INC. USA Gestamp Eólica Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico North Búfalo Wind, L.L.C. USA Gestamp Eólica Dacia, S.R.L. Romania Pawnee Wind Farm USA Gestamp Eólica Costesti S.R.L. Romania Gestamp Wind Indiana USA Gestamp Eólica Berezeni S.R.L. Romania GSQ, LLC USA Gestamp Eólica Raducaneni S.R.L. Romania GSQ 2, LLC USA Vientos S.R.L. Romania 66 elawan energy Sustainability Report 2018 www.elawan.com
