Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index referencing sustainability report 2018 Message from the CEO Long-term values More than 100 years of innovation for the benefit of our customers, employees, shareholders and the community – that is the hallmark of Datwyler Cabling Solutions. Over this period, we have evolved from a family-owned Swiss business into an international company. Building on our strong roots, we have developed our own style with high standards and unique values: We are entrepreneurs. We bring value to our customers. We excel in what we do. We have respect for others. These values guide the way we run our business over the long term. We strive to deliver sustainable profitable growth for the benefit of our stakeholders as the foundation for adding long-term value and preserving the corporate independence of Datwyler Cabling Solutions. Since end of 2012, Datwyler Cabling Solutions belongs to the Pema Holding Inc. with its headquarters in Altdorf, Switzerland. Pema Holding has been the majority shareholder of the stock quoted Dätwyler Holding Inc. for many years. We voluntarily adopted the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the sustainability section of our 2008 Annual Report (as part of the Datwyler Group), and in 2009 we joined the UN Global Compact (as part of the Datwyler Group). This is an initiative launched by the United Nations which espouses ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and combating corruption. In 2013, Datwyler Cabling Solutions joined the UN Global Compact as an independent company and obligated itself to follow the ten principles and to accept its responsibility within society. In the 2018 reporting year, the fifth independent progress report on the ten UN Global Compact principles was published. This endeavour is based on the values and the Code of Conduct that lay down globally binding rules for all Datwyler Cabling Solutions employees. As far as our suppliers are concerned, we have set out our requirements in a dedicated code of conduct since the beginning of 2014. Regular surveys of customers and employees provide the basis for our processes of continuous improvement. In this way we live up to our social responsibility every day as a reliable partner to our stakeholders. Johannes Müller, CEO Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 1 Integration of the Global Compact Communication on Progress in the sustainability reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative Since 2008, the sustainability report of Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG has followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines. Together with the detailed GRI Content Index, the sustainability report meets the requirements for Application Level C. Since 2013, Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, as an independent company, has been a member of the UN Global Compact. The table below summarises the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. More information about the specific actions and outcomes can be found on the referenced pages of the sustainability report and this GRI Content Index. All documents are available for downloading at www.cabling.datwyler.com. Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in the Information Principles sustainability report in the GRI 2017 Content Index 2017 Human Rights Principle 1: The Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG’s Code of Conduct clearly Page 3: Page 10: Businesses should stipulates that the companies and employees respect the human Long-term values and LA7, LA13 support and respect rights, dignity, privacy and personal rights of every individual. Sustainability as a the protection of Datwyler does not tolerate any form of discrimination, humiliation, strategic direction Page 13: internationally oppression, harassment or offence. In the reporting year 2018, there Page 4: Standardised PR1, PR2 proclaimed human have been no complaints of alleged discrimination in companies of processes assure rights. the Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG. In its Code of Conduct, Dätwyler quality Cabling Solutions AG commits to ensuring a safe and healthy Page 8: Workforce working environment. demo-graphics and Fair employment conditions Page 9: Training promotes competence and safety Principle 2: In its Code of Conduct, Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG commits to Page 8: Page 11: Businesses should open and honest behaviour with integrity. The companies of Fair employment HR4 make sure that they Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG gives its suppliers fair contractual conditions are not complicit in terms and reasonable valuable consideration. In return, Datwyler human rights also expects the suppliers to treat their employees and suppliers Page 10: abuses. fairly and honestly. Since 2014, Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG also Fair and responsible has a supplier Code of Conduct. partner Labour Principle 3: The Dätwyler Cabling Solution AG’s Code of Conduct explicitly Page 8: Page 10: LA4 Businesses should states that employees are free to join trade unions. The Datwyler Fair employment up-hold the freedom companies maintain a con-structive dialogue with internal employee conditions of association and representatives. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: In its Code of Conduct, Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG commits to Page 3: Sustainability Page 11: Businesses should protect human rights. It categorically rejects the use of forced and as a strategic direction HR7 uphold the elimincompulsory labour. The systematic sustainability reporting shows ation of all forms of that all companies of Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG comply with forced and computhis. lsory labour. Principle 5: In its Code of Conduct, Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG commits to Page 3: Sustainability Page 11: Businesses should protect human rights. It categorically rejects the use of child labour. as a strategic direction HR6 uphold the effective The systematic sustainability reporting shows that all companies of abolition of child Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG comply with this. labour. Principle 6: The Code of Conduct lays down that Datwyler does not tolerate any Page 8: Workforce Page 10: Businesses should form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, harassment or demo-graphics and LA2, LA13 uphold the eliminaoffence. In the reporting year 2018, there have been no complaints Fair employment tion of discriminaof alleged discrimination in companies of the Dätwyler Cabling conditions Page 11: tion in respect of Solutions AG. HR4 employment and occupation. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 2 Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in the Information Principles sustainability report in the GRI 2017 Content Index 2017 Environment Principle 7: For the companies of Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, environmental Page 6/7: Page 9: Business should protection is an important mission and, as such, is embodied in the Environment EN18, EN30 support a companies values and code of conduct. This encompasses both precautionary environmentally friendly production with efficient use of resources approach to and the development of products that are made of the most environmental environmentally sound components possible. challenges. Principle 8: The Swiss affiliate of Datwyler Cabling Solutions has been a member Page 4: Quality for Page 8: EN3, Business should of the Swiss Private Sector Energy Agency since 2003. customers EN4, EN6, undertake EN8, EN16 initiatives to Since 1 October 2012 Datwyler Cabling Solutions has been using Page 6/7: promote greater exclusively green electricity at its Swiss site in Altdorf. This electricity Environment Page 9: environmental is generated entirely in nature made basic-certified hydroelectric EN18, EN22, responsibility. power stations operated by the local electricity producer. Since the EN23, EN28, beginning of November 2018, the Swiss plant has been sourcing its EN30 process and heating energy from a nearby wood-fired heating plant. This CO₂-neutral district heating system will enable Datwyler Cabling Page 13: Solutions to save around 380’000 litres of heating oil per calendar PR3 year and reduce CO₂ emissions by around 1’000 tonnes. As a result, Datwyler Cabling Solutions now produces completely CO₂-neutral in its Swiss plant. Principle 9: Datwyler Cabling Solutions has set itself ambitious objectives up to Page 6/7: Page 8: EN6 Business should 2020, which are to be achieved on average per year: Reduction of Environment encourage the fuel consumption in relation to revenue (MWh/million CHF) by 6% per Page 9: development and year, reduction of electricity consumption in relation to revenue EN18 diffusion of environ(MWh/million CHF) by 3% per year, reduction of water consumption mentally friendly in relation to revenue (m3/million CHF) by 3% per year and reduction technologies. of the volume of waste in relation to revenue (tonnes/million CHF) by 3% per year. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: The Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG’s Code of Conduct strictly Page 10: Page 12: Businesses should prohibits collusion, bribery and corruption. The Code of Conduct is Fair and responsible SO3, SO4, work against reiterated to employees constantly during internal training sessions. partner and Social SO6 corruption in all its Once again, no legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust responsibility forms, including or monopoly practices were brought against Dätwyler Cabling extortion and Solutions AG during 2018. Nor were any significant fines or nonbribery. monetary sanctions imposed on Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG for non-compliance with laws and regulations during the reporting year. Since 2014, Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG also has a supplier Code of Conduct. The internal auditors regularly monitor compliance with laws and observation of the Code of Conduct in all organisational units of the Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG. In accordance with the Code of Conduct, Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG does not provide financial support to political parties, organisations or office holders. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 3 GRI Content Index referencing the Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG sustainability report 2018 Integration of Sustainability Information following the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines This year’s sustainability report 2018 published by Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines for the tenth time. Together with the information compiled in this detailed GRI Content Index, the sustainability report meets the requirements for Application Level C. GRI is the world’s leading standard for corporate sustainability reporting (www.globalreporting.org). The GRI Guidelines require disclosures that set the overall context for understanding an organisation’s sustainability performance. Furthermore, they cover disclosures on the organisational profile and numerous performance indicators relating to Economic (EC), Environmental (EN), Product Responsibility (PR), Labour Practices (LA), Human Rights (HR) and Society (SO) issues. By adopting these Guidelines, Datwyler is seeking to provide its stakeholders with comprehensive and transparent information on the company’s sustainability focus. The GRI Content Index below shows where to locate specific information in the sustainability report. GRI requires a number of organisational profile disclosures (see sections 1 to 4 of the table). Core GRI performance indicators are shown in black type, while additional indicators that GRI has identified as possibly being relevant to an organisation’s reporting are shown in grey type. Aspects and indicators discussed in the report are highlighted in a green box giving references to the relevant sections and page numbers of the report. If you have any queries about Datwyler Cabling Solutions’ sustainability reporting, please contact: Norbert Ludwig Head of Management Systems Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG Gotthardstrasse 31 6460 Altdorf Switzerland T +41 41 875 12 32 norbert.ludwig@datwyler.com www.cabling.datwyler.com Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 4 No. GRI G3 Content Index Page in Report/Comments Profile 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO’s Statement, 3 CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Back cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG Inside front cover http://www.cabling.datwyler.com/en/products.html and http://www.cabling.datwyler.com/en/services.html 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. Public limited company with separate Board of Directors and Executive Management. Ten locations in eight countries, 11 http://www.cabling.datwyler.com/en/company/ governance.html 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates. Own affiliates in eight countries: Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Italy, Czech Republic, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, China 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Public limited company wholly owned by Pema Holding AG CEO's Statement, 3 2.7 Markets served. Europe, Near and Middle East, Asia 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including number of employees, net 881 employees averaged over the year sales, total capitalisation, quantity of products or services provided. Annual revenue of CHF 244.6 million Detailed information about the total capitalization are not provided, since Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG is a privately held company. Offered products and services: Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG offers dozens of types of products and services such as ICT-Networks, Fire Safety Cables, Building Automation, Elevator Cables, Software, On-site Surveys, Turnkey Solutions, Moves, Adds and Changes-Services. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, CEO's Statement, 3 or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. In 2018 Datwyler was again accorded “Top Brand” status by respected Chinese associations and industry media. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 5 3 Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period. 1.1.2018 31.12.2018 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 14.07.2018 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Page 4 of this index REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content, including explanation on how Datwyler Cabling Solutions takes a responsible prioritiesof topics for inclusion in the report were defined and the attitude towards customers, the environment, stakeholders identified whom the organisation considers to be interested employees and the community that reflects the in using this report. significance of the stakeholder groups as a key element of sustainable corporate management and has structured its reporting accordingly. The “GRI Guidance on Defining Report Content” and the associated Principles have been applied to the extent permitted by data availability to the presentation of the indicators reported for these subjects. Regarding the resource consumption, the focus is on the three main locations in Switzerland, Germany and China. This enables Datwyler Cabling Solutions to cover 99% of resource consumption and waste and 94% of the workforce. With a similar eye to current stakeholder interests, CO2 emissions are now presented as direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 3.6 Boundary of the report. The report relates to all ten locations of Datwyler Cabling Solutions. Where information applies only to part of the organisation as an example or due to data availability, this is indicated. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. No particular limitations. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, The report covers all ten locations of Datwyler outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Cabling Solutions, 11 comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Not relevant for Application Level C. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in The emission factors used to calculate CO₂ emisearlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. sions from electricity consumption were adjusted according to the latest International Energy Agency figures for the year under review and the previous year. This led to a decline in the previous year’s figures compared with the Sustainability Report 2017. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, None. boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This Content Index. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 6 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees and their At 31 December 2018 the Board of Directors of composition. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG comprised four members: Dr. Hanspeter Fässler, Chairman Dr. Paul Hälg, member Reto Welte, member Dirk Lambrecht, member There are no committees. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an This is not the case. executive officer (and, if so, his function within the organisation’s The Chairman of the Board of Directors of Dätwyler management and the reasons for this arrangement). Cabling Solutions AG is Dr. Hanspeter Fässler. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of The company has a Board of Directors. None of the members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or members of the Board of Directors is also a non-executive members. member of the Executive Management or holds another executive position within Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG is wholly owned by recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Pema Holding AG. The workforce is not represented on the Board of Directors. 4.5 Not relevant for Application Level C. 4.13 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Sustainability as a strategic direction, 3 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Datwyler Cabling Solutions engages in close engage. dialogue with all stakeholders that influence its business performance and on whom its business activities have a particular impact.This also includes the following regular processes: − Standardised processes assure quality, evaluation of suppliers, 4 − Regular customer surveys, 5 − Regular employee satisfaction survey, 9 4.16 Not relevant for Application Level C. 4.17 5 Performance Indicators Economic ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Partial information on EC1: operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Fair employment conditions, 8 investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Social responsibility, 10 governments (taxes). EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Partial information on EC3: Fair employment conditions, 8 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Important contribution to regional development, 10 significant locations of operation. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 7 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Partial information on EC8: Social responsibility, 10 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental ASPECT: MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Summary table of environmental data, 6 (natural gas, extra light fuel oil, other sources of energy): 2’951 MWh EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Partial information on EN4: Summary table of environmental data, 6 (electricity, district heating): 17’284 MWh (some 70% thereof from environmentally friendly CO2-neutral hydroelectric power stations). EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Partial information on EN6: Certified environmental and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these management, 7 initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Summary table of environmental data, 6 Environmental performance, 7 Drinking water (communal water supply): 21’652 m3 or 2.7% Industrial water (river water): 776’226 m3 or 97.3% (Swiss production locations Altdorf) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Summary table of environmental data, 6 Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. The Swiss affiliate of Datwyler Cabling Solutions has been a member of the Swiss Private Sector Energy Agency since 2003 and enters into voluntary agreements to reduce CO2 emissions. Since 1 October 2012 Datwyler Cabling Solutions has been using exclusively green electricity at its Swiss site in Altdorf. This electricity is generated entirely in nature made basic-certified hydroelectric power stations operated by the local electricity producer. Since the beginning of November 2018, the Swiss plant has been sourcing its process and heating energy from a nearby wood-fired heating plant. This CO₂-neutral district heating system will enable Datwyler Cabling Solutions to save around 380’000 litres of heating oil per calendar year and reduce CO₂ emissions by around 1’000 tonnes. As a result, Datwyler Cabling Solutions now produces completely CO₂-neutral in its Swiss plant. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partial information on EN22: For data on waste by type, see the summary table of environmental data, 6, and Increase of the absolute and relative amount of waste, 7 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills during the reporting period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary In the reporting year 2018 there were no significant sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. fines or non-monetary sanctions. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ASPECT: OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Partial information on EN30: Certified environmental management, 7 Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 9 Labour Practices and Decent Work ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Partial information on LA1: Workforce demographics, 8 Chart of employees by region, 8 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and Partial information on LA2: region. Workforce demographics, 8 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Some 35%. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Partial information on LA7: Training promotes number of work-related fatalities by region. competence and safety, 9. Days lost to illness, work-related and non-workrelated accidents: 4’397 or 5.0 days per FTE It is currently not possible to subdivide these figures by region. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Partial information on LA11: For information on continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career investments in training and education, see Training endings. promotes competence and safety, 9 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Partial information on LA13: category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, Workforce demographics, 8 and other indicators of diversity. It is currently not possible to subdivide the figures by age group. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Partial information on LA14: Fair employment conditions, 8 Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 10 Human Rights ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fair employment conditions, 8 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, In its Code of Conduct established in 2008, Datwyand measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. ler Cabling Solutions has committed itself to protect human rights. This means that all legal entities categorically reject the use of child labour. ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or In its Code of Conduct established in 2008, Datwycompulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of ler Cabling Solutions has committed itself to protect forced or compulsory labour. human rights. This includes the categoric rejection by all legal entities of forced and compulsory labour. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 11 Society ASPECT: COMMUNITY SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption Fair and responsible partner, 10 policies and procedures. All employees undergo in-house training to familiarise themselves with the company’s Code of Conduct. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. No cases of corruption became known in 2018. ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Social responsibility, 10 politicians, and related institutions by country. In accordance with the Code of Conduct we do not provide financial support to political parties, organisations or office holders. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, Fair and responsible partner, 10 and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fair and responsible partner, 10 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 12 Product Responsibility ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Impacts on health and safety and possible potential services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant for improvement are assessed primarily in the products and services categories subject to such procedures. following life cycle stages of all products: development, certification, production and application. Standardised processes assure quality, 4 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and There were no incidents during the reporting period. voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and Standardised processes assure quality, 4 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Regulatory information requirements as minimum percentage of significant products and services subject to such standards, 4 information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Partial information on PR5: measuring customer satisfaction. Regular customer surveys, 5 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Dätwyler Cabling Solutions AG, Global Compact COP and GRI Content Index referencing the sustainability report 2018 13
